-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rally on G-20, U.S. Sales

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-10-14T21:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/emerging-stocks-snap-seven-day-rally-on-china-inflation-spain-downgrade.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark posting its biggest weekly gain in more than two
years, as Group of 20 finance ministers met to discuss Europe’s
debt crisis and growth in U.S. retail sales exceeded forecasts.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.5 percent to
935.50 at the close of trading, pushing the weekly advance to
5.8 percent, the most since July 2009.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index
and  Mexico ’s IPC Index each climbed 0.8 percent with weekly
jumps that were the most on two years. The Micex Index rose
3.1 percent in Moscow.  India ’s Sensex Index climbed 1.2 percent.
Benchmark gauges also moved higher in  Argentina ,  Colombia ,  South
Africa  and  Turkey .  European officials are outlining a rescue plan that may
include deeper investor losses on Greek bonds, higher bank
capital levels and increased firepower for bailouts. The package
helped counter concern the region’s debt crisis will worsen
after credit downgrades of  Spain  and some Europe’s banks.
Retails sales in the U.S. rose 1.1 percent in September, the
biggest since February. That compared with a 0.7 percent
increase forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market is really reassured because it looks like they
are doing something to address the European debt crisis,” Bruce Bower, a partner at Moscow-based hedge fund Verno Capital, said
by phone. “We were falling before because of the fear that
nothing was going to be done.”  Withdrawals Slow  European officials are considering writedowns of as much as
50 percent on Greek bonds, people familiar with the discussions
said. The losses may be accompanied by a pledge to rule out debt
restructurings in other countries that received bailouts, such
as  Portugal , to persuade investors that  Europe  has mastered the
crisis, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations will run for another week.  Emerging-market stocks advanced this week amid speculation
policy makers around the world will step up efforts to prevent a
global recession. Withdrawals from developing-nation stock funds
slowed to $905 million in the week ended Oct. 12, the smallest
outflows in more than a month, Citigroup analyst  Markus Rosgen 
said in a report today, citing figures compiled by EPFR Global.  Ten of 13 major U.S. sales categories showed increases last
month, led by auto dealers and clothing stores, according to the
Commerce Department report today.  “The key messages here are that spending is holding up
quite well,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High
Frequency Economics in Valhalla,  New York , wrote in a research
note.  Corporacion GEO SAB, Mexico’s second-largest homebuilder,
jumped 6.2 percent in Mexico City. Preliminary third-quarter
sales were between 1.52 billion pesos ($114.8 million) and 1.56
billion pesos, the company said in a statement to the nation’s
stock exchange. Hypermarcas SA, a Brazilian consumer-products
company, soared 4.9 percent, the most since Aug. 23.  Gazprom, Billiton  OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas company, rose
2.9 percent in Moscow. Crude oil futures added 3.1 percent to a
three-week high of $86.80 a barrel in New York.  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL) , the largest global miner, advanced 3
percent in Johannesburg as copper rose.  Most currencies in emerging economies strengthened against
the dollar. The real appreciated 1.1 percent and the  Mexican
peso  gained 1.4 percent. The ruble climbed 1.1 percent to its
strongest level in almost a month. The rand and the Polish zloty
both advanced 0.6 percent.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese shares
traded in  Hong Kong  fell 2.2 percent.  China Inflation  China’s consumer prices rose 6.1 percent in September from
a year earlier, the fourth month in a row with inflation over 6
percent and compared with a 4 percent goal, according to the
nation’s statistics bureau. Money supply grew at the slowest
pace in almost a decade as inflation stayed above the
government’s target, highlighting the risk that efforts to tame
prices will trigger a slowdown.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest lender by value, dropped 4.3 percent in Hong Kong.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 1.2 percent
on expectations corporate earnings will withstand a global
downturn.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries plunged 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 403, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps dropped 3 basis
points to 306, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  