-- 
Banks May Shun $231 Billion Rollover of U.S. Emergency Loans

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-10-14T16:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/lenders-will-shun-231-billion-rollover-of-u-s-emergency-loans.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  are among firms planning to repay rather than roll over
their share of $231 billion raised under a U.S. loan program
meant to help the economy as the business slowdown crimps demand
for credit.  Lenders including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  face deadlines to refinance or repay by the end of 2012,
when funds borrowed under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program mature. The emergency
program provided U.S. guarantees to help banks raise money after
credit markets froze in the 2008 financial crisis.  While lawmakers are urging lenders to help create jobs,
loan demand is slack and bulging deposits mean banks don’t need
to hang on to cash received when they sold the U.S.-backed debt.
Total loans and leases dropped 8.6 percent at midyear from
2008’s second quarter to $7.31 trillion, according to FDIC data.
At the same time, regulators are trying to avert future shocks
by pushing banks to reduce risk and build capital.  “ Washington  is engaged in a tug-of-war, and the regulators
are winning,” said  Ashish Shah , co-head of global credit
investments at AllianceBernstein LP. “Politicians say banks
need to lend, and the regulators are essentially encouraging the
banks to shrink.”  The biggest user of the guarantees is General Electric
Capital Corp., the finance arm of Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE, with $45 billion outstanding according to the FDIC. New
York-based Citigroup is second with $44 billion.  Payment Plans  Spokesmen for Bank of America and Citigroup, ranked first
and third by assets among U.S. lenders, said their firms are
planning to pay down rather than refinance TLGP loans as they
come due. At GE, “we will meet our maturity obligations through
a combination of new debt issuance and right-sizing the balance
sheet per our plan to shrink  GE Capital ,” said spokesman
 Russell Wilkerson . GE will have to use conventional debt sales
to refinance since the TLGP isn’t providing new guarantees.  The program permitted firms to raise money during the
financial crisis by selling debt securities guaranteed by the
FDIC. This allowed banks to borrow at close to the same  interest
rates  as the  U.S. Treasury . At the peak, lenders issued almost
$350 billion of U.S.-backed debt, according to the FDIC.
Regulators said the goal was to pump money into banks and boost
the overall economy.  “We want you to use it,”  Sheila Bair , then the FDIC’s
chairman, told bankers on a conference call on Oct. 16, 2008.
“We want to normalize lending activity again. We want to unlock
the interbank markets and get that money going out to your
customers, to your consumers and to your business borrowers.”  Loans and Deposits  Loan balances didn’t increase until the middle of this
year, when they rose less than 1 percent, according to the
FDIC’s  quarterly banking profile . Deposits advanced 1.7 percent,
with most of the recent inflows invested at Federal Reserve
Banks, the agency said.  “The volume of activity has been impacted by weak demand
and in some cases a hesitancy to take on risk given poor market
conditions,” said  Andrew Gray , an FDIC spokesman. While the
program succeeded in easing the financial crisis and most banks
are very liquid, Gray said, “lending activity still has a long
way to go before it approaches normal levels.”  “There really were two objectives, to stabilize the
financial system and, over time, get the economy growing,” said
Pri de Silva, an analyst with New York-based CreditSights Inc.
who expects most of the securities to be paid down. “They
achieved the first, but I don’t think the growth part
happened.”  Bank of America  Bank of America had $27.5 billion of the guaranteed debt
outstanding, according to the company. Total loans to customers
fell to $941.3 billion as of the second quarter from $976
billion in the first quarter of last year. The bank is cutting
back on risk and plans to repay TLGP debts as they come due out
of its cash and other resources, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm.  “We have been reducing our risk-weighted assets
significantly,” Dubrowski said. “We’re streamlining and
simplifying and building a smaller balance sheet.”  Citigroup said it had $51 billion of TLGP debt as of
midyear, and the sum has since declined to $44 billion,
according to the FDIC.  “Citi does not expect to replace maturing TLGP debt,”
said Jon Diat, a spokesman for Citigroup. The bank has $462
billion in cash and securities it can use to repay the debt,
Diat said. Loans dropped to $688.2 billion at the end of the
second quarter from $729 billion a year earlier.  Citigroup and JPMorgan  “We have made enormous progress refocusing our business
strategy to take advantage of our global network and reducing
Citi Holdings assets by more than $500 billion from peak
levels,” said Diat, referring to the “bad bank” created in
2009 to hold troubled assets.  JPMorgan, ranked second by assets, has about $31 billion
outstanding under the guarantee program, according to  Howard Opinsky , a spokesman. The New York-based company isn’t releasing
details on its repayment plans, he said. The lender’s total
loans rose less than 1 percent in the third quarter from the
year earlier to $697 billion. That was down from $744.9 billion
at the end of 2008.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has $18.3 billion outstanding, according to
Bloomberg data, while rival  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reported
$17.1 billion at the end of the second quarter. Spokesmen for
both New York-based firms declined to comment. San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, has
$9.5 billion outstanding, said Ancel Martinez, a company
spokesman, who declined to comment on repayment plans.  Liquidity is no longer an issue and bankers could raise the
$231 billion quickly if they wanted, according to Tom Farina, a
managing director at Deutsche Insurance Asset Management in  New
York , which oversees more than $200 billion. There’s no apparent
strain because banks have been hoarding cash rather than lending
aggressively, Farina said.  “The real issue is that the banks are trying to get
smaller,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 