-- 
EPA’s Jackson Says House Measures Would Gut Clean-Air Act

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-10-14T13:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/epa-s-jackson-says-house-measures-would-gut-clean-air-act-1-.html
Lisa Jackson, administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, said efforts to limit her
powers are “unprecedented” and pledged that rules aimed at
coal-powered power plants won’t harm electric reliability.  Proposed legislation, such as a measure being considered in
the U.S. House to block pollution controls on coal ash, would
result in “gutting the heart of the  Clean Air Act ,” Jackson
said today at an event sponsored by Politico in  Washington . The
EPA regulations have health effects “that are big, and it’s not
theoretical, although you wouldn’t hear that from some of the
rhetoric in this town.”  The  House of Representatives  is voting on a series of
measures to roll back EPA rules that lawmakers say are harming
the American economy and impeding business investment. Yesterday
the House voted to block regulation of industrial boilers, used
in paper mills and hospitals, and last week passed legislation
to scrap rules limiting mercury emissions from cement plants.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has said it opposes
the cement and boiler measures, and Jackson said today that her
top priority is to fend off such legislation.  The EPA has proposed regulations to cut pollution from
 power plants , and those standards will result in some coal-fired
plants closing, Jackson said.  “What will have to happen is that really old clunkers that
have never had pollution-control technology installed on them”
will need to be shut, Jackson said. EPA’s flexibility to delay
its standards, if necessary, and expanded demand for low-cost
natural gas will ensure that electric reliability won’t suffer,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  