-- 
Tester Cites Koch in Calling for Limiting U.S. Business in Iran

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/tester-seeks-tougher-rules-on-companies-doing-business-in-iran.html
Senator Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, said the U.S. should put an immediate stop to American
companies circumventing sanctions against conducting business in
 Iran  and singled out Koch Industries Inc.  “It’s clear we need to tighten the screws,” Tester told a
Senate Banking Committee hearing this week on potential threats
from Iran. Yesterday, Koch’s general counsel, Mark Holden, said
in a statement that the company “voluntarily decided several
years ago to stop sales to Iran.” The company also said the
sales were legal at the time.  Iran has been a focus of U.S. attention this week as the
 Justice Department  on Oct. 11 said it sponsored a plot to
assassinate Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the U.S.  Tester said he is concerned American companies can use
loopholes in current sanctions to enable foreign subsidiaries to
do business in Iran. “It boggles the mind that we continue to
see businesses, American businesses, supporting Iran’s economy
by actively circumventing imposed sanctions,” he said. “It’s
outrageous, and we need to put a stop to it immediately.”  Koch’s Holden said Tester and other Democrats are singling
out Koch for political reasons. The company’s political action
committee this year has given 96 percent of its money to
Republicans.  ‘Political Hypocrisy’  Koch “supports those companies that chose to stop sales to
Iran,” and “deplores the political hypocrisy that distorts
facts and criticizes a single company for its actions while
ignoring the activities of other companies who are the financial
contributors to these same politicians,” Holden said in the
statement.  A Bloomberg Markets Magazine investigation found that  Koch
Industries  has sold millions of dollars of petrochemical
equipment to Iran, a country the U.S. identifies as a sponsor of
global terrorism. Internal company documents show that the
company made those sales through foreign subsidiaries, thwarting
a U.S. trade ban on domestic companies selling materials to
Iran.  Koch-Glitsch offices in Germany and  Italy  continued selling
to Iran as recently as 2007, the records show.  The company’s products helped build a methanol plant for
Zagros Petrochemical Co., a unit of Iran’s state-owned National
Iranian Petrochemical Co., the documents show. The facility, in
the coastal city of Bandar Assaluyeh, is now the largest
methanol plant in the world, according to IHS Inc., an
Englewood, Colorado-based provider of chemicals, energy and
economic data.  Trade Sanctions  Melissa Cohlmia, Koch’s director of corporate
communications, said in an e-mailed statement that, “During the
relevant time frame covered” in the Bloomberg Markets article,
“U.S. law allowed foreign subsidiaries of U.S. multinational
companies to engage in trade involving countries subject to U.S.
trade sanctions, including Iran, under certain conditions.”
Koch has since stopped all of its units from trading with Iran,
she added.  David Cohen , the undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence at the Department of Treasury, said at this week’s
Senate hearing that officials are “working on some other ideas
in the Treasury Department on how to more effectively limit what
subsidiaries can do.”  U.S. companies have been banned from trading with Iran
since 1995, when President  Bill Clinton  declared it a threat to
national security. Iran supports Iraqi militants and Taliban
fighters as well as terrorist groups, including Hamas and
Hezbollah, according to the U.S. State Department.  Tester said that “With some companies, you can’t enforce
common sense or the sense of patriotism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  