-- 
EU May Impose Limits on Commodity Swaps, High-Frequency Trading

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/eu-may-impose-rules-to-limit-commodity-derivatives-high-frequency-traders.html
The European Union may impose
position limits for commodities derivatives and curbs on high-
frequency trading as part of plans to overhaul the region’s
financial-market rules.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
is seeking limits on the number of commodity derivative
contracts “any given market members or participants can enter
into over a specified period of time, or alternative
arrangements” with the same impact, according to copies of
proposals  set  for release on Oct. 20 that were obtained by
Bloomberg News.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has demanded steps to
curb commodity derivatives speculation, which he blames for
driving up world food prices. He has made the issue a priority
of  France ’s presidency this year of the Group of 20 nations.  While it is “arguably necessary” to take drastic.
preventative measures in certain extreme market conditions, this
“must be balanced against the adverse consequences that will be
caused,” Etay Katz, a regulatory partner at law firm Allen &
Overy LLP in  London , said in an e-mail.  “Such interference can be highly disruptive, costly and a
crude measure to crack down on potential actions of a small
minority of market participants,” Katz said.  High-frequency trading firms would be forced to better
manage their risk and will be banned from some practices under
next-week’s proposals, that will also include draft laws
toughening market-abuse sanctions.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  Flash Crash  The flash crash “alerted regulators to the potential for
some trading behavior to seriously disrupt markets,”  Richard
Reid , the International Centre for Financial Regulation’s
director of research, said in an e-mail.  Mary Schapiro , the chairwoman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, and regulators from the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Asia  discussed high-frequency trading practices at a London
meeting on Oct. 14.  Under the plans for commodity derivatives, the EU would
have the power to set the same position limits across the entire
region if it felt that curbs put in place by national regulators
were not working. The rules would help tackle “excessive”
price volatility for commodities, according to the EU documents.  ‘Little Convincing Evidence’  While Sarkozy has pressed for greater regulation of
commodities, the  Institute of International Finance , an
association representing global lenders, said  last month  that
there was “little convincing evidence linking financial
investment with trends in commodity prices and volatility.”  The influence that commodity derivatives have over “energy
and food” prices mean that “clear quantitative thresholds”
are needed for trading, according to the draft EU rules.  The EU proposals would empower national regulators to set
position limits for other kinds of derivatives.  The European
Securities and Markets Authority  would give opinions on whether
national measures are justified.  The draft rules are part of a broader overhaul of the EU’s
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, and
tougher legislation on EU-wide sanctions against market abuse,
scheduled to be published the same day.  Abusive Behavior  Algorithmic and high-frequency trading can give rise to
risks such as systems “overreacting” to market events and
causing “volatility” according to the draft EU measures. These
types of trading can also lend themselves to “certain forms of
abusive behavior if misused.”  Planned measures include requiring high-frequency trading
firms to prove that they have sufficient risk controls in
place and to ensure that clients with direct access to the
markets are “properly qualified.”  “Detailed organizational requirements regarding these new
forms of trading” will be set out in subsequent EU laws,
according to the documents. The EU also plans to list specific
examples of trading strategies that should be banned and
punished by regulators as market manipulation.  On market abuse, the EU proposals include ensuring that
firms found guilty of illegal practices can be fined up to ten
percent of annual sales, and that criminal sanctions can be used
against traders.  ‘Harder for Criminals’  “With minimum EU-wide rules against market abuse, the
commission will make it much harder for criminals to get away
with  insider trading  and market manipulation,”  Viviane Reding ,
EU justice commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement.  The documents also include measures to push trading in so-
called over-the-counter derivatives onto exchanges and other
regulated venues, in line with agreements reached by the G-20,
as well as rules designed to increase competition in trading and
clearing services.  The draft laws would require exchanges to provide rival
clearinghouses with the data they need to process trades. They
would also mandate “non-discriminatory” access for clearers
and trading venues to “indices and other benchmarks” used to
determine the value of financial instruments.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for EU Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier , declined to immediately comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  