-- 
EU’s Fule Urges Hungary to Drop Veto Threat on Serbia Candidacy

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-14T14:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/eu-s-fule-urges-hungary-to-drop-veto-threat-on-serbia-candidacy.html
The European Union urged  Hungary  to
drop its threat to veto Serbia’s candidacy to the trading bloc
over the Balkan country’s restitution law.  Hungary on Oct. tied support of Serbia’s EU bid to
lawmakers in Belgrade changing the law by December, arguing that
it unfairly excludes people including ethnic Hungarians from
restitution.  The EU will “closely monitor” the implementation of the
law, making it unnecessary for Hungary to block its southern
neighbor’s candidacy, EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule
told reporters in Belgrade today.  “The law needs to guarantee transparency and non-
discrimination,” he said, adding that the Commission will be
“following the implementation of this law based on those
principles” and that “there’s no need for such extreme
measures from anyone.”  Hungary argues that the law imposes a principle of
collective guilt, preventing Hungarians in  Serbia  who had been
recruited to join occupying forces during the World War II from
being compensated.  The Commission on Oct. 12 recommended Serbia to be granted
candidate status, with entry talks to start as soon as the
country shows sufficient progress in dialogue with its former
breakaway province of  Kosovo  and implements agreements they’ve
already reached. The European Council needs to unanimously
endorse the recommendation in December.  Serbia should “use the momentum” and make the necessary
effort because “what really matters is when and how we can open
accession talks with Serbia,” Fule said.  “The ball is on your side and when there’s substantial
progress the commission will recommend that the talks
commence,” he said after a meeting with Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic . The Commission won’t need to wait for the whole year
to grant Serbia the date of entry talks.  Kosovo is recognized by 22 of 27 EU member states and
 Germany  wants the unconditional resumption of dialogue with
Serbia. Talks on economic and political ties were halted after
Kosovo’s authorities declared a trade war on Serbia and sent
their police and customs staff to control two administrative
checkpoints.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  