-- 
EU Said to Consider 50% Greek Writedown

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-14T17:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/eu-said-to-consider-one-time-50-greek-writedown-bank-backstop.html
European officials are considering
writedowns of as much as 50 percent on Greek bonds, a backstop
for banks and continued central bank bond purchases as key
planks in a revamped strategy to combat the debt crisis, people
familiar with the discussions said.  The Greek bond losses may be accompanied by a pledge to
rule out debt restructurings in other countries that received
bailouts, such as Portugal, to persuade investors that  Europe 
has mastered the crisis, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations will run for another week.  In the works is a five-point plan foreseeing a solution for
Greece, bolstering of the  European Financial Stability Facility 
rescue fund, fresh capital for banks, a new push to boost
competitiveness and consideration of European treaty amendments
to tighten economic management.  Political, technical and legal constraints cloud the
crisis-resolution strategy, due to be hammered out at an
emergency Oct. 23 euro-area summit in Brussels under mounting
pressure from markets and politicians around the world.  “The current problems of the  euro zone  have all the
elements of a classical tragedy: a brave and exciting hero
launches into the world, but is marred by fatal flaws,” David Beim, a professor at  Columbia Business School  in  New York , said
in an e-mailed research paper. “Only radical action could save
the common currency.”  French Bonds Slump  The crisis raged today through France, the 17-nation euro
area’s second-largest economy and co-anchor with Germany of the
European Union. French bonds slumped, pushing the 10-year yield
up 17 basis points to 3.13 percent. The week’s rise of 38 basis
points was the most since the euro’s debut in 1999.  European officials will discuss the evolving strategy at
this weekend’s Group of 20 meeting in Paris with global
financial leaders including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who has criticized Europe for indecisiveness. While
Europe is weighing a “much more forceful package,” Geithner
said on CNBC today that “the hard part is still ahead.”  The strategy hinges on putting  Greece  on a viable path, as
two years of austerity plunge it deeper into recession and
provoke civil unrest that threatens political stability. Greece
forecasts its debt to reach 172 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 as the economy shrinks for a fifth year.  Options include tweaking a July accord struck with
investors for a 21 percent net-present-value reduction in Greek
debt holdings. One variant would take that reduction up to 50
percent, the people said.  Debt Exchanges  Under a more aggressive proposal, investors would exchange
Greek bonds for new debt at a lower face value collateralized by
the euro-area’s AAA rated rescue fund, the people said. The
ultimate option is a restructuring involving writedowns without
collateral, they said.  The constraint is how to cut Greece’s debt without leading
rating companies to declare the country in default. Such a
“ credit event ” triggered by a forced restructuring could
unleash a cascade of losses through markets.  “Now is not the time for speculation, now is the time for
action,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters today in Paris.  The bank-aid model under discussion is to set up a
European-level backstop capitalized by the 440 billion-euro
($609 billion) EFSF rescue fund, the people said. It would have
the power to take direct equity stakes in banks and provide
guarantees on bank liabilities.  Such ideas are controversial in  Germany , Europe’s dominant
economy, which so far has called for bank recapitalization on a
country-by-country basis.  Capital Level  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on Europe 1
radio today that it may be “good” to force banks to maintain a
9 percent capital buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the
5 percent core capital level used in July’s stress tests.  Officials are considering seven ways of getting more
firepower out of the temporary rescue fund. The options break
down into two broad categories: enabling it to borrow from the
 European Central Bank  or using it to provide bond insurance.  The ECB has all but ruled out the first method, making bond
insurance more likely, the people said. EFSF guarantees of new
bonds sold by distressed euro-area governments might range from
20 percent to 30 percent, a person familiar with those
deliberations said.  ‘Leverage Effects’  “We must optimize the efficiency by leverage effects,”
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said today in Saint-
Cyr-sur-Loire, France.  Recourse to bond insurance suggests the central bank will
need to maintain its secondary-market purchases for an
unspecified “interim” period, the people said. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , whose eight-year term ends Oct. 31, has
expressed reluctance to maintain the policy.  The Frankfurt-based ECB has bought 163 billion euros of
bonds, overriding opposition from Germans on its policy council.
The purchases started with Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and
widened to  Italy  and  Spain  in August as those markets came under
attack.  A consensus is also emerging to accelerate the setup of a
permanent aid fund planned for July 2013, the European Stability
Mechanism. Next week’s discussions will focus on creating it a
year earlier, in July 2012, and easing unanimity rules that
permit solitary countries to block bailouts.  One proposal is to enable aid to proceed when backed by
countries representing 95 percent of the fund’s capital on the
basis of an assessment by the  EU  and ECB, the people said.
Another proposal would set an 85 percent threshold.  Dodging Politics  Revisions to the voting rules would prevent local politics
in smaller countries from stopping measures deemed necessary by
Germany and  France . Slovakia, for example, stayed out of
Greece’s first aid package. Finland spent three months
negotiating a tailor-made collateral arrangement as its price
for contributing to the next one.  Greece’s plight and dwindling investor confidence in the
bonds of Italy, the world’s fourth-largest debtor, have
triggered a reconsideration of bondholder loss-sharing
provisions as part of the permanent fund, the people said.  Germany was the main driver behind the provisions for
“private sector involvement.” The July accord on a second
Greek bailout threw that into question by declaring Greece’s
case “exceptional and unique.”  A leading opponent of further bondholder losses is Ireland,
aiming to return to market financing by the end of 2012 after
receiving 67.5 billion euros in aid last year.  It is “perfectly clear” that bondholder burden-sharing
“is an issue of concern not only to Ireland but to other
countries,” Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said in Brussels
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  