-- 
European Rescue Plan Takes Shape

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   V i c t o r i a   R u a n
-- 
2011-10-14T14:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/euro-rescue-plan-takes-shape-as-g-20-finance-chiefs-start-talks.html
European officials are outlining a
rescue plan that may include deeper investor losses on Greek
bonds, higher bank capital levels and increased firepower for
bailouts and the  International Monetary Fund .  The plan’s elements emerged as finance ministers and
central bankers from the Group of 20 began talks in Paris
lobbying their European counterparts to end the two-year
sovereign debt crisis. Underscoring the need for action,
Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut Spain’s credit rating for the
third time in three years and new data showed the eight largest
U.S. money-market funds almost halved their lending to French
banks last month.  “The sense of urgency is here,”  Eric Chaney , chief
economist for  AXA SA (CS) , Europe’s second-largest insurer, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Maryam Nemazee in Paris
today. “There will be a lot of pressure on Europeans to find a
solution.”  European leaders may complete the plan at an Oct. 23 summit
to present to a gathering of G-20 chiefs Nov. 3-4. The aim is to
craft what French Finance Minister Francois Baroin today called
a “durable, complete package” to fix the turmoil that has
propelled  Greece  to the edge of default and is rattling global
markets. Europe’s Stoxx 600 headed for a third week of gains
amid optimism policy makers will contain woes.  Geithner’s View  “Europe is clearly moving,” U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said in an interview today with CNBC in
Paris. “If you look at what they’ve been saying, they are
talking about a much more comprehensive package of measures.”  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan told reporters that “the
first priority” for the Group of 20 “is for Europe to put
their own house in order.”  Three months after banks and insurers agreed to a voluntary
loss of about 21 percent on their Greek debt, they are being
pushed to accept a larger so-called haircut as Greece’s economy
deteriorates. German banks are preparing for losses of as much
as 60 percent, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  “A Greek debt writedown, even if it takes place, should
only be ventured after careful and conscientious preparation in
order to prevent anything worse from happening and to pave the
way for structural reforms,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said in a speech in Karlsruhe, southwest  Germany , today.  Greek Strikes  In Greece, a wave of strikes and walkouts protesting budget
cuts sparked criticism from Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
today.  “The picture we have seen over recent days is one of
lawlessness,” he told lawmakers. “Some believe that
occupations, strikes, blackmail, pressure can lead to the
satisfaction of vested interests to the detriment of the
national interest.”  Concerned that banks lack the capital to absorb a shock in
sovereign debt, European authorities are working on a plan that
may force financial institutions to raise at least 100 billion
euros ($138 billion) in additional capital, according to
analysts’ estimates. That money would come either from existing
investors -- who are signaling they may resist providing it --or
state funding that may come with strings attached.  The European Banking Authority intends to complete an
assessment of the region’s capital needs before a meeting of
European Union finance ministers to precede the summit, said
 Jonathan Todd , a spokesman for the European Commission.  Capital Buffer  Banks may be required to maintain a 9 percent capital
buffer to absorb sovereign risks, up from the 5 percent core
capital level used in July’s stress tests, a person with
knowledge of discussions at the authority, the EU’s top banking
regulator said this week.  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on Europe 1
radio today that 9 percent may be a “good” level.  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial
Services Index has dropped just under a third this year, paced
by Dexia SA, the Franco-Belgian lender that’s being broken up.
Today, the Stoxx 600 and the gauge of banks added 1 percent.  In one boost for Europe’s crisis-fighting abilities,
Slovakian lawmakers yesterday approved a revamping of the
region’s rescue fund, completing ratification across the 17 euro
countries.  The European Financial Stability Facility will now have a
war chest of 440 billion euros, be allowed to buy the debt of
stressed euro-area nations, aid troubled banks and offer  credit
line  to governments. Its original role was to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  Spending Power  Its new spending power may still not be enough to contain
the crisis, with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc economists
saying a 2 trillion-euro capacity is required to persuade
investors that  Spain  and  Italy  are safe. As taxpayers chafe at
providing even more cash and AAA-rated governments worry about
their own standing, policy makers are now looking to leverage
the fund, perhaps by insuring a portion of new bonds issued by
debt-ridden nations.  French 10-year  government bonds  fell today, increasing the
extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of
German bunds to as much as 91.3 basis points. That’s the most
since the euro started in 1999.  European officials are working out how to scale up the
financial clout without requiring another round of parliamentary
approvals or tapping the  European Central Bank ’s balance sheet.
That may involve providing a partial guarantee to new bond
sales, a step endorsed by the ECB.  Permanent Fund  There may also be a consensus in the euro area to set up
the permanent rescue fund, the 500 billion-euro European
Stability Mechanism, by mid-2012, a year earlier than planned.  “The resources available in the IMF and the EFSF are not
adequate,” South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
in Paris. He said emerging market powers have indicated a
readiness to offer more support for international institutions.  Countries from  China  to  Brazil  are considering increasing
IMF lending resources to help stem  Europe ’s travails, G-20 and
IMF officials said. Talks are still in the preliminary stages as
potential contributors wait to see what fixes Europe delivers
first. Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last month that
her current $390 billion cash pile may not be large enough to
meet all loan requests should the global economy worsen.  “Emerging markets, in particular China, may feel the
pressure at this point to make some gestures to help the West,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “They do not want to invest too much given that
the West’s problems are of its own making, and if they help,
they want to do so in a way that brings them benefits and
recognition.”  The G-20 meetings in Paris conclude tomorrow with a press
conference scheduled for 4:15 p.m. Ministers meet for dinner
tonight at about 7 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  