-- 
Euro-Region Inflation Quickens on Energy Costs

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-10-14T09:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/euro-region-inflation-quickens-on-energy-costs.html
European inflation accelerated to
the fastest in almost three years in September on soaring energy
costs, complicating the  European Central Bank ’s task as it
combats the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The euro-area inflation rate jumped to 3 percent last month
from 2.5 percent in August, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s the biggest gain since
October 2008 and in line with an initial estimate published on
Sept. 30. Energy costs jumped 12.4 percent in the period.  ECB council members have been weighing the threats of oil-
driven inflation against the risk of the economy slipping into a
recession as governments toughen austerity measures. While the
central bank on Oct. 6 kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5
percent, it also extended liquidity measures to banks to fight
the crisis. Commerzbank AG forecast last month the ECB will be
forced to cut borrowing costs twice through early 2012.  “We expect euro-region inflation to weaken over the coming
months,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover,
 Germany . “The ECB will keep borrowing costs on hold this year
and next and instead focus on unconventional measures.”  The euro pared gains after the data were released, trading
at $1.3791 at 11:04 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent.  Trichet Exit  Euro-region core inflation, which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, quickened to 1.6 percent in September from 1.2
percent in the previous month, the statistics office said. In
Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, inflation quickened to 2.9
percent in September from 2.5 percent in the previous month.  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, said last month that euro-region inflation
would probably average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in
2012. Economic growth may weaken to 1.3 percent next year from
1.6 percent in 2011, it said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who will be replaced by
Italy’s  Mario Draghi  when he retires at the end of the month,
said last week that euro-region inflation is “likely to stay
above 2 percent over the months ahead” before easing. Risks to
the price outlook are “broadly balanced,” he said.  “All economic forecasts anticipate that inflation rates
will peak this quarter and decrease in 2012,” ECB council
member Ewald Nowotny said on Oct. 10. “However, fear is
justified on the development of the real economy.”  Covered Bonds  The Frankfurt-based central bank said on Oct. 6 that it
would spend 40 billion euros ($55.2 billion) on covered bonds
starting next month and offer banks two additional unlimited
loans of 12- and 13-month durations to help restore lending. The
ECB has also been forced to purchase  government bonds  as
European leaders struggled to toughen their response to the
crisis.  The euro-region economy is showing signs of a deepening
slowdown after expanding just 0.2 percent in the second quarter.
European economic confidence slumped more than economists
forecast last month and manufacturing output contracted. German
business sentiment also declined last month.  Euro-region exports rose a seasonally adjusted 4.7 percent
in August from July, when they advanced 2.1 percent, Eurostat
said in a separate report.  Exports to the U.S. rose a non-seasonally adjusted 10
percent in the seven months through July from a year earlier,
while shipments to the U.K. increased 11 percent, today’s report
showed. Exports to  China  surged 22 percent and Japan shipments
climbed 12 percent in the period. Detailed trade data are
published with a one-month lag.  Surging Asian demand has boosted orders at companies such
as Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. The world’s largest manufacturer
of  luxury vehicles  said on Oct. 10 that sales of its namesake
brand rose 9.3 percent in September. German rival  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand posted a jump of 17 percent.  “We made solid gains across the globe and once again
achieved record sales for September,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s
sales chief, said on that day. The Munich-based company is “on
course” to meet full-year targets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  