-- 
European Stocks Gain for Third Week on Speculation Policy Makers Will Act

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/european-stocks-gain-for-third-week-on-speculation-policy-makers-will-act.html
European stocks rose for a third
week, their longest winning streak since April, on speculation
that policy makers will increase efforts to contain the debt
crisis as company earnings and U.S. retail sales beat estimates.  Carmakers and chemical companies led gains over the week,
with Porsche AG and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  climbing more than 6 percent.
SAP AG, the largest maker of business-management software, and
 ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s biggest chip-equipment maker, jumped
after reporting better-than-estimated earnings.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 2.8 percent to 238.51
this past week. The gauge has still retreated 18 percent since
this year’s high on Feb. 17 on concern that  Greece  will default,
pushing borrowing costs higher for other indebted euro-area
countries. The gauge traded at 9 times its companies’ estimated
earnings on Sept. 22, the cheapest since March 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Stoxx 600 last increased for
three consecutive weeks more than six months ago.  Group of 20 finance ministers met in Paris on Oct. 14 and
Oct. 15 to discuss a rescue plan for  Europe ’s struggling
economies. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  set an end-of-October deadline to devise a plan
to recapitalize banks and get Greece on the right track, Sarkozy
said Oct. 9.  “They are not going to avoid a Greek default at any cost,
but they prefer to capitalize banks,” said Giuseppe Distefano,
who helps oversee 100 million euros ($139 million) as chief
investment officer of Alessia Sicav in Luxembourg. “That helps
remove the uncertainty originating in the Greek situation. That
has been the main driver of the market rally.”  Spain  Credit Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s credit rating on Oct. 13 for
the third downgrade in three years. New data showed the eight
largest U.S. money-market funds almost halved their lending to
French banks last month.  “With equity markets looking to post their best weekly
gains in some time this improved sentiment is tempered somewhat
by the propensity for European leaders to disappoint, when it
comes to the crunch,” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at
CMC Markets in  London .  Olli Rehn, the European Commissioner for Economic and
Monetary Affairs, said in a speech in Dublin on Oct. 12 that the
euro area is approaching a consensus on resolving its debt
crisis and has a fairly good chance of averting calamity.  U.S. Retail Sales  In the U.S., retail sales rose in September more than
forecast, the Commerce Department said on Oct. 14, easing
concern that slumping confidence and scant hiring will derail
the biggest part of the world’s largest economy.  Porsche rose 6.7 percent. The maker of the Cayenne sport-
utility vehicle plans to sell a record 140,000 cars next year on
demand for the next generation of the 911 and Boxster models, a
person with knowledge of the matter said. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, maker of the 3-Series sedan, advanced 11 percent.  Syngenta climbed 7.3 percent. The Basel, Switzerland-based
chemicals maker forecast full-year revenue will rise
“substantially” as the world’s largest maker of agricultural
chemicals sees no drop-off in orders. Clariant AG, the world’s
largest maker of printing-ink chemicals, surged 11 percent,
while  Yara International ASA (YAR) , the biggest publicly traded
nitrogen-fertilizer maker, advanced 14 percent.  SAP advanced 5.2 percent. The largest maker of business-
management software reported on Oct. 14 that third-quarter
operating profit, based on non-international financial reporting
standards, rose 23 percent to 1.13 billion euros. The average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for earnings of
1.01 billion euros.  ASML Shares Gain  ASML soared 7.2 percent. The company said on Oct. 12 that
fourth-quarter orders will increase from the previous three
months as customers add capacity and shift to more advanced
machines.  Net bookings excluding second-generation EUV, or extreme
ultraviolet, lithography systems reached 514 million euros in
the third quarter, beating ASML’s earlier forecast of not more
than 500 million euros. Net income rose 32 percent from a year
earlier to 355 million euros, beating the 323 million-euro
average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  jumped 4.4 percent. The U.K.’s largest
luxury-goods maker reported fiscal second-quarter sales on Oct.
12 that beat analysts’ estimates, dispelling concern that demand
was slowing with plans to add 15 percent to its average retail
space.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  