-- 
Euro Rescue Fund Must Await ‘Guidelines’ to Use New Powers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-10-14T13:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/euro-area-rescue-fund-must-await-guidelines-to-use-new-powers.html
The euro area’s debt-crisis fund
will be able to use its new powers, including the right to buy
 government bonds , as soon as political guidelines on the bigger
role are completed, the organization’s deputy leader said.  Christophe Frankel, deputy chief executive officer of the
440 billion-euro ($607 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility, also said the EFSF would start selling short-term debt
as its funding expands to cover the new tasks as well as a
planned second aid program for  Greece .  The EFSF has gained the authority to buy sovereign bonds on
the secondary and primary markets, offer credit lines to
governments and grant aid to banks as the region’s debt troubles
have spread. The EFSF’s role so far has been to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  “We are ready to go, we just have to wait for the
guidelines to be finalized,” Frankel, who is also the EFSF’s
chief financial officer, told reporters today in Brussels. “We
expect the guidelines to be approved soon.”  The euro area is equipping the EFSF with greater authority
in a bid to prevent Spain and  Italy  from being engulfed by the
Greece-triggered crisis and to relieve the  European Central Bank 
of secondary-market bond purchases. The process risks adding
political layers to the region’s capacity to fight the
borrowing-cost rises that have forced the Greek, Irish and
Portuguese governments to accept rescue packages.  Euro-Area Capitals  While ratification of the new EFSF powers has been
completed in the 17 euro-area capitals after a Slovak
parliamentary decision yesterday, the details of the new tools
are still being worked out as government heads prepare for a
crisis meeting on Oct. 23. The EFSF would use the new
instruments only after a request by a euro-area government and
after aid conditions are fixed.  “All instruments are linked with appropriate
conditionality,” said Frankel.  One question is whether the Luxembourg-based EFSF has
enough resources for its new tasks, provoking a debate about
possible leverage to enhance the facility’s clout. The AAA rated
EFSF is backed by guarantees from euro-area governments.  “We must optimize the efficiency by leverage effects,”
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said today in Saint-
Cyr-sur-Loire,  France . The commission is the European Union’s
executive arm.  Leverage Options  One option is to let the EFSF guarantee a portion of
national debt sales in the euro region.  The EFSF might be allowed to guarantee as much as 30
percent of new bond sales by a distressed euro-area government,
said a person familiar with the matter. Any such authority would
likely cover at least 20 percent, the European official said
today on the condition of anonymity.  A separate idea of tapping the ECB to boost the EFSF’s
firepower has been opposed by the Frankfurt-based central bank
and some governments.  Frankel declined to comment on specific leverage options,
saying “any decision to use the EFSF’s capacity more
efficiently will not lead to an increase in guarantees from the
member states and there will therefore be no consequence on the
EFSF’s triple A credit rating.”  The EFSF may have to finance more than 70 billion euros of
the planned second aid package for Greece. The initial Greek
rescue of 110 billion euros in May 2010 was composed of loans
directly from euro-area governments and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Portugal’s Rescue  The EFSF is providing 17.7 billion euros under Ireland’s
aid package of 67.5 billion euros and 26 billion euros under
Portugal’s rescue of 78 billion euros. The facility’s funding
strategy so far has been to sell “benchmark” bonds with
maturities of five years or 10 years.  “Funding for Greece and the new tasks will lead to an
increase in our funding volumes,” Frankel said. “Our funding
strategy will become more flexible and more diversified. This
also means that we will implement a short-term funding strategy
which could be structured around a bill program.”  He declined to comment on the timing of any short-term debt
sales. So far, the EFSF has sold two five-year bonds and one 10-
year security, all in the first half of this year and in support
of Ireland and  Portugal .  Benchmark Bonds  Yesterday, the EFSF announced changes to its bond-sale
program for the two countries in the second half of 2011.
Instead of selling four benchmark bonds in the period, as
outlined in mid-May, the fund will sell one security for Ireland
valued at 3 billion euros and delay issues planned for Portugal
until “early 2012.”  Frankel predicted that spreads on EFSF bonds will narrow
following a widening that he linked to “uncertainty”
surrounding the ratification process for the fund’s new powers.  “Now that these issues are in the process of being solved,
spreads should naturally tighten,” Frankel said. He also said
the EFSF intends to continue issuing debt mainly in euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  