-- 
European Banks’ Securities Revenue May Fall 28%, Goldman Says

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-14T09:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/european-banks-securities-revenue-may-fall-28-goldman-says.html
European investment banks may post a
decline of about 28 percent in revenue for the third quarter of
this year mainly due to “weak market conditions,”  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a report.  Revenue from fixed income, currencies and commodities
trading may have dropped 31 percent, while equities fell 30
percent, Goldman Sachs analysts including London-based Jernej Omahen said in a report to clients yesterday. Goldman Sachs also
cut its 2011 earnings estimates for  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  by 19 percent, 12 percent and 17 percent
respectively.  “Squeezed by a tough revenue environment and regulatory
change, European investment banks are struggling to deliver
returns above their costs of equity,” the analysts said.
“Capital markets have been weak in third quarter 2011,
affecting investment banks in  Europe  and in the U.S.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said yesterday that revenue at its
investment-banking unit slid 13 percent from the second quarter,
as concern that  Greece  would default and U.S. lawmakers would
fail to raise the debt-ceiling roiled markets. The firm said the
division will face similar market conditions for the rest of the
year. Deutsche Bank scrapped its profit forecast this month and
announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns of Greek bond
holdings amid a “significant and unabated slowdown in client
activity” in the wake of Europe’s debt crisis.  Goldman Sachs said its preferred European investment bank
is UBS as  Switzerland ’s largest bank moves to curb its
investment banking activities. The firm has a “buy” rating on
UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  