-- 
Mexico Peso Bonds Rally After Central Bank Signals Possible Cut

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-10-14T21:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/mexico-peso-bonds-rally-after-central-bank-signals-possible-cut.html
Mexican peso bond yields dropped the
most in more than a week after policy makers led by central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens signaled they may lower borrowing
costs should circumstances warrant.  The yield on  Mexico ’s benchmark peso-denominated bonds due
in 2024 fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 6.43
percent at the close in Mexico City, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The price of the security rose 1.01 centavo to
131.60 centavos per peso. It’s the biggest daily rally since
Oct. 5, when yields tumbled 18 basis points. The yield dropped
30 basis points this week.  Mexico’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged today after the peso’s 11 percent decline last month.
In leaving the overnight rate at 4.50 percent for a 22nd
straight meeting, policy makers led by Carstens said in a
statement that they “will remain alert to global economic
growth perspectives and the possible implications for Mexico’s
economy, which in the context of extensive monetary easing in
the largest industrialized countries, subsequently could make it
appropriate to relax monetary policy” in Mexico.  The bond’s rally “is clearly the market telling you that
it’s starting to price in more monetary easing and maybe more
near-term monetary easing,” Bret Rosen, Latin America
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It was the dovishness of the statement,
them basically telling the market that we’re ready to cut and
perhaps cut aggressively quite a bit over the next six months.”  Peso Gain  The  Mexican peso  advanced for a second week amid rising
optimism European officials will agree on a plan to resolve the
region’s debt crisis.  The peso strengthened 1.4 percent today to 13.2430 per  U.S.
dollar , from 13.4280. The gain brought its weekly advance to 1.6
percent. The currency advanced 3.3 percent last week.  Elements of the European rescue plan emerged as finance
ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20 began talks
in Paris, seeking ways to end the sovereign debt crisis.
Officials are considering writedowns of as much as 50 percent on
Greek bonds, a backstop for banks and continued central bank
bond purchases as key planks in a revamped strategy to combat
the debt crisis, people familiar with the discussions said.  ‘More Confidence’  “It’s a little more confidence” in a European deal that’s
driving the peso’s gain,  Win Thin , the global head of emerging-
markets currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, said by phone. “Obviously, we swung too pessimistic
back in August, September. Now I think we’re swinging a little
too optimistic. I still like the emerging-market story, but I
don’t think we’re out of the woods yet.”  The peso also increased today after data showed retail
sales in the U.S. rose more than forecast in September, easing
concern slumping confidence and scant hiring will derail the
biggest part of the  U.S. economy . About 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports go to the U.S.  Traders triggered $50 million in dollar options today, the
central bank said on its website. The bank has been buying as
much as $600 million through the options every month since March
2010 to bolster foreign reserves. The options allow the central
bank to accumulate dollars, insuring against outflows of capital
and limiting the peso’s appreciation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  