-- 
Mexico Keeps Interest Rate at 4.5% as Peso’s Decline May Fuel Inflation

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-10-14T18:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/mexico-keeps-4-5-rate-as-peso-s-decline-may-fuel-inflation.html
Mexico ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.5 percent today, while
fueling speculation that it will reduce borrowing costs in the
next few months.  Policy makers led by Governor Agustin Carstens signaled
they’re ready to lower the overnight rate if monetary conditions
remain loose in advanced nations. The decision to keep rates
unchanged was forecast by 14 of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Three analysts expected a quarter-point cut.  The central bank said in a  statement  that it “will remain
alert to global economic growth perspectives and the possible
implications for Mexico’s economy, which in the context of
extensive monetary easing in the largest industrialized
countries, subsequently could make it appropriate to relax
monetary policy” in Mexico.  The statement points to the possibility of a rate cut more
explicitly than the previous Aug. 26 decision, said  Gabriel Casillas , JP Morgan’s chief Mexico economist.  “This statement provides strong support to our call that
Banxico will cut rates in December,” Casillas said by phone
from Mexico City.  December Meeting  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts for December
delivery, known as TIIE, have fallen one basis point to 4.69
percent since the bank’s Aug. 26 meeting, indicating that
traders continue to expect Banco de Mexico to cut the benchmark
rate on the last month of this year.  The yield on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 fell 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 6.41 percent, according
Banco Santander SA. The price of the security rose 1.26 centavo
to 131.82 centavos per peso at 2:41 p.m. New York time.  The bank indicated that the balance of risks for growth has
deteriorated, something it had not mentioned in its last
meeting, Casillas said.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009 in the second quarter, prompting the
government to cut its 2011 growth forecast to 4 percent from 4.3
percent.  The central bank said today that it is watching closely for
signs of any “adverse” exchange rate impact after the peso
plunged 11 percent against the dollar last month. So far,
inflation expectations haven’t budged, it said.  ‘Preparing Market’  That statement shows that Banco de Mexico isn’t concerned
that the recent slump in the peso will cause consumer prices to
rise, said Julian Cubero, a BBVA Bancomer SA economist in Mexico
City.  As long as the peso doesn’t continue to depreciate and
register volatility, the central bank is “preparing the market
to lower  interest rates  in December,” Cubero said in a
telephone interview. BBVA changed today its rate forecast to a
0.25-point cut in December from a 0.25-point increase in May
2013, Cubero said.  Investor concern over a possible U.S. recession and a
worsening of  Europe ’s debt crisis helped send the currency to a
29-month low against the dollar last month. The peso gained 1.2
percent to 13.2683 per  U.S. dollar  at 2:42 p.m. New York time,
pushing its weekly advance to 1.4 percent.  The peso had depreciated 7.3 percent through yesterday
since policy makers last met on Aug. 26, and has weakened for
five straight months. Its 20 percent loss in 2008 helped push
annual inflation up to a seven-year high of 6.53 percent.  Prices, Region  Consumer prices in September rose 3.14 percent from a year
earlier, the second slowest pace in five years. The central
bank’s annual inflation target is 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  The central bank said today that inflation risks showed
slight improvement and that general and core inflation continued
to evolve favorably. The board said it expects both indicators
to be within target range of 2 percent to 4 percent in 2011 and
2012. At the same time, the nation’s exports, imports and
industrial output weakened, the central bank said.  Emerging markets including  Brazil  on Aug. 31 and  Israel  on
Sept. 26 cut their benchmark interest rate on signs of a slowing
global economy. Elsewhere in Latin America, central bankers in
Chile, Peru and  Colombia  have kept monetary policy on hold at
recent meetings.  Economists from UBS AG,  Barclays Capital  and Bank of
America predicted that  Banco de Mexico  would cut the rate to
4.25 percent today.  Neutral Policy  The Bank of Mexico will lower the  interbank rate  to 4.25
percent in one year, in October 2012, according to the median
estimate of 20 economists in an Oct. 4 Banamex survey.  Mexico’s economy is showing signs of slowing in tandem with
the U.S., which buys 80 percent of the country’s exports.
September’s manufacturing index fell to 50.0 from 51.6 in August
after rising from 50.6 in July, while industrial output fell in
August for the fourth month in 2011.  Gross domestic product growth will slow this year from a
5.4 percent expansion in 2010, according to the government’s
estimate released Sept. 8, and may decelerate further next year
in posting 3.5 percent growth.  Carstens said Sept. 15 at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit
in  New York  that the balance of risks in Mexico still calls for
a relatively neutral monetary policy, although there may be
circumstances in the future that call for lower rates.  Other economists don’t agree that U.S. and Mexico growth
data are positive enough and the peso depreciation drastic
enough to delay a rate cut.  “I think the peso weakness is transitory and the risks
that the slowdown is quite marked are high,” said Rafael de la Fuente, a senior economist at UBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . De
la Fuente said that well-anchored inflation supported his
prediction for a rate cut today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  