-- 
Mexico May Keep 4.5% Rate as Peso’s Decline May Fuel Inflation

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-10-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/mexico-may-keep-4-5-rate-as-peso-s-decline-may-fuel-inflation.html
Mexico’s central bank may keep its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged today after the peso’s 11
percent decline last month led economists to reverse calls to
stimulate the country’s sagging economy.  The central bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
will keep the overnight rate at 4.50 percent for a 22nd straight
meeting, according to 13 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Three analysts expect a 0.25-point cut. It’s the first time
since 2009 that analysts polled by Bloomberg aren’t unanimous in
their forecast. The bank announces its decision at 10 a.m. New
York time.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009 in the second quarter, prompting the
government to cut its 2011 growth forecast to 4 percent from 4.3
percent. While policy makers at their last meeting  signaled 
their willingness to cut rates to protect  Mexico  from a global
slowdown, the peso’s decline may lead to pass-through pressures
on prices, said Rodolfo Navarrete, head of research at Vector
Casa de Bolsa SA.  “When there is a depreciation like the one we are seeing,
there is a danger of inflation,” Navarrete said in a phone
interview from Mexico City. “The depreciation generates
inflation.” He said that in September he reversed his forecast
for a rate cut today after the peso began weakening.  The peso’s slump against the dollar can cause inflation to
rise by pushing up the cost of imported goods. Investor concern
about a possible U.S. recession and a worsening of  Europe ’s debt
crisis helped send the currency to a 29-month low against the
dollar last month.  Inflation, Rate Horizon  Since  Banco de Mexico  last met Aug. 26, the peso fell 7.3
percent against the dollar through yesterday and has weakened
for five straight months. Its 20 percent loss in 2008 helped
push annual inflation up to a seven-year high of 6.53 percent.  Emerging markets including  Brazil  on Aug. 31 and  Israel  on
Sept. 26 cut their benchmark interest rate on signs of a slowing
global economy. Elsewhere in Latin America, central bankers in
Chile, Peru and  Colombia  have kept monetary policy on hold at
recent meetings on global slowdown concerns.  Economists from UBS AG,  Barclays Capital  and Bank of
America predicted that Banco de Mexico will cut the rate to 4.25
percent today.  Domestic Slowdown, U.S.  The Bank of Mexico will lower the  interbank rate  to 4.25
percent in October 2012, according to the median estimate of 20
economists in an Oct. 4 Banamex survey.  Two of the economists surveyed by Banamex expected a rate
cut today and three others forecast a cut at the next meeting in
December.  September’s manufacturing index fell to 50.0 from 51.6 in
August after rising from 50.6 in July, the Mexican Institute of
Finance Executives reported Oct. 3.  The statistics agency on Oct. 12 reported that industrial
output fell in August for the fourth month in 2011. From a year
earlier, production rose 3.1 percent, which is the third-lowest
annual print since 2009.  Economic weakness in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, is taking a toll on Mexico’s growth. According
to the government’s estimate released Sept. 8, gross domestic
product growth will slow this year from 5.4 percent in 2010, and
may decelerate again next year.  Neutral Policy, Peso  Carstens said Sept. 15 at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit
in  New York  that the balance of risks in Mexico still calls for
a relatively neutral monetary policy, although there may be
circumstances in the future that call for lower rates.  At the same time, some economists don’t agree that U.S. and
Mexico growth data are positive enough and the peso depreciation
drastic enough to delay a rate cut. The peso has strengthened
2.8 percent in October. Carstens said in a Sept. 23 interview
that the peso has been “oversold” and that there would be a
correction in the next days.  “I think the peso weakness is transitory and the risks
that the slowdown is quite marked are high,” said Rafael de la Fuente, a senior economist at UBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . De
la Fuente said that well-anchored inflation supports his
prediction for a rate cut today.  Consumer prices in September rose 3.14 percent from a year
earlier, the second slowest pace in five years. The central
bank’s annual inflation target is 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  The yield on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 were little
changed at 6.529 percent, according Banco Santander SA. The
price of the security rose 0.03 centavo to 130.56 centavos per
peso.  The peso weakened 1.1 percent to 13.4280 per U.S. dollar
yesterday from 13.2874 on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  