-- 
Mexico to Lift Tariffs as U.S. Approves Trucking Permit

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-14T17:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/mexico-to-lift-tariffs-as-u-s-approves-trucking-permit-1-.html
Mexico  said it will lift tariffs on
99 U.S. goods following the approval of the first cross-border
permit for a Mexican trucking company under an agreement reached
in March.  Transportes Olympic , based in Monterrey, Mexico, received
the permit today from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration, Mexico’s  Economy Ministry  said today in an  e-
mailed statement . The trucking company also was the first
participant in a similar program in 2007 that the U.S. later
canceled.  “Mexico will proceed to lift, within five business days,
the tariffs on 99 U.S. products that our country was forced to
impose as retaliation after the cancellation in 2009 of the
previous program,” the  Economy Ministry  said.  The permit program resolves a conflict that dates back to
December 1995 when the U.S. cited safety concerns to block North
American Free Trade Agreement rules allowing Mexican trucks to
cross beyond a 25-mile border zone. Since NAFTA took effect in
1994, total trade between the two countries has grown more than
fourfold to $384 billion last year, according to Mexico’s
statistics agency.  The U.S. Department of Transportation granted the permit
after an “exhaustive review” of the company’s operation in
Mexico to make sure it meets U.S. standards, according to an e-
mail statement from the department.  Mexico had lifted 50 percent of tariffs affecting $2.4
billion of goods after the U.S. reached the agreement to
implement the program and now will eliminate the remaining half,
according to the department. The tariffs applied to apples,
grapes, pears, potatoes, pork and other products, the department
said.  Big Win  “This is a big win for American farmers and consumers, who
will no longer have to struggle with onerous tariffs imposed by
Mexico,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in the
statement.  The department said yesterday it delayed awarding a cross-
border trucking permit to a Mexican trucking company called
Grupo Behr de Baja  California , which passed a preliminary
inspection, to review safety objections from industry groups.  Under the program, Mexican trucks can take cargo to a U.S.
city and pick up a load and return to Mexico, similar to rules
on Canadian trucks. Mexican trucks cannot deliver cargo between
U.S. cities. U.S. trucks will be allowed to circulate in Mexico
under the same guidelines.  Safety Standards  Mexican trucks must comply with all Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standards and have monitoring systems to track hours on
the road, according to rules announced in July. Truck drivers
must take drug tests that are analyzed in the U.S., hand over
complete driving records and prove their English-language
skills.  “The possibility to provide door-to-door delivery service
for international cargo will contribute to achieving a more
modern, agile and efficient border,” the Economy Ministry said.
“This will bring benefits to producers, exporters, consumers
and transportation users, which will result in a more
competitive  North America .”  Because of the current trucking limitations, truckers drop
trailers at the border before crossing. Older rigs, often called
transfers, pick them up to cross and leave them for a long-haul
truck waiting on the other side.  A previous attempt to resolve the problem failed after the
U.S. canceled a cross-border trucking certification program in
March 2009. Only 157 Mexican trucks took part in that pilot
program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  