-- 
Experts Discuss Rebuilding Japan’s Economy at Bloomberg Event

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-14T15:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/experts-discuss-rebuilding-japan-s-economy-at-bloomberg-event.html

Press Release  Motohisa Furukawa,  Japan ’s Minister of State for National Policy,
to Give Keynote Speech  TOKYO -- Seven months after Japan’s March 11 earthquake,
reconstruction efforts continue. The government put the price
tag for damages caused by the earthquake at $300 billion, and
the cost of rebuilding is increasing. What is the impact of
additional spending on Japan’s debt and tax policies? Should the
central bank do more or are conditions in place for the economy
to recover?  On October 19, Bloomberg LINK will convene government officials,
policymakers, finance executives, business leaders, and
prominent economists at the JETRO headquarters in Minato-ku to
examine the full impact of Japan’s triple disaster and the
country’s way forward.  The Bloomberg Japan Conference: Road to Recovery will feature a
special address by Japanese Minister Motohisa Furukawa. Among
the many themes of the day will be the state of reconstruction,
Japan’s energy policy and power supply, and the outlook for
Japanese equities, bonds and currency. The conference will also
examine the state of the global economy, including the fiscal
and debt crisis in the U.S. and  Europe , and how these are
impacting Japan’s recovery.  Key speakers include:  - Shuhei Abe, President and CEO, SPARX Group Co., Ltd.  - Naohiko Baba, Chief Economist, Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.  - Scott Callon, Chief Executive Officer, Ichigo Asset Management,
Ltd.  - Gerald L. Curtis, Burgess Professor of Political Science,
 Columbia University , Senior Fellow, Tokyo Foundation  - Motohisa Furukawa, Minister of State for National Policy,
Cabinet Secretariat, Japan  - Taro Kono, Member of the  House of Representatives ; Director
General, International Bureau,  Liberal Democratic Party   - Tomoya Masanao, Managing Director and Head of Portfolio
Management, PIMCO Japan Ltd  - Takeshi Niinami, President and CEO, Lawson, Inc.  - Eisuke Sakakibara, Professor,  Aoyama Gakuin University   - Hiromichi Shirakawa, Managing Director, Head of Economic
Research Department and Chief Economist for Japan, Credit Suisse  The conference is being sponsored by Chartis and JETRO.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/Tokyo .  Follow on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag
for this event is #BBjapan.  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, BNA
and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185
locations around the world. For more information on Bloomberg,
please visit  http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, + 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
