-- 
Faes Plans Asia Sales Push, Disposals as Spain Drug Market Falls

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-10-14T08:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/faes-plans-asia-sales-push-disposals-as-spain-drug-market-falls.html
Faes Farma SA (FAE) , the Spanish maker of
allergy treatment bilastine, aims to sell the drug in  Asia  and
dispose of its over-the-counter medicines unit to make up for
government austerity measures hurting its domestic market.  Agreements to begin offering bilastine in  Southeast Asia 
will be reached in the next few weeks, General Director Gonzalo Lopez said. About 15 percent of the approximately 100 products
in Faes’s lineup aren’t essential, and it’s in talks with
potential buyers of the over-the-counter operations because the
division’s sales don’t justify the marketing expense, he said.  “In the period through 2012, it would be highly
recommended to have some extra revenue to compensate for
cutbacks in pharmaceutical spending,” Lopez, 44, said in an
interview at the company’s offices in Madrid. “There are
conversations right now with some companies possibly interested
in several products.”  Spain ’s government approved policies in August aimed at
saving 2.4 billion euros ($3.3 billion) a year in drug costs as
part of its budget cuts. Doctors are banned from prescribing by
brand name and must instead list the medicine’s active
ingredients, enabling replacements by generic products. Prices
were cut 15 percent on drugs that are at least 10 years old for
which there’s no generic available.  The measures prompted Faes’s Barcelona-based rival  Almirall
SA (ALM)  to cut its 2011 earnings forecast on Oct. 4. The stock, which
fell 5.1 percent the day of the announcement, has dropped 37
percent in the past 12 months. Faes shares have plunged 51
percent in the period.  Market Share Target  Faes Farma, founded in 1933 and based in the northern
Basque-region town of Leioa, has sold bilastine in Spain since
April under the Bilaxten brand name. The tablet, used to treat
hives and nose congestion, has more than a 10 percent  market
share , Lopez said. Faes has said it’s seeking to raise that to
30 percent in three to four years.  The drugmaker aims to add France, Italy and  Portugal  as
markets for bilastine in the fourth quarter once it reaches
agreements on prices, Lopez said, reiterating an earlier target.
It’s eventually seeking a 20 percent market share of  Europe ’s 1
billion-euro market for allergy remedies, he said.  First-half net income fell 18 percent to 10.4 million
euros. Faes, which had forecast “double-digit” full-year
profit growth early in 2011, said in July that margins were hurt
by discounts imposed by the Spanish and Portuguese governments
in 2010 and by spending on product introductions.  Reversing a Decline  The decline in first-half earnings is likely to continue in
the final six months of the year, Lopez said in the interview
yesterday. Additional licensing agreements for bilastine may
enable the company to reverse the drop, he said.  A deal is possible in the next two or three weeks in
 Indonesia , where “we’ll have the best partner we can have,”
Lopez said. Neighboring markets where licensing talks with
multinational companies are under way include the Philippines,
Thailand and Vietnam. He declined to identify any partners.  An accord with a drugmaker in  Japan  is possible in the next
few months, enabling sales of bilastine in that country as early
as 2016, Lopez said. Faes has an “ambitious goal” of
accounting for almost 20 percent of the country’s 1.8 billion-
euro antiallergy market, he said. Agreements in  China , Australia
and Canada are expected next year.  Faes Farma’s own international operations account for about
10 percent of revenue, and the company is studying acquisitions
in  Latin America , especially in  Mexico , which may happen in
three to five years “or even earlier, if there’s an
opportunity,” Lopez said.  The drugmaker forecast in June that 2013 pretax profit will
exceed the 19.5 million euros of 2010 by 50 percent and be
double the figure in 2014, excluding new licenses for bilastine.  The prediction is “very conservative” because it doesn’t
account for potential earning growth from bilastine agreements
and royalties, Lopez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  