-- 
Fed Responding to Ridicule Over Prices People Pay With Lip Service to Beef

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/fed-ridiculed-over-prices-people-pay-begets-lip-service-to-beef.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
giving commodity prices their due.  After Republican lawmakers and consumers criticized their
focus on a measure of inflation that strips out food and
gasoline costs, Fed officials increasingly are tying their
assessment of prices to commodities. Following their last two
meetings, policy makers said that a decline in energy costs was
causing “moderated” inflation, even though their preferred
gauge had climbed to the highest since May 2010. Earlier this
year, they dismissed surging oil, calling inflation “subdued.”  Their increased emphasis on so-called headline, instead of
core, inflation reflects the central bank’s attempt to appear
more in tune with prices Americans pay, said Michael Feroli,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  In March, attendees at a Queens Chamber of Commerce meeting
asked William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, when he
last set foot in a grocery store because they said he wasn’t
sensitive enough to rising prices of foods, such as beef.  Policy makers were “out of touch with the public and
politicians,” Feroli said in an interview from his New York
office. “Given that the Fed is an increasingly visible public
institution, it had to adjust its communications accordingly.”  The shift has a more “cynical angle” because it’s also
provided support for the Fed’s expansion of monetary stimulus,
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in Stamford,  Connecticut . After completing its $600 billion of
bond purchases in June, the Fed pledged in August to keep its
benchmark federal funds rate near record lows until 2013.  Rising Risks  Last month, it decided to replace $400 billion of short-
term debt in its portfolio with longer-term securities in an
effort to further reduce borrowing costs and counter rising
risks of a recession.  At its Sept. 20-21 meeting, the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  “agreed to note that inflation appeared to
have moderated since earlier in the year as prices of energy and
some commodities had declined,” according to the minutes,
released Oct. 12 in  Washington . The Fed’s preferred price index,
which excludes food and fuel costs, rose 1.6 percent in August
from a year earlier, up from 1 percent in March.  The communications change comes after the Fed’s November
decision to embark on a second round of asset purchases sparked
the harshest political backlash in three decades. Republican
lawmakers, including House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio , said
the program risked accelerating prices; they also sent Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  a letter last month urging the central
bank to avoid further monetary easing.  Breakeven Rate  The program led to surging inflation expectations and
questions about the central bank’s credibility. Expectations for
annual consumer-price gains reached 2.47 percentage points in
April, the highest in almost three years as measured by the
breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities. The measure since has fallen to 1.55 points. The
central bank aims for a long-run inflation goal of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent, according to its most recent economic projections
in June.  There’s a “disconnect” between the Fed’s recent comments
on oil and its historical view that  core inflation , stripped of
volatile energy and food costs, is the best measure of  price
stability , said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “The Fed’s communications are trying to talk down people’s
inflation expectations and reinforce that talk by pointing to
the lower commodity prices,” Silvia said. “For a lot of
professional people like me, it’s like ‘Okay, fine, you want to
talk about that, but that’s not what you had to say two years
ago when gas prices were rising.’”  ‘Small Part’  Silvia said he’s still focusing on core inflation because
“that’s what the Fed said the target was,” and commodities
play “a small part” in the ultimate price of goods and
services.  Most Fed officials favor giving the public additional
information on the central bank’s goals and how they influence
decisions, according to the minutes from last month’s meeting.
At the August session, Bernanke and colleagues discussed
adopting specific levels of inflation and unemployment as
conditions for keeping  interest rates  near zero.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , who voted against the last two decisions to expand
record stimulus, said the Fed should have “responsibility” for
headline, not core, inflation and there are “mixed views” on
how well core predicts changes in overall prices.  “I think it’s useful, but not all that useful,” Plosser
told reporters after an Oct. 12 speech in Philadelphia. “For
me, what we care about is the headline number.” He has called
for the Fed to adopt an explicit numerical target for inflation.  ‘Trending Downward’  In January, the FOMC said inflation was “trending
downward.” Core fell to 0.9 percent in December from 1 percent
in November. Including food and energy, the rate had climbed to
1.4 percent from 1.2 percent in the same period. The headline
inflation figure has continued to rise, reaching 2.9 percent in
August, the highest since October 2008.  Bernanke said in Oct. 4 Congressional testimony that price
increases “have begun to moderate” after a jump in oil earlier
this year resulted in higher costs for gasoline and food.  Crude oil for November delivery settled yesterday at $84.23
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down from its 2011
peak of $113.93 on April 29. Pump prices have dropped to $3.426
a gallon from this year’s high of $3.985 in May, according to
Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S. motoring
organization.  Smallest Gain  Retail prices for meat and fish rose 0.5 percent during the
three months through August, the smallest three-month gain since
the end of 2009, according to the Labor Department’s index of
consumer prices.  “It’s not clear what in the inflation picture has
moderated other than gasoline prices themselves,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in New York.
“This is a departure for the Fed to be focusing on the very
high-frequency headline inflation numbers as their measure of
inflation.”  The criticism from Republicans has continued, with Senators
Jim DeMint of  South Carolina  and  Mike Lee  of  Utah  saying Oct. 4
that the central bank’s record monetary stimulus has spun
inflation and the  money supply  out of control.  “There’s a little bit of playing Whac-A-Mole,” Pierpont’s
Stanley said. “When commodity prices were shooting through the
moon, Bernanke and the Fed were pounding the table saying ‘No,
no, don’t pay attention to that; we’re looking at underlying
inflation.’ And now all of a sudden, commodity prices are going
the other way and it’s ‘Oh, look, inflation is moderating.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  