-- 
Fidelity Buying Chile Stocks After Plunge, Passing on Mexico

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T16:21:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/fidelity-buying-chilean-stocks-after-plunge-passing-on-mexico.html
Fidelity Investments  is increasing
holdings of Chilean stocks that this month plunged to the
cheapest in six months relative to Latin American peers, fund
manager Adam Kutas said.  Kutas, who oversees $3 billion of Latin American equities,
increased holdings of Chilean stocks that stand to benefit most
from continued regional growth and plans to buy local retailers
and banks, he said yesterday in a telephone interview, without
identifying companies. The biggest equity rout in three years
fueled by concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will crimp global growth
has also created opportunities among Brazil steelmakers, while
Mexican valuations “are not that compelling,” Kutas said.  The 18-share  MSCI Chile (MXCL)  Index slumped 21 percent since
June, the most among major regional indexes, as a consumer
lending scandal and record-low government approval added local
momentum to the global selloff.  “Valuations have improved dramatically given this
correction,” said Kutas, whose regional fund beat 95 percent of
peers in the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“I see this more as a buying opportunity of what I consider the
blue chips.”  The Chilean index fetched 13.6 times reported earnings on
Oct. 4 compared with MSCI EM Latin America Index’s ratio of
9.65, representing the smallest premium since March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Chilean index’s price-to-
earnings ratio since then has increased to 15.7.  Asset Allocation   As of Aug. 31, Fidelity’s Latin America Fund was invested
58 percent in  Brazil , 19 percent in  Mexico  and 12 percent in
 Chile , according to data provided by the company. The fund has
dropped 15 percent in the past 12 months. It has beaten 45
percent of its peers with a 6.4 percent return over the last
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility on Chile’s benchmark Ipsa index increased after
retailer  Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  revealed in June that it had
restructured loans without the consent of hundreds of thousands
of clients and government approval ratings plunged, Banco de
Credito & Inversiones said in an Oct. 10 note to clients.  “The Ipsa’s volatility has been higher than that of the
Bovespa and MSCI  Latin America  indexes, which wasn’t the case in
prior crises,” BCI wrote.  President Sebastian Pinera’s approval slumped to 26 percent
in an August poll by Santiago-based CEP, the lowest in the five
elected governments since the dictatorship of  Augusto Pinochet .  Rising Volatility  The Ipsa’s 20-day volatility reached 41 percent yesterday,
compared with 32 percent for the Bovespa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Ipsa reached a 12-month high in its
20-day volatility of 49 percent in August, compared with a 12-
month high of 44 percent for the MSCI Latin America index.
Twenty-day volatility measures how much in an annual percentage
a price varied from its average in that period.  Among stocks in the industries Kutas is targeting, retailer
 SACI Falabella (FALAB) , the country’s largest publicly traded company,
has lost 19 percent this year, while peer Cencosud SA, Latin
America’s third-largest publicly-traded retailer by sales, has
retreated 22 percent.  Banco Santander Chile (BSAN) , the country’s
largest lender by assets, has fallen 16 percent this year. Banco
de Chile, the second-largest lender, has fallen 8.7 percent. The
MSCI Chile index rose 1.2 percent to 2,263.93 at 1:13 p.m.
Santiago time, poised for the biggest weekly gain since March.  In Brazil, “from a deep value perspective, definitely the
steel sector is looking very interesting,” Kutas said. “That
sector has gone through some very negative structural changes in
the last few years. Valuations are very attractive, and we are
starting to do some more work there if we can find some
interesting ideas.”  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , Brazil’s largest steel producer, fell 38 percent
in the year to date. Rival Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA has
fallen 45 percent in the same period.  Neutral on Mexico  Kutas said he remains neutral on Mexico.  “A lot of the headwinds that Mexico has faced from a loss
of competitiveness to  China  has probably run their course,” he
said. “At the same time valuations for a lot of companies are
not that compelling so it’s hard to get excited and find ideas
within the Mexican market to put the capital to work.”  Mexico’s IPC index trades at 17.7 times trailing earnings,
versus 8.4 times for Brazil’s Bovespa. In August, that gap was
at the widest in at least seven years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Latin America is very well positioned, given its very
positive sovereign backdrop, the population continues to grow,
its positioning in commodities is very strategic and its
consumer class continues to grow in the region,” he said. “To
me those provide a very positive backdrop to invest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  