-- 
Finance Republicans Urge Supercommittee to Avoid Tax Rise

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-14T19:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/finance-republicans-urge-supercommittee-to-eschew-tax-increases.html
The congressional supercommittee
charged with reducing the federal  budget deficit  should avoid
tax increases, repeal the 2010 health-care law and address the
eligibility age for Medicare, say Republicans on the Senate
Finance Committee.  In a submission to the panel today, committee Republicans
argue that tax increases would be counterproductive. Democrats,
including President  Barack Obama , say tax increases must be part
of a balanced approach to  deficit reduction .  Today is the deadline for congressional committee leaders
to submit recommendations to help the supercommittee identify
$1.5 trillion in savings over the next decade.  “While we are all committed to fundamental  tax reform , tax
reform must be a base-broadening and rate-lowering exercise that
is revenue neutral against current  tax policy ,” wrote the
senators, led by the panel’s top Republican, Senator  Orrin Hatch 
of Utah. That means a revenue level equivalent to permanently
extending the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003.  The Republicans call for a  tax code  with top rates for
individuals and corporations of no higher than 25 percent, from
35 percent now, and a system that exempts U.S. tax on profits
earned overseas. The senators also said Congress should change
the method for determining the budget impact of tax changes by
incorporating economic growth estimates into the projections.  They also propose repealing the health-care law enacted in
2010, which would cost the government money, not save it,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Medicare Eligibility Age  The proposed change in the eligibility age for Medicare,
the federal health program for the elderly and disabled,
resurrects a proposal that Obama left out of his deficit-
reduction plan under pressure from  AARP , which represents
seniors, and other interest groups.  Hospitals and other health providers support increasing the
eligibility age because younger seniors would move into
subsidized private health plans with higher reimbursement rates
than Medicare.  The Finance Committee Republicans propose converting
Medicaid from an open-ended entitlement to states to a block
grant, in which the federal contribution would be capped and
states would have greater flexibility to control eligibility and
benefits in the program. The idea is supported by many
Republican governors, who chafe at limits on eligibility
reductions included in the 2010 health-care law, and opposed by
congressional Democrats and advocates for the poor.  Tax Overhaul  The recommendations were signed by nine of the 11 Senate
Finance Committee Republicans. Those not signing it were  Jon Kyl 
of  Arizona  and Olympia Snowe of Maine.  In a statement released today, Snowe said she agreed with
many of her colleagues’ recommendations, including the tax
overhaul and repeal of the health-care law. Her statement about
points of agreement didn’t address the Medicaid block-grant
proposal and the Medicare eligibility age.  “I am not a fan of the supercommittee process,” she said.
“In my opinion, creating that vehicle puts the responsibility
of 535 members of Congress on just 12 lawmakers. I am also
disappointed there were no full committee hearings or any
attempt to create bipartisan transmittal recommendations.”  The supercommittee, which has a Nov. 23 deadline to produce
a recommendation, is charged with finding at least $1.2 trillion
in savings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  