-- 
Forint Extends Biggest Weekly Gain in Three Months on Euro Crisis Optimism

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-14T10:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/forint-extends-biggest-weekly-gain-in-three-months-on-euro-crisis-optimism.html
The forint rose against the euro,
heading for the best weekly gain in three months, on bets
European leaders will move to resolve the debt crisis and
 Hungary  may consider help from the  International Monetary Fund .  Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 291.48 per
euro by 11:39 a.m. in Budapest, extending its increase this week
to 1.8 percent. That is the biggest jump since the five days
through July 1 on a closing basis and the second-biggest rally
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after the Polish zloty. The advance pared the
forint’s loss in the second half of 2011 to 8.8 percent.  IMF officials are in Hungary at the invitation of the
government to advise on an overhaul of the country’s local
government system, without any talks on fresh loans, the  Economy
Ministry  said today in an e-mail, confirming a report by
Nepszabadsag.  “The news may even have a positive effect on Hungarian
assets and the forint as it shows the air is not completely
frozen between Hungary and the fund,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an
economist at Erste Group Bank AG in Budapest, and colleagues
wrote in a research report.  Hungary, the first European Union member to get a bailout
led by the IMF in 2008, broke off talks on fresh aid last year.  “Rumors that Hungary will be provided with IMF support if
needed” and economic data including a rise in Hungary’s trade
surplus “helped the forint rally against the euro and
outperform other central European currencies,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , a strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , wrote in a
research report today.  The euro headed for its biggest weekly gain versus the
dollar since January as Group of 20 finance ministers start a
two-day meeting today and policy makers discuss plans to tackle
 Europe ’s debt woes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  