-- 
French Socialists Set to Pick Candidate to Challenge Sarkozy

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-14T05:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/french-socialists-set-to-pick-candidate-to-challenge-sarkozy.html
France’s  Socialist Party  supporters
will choose their candidate on Oct. 16 to challenge President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  in the May 2012 elections.  Francois Hollande , 57, leads the race, having gotten the
most votes in the first round of the party’s primaries. His
rival for the party’s nomination, former Labor Minister  Martine Aubry , 61, has criticized him for his lack of experience.
Hollande has never served in a government.  “They haven’t shown any major differences in their
proposals,” said Erwan Lestrohan, a pollster at Paris-based  LH2
Institute . “She is more left-wing, he is more centrist.”  Aubry may struggle to close the 8.8 percentage-point gap
that separated her from Hollande in the first round. Polls show
that Hollande would win the presidential elections if they were
held now. Sarkozy has yet to declare his intention to seek a
second term.  The two finalists’ positions have taken a more socially
focused and  protectionist  twist in the final days of their
campaigns, mirroring the stance of Arnaud Montebourg, who came
in third and whose supporters they seek. The lawmaker advocates
“de-globalization,” and calls for a move toward re-
nationalizing French banks and more financial regulation.  “Mathematically, Hollande should win but Aubry’s odds may
get a boost from voters who believe in a more left-wing
candidate and who voted for Arnaud Montebourg last Sunday,”
said Lestrohan.  Aubry, who suggested Hollande would represent the “ soft
left ,” accused him of having a right-wing bent.  “It always disturbs me when a man of the left uses the
terminology of the right,” she told RTL radio yesterday after
their final  televised debate Oct. 12 .  ‘Banks Must Pay’  In the debate, they both said the state must take greater
control of banks and called for increased regulation of global
financial transactions. They said the country’s banks should be
under state guardianship if they receive government aid.  Hollande said also that he sees a Greek default before the
end of the year. Aubry said “the banks must pay” for their
Greek investments. Both called for increased global regulation
and barriers to trade if countries, including  China , don’t
respect commercial and environmental rules.  Hollande declined to call for increased taxes on wealthy
people on Oct. 12, while Aubry suggested that she would add a
new tax bracket for those earning more than 250,000 euros per
year ($343.000).  Hollande Leads  Sixty-one  percent  of French people say Hollande, who heads
the local council of Correze in central  France , is more likely
to bring the Socialist Party back to power, 17 years after their
last presidential victory. That compares to 43 percent of the
voters who say Aubry, the mayor of the northern city of Lille,
will be the winner.  Hollande, the former head of the Socialist Party, secured
his lead this week with the backing of three of the four
candidates defeated in the first round.  Segolene Royal, the French 2007 Socialist presidential
candidate, called on her supporters yesterday to vote for
Hollande in the second round. Montebourg, who said he won’t give
his voters instructions, may unveil his personal choice before
the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  