-- 
Fukushima Clean-Up Attracts Bids for $14 Billion in Projects

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-10-14T03:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/fukushima-clean-up-attracts-bids-for-14-billion-in-projects.html
Sumitomo Corp. (8053) ,  IHI Corp. (7013)  and
 Obayashi Corp. (1802)  are among companies seeking to win
decontamination contracts around the wrecked Fukushima nuclear
plant as  Japan  sets aside $14 billion for the clean up.  Fukushima prefecture has received 143 preliminary
proposals, mostly to decontaminate radiated soil and water, from
companies, universities, non-profit organizations and
individuals, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News
from the prefectural government.  Japan’s environment ministry will budget more than 1.1
trillion yen for decontamination by the end of the next fiscal
year,  Goshi Hosono , minister in charge of the response to the
nuclear crisis, said Sept. 30.  “Estimating how much decontamination will cost is very
difficult, so the government is trying to figure out rough
figures through test projects,”said Tadashi Inoue at the
 Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry  who is
advising the Fukushima government. “The cost will be
enormous.”  Iitate village, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) from the
Fukushima nuclear plant, announced a decontamination cost
 estimate  on Sept 28 of 322.4 billion yen, suggesting the
government budget isn’t big enough.  The  Environment Ministry  will increase the budget if it
proves insufficient, said Tsutomu Utsunomiya, an assistant
director at the environment management bureau at the ministry.
He didn’t say by how much.  Experience Needed  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant
has been leaking radiation since the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami disabled cooling systems leading to the meltdown of
uranium fuel rods in three reactors. Cracks in the containment
vessels for the melted fuel have allowed radiation leaks that
will leave some areas uninhabitable for two decades or more,
according to a government estimate in August.  Companies with nuclear engineering experience such as
Hitachi and IHI will see demand for their decontamination
technology, said Masashi Hayami, a Tokyo-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “There are a limited number of companies
that can do decontamination work because it requires
sophisticated nuclear power technology.”  IHI, a Japanese heavy machinery maker, proposed a mobile
water decontamination system to filter out radioactive material
and a waste storage container for soil and debris, Hiroshi
Nakamura, the head of IHI’s reconstruction team for the
earthquake, said in an interview.  Tests First  The Fukushima government will set up test decontamination
projects by the end of this month, said Katsumasa Suzuki, an
official at the headquarters for disaster control in the
Fukushima government. The prefecture hasn’t estimated the
decontaminate costs, he said.  Obayashi, a construction contractor, is pitching a
radiation monitoring system, according to the documents.
Obayashi spokesman Sanshiro Kobayashi confirmed it has made
proposals for decontamination projects. He declined to
elaborate.  Hitachi Zosen Corp. (7004) , an industrial machinery maker,
proposed a radioactive soil treatment facility, according to the
documents. Hitachi Zosen spokesman Teruaki Yamada confirmed it
offered its technology and declined to comment on details.  Sumitomo Corp.,  Shimizu Corp. (1803)  and a unit of  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
also offered proposals, according to the documents.  “It’s vital to start decontamination immediately, for the
sake of residents,” said Keizo Ishii, professor of quantum
science and energy engineering at Tohoku University who is
advising Fukushima city. “It’s easy to tell effective from non-
effective technologies once decontamination starts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  