-- 
G-20 Said to Weigh Boosting IMF Lending Power to Aid Europe

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-10-14T09:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/g-20-said-to-weigh-boosting-imf-lending-power-to-aid-europe.html
Nations from China to  Brazil  are
considering increasing the International Monetary Fund’s lending
resources to help stem the European debt crisis, Group of 20 and
IMF officials said.  Policy makers are discussing an expansion of the IMF’s
firepower as part of a global G-20 agreement next month in
Cannes,  France , according to three officials, who declined to be
named because the discussions are not public. Talks are in
preliminary stages as potential contributors wait to see what
measures Europeans take to end the debt turmoil at an Oct. 23
summit, they said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told member
countries last month that her current $390 billion war chest may
not suffice to meet all loan requests should the global economy
worsen. Additional funds could be used to help shelter Italy and
 Spain  with precautionary lending, the people said. Standard &
Poor’s cut Spain’s credit rating by one level to AA- yesterday.  “Emerging markets, in particular China, may feel the
pressure at this point to make some gestures to help the West,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “They do not want to invest too much given that
the West’s problems are of its own making, and if they help,
they want to do so in a way that brings them benefits and
recognition.”  Spain Downgraded  The euro rose to $1.3809 as of 10:40 a.m. in  London . The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.9 percent and U.S. index
futures also gained. Overnight, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost
1 percent after S&P downgraded Spain’s credit rating for the
third time in three years as slowing growth and rising defaults
threaten banks.  A move to bolster the IMF’s firepower would be similar to a
G-20 decision in April 2009 to triple the fund’s resources as
part of plan to pull the world out of recession. Emerging
markets such as  China  and Brazil are among potential
contributors, along with developed economies such as  Japan , two
of the people said.  “The crisis requires a stronger IMF, one that is well
resourced, one that has more flexibility of its toolkit and one
that has a stronger surveillance mandate,” Mexico Deputy
Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Paris.  China’s ‘Open Attitude’  Chinese deputy finance minister  Zhu Guangyao , meeting with
G-20 counterparts and central bankers in Paris today, confirmed
a proposal to increase global lending to Europe via the IMF is
on the table. China “supports stability in Europe and holds an
open attitude toward all discussions,” he said.  IMF spokesman William Murray declined to comment. The
Financial Times reported earlier that emerging-market nations
were considering ways to boost the IMF’s lending resources.  In Japan, the finance minister indicated a cautious stance
on supplying funds. Asked at a Tokyo news conference today
whether Japan would consider boosting its contribution to the
IMF, Jun Azumi said, “at the present moment, is there a need
for that?”  Azumi said Japan would want an explanation on what role the
the IMF will play in dealing with the European crisis and why
the extra money is needed, before considering further funding.  ‘Delicate Issue’  “This reminds me of the 1980s when Japan increased shares
in IMF and  World Bank  and emerged as a powerhouse,” said Tomo Kinoshita, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
Japan’s largest brokerage. “It’s a delicate issue,” because
emerging nations don’t want a slump among major economies that
may erode export growth, while they are also reluctant to spend
more money to bail out Europe, he said.  As in 2009, additional resources may come through bilateral
loans or by purchasing IMF notes rather than by an increase in
its permanent resources, the officials said. One solution being
considered is the creation of an IMF-run special purpose
vehicle, two of them said.  “The fund’s credibility, and hence effectiveness, rests on
its perceived capacity to cope with worst-case scenarios,”
Lagarde said in an  “action plan”  distributed to the IMF
steering committee Sept. 24. The current lending capacity
“looks comfortable today but pales in comparison with the
potential financing needs of vulnerable countries and crisis
bystanders.”  The IMF can work “alongside” the European bailout fund to
help restore confidence in Spain and  Italy , Antonio Borges, the
IMF’s European department aid, told reporters in Brussels this
month.  BRIC Backing  Officials from Brazil,  Russia ,  India , China and  South
Africa  -- the so-called BRICS -- said in a Sept. 22 statement
they are “open” to contributing to global financial stability
through the IMF or other international financial institutions.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters
yesterday that strengthening the IMF is “the second most
important issue we have to discuss” at a meeting with his G-20
counterparts in Paris this week.  “We are having bilateral discussions to see what is the
best proposal,” he said. “There is no homogeneous position,
but we are trying to reach a common proposal.”  The U.S. this week downplayed the IMF’s needs, with the
Treasury Department’s top international official,  Lael Brainard ,
calling its resources “ample.” The IMF is already playing an
important role in  Europe , she told reporters in  Washington .  ‘Heightened Risks’  S&P reduced Spain’s rating to AA-, the fourth highest
investment grade, saying there are “heightened risks” to the
nation’s growth prospects and that its banking system may weaken
further.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  promised on Oct. 9 to recapitalize banks to
resolve the debt crisis. debt crisis doesn’t spill over into the
rest of the world.  “Europe has been behind the curve,” Gordhan told
journalists in Paris today. “The time has come to demonstrate
leadership and decisiveness to ensure contagion won’t impact the
rest of the globe. We’re looking for assurance from our European
colleagues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  