-- 
GDF Suez Battles Biggest Shareholder Over Gas Price Freeze

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-10-14T12:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/gdf-suez-battles-biggest-shareholder-over-gas-price-freeze-1-.html
GDF Suez SA,  France ’s former natural
gas monopoly, has mounted a legal challenge against a government
decision to freeze regulated natural  gas prices  for consumers,
effectively taking its biggest shareholder to court.  The utility, based in Paris, has filed an appeal to the
country’s highest court, the Conseil d’Etat, against a decision
to leave rates unchanged, according to spokesman Jerome Chambin.
GDF Suez, which is 36 percent directly owned by the state, has
said the move would cost 290 million euros ($400 million) in the
second half.  The government, which faces presidential elections in May,
froze rates for a year in April, a decision the energy regulator
ruled should have been reversed Oct. 1 to allow  GDF Suez (GSZ)  to
cover costs of buying natural gas for the French market. The
freeze is “not compatible” with an open market, the Commission
de Regulation de l’Energie said.  In September the government announced that regulated gas
prices would remain unchanged for households and rise 4.9
percent for businesses on Oct. 1. The rates for households
should have increased by 8.8 percent to 10 percent depending on
the type of consumer, the regulator said.  Consumer groups, which have mounted campaigns against
higher energy costs, welcomed the freeze. Industry Minister Eric
Besson has said households’ purchasing power needs to be
protected.  Looming Election  “It is GDF Suez’s right as a listed company to challenge
the state,” Besson said in an interview Oct. 10 during a visit
to  Armenia . “They believe the state is not lawfully applying
the pricing rules.”  GDF Suez has said French regulated rates haven’t covered
supply costs. At the end of 2009, the utility said this was the
case in four of the previous five years and in August of that
year the accumulated shortfall was almost 2 billion euros. This
is the first time the utility has taken the government to court
on the issue.  A group of suppliers that compete with GDF Suez, including
Direct Energie SA, has also filed an appeal with France’s
highest court, saying the decision will hinder competition.  “We were surprised to see that GDF was also planning a
legal challenge,” Fabien Chone, deputy chief executive officer
of Direct Energie who supports tha challenge, said in an
interview last month. “We are very determined to get the law
applied.”  The freeze runs contrary to a 2007 court ruling that state
tariffs must be set at a level that enables suppliers to cover
their costs, the regulator has said.  The government is considering modifying the way regulated
rates are calculated based on GDF Suez relying more heavily on
the  spot market , where prices are lower, than long-term
contracts with suppliers like Russia and  Norway .  With assistance from Heather Smith et Helene Fouquet in Paris.
Editors: Alex Devine, Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  