-- 
GE Solar Panels With 14% Efficiency Rate May Surpass First Solar

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-14T18:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/ge-solar-panels-with-14-efficiency-rate-may-surpass-first-solar.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
biggest maker of power-generating equipment, said it will
produce thin-film solar panels that convert at least 14 percent
of the energy in sunlight into electricity and may surpass
products offered by  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)   When a new plant in Colorado reaches full capacity of 400
megawatts a year, efficiency will be above 14 percent, Danielle
Merfeld, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s solar
product line leader, said today in an interview. Production will
begin next year and initial shipments are expected in 2013. She
didn’t say when the facility will reach full capacity or how
much the panels will cost.  A conversion rate above 14 percent will make GE’s panels
some of the most-efficient thin-film products in volume
production.  “Fourteen percent is competitive,” Aaron Chew, an analyst
at Maxim Group LLC in  New York , said today in an interview.
“They’ll get a price premium or they can price at the same
level” as other companies’ thin-film panels and take market
share.  First Solar, the largest manufacturer of thin-film panels,
had an average efficiency of 11.7 percent in the second-quarter.
It’s working on technology that may yield panels with 15.3
percent efficiency in volume production, and hasn’t set a date
when they will be available.  Alan Bernheimer , a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based First
Solar, declined to comment today. The company said in its
second-quarter earnings  report  in August that it expects to
offer panels with 13.5 percent to 14.5 percent efficiency in
2014.  GE said yesterday that it will open a factory in Aurora,
 Colorado . It will make enough panels to power approximately
80,000 U.S. homes. It’s expected to cost $300 million and will
employ 350 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  