-- 
Geithner Says Europe ‘Clearly Moving’ Toward Crisis Package

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-14T14:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/geithner-says-europe-clearly-moving-toward-crisis-package.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said  Europe  is “clearly moving” toward adopting a set
of measures to stem the continent’s debt crisis.  “They’re talking about a much more comprehensive package,
a much more forceful package and measures of backstop for
sovereign governments and the preventive recapitalization of
banks,” Geithner said in an interview on CNBC today. “Those
are the kinds of things they need to do. Of course, the hard
part is still ahead.”  Geithner is in Paris attending a meeting of Group of 20
finance ministers today and tomorrow that is seeking ways to end
Europe’s two-year crisis. Global stocks rose today as outlines
of a package emerged, including higher bank capital levels,
deeper investor losses on Greek bonds and increased firepower
for bailouts.  Geithner said the  International Monetary Fund  has “very
substantial uncommitted resources” to help in the crisis.
“Europe as a whole has very substantial resources to help
manage their problems.”  He said the U.S. would continue to press for a solution.  “Europeans have asked us for advice,” Geithner said.
“Through the IMF we have a direct stake in the choices they’re
making. We’re going to be as forceful and persuasive as we
can.”  On other issues, Geithner reiterated his view that  China 
should allow its currency to appreciate more rapidly, which
would help the global economy. He also said recent economic data
from around the world have been “somewhat encouraging,” even
as growth remains too slow.  Retail Sales  A Commerce Department report today showed that retail sales
in the U.S. rose more than forecast in September, easing concern
slumping confidence and scant hiring will derail the biggest
part of the economy.  The 1.1 percent advance, the largest since February,
followed a 0.3 percent gain for August, a stronger performance
than previously estimated, the report showed. The median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.7 percent rise in purchases last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  