-- 
French Bond Yields Jump Most Since 2008 on Bank Concern; German Bunds Drop

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T15:31:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/german-bonds-decline-amid-optimism-imf-firepower-may-be-boosted.html
French bonds slumped, with 10-year
yields rising the most since October 2008, amid speculation
European nations will need to backstop their banks, placing an
additional burden on state finances.  Ten-year French yields climbed 38 basis points this week,
the most since the euro was introduced in 1999. The extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year French bonds instead of German
bunds also expanded to the most since the euro started.  Spain ’s
10-year bonds fell for a fifth day after  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the nation’s credit rating. Yields climbed across the euro area
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the ECB will not act as a “lender of last resort.”  “If you look at the AAA countries,  France  is a bit
vulnerable on that front,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European
interest-rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. Depending
on the way bank balance sheets are firmed up, “there will be an
impact on the sovereign and the economy,” he said  Ten-year French yields jumped 17 basis points to 3.13
percent at 4:27 p.m. London time, after rising as much as 18.6
basis points, the most since Oct. 31, 2008. The 3.25 percent
securities due October 2021 dropped 1.485, or 14.85 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,386) face amount, to 101.025. The weekly increase
in yield is the most since the period ended Oct. 9, 1998.  The yield premium of French bonds over benchmark German
bunds expanded to as much as 94 basis points from 75 basis
points at the end of last week.  AAA Nations  Bonds issued by other European AAA nations also slid. Ten-
year Dutch yields increased nine basis points to 2.61 percent,
Austrian rates rose 13 basis points to 3.09 percent, and German
yields climbed nine basis points to 2.20 percent.  The ECB will not act as a lender of last resort to member
states and the “ultimate backstop is, of course, the
governments,” Trichet said in an interview with the Financial
Times. “To do anything that would let governments off their
responsibilities would be a recipe for failure,” he said.  As finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of
20 began a two-day meeting in Paris, European officials are
moving closer to a crisis-fighting plan that may impose higher
bank capital levels on the region’s lenders. The proposals may
also include deeper losses for holders of Greek bonds as well as
more support for bailouts and the  International Monetary Fund .  Bank Losses  The Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services Index
has slid by almost a third this year, paced by  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the
Franco-Belgian lender that’s being broken up with government
support. The index fell yesterday as Credit Suisse AG analysts
estimated lenders would need to raise about 220 billion euros of
capital in stress tests that required a 9 percent core tier-one
capital ratio rather than the 5 percent used in July.  “There are concerns about the banking sector and that
extra liability with regard to recapitalization plans, and
reports that sovereigns will have to recapitalize themselves,”
said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “That suggests finances
in France and  Belgium  will remain strained for the foreseeable
future.”  The eight largest U.S. money-market funds reduced their
lending to French banks by 44 percent last month, according to
filings compiled by Bloomberg and published in today’s Bloomberg
Risk newsletter.  Spanish 10-year yields climbed four basis points to 5.24
percent, even after the ECB was said by people with knowledge of
the deals to have bought the nation’s securities. S&P cut
Spain’s ranking by one level to AA-, with the outlook remaining
negative, the company said yesterday.  Portuguese Cuts  Portugal 10-year yield increased five basis points to 11.64
percent. The nation is planning to deepen budget cuts next year
as it faces a moment of “national emergency,” and has to do
more to meet its budget goals, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said.  Italian 10-year yields fell three basis points to 5.79
percent after Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won a
parliamentary confidence vote. The rates earlier reached a 10-
week high of 5.87 percent.  The German 10-year breakeven rate, a measure of inflation
expectations based on the difference between yields on index-
linked bonds and conventional securities, rose for an eighth
day. The rate increased seven basis points to 173 basis points,
the most since Aug. 25.  The euro-area inflation rate jumped to 3 percent last month
from 2.5 percent in August, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the fastest in almost
three years.  Bunds extended their drop after a U.S. report showed retail
sales rose more in September than economists forecast. The yield
on the benchmark European government security has risen 20 basis
points this week.  French bonds have returned 4.1 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German debt has risen 6.5 percent
and Spanish debt has gained 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  