-- 
German Stocks Rise as European Rescue Plan Takes Shape

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-14T16:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/german-stocks-rise-as-chemical-stocks-climb-bank-shares-fall.html
German stocks advanced for the
seventh day in eight as the Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bankers met in Paris to discuss a European rescue plan.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  rose 6.9 percent as Credit Suisse Group
AG preferred the shares over Lafarge SA. SAP AG gained 2.6
percent as third-quarter results topped estimates.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest lender, dropped 1.2 percent as  Fitch
Ratings  put it under watch for a possible downgrade.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 0.9 percent to 5,967.2 at
the close in Frankfurt. The measure has jumped 14 percent over
the last eight days for the biggest eight-day rally since
November 2008. The index has still lost 21 percent from this
year’s high on May 2. The broader HDAX Index added 1 percent
today.  “We are beginning to see signs investors’ appetite for
more risk is growing,” Mikkel Petersen, a senior equity adviser
at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen said.  Deeper investor losses on Greek bonds, higher bank capital
levels and increased firepower for bailouts and the
 International Monetary Fund  may be part of the rescue plan
taking shape in Paris. German banks are preparing for losses of
as much as 60 percent, said three people with knowledge of the
matter.  IMF Resources  Countries from  China  to  Brazil  are considering increasing
IMF lending resources to help stem  Europe ’s woes, G-20 and IMF
officials said. Talks are still at a preliminary stage as
potential contributors wait for policy makers to give details of
a rescue plan.  HeidelbergCement rose 3.4 percent to 30.23 euros as Credit
Suisse said it preferred the company over Lafarge, citing reach
in more markets and share valuation.  SAP AG (SAP)  gained 2.1 percent to 41.4 euros as the largest
maker of business-management software reported third-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates, with new mobile and
real-time analytics offerings boosting sales.  Operating profit, based on non-international financial
reporting standards, increased 23 percent to 1.13 billion euros
($1.56 billion) while sales on that basis rose 12 percent to
3.41 billion euros, the company said today. Analysts polled by
Vara Estimates had estimated an operating profit of 1 billion
euros.  Banks Decline  Deutsche Bank fell 1.2 percent to 27.31 euros, paring an
earlier loss of as much as 3.9 percent, after Fitch included the
lender in the group of European and international banks on
negative watch for a cut in credit or viability grades. Other
banks put on watch included Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley, Credit Agricole SA, Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas SA,
Societe Generale SA and Barclays Plc.  Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank’s smaller domestic competitor,
declined 4.9 percent to 1.67 euros.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  advanced 1.4 percent to 44.85 euros. Syngenta AG,
which competes with Bayer on crop protection chemicals, forecast
full-year revenue will rise “substantially.” A gauge of
chemical companies on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 1
percent.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  dropped 4.1 percent to 6.1 euros.
Europe’s second-largest maker of semiconductors predicted lower
profitability and declining sales this quarter as the European
debt crisis makes clients more reluctant to spend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  