-- 
Germany Backing Italy Seen as Key to Europe’s Bank Crisis

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-10-14T21:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/germany-backing-italian-debt-seen-as-key-to-europe-bank-crisis.html
Italian media reported last month
that Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi had been caught on
wiretaps making disparaging sexual comments about German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  A diplomatic blunder at any time, the insults were
especially inopportune when the question haunting investors
these days is whether Germany will get into bed with  Italy .  European bank stocks have fallen as borrowing costs climbed
in recent months amid rising concern that they may have to take
greater losses on debt issued by  Greece , Italy, Ireland,
Portugal and Spain. As policy makers seek to make lenders hold
more capital to absorb potential losses, investors and analysts
say the banking crisis can’t be solved unless Germany, the
region’s richest country, shows it’s willing to stand behind
Italy and Spain, the two biggest debtors of the five countries.  “What needs to happen as part of this package is that the
possibility, the discussion or even remote likelihood of
haircuts on Spain and Italy needs to be killed and taken out of
the market,” Philippe Bodereau, a portfolio manager and global
head of financial institutions credit research at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an Oct. 12 interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Bank recapitalizations are necessary but
not sufficient.”  G-20 Ministers  Finding a way out of the European crisis will top the
agenda at a meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central
bankers in Paris this weekend. None of the proposed solutions --
whether they involve the  European Central Bank  or the 440
billion-euro ($606 billion) rescue fund known as the European
Financial Stability Facility -- can work without Germany, and by
proxy the ECB, offering blanket support to Italy, said former
 International Monetary Fund  Chief Economist Simon Johnson.  “Does the ECB stand behind Italian debt like the  Federal
Reserve  stands behind U.S. debt? That’s the only question,”
said Johnson, now a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and a Bloomberg View columnist. “Everything else is
derivative from that question. They won’t tell you that, and
they can’t decide.”  German and French leaders pledged at a meeting Oct. 9 to
devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help Greece and strengthen
 Europe ’s economic governance. Merkel said after meeting with
French President Nicolas Sarkozy that Europe will do
“everything necessary” to ensure banks have enough capital.  ‘Temporarily Higher’  All lenders judged by the region’s top banking regulator to
be systemically important should be required to hold
“temporarily higher” amounts of capital, European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said on Oct. 12. The European Banking
Authority discussed making the banks hold core capital equal to
at least 9 percent of their assets, up from a 5 percent core
Tier 1 capital requirement imposed in the stress tests carried
out by the regulator earlier this year, according to a person
familiar with the proposals.  That might not calm investors, said John Raymond, an
analyst at research firm CreditSights Inc. in  London .  “You can’t analyze banks’ capital needs until you know
what’s going to happen to the sovereign debt, and they haven’t
told us,” Raymond said. “That’s the problem.”  Dexia, Erste  The European Union moves come after this month’s breakup of
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , a Franco-Belgian lender, and a surprise 1.6 billion-
euros in writedowns and provisions at Vienna-based  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS)  illustrated the shortcomings of regulatory stress tests
on about 90 of the region’s banks in July. Both Dexia and Erste
passed the tests, which were criticized for failing to take into
account potential markdowns on the value of government debt.  A new review should assess “all sovereign debt exposure in
full transparency,” Barroso said. Government bonds will be
valued more closely to current market prices than in the July
stress tests, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Those new criteria would lead to a 220 billion-euro capital
shortfall at 66 of the participating banks, with the biggest
gaps at Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
according to a note published yesterday by Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts.  The challenge is finding a source of capital. Requiring
European governments to supply it would risk adding to the debt
of countries already struggling with budget deficits, according
to Alastair Wilson, chief credit officer for Europe, the Middle
East and Africa at Moody’s Investors Service.  Raising Capital  “Concern about the banks is driven in part by the
sovereigns, which may be weakened by putting money into the
banks,” Wilson said in an interview. “We have to recognize
that there are consequences for sovereigns in recapitalizing the
banking system.”  Efforts by banks to raise capital from the private sector
will be hampered unless investors can be sure there’s a limit to
potential losses on sovereign debt, Ralph Schlosstein, chief
executive officer of Evercore Partners Inc., a New York-based
investment bank, said in an interview.  “If you want to have any hope of getting money for the
banks from private sources, you have to be able to tell them
what these sovereign debt assets are worth,” Schlosstein said.
Europe has to show it’s providing a convincing level of support
to countries including Spain and Italy “as a precondition or
simultaneous to a recapitalization of the banks.”  Stress Tests  Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, known as the
GIIPS, have about 2.9 trillion euros of government bonds
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Italy, the
third-largest issuer of debt after the U.S. and Japan, accounts
for more than half, or 1.59 trillion euros, the data show.  About 413 billion euros of GIIPS debt is held by 38 of
Europe’s largest lenders, according to an analysis of the
stress-test results by Alberto Gallo, a strategist at RBS in
London. Those holdings equal almost 40 percent of the banks’ 1.1
trillion euros of equity, according to Gallo.  European banks, having agreed to a voluntary loss of about
21 percent, are bracing for further writedowns on Greece’s 288
billion euros of government bonds, which carry Moody’s second-
lowest rating of Ca and an equivalent CC by  Standard & Poor’s .
European officials are considering writedowns of as much as 50
percent on Greek bonds as part of a revamped strategy to combat
the crisis, people familiar with the discussions said.  Confidence Vote  Such losses could be dwarfed by writedowns on Italy’s debt.  “I can’t imagine a fund that is big enough to also
guarantee Italy in total,” Martin Blessing, CEO of Frankfurt-
based  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , said on Sept. 20, referring to the EU’s
rescue fund, the EFSF, approved yesterday by Slovakia, the last
of the 17 euro zone countries to do so. “Italy is a whole other
situation than Greece.”  Berlusconi, the 75-year-old billionaire media tycoon and
Italy’s longest-serving prime minister, today won a confidence
vote in Parliament that he called earlier this week after the
lower house failed to rubber stamp a 2010 budget report on Oct.
11. Last month he won approval for a 54 billion-euro package of
budget cuts, the country’s second since July, which was adopted
in exchange for ECB agreement to buy Italian bonds.  Mario Draghi, 64, the Bank of Italy governor who will
become president of the ECB at the end of the month, said on
Oct. 12 that Italy’s austerity plan won’t be sufficient because
 interest rates  on the country’s debt could rise and create “a
spiral that may end up being ungovernable.”  Ratings Cut  On Oct. 4, Moody’s cut its assessment of the nation’s long-
term debt for the first time in almost two decades, lowering it
three levels to A2 with a negative outlook, on concern that weak
growth will hamper Berlusconi’s efforts to balance the budget.
Italy’s debt is 119 percent of its gross domestic product, the
second-highest in Europe behind Greece.  The downgrade meant Italy joined Spain, Ireland, Portugal,
Cyprus and Greece as euro-region countries whose credit rating
has been cut this year. Unlike Ireland and Portugal, which
followed Greece in seeking bailouts from the European Union and
the International Monetary Fund, Italy had managed to skirt the
worst of the fallout from the debt crisis until this year.  Italian growth, 0.8 percent in the second quarter, has
lagged behind the euro-region average for the past decade.
Berlusconi told legislators yesterday that austerity may slow
the economy further, and he promised tax, constitutional and
judicial reforms to boost the economy.  ‘Panicky Markets’  Italy’s borrowing costs climbed and the value of its debt
fell. The yield on the country’s 10-year bonds has risen to 5.80
percent from 4.88 percent at the end of June. The yield surged
as high as 6.19 percent on Aug. 4 before the ECB announced plans
to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds.  “The real issue is that panicky markets treat the
sovereign debt of big and solvent countries such as Italy and
Spain as toxic assets,” said  Holger Schmieding , a London-based
chief economist for Berenberg Bank. “If policy makers can
convince markets that these assets are safe, there would be no
need for banks to bolster their capital against an imaginary
risk of an actual writedown on these assets.”  Unlike the U.S. and Japan, Italy can’t print money to buy
its own debt when demand runs low. Instead, its central bank is
a part of the ECB, whose strict mandate to combat inflation was
influenced by Germany’s pre-World War II experience with
hyperinflation.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said this week
that Europe won’t use loose monetary policy or “cheap money”
to alleviate the region’s debt burden and argued last month that
financial institutions should be required to share the burden of
helping the most troubled nations.  “The challenge to bring crisis-hit countries back on track
must not be left to taxpayers alone,” Schaeuble said in a Sept.
24 speech in Washington during the annual meeting of the
Institute of International Finance.  Italian Bonds  Italian bonds are trading below face value because
investors have determined the debt doesn’t have the full backing
of the ECB, said Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard University economics
professor and former chief economist at the IMF.  “It’s clear that it doesn’t, because if it did it wouldn’t
be selling at a discount,” Rogoff said. “It’s clear that it’s
not unambiguous how far the ECB would go and how far the EFSF
would go.”  Rules promulgated by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision have encouraged banks to hold government bonds
issued in their own countries’ currency because they’re treated
as risk-free and highly liquid assets.  Rogoff, co-author of “This Time Is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly,” said there’s a long history of
governments creating rules designed to encourage banks to hold
their own debt.  ‘Old Story’  “Just think about it: If you’re the government regulating
the bank, what kind of government’s going to say, ‘Don’t hold
too much of our debt, because you know you can’t trust us’?” he
said. “One of the arguments that proponents of bailouts often
use is if we don’t bail out the country and we let the
government default, the banking system may not come back for a
decade. This is an old story.”  Josef Ackermann, 63, CEO of Deutsche Bank, Germany’s
biggest lender, said at a conference in Berlin yesterday that
“it is not the capital funding of banks that is the problem,
but rather the fact that government bonds have lost their status
as risk-free assets.”  Even talking about the need to recapitalize banks is
harmful, he said.  ‘Systemic Dimension’  Jean-Claude Trichet, 68, a Frenchman who is stepping down
as ECB president after eight years in the role, warned on Oct.
11 that the region’s crisis “has reached a systemic dimension”
because it has moved to some of Europe’s larger countries from
the smaller economies.  His successor’s ability to pursue policies that would help
Italy -- such as lower interest rates and ECB purchases of
Italian debt -- will depend on whether Germany assents, said
MIT’s Johnson. Policies pursued by the EFSF, which draws on
money from all 17 euro-zone countries, also will be influenced
by Germany, the fund’s largest contributor.  Asked in August if bailouts of euro-area nations unable to
deal with widening budget deficits would be acceptable “even if
they were necessary to keep the euro zone intact,” 59 percent
of Germans disagreed and 20 percent agreed, according to a
Bloomberg/YouGov Plc poll.  Berlusconi’s alleged remarks about Merkel haven’t been
confirmed by the Italian government or prosecutors, whose
wiretaps were reportedly the source of the recording. They were
blogged about and commented on widely, including in Bild,
Germany’s largest tabloid newspaper.  ‘Perception Factor’  Berlusconi has never commented on reports of the remarks
about Merkel and has condemned the use of wiretapping in
investigations. Niccolo Ghedini, Berlusconi’s defense lawyer,
couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone.  The Italian prime minister, who has been criticized for
comments about women and diplomatic gaffes, faces four criminal
charges, including one accusing him of paying for sex with a
minor. Since entering politics, he has faced dozens of trials
and investigations and, by his own count, has spent more than
400 million euros defending himself. He has said he is innocent
of all charges and that Italian judges are out to destroy him.  “If you were a German taxpayer, how much would you be
willing to pay to keep  Silvio Berlusconi  in the lifestyle to
which he’s become accustomed? Not much,” Johnson said. “It’s a
perception factor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at +44-20-7330-7185 or
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  