-- 
Ghana’s 3-Year Borrowing Costs Climb Amid Low Foreign Interest

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-10-14T12:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/ghana-s-3-year-borrowing-costs-climb-amid-low-foreign-interest.html
Ghana ’s three-year borrowing costs
rose to the highest in more than a year at an auction yesterday
where the bank allocated 51 percent of the bids, according to
the central bank.  Ghana sold 200 million cedis ($123 million) of three-year
bonds, less than the 300 million cedis offered, at an average
yield of 14 percent, the Accra-based  Bank of Ghana  said today.
Investors had sought 388.9 million, the bank said. The last sale
of the same duration, held in July, was also undersubscribed and
earned a yield of 13 percent.  “The limited foreign investor interest in the offering
meant there was less competition in the bids,” Nalini Cundapen,
a London-based emerging markets strategist at Societe Generale
SA, said in an e-mail. “Locals may be increasingly aware of
potential inflationary pressures in the pipeline and continuing
uncertainty in fiscal dynamics going into next year.”  Ghana’s inflation rate has been unchanged at 8.4 percent
for the past three months, the Ghana Statistical Service said
Oct. 12, even as the cedi, has weakened against the  U.S. dollar .  “We think the  exchange rate  being quoted on the  interbank
market  is a bit of concern for the offshore investors,” Adams
Nyinkau, head of treasury at the central bank, said by phone
yesterday. The currency of West Africa’s second-biggest economy
has slumped 9 percent against the dollar this year and was
little changed at 1.6323 by 11:49 a.m. in Accra.  Ghana will hold presidential and parliamentary elections in
December 2012. During the last campaign year in 2008, Ghana’s
fiscal deficit widened to 14.5 percent of gross domestic
product, “boosted by strong pre-election spending growth”
including gas-price subsidies, infrastructure projects and wage
increases for public workers, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 