-- 
Global Talent War Means 6-Month Wait for Hires: Retail

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-10-17T22:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/global-talent-war-means-6-month-wait-for-domino-s-pizza-retail.html
(Corrects military unit in 25th paragraph of story
published Oct. 14.)  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  can get a pizza
to your house in less than 30 minutes. It took the company six
months to find the right person to lead its international
expansion.  Restaurant chains including Domino’s,  AFC Enterprises Inc. (AFCE) 
and Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. are hunting for executives who can
adapt menus to international tastes and navigate foreign
regulations. Such changes may accelerate as chains expand
overseas amid slowing U.S. growth, said Guy Cote, who leads
restaurant-executive searches for  Heidrick & Struggles
International Inc. (HSII)  in Miami.  “We’re twice as busy as we were 18 months ago, and there’s
a war for talent right now,” Cote said in an interview.  U.S. restaurant sales declined 2.8 percent in the two years
through 2010, while sales at dining establishments in  China 
jumped 46 percent in the same time, data from researchers
Technomic Inc. and IBISWorld Inc. show.  Demand for talented executives is so high that Domino’s had
to go outside the restaurant industry for its newest
international executive, former Bain Capital LLC partner Richard Allison. The pizza chain searched for six months and closed the
deal during a Valentine’s Day dinner at The Chop House
restaurant in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, where the company is based,
Chief Executive Officer Patrick Doyle said in an interview.  Allison, 44, will help the chain, which has more than 4,500
stores outside the U.S., open as many as 300 stores annually,
with most being overseas, Doyle said.  “In 2012, we will reach the point where we have more
stores and more sales outside the U.S. than inside,” Doyle
said. The company is seeking additional executives to build out
its international team, he said.  Popeyes Recruiting  AFC’s Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is recruiting a new team to
focus on international growth, especially in  Singapore , Chief
Executive Officer Cheryl Bachelder said in an interview. The
company started by hiring Andrew Skehan, who ran international
operations for Wendy’s Co. and the Quiznos sandwich chain.  “The next five to seven years will be a time of investment
for most companies in countries with a really strong, growing
middle class,” Bachelder said. “Andy just expands our
capability with that depth in international.”  Skehan, 50, a former U.S. Navy officer, has spent about
half of his career abroad, living in the  Czech Republic , the
U.K. and  Spain . In 2009, he opened the first of 35 planned
stores in Singapore with Kopitiam Group, bringing shrimp burgers
to locals there. He also led the chain into  Russia , where
Wendy’s sells beer alongside its classic burgers.  Taking on KFC  “If you look around the world, KFC has pretty much had it
to themselves” for 20 years, Skehan said in an interview.  Popeyes may grow 10 or 15 times beyond the 425 stores it
has overseas now, said Sam Yake, an analyst at BGB Securities in
Arlington,  Virginia , who advises buying the shares.  Introducing a brand to a new country is difficult, which is
why Dunkin’s Baskin-Robbins chain has sought executives with
marketing experience for its international team this year, said
Cote, the recruiter for Chicago-based Heidrick & Struggles.  The world’s largest ice cream brand hired Paul Reynish, CEO
of a Subway unit that handled advertising outside the U.S.,
January and promoted him to chief marketing officer of Dunkin’
Brands international last week. Reynish had previous marketing
jobs with Burger King Holdings Inc. in  Asia , the U.K. and
Ireland.  In May, Dunkin’ tapped Panera’s president, Neal J. Yanofsky, for its coffee-and-ice-cream shop overseas expansion.
Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’ said last month that
Yanofsky is leaving the company and that it’s searching for his
replacement.  International Training  Competition for international executives is fierce as many
restaurants don’t have programs to train employees to lead
overseas. While Domino’s has two leadership development
programs, Rising Talent and People Pipeline, the company doesn’t
have a program specific to international management, said Tim
McIntyre, a company spokesman.  Dunkin’s training for international leaders is similar to
programs for those responsible for U.S. operations, said
Christine Deputy, chief human resources officer. Both sets of
executives attend Dunkin’ Brands University at company
headquarters and also work in a store after being hired, she
said in an e-mail.  Restaurant leaders need knowledge of countries’ tax laws
and local food suppliers to expand internationally, said Fay
Voysey-Smit, director at recruiter Boyden’s sub-Saharan Africa
office in Johannesburg.  “They really need solid skills in supply-chain
optimization,” she said.  Red-Wheat Tortillas  When  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  began opening stores in
the U.K. it had to make sure ingredients there met its
standards, said Darren Tristano, executive vice president at
Chicago-based researcher Technomic. The company added red wheat
to its tortillas because it was available and matched diners’
tastes, he said.  Chipotle and fast-casual spots such as  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA)  may
be the next restaurants drafting executives with international
knowledge, Tristano said. Denver-based Chipotle is opening
stores in London and Paris, which CEO Steve Ells called a
“ foundation  for the future.”  Domino’s demonstrates how companies need someone with a
knowledge of different regional tastes, said  Jack Russo , an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . The company has had
success varying toppings in different countries, tailoring
pizzas with paneer cheese in  India  and corn and squid in Asian
nations, Doyle said.  ‘Localized Knowledge’  “You can’t go in with a standardized product or
platform,” Russo said. “You’ve got to go in with localized
knowledge.”  Sometimes unusual experience distinguishes a candidate,
said Dan Searby, who recruits restaurant leaders for Elliot
Associates Inc. in Tarrytown,  New York .  One dining executive hired for an international development
job had served in the U.S. Army in  Germany  where he was required
to carry nuclear bomb “suitcases” that controlled tactical
weapons, he said, declining to name the person because of
company confidentiality.  “That level of responsibility showed that he could handle
the pressure,” Searby said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  