-- 
Gold May Gain in New York on Europe Debt Woes, Physical Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-14T15:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/gold-gains-in-london-on-european-debt-woes-physical-purchases.html
Gold may rise in New York, extending
a second weekly advance, on concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis
and increasing physical demand ahead of a religious festival.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday downgraded  Spain ’s credit
rating for the third time in three years as slowing growth and
rising defaults threaten banks. European officials are
considering writedowns of as much as 50 percent on Greek bonds,
a backstop for banks and continued central bank bond purchases,
people familiar with the discussions said. Gold is among UBS
AG’s three top commodity picks, the bank said today in a report.  “Gold remains underpinned by good volumes of physical and
retail investment purchases,”  James Moore , an analyst at
TheBullionDesk.com in London, wrote in a report today.
“Following the wash-out of fund and speculation investment
longs, the market is well placed to trade higher.”  Gold for December delivery gained $3, or 0.2 percent, to
$1,671.50 an ounce by 11:45 a.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Prices are up 2.2 percent this week. Immediate-delivery gold was
0.1 percent higher at $1,669.72 in London.  Speculators in U.S. gold futures cut their net-long
position, or bets on higher prices, to the lowest since February
by Oct. 4, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. The Diwali religious festival later this month in
 India , the biggest bullion buyer, and then the traditional
wedding season, may increase demand.  Bull Market   Gold is in the 11th year of a bull market and futures
reached a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6 as investors sought to
diversify away from equities and some currencies. The metal is
up 18 percent this year. Physical buying remains “strong” and
levels are “some of the strongest seen since at least 2009,”
Standard Bank Plc said today in a report.  The Greek bond losses may be accompanied by a pledge to
rule out debt restructurings in other countries that received
bailouts, such as  Portugal , to persuade investors that Europe
has mastered the crisis, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations will run for another week.  UBS said it has become “more positive” on commodities.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials is up 4.8
percent this week, while the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 4.9 percent.  “Gold has been moving in positive correlation with risk
assets of late,” UBS analysts including London-based Edel Tully
wrote in the report. “This suggests that there is hybrid space
that gold will occupy in the months ahead -- one which benefits
from a degree of increasing cyclical risk and a sufficient dose
of sovereign risk.”  Russian Palladium  Silver for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to $31.76 an
ounce. Palladium for December delivery was up 3.1 percent at
$612.40 an ounce. Platinum for January delivery gained 1 percent
to $1,547.30 an ounce.  Russia plans to export 4 to 4.5 metric tons of palladium
next year and the same amount the following year, Interfax said,
citing an unidentified Finance Ministry official connected to
the state repository, Gokhran. The country may stop palladium
sales after that, the news service said.  Russian state stockpile sales at about 31.1 tons were the
fourth-biggest source of supply last year, according to London-
based trader and researcher Johnson Matthey Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  