-- 
Goldman Sachs Asks Court to Throw Out $20.5 Million Bayou Creditors’ Award

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/goldman-sachs-asks-court-to-throw-out-20-5-million-bayou-creditors-award.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  filed an
appeal seeking to dismiss a $20.5 million arbitration award to
creditors of the failed hedge fund firm Bayou Group LLC.  Goldman Sachs asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan 
to overrule a decision by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the independent regulatory group for the securities
industry. A federal district judge declined in November 2010 to
reverse the Finra award.  The creditors sued Goldman Sachs Execution and Clearing LP
in 2008 for its role as the prime broker and clearing broker for
Bayou’s hedge funds. They said the Goldman Sachs unit aided a
$400 million fraud at Stamford, Connecticut-based Bayou, which
filed for bankruptcy in May 2006. Bayou co-founder Samuel  Israel 
pleaded guilty to directing the scheme and is serving a 22-year
prison term.  In the November ruling, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan said Goldman Sachs failed to show that the arbitration
panel had “manifestly disregarded the law” in granting the
award.  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , argued in its appeal
brief that the Finra panel was wrong in determining that
deposits into Bayou’s accounts and internal bookkeeping entries
qualified as fraudulent transfers.  John Rich, a lawyer for the Bayou creditors, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
yesterday on the Goldman Sachs filing.  Fellow Inmate  Israel is incarcerated at the same federal prison complex
in Butner, North Carolina, as  Bernard Madoff , who is serving a
150-year sentence for orchestrating the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in
history.  In addition to a 20-year term for the fraud, Israel’s term
was extended by two years after he attempted to make it appear
that he had committed suicide by jumping off a bridge on the day
he was to report to prison.  The case is Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing LP v.
Official Unsecured Creditors’ Committee of Bayou Group LLC, 10-
cv-05622, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  