-- 
Google Gains as Ad Demand Helps Sales

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-14T20:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/google-gains-after-advertising-demand-helps-sales-top-estimates.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet-search company, rose in U.S. trading after demand for
online advertising vaulted third-quarter sales past analysts’
estimates.  Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, sales rose to
$7.51 billion,  Mountain View , California-based Google said
yesterday. That exceeded the $7.23 billion average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , who succeeded  Eric Schmidt  in April, is benefiting from Google’s leadership in
search advertising, even as the company pushes into new markets
such as mobile, display and social networking. Google, which
makes most of its money from search ads, should take 76 percent
of the U.S. market this year, up from 74 percent in 2010 and 70
percent in 2009, according to research firm EMarketer Inc.  “The core business is the money pump,” said  Colin Gillis ,
an analyst at BGC Partners LP who rates the stock a “buy.”  Google rose 5.8 percent to $591.68 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The shares have declined less than 1 percent this year.  Third-quarter net income climbed 26 percent to $2.73
billion, or $8.33 a share, from $2.17 billion, or $6.72, a year
earlier. Profit, excluding some items, was $9.72 a share,
beating the $8.76 average estimate.  Shift Online  The number of clicks on ads rose about 28 percent in the
third quarter from the year-ago period, while the average cost
per click increased approximately 5 percent, the company said.  “It’s the continual secular shift of people spending more
online,” said Herman Leung, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group in  San Francisco . “They’re benefiting from
higher volume and higher click-through. Google’s implementing a
lot of advertising improvements.”  Page is trying to fend off competition from Facebook Inc.,
the biggest social network, with a project called Google+. The
service now has more than 40 million users, up from more than 10
million in July.  Google aims to offset increased spending by becoming more
efficient, shuttering more than 20 businesses, Page said.  The company said today it plans to shut down the Google
Buzz social service to instead focus on Google+. The company
also is closing down Code Search, a product to search for open
source code on the Internet, and Jaiku, which lets users send
updates to friends, the company said on its  blog .  Google’s Velocity  “Ever since taking over as CEO, I have focused much of my
energy on increasing Google’s velocity and execution, and we’re
beginning to see results,” Page said during a call with
analysts.  Page held steady on the pace of hiring in the period.
Google added 2,585 employees, to finish the quarter at 31,353, a
9 percent increase from the previous quarter. Staffing increased
9.3 percent in the second quarter.  Even with more competition from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Google
picked up market share in the U.S., according to Sunnyvale,
California-based Efficient Frontier Inc., which helps companies
promote products online. Google had 82 percent of spending on
search advertising in the third quarter, up from 81 percent in
the two previous quarters.  Microsoft, which provides search and ad services for Yahoo!
Inc.’s U.S. websites under a 10-year agreement, had 18 percent
of spending, down from 19 percent in the previous two quarters,
according to Efficient Frontier.  Internet Search  Google also has made gains in the number of Internet
searches it handles. The company increased its U.S. market share
to 65.3 percent in September from 64.8 percent in August,
according to  ComScore Inc.  Yahoo remained No. 2, even as its
share fell to 15.5 percent from 16.3 percent. Microsoft was
unchanged at 14.7 percent.  Google’s Android software, meanwhile, has emerged as the
biggest smartphone operating system, bolstered by  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
adopting the software. Revenue from mobile advertising is on
pace to reach $2.5 billion on an annual basis, Page said.  With the growth, Google and device makers have faced legal
challenges from companies such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  To bolster its
patent lineup, Google said in August it planned to purchase
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, its largest acquisition
ever. Motorola Mobility brings more than 17,000 patents.  More than 190 million Android devices have been activated
around the globe, Page said. Android continues to grow and
expand, even as it comes under legal scrutiny, he said.  “We’re very excited about Android and we see our partners
and the whole ecosystem continuing to grow hugely,” Page said.
“And while there’s been lots of people trying to attack that
and so on, we see absolutely no signs that that’s effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  