-- 
Government Contractor Indicted in Army Corps-Linked Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-14T22:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/government-contractor-indicted-in-army-corps-linked-case-2-.html
A government contractor in suburban
 Washington  was indicted on fraud and conspiracy charges in a
case prosecutors said sparked the probe of an alleged $45
million kickback scheme at the  Army Corps  of Engineers.  Rajesh Kumar Malik, a former vice president of MED Trends
Inc., was accused of submitting false statements to federal
agencies to win more than $20 million in contracts, according to
an indictment unsealed today in U.S. District Court in
Washington. Rockville, Maryland-based MED Trends is a health-
care information technology consulting firm.  Yesterday, Theodoros Hallas, a former executive of Nova
Datacom LLC, a computer services and consulting firm based in
Chantilly,  Virginia , pleaded guilty in federal court in
Washington to one count of conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  for
falsifying information that helped Malik’s company land a $20
million contract with the U.S. Labor Department.  The probe of Malik and Hallas led investigators to uncover
the alleged bribery, kickback, and money laundering scheme that
resulted in the Oct. 4 arrest of two employees of the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, Michael A. Alexander and Kerry F. Khan,
prosecutors said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Steadfast Commitment’  “This case demonstrates our steadfast commitment to root
out and prosecute those who commit fraud in our federal
contracting process,” said U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen in
Washington in an e-mailed statement.  Both companies received an increase in federal contracts in
recent years. Med Trends Inc.’s federal contracts totaled $12.2
million in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Government. That was up from $7.6
million in 2009. Nova Datacom had $17.7 million in fiscal 2010,
up from $1.75 million the prior year, the data show.  Hallas’s lawyer, Preston Burton of Poe & Burton PLLC in
Washington, declined to comment on the charges.  No one immediately responded to messages seeking comment on
the cases left after normal business hours at MED Trends and
Nova Datacom.  The Malik case is U.S. v. Malik, 11-268; the Hallas case is
U.S. v. Hallas, 11-299; and the Army Corps case is U.S. v. Khan,
11-276, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 