-- 
Pimco’s Gross Tells Clients 2011 a ‘Stinker’

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/gross-tells-clients-2011-was-a-stinker-as-he-misjudged-economic-slowdown.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest mutual fund, sought to reassure clients that he hasn’t
lost his touch after he misjudged the extent of the economic
slowdown, causing his Pimco Total Return Fund to trail rivals
this year.  “This year is a stinker,” Gross wrote in an October
letter to clients titled “Mea Culpa,” a copy of which was
obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. “There is no ‘quit’ in me
or anyone else on the Pimco premises. The early morning and even
midnight hours have gone up, not down, to match the increasing
complexity of the global financial markets.”  Gross’s $242.2 billion Total Return Fund returned 1.3
percent this year through Oct. 13, lagging behind 82 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s his worst
performance relative to rivals since at least 1995, the earliest
year for which Bloomberg has rankings for  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s flagship. Gross shunned Treasuries in
the first half of the year, missing a rally as investors rushed
to the safety of government-backed debt amid the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  “As  Europe ’s crisis and the U.S. debt ceiling debacle
turned developed economies towards a potential recession, the
Total Return Fund had too little risk off and too much risk
on,” Gross wrote.  Gross cut his holdings in U.S. Treasuries to zero in
February, saying at the time the bonds didn’t adequately
compensate investors for the risk of inflation. Gross also said
the government’s attempts to stimulate the economy through bond
purchases artificially “repressed” U.S. rates, leaving
investors with negative real returns.  Rare ‘Mea Culpa’  He has since reversed course, lifting his fund’s holdings
in Treasuries to 16 percent as of Sept. 30. He has increased
investments in housing and mortgage-related bonds to 38 percent
of assets, while cash equivalents and money-market securities
fell to negative 19 percent, according to Pimco’s website.  “Pimco is not used to making ‘mea culpas’ so this is
unusual for them,” said Kurt Brouwer, who oversees $1 billion
as chairman of Tiburon, California-based financial adviser
Brouwer & Janachowski LLC, including investments in the  Pimco
Total Return Fund. (PTTRX)  “Shortening the duration of the fund and
moving away from Treasuries definitely hurt results, but they’re
not shy about saying what they did wrong.”  Gross, who is co-chief investment officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote that Pimco’s economic growth
forecast for developed markets, under a scenario it termed the
“new normal,” was too optimistic.  Over the past five years, Pimco Total Return has returned
an annual average of 7.8 percent, beating 97 percent of its
rivals, Bloomberg data show. Gross’s letter was first posted
yesterday on Dealbreaker.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  