-- 
G-20 Set to Push European Leaders to Deliver Crisis Solution

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-10-15T10:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/group-of-20-focuses-on-crisis-fix-as-europe-mulls-50-greek-debt-writedown.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs are
pressing  Europe ’s leaders to deliver within the next few days a
comprehensive plan that stamps out the region’s sovereign debt
turmoil, according to an official from a G-20 nation.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers will say in a
statement to be released after talks in Paris today that an Oct.
23 Brussels summit of leaders must quell the threat of
contagion, the official said on condition of anonymity because
the communique isn’t finished. They will also urge the euro-area
to maximise the firepower of its 440 billion-euro ($611 billion)
bailout fund, the person said.  European governments are concentrating on a plan which
would include writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50 percent
and establishing a backstop for banks, people familiar with the
discussions said yesterday. Worldwide stocks rose and the euro
rallied the most against the dollar in more than two years this
week on optimism officials are ramping up their crisis-fighting.  “The world is waiting for solutions to the European
problems that have now become the world’s problems,” Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters yesterday in
Paris. “I am more optimistic. They are advancing.”  There was some discord among G-20 officials as those from
rich nations such as the U.S., Germany and  Canada  questioned
proposals to expand the resources of the  International Monetary
Fund  to help it contain Europe’s woes.  ‘Sufficient Funds’  “From the point of view of the Bundesbank, the IMF is
currently endowed with sufficient funds,” Andreas Dombret, a
member of the German central bank’s Executive Board, said in an
interview today. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
Bloomberg Television yesterday that he didn’t “think we ought
to be asking the IMF to do a great deal more.”  The G-20 policy makers are preparing for a Nov. 3-4 summit
of leaders in Cannes,  France . Today’s talks will end with the
statement’s release and press conferences at about 4:15 p.m.  The group will reiterate its aversion to excess volatility
and disorderly movements in exchange rates as well as suggest
emerging markets allow greater currency flexibility, officials
said. The statement will also commit authorities to ensuring
banks are capitalized and to preserving stability in financial
markets.  Greek Unrest  Almost two years since  Greece ’s government announced it had
underestimated its  budget deficit , Europe’s latest strategy
hinges on putting the Mediterranean nation on a viable path, as
two years of austerity plunge it deeper into recession and
provoke civil unrest that threatens political stability. Failure
to curb the crisis has investors targeting larger debt-strapped
nations such as  Italy  and is rattling global markets.  “I think they will have left Paris under no
misunderstanding that there is a huge amount of pressure on them
to deliver a solution to the euro zone crisis,” U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told reporters today. “The Oct.
23 European Council is the moment people are expecting something
quite impressive.”  In the works is a five-point plan foreseeing a solution for
Greece, bolstering of the  European Financial Stability Facility 
rescue fund, fresh capital for banks, a new push to boost
competitiveness and consideration of European treaty amendments
to tighten economic management.  Bond Losses  The Greek bond losses now envisaged in the plan may be
accompanied by a pledge to rule out debt restructurings in other
countries that received bailouts, such as  Portugal , to persuade
investors that Europe has mastered the crisis, said the people
yesterday.  The crisis raged yesterday through France, the 17-nation
euro area’s second-largest economy and co-anchor with  Germany  of
the European Union. French bonds slumped, pushing the 10-year
yield up 17 basis points to 3.13 percent. The week’s rise of 38
basis points was the most since the euro’s debut in 1999.  Options include tweaking a July accord struck with
investors for a 21 percent net-present-value reduction in Greek
debt holdings. One variant would take that reduction up to 50
percent, the people said.  Under a more aggressive proposal, investors would exchange
Greek bonds for new debt at a lower face value collateralized by
the euro area’s AAA-rated rescue fund, the people said. The
ultimate option is a restructuring involving writedowns without
collateral, they said.  Bank Aid  The bank-aid model under discussion is to set up a
European-level backstop capitalized by the rescue fund, the
people said. It would have the power to take direct equity
stakes in banks and provide guarantees on bank liabilities.  Such ideas are controversial in Germany, Europe’s dominant
economy, which so far has called for bank recapitalization on a
country-by-country basis.  What role the IMF can play in defusing the turmoil has
split G-20 officials. While nations from  China  to  Brazil  are
considering increasing the IMF’s lending power, policy makers
from richer countries indicated reluctance to boost the lender’s
coffers. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
yesterday that the IMF currently has uncommitted resources.  Officials are considering seven ways of getting more
firepower out of Europe’s temporary rescue fund. The options
break down into two broad categories: enabling it to borrow from
the  European Central Bank  or using it to provide bond insurance.
The ECB has all but ruled out the first method, making bond
insurance more likely, the people said.  Bond Insurance  Recourse to bond insurance suggests the central bank will
need to maintain its secondary-market purchases for an
unspecified “interim” period, the people said.  A consensus is also emerging to accelerate the setup of a
permanent aid fund planned for July 2013, the European Stability
Mechanism. Next week’s discussions will focus on creating it a
year earlier, in July 2012, and easing unanimity rules that
permit solitary countries to block bailouts.  One proposal is to enable aid to proceed when backed by
countries representing 95 percent of the fund’s capital on the
basis of an assessment by the  EU  and ECB, the people said.
Another proposal would set an 85 percent threshold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Paris at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  