-- 
Iamgold May Spend as Much as $1 Billion on Gold Acquisitions in Americas

-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 
2011-10-14T21:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/iamgold-may-spend-as-much-as-1-billion-on-gold-acquisitions-in-americas.html
Iamgold Corp. (IMG) , a Canadian gold and
niobium producer, is looking for acquisitions and may spend as
much as $1 billion to add gold assets.  The miner will focus its search in the Americas, and will
also consider deals in West  Africa , spokesman Bob Tait said in
an interview yesterday at Iamgold’s Toronto headquarters.  “Ideally we’d like to find something in areas where we
already have an established presence,” Tait said. Iamgold
operates mines in Canada, Suriname and Burkina Faso, and owns 41
percent of two  gold mines  in Mali that are operated by AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd.  Iamgold is targeting transactions in a $300 million to $500
million range, but could spend as much as $1 billion on an
attractive asset, Tait said.  Iamgold completed the sale of its 19 percent stakes in the
Tarkwa and Damang mines in  Ghana  to majority partner Gold Fields
Ltd. in June. The company wants to use the proceeds for
acquisitions, Tait said. Iamgold reported a net gain of $402.6
million on the sale. The company also sold its Mupane mine in
Botswana for $34.2 million in August.  Chief Executive Officer Steve Letwin, who joined Iamgold in
November after leaving Enbridge Inc., is looking for assets with
a minimum annual production of 150,000 ounces and reserves of at
least 2 million ounces of gold, Tait said.  The company will consider acquiring development projects or
producing assets, but would prefer something it can build
itself, he said.  ‘Lot of Work’  “If you look at the criteria they have set, there are so
many to pick and choose that I’m sure the Iamgold corporate-
development guys have a lot of work on their plate,” Paul Burchell, a Toronto-based analyst at Dundee Securities Corp.,
said in a telephone interview. He rates Iamgold shares a
“buy.”  African assets will account for around 58 percent of the
company’s operating cash flow this year, mainly from Iamgold’s
Essakane mine in  Burkina Faso , which started commercial
production in August 2010, Tait said.  The split will shift to 40 percent from Africa, 36 percent
 North America  and 24 percent  South America  in 2014, after the
company starts production at its Westwood project in  Quebec .  Iamgold acquired Essakane after agreeing to buy Orezone
Resources Inc. for $139 million in shares in December 2008.  Iamgold will also consider raising its dividend payments
again. The company announced dividend increases in December 2010
and June this year.  The miner plans to sell 10 percent to 20 percent in its
Niobec niobium mine in Quebec to help fund a planned expansion.
Niobec could be spun out and listed in Toronto or  Hong Kong  in
the future, Tait said. Niobium is used to strengthen steel.  Iamgold has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help
“explore options” for the sale of the Niobec stake, Laura
Young, a company spokeswoman, said by phone.  Iamgold rose 1.6 percent to C$20.95 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have gained 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 