-- 
Liberia’s Election May Head to Runoff as Johnson-Sirleaf Leads

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   S e s a y   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-10-14T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/liberia-s-election-may-head-to-runoff-as-johnson-sirleaf-leads.html
Liberia’s presidential election may
go to a second round as partial results released by the National
Elections Commission show incumbent Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf
leading with 44.5 percent of valid votes counted.  Winston Tubman was in second place with 26.5 percent,
according to a tally announced by commission Chairman James
Fromoyan yesterday in Monrovia. The results are 16.5 percent of
the total ballots cast, he said. If no candidate wins more than
50 percent of the vote, a runoff will be held, with a possible
date set for Nov. 8, according to the commission’s website.  Johnson-Sirleaf, 72, had 86,874 votes while Tubman, 70, had
51,771, Fromoyan said. The commission counted 195,178 valid
ballots, while more than 1.7 million people were eligible to
vote in the Oct. 11 presidential and legislative poll.  Johnson-Sirleaf, who was named a joint Nobel prize winner
on Oct. 7 for her work in  women’s rights , faced 15 candidates in
the election, where voters also chose junior senators and
lawmakers. She won her first term in 2005 and worked to lure
investment and rebuild a country devastated by a 14-year civil
war that left an estimated 250,000 people dead.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, started
iron-ore shipments on Sept. 27. OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s largest
steelmaker, is developing the Putu iron ore mine in a $2.5
billion investment and Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S.
oil company, will start exploration drilling off the Liberian
coast in the fourth quarter of this year.  Opportunity  A second round “is a great opportunity for Liberians to
focus on which policy options are being proposed by the two
parties,” said Phil Vernon, director of  International Alert , a
London-based non-governmental organization. “They have a long
way to go and it’s important that the candidates focus on that,”
he said by phone from Monrovia yesterday.  The announcement of results “may prompt small-scale
disturbances, especially if presidential candidates allege
electoral fraud,” according to London-based Control Risks.
“Sustained and widespread unrest remain unlikely,” the group
said in a statement on its website yesterday.  The Liberia Media Center, a Monrovia-based reporters’
association, said Johnson-Sirleaf received 191,653 of 428,783
votes counted, according to unofficial, preliminary returns
published on its website. Tubman had 153,377 ballots and Prince Yormie Johnson, a former warlord and current senator, was in
third place with 51,973.  Some “minor procedural irregularities,” including
improper folding of ballot papers, which were seen by observers
from the Atlanta-based  Carter Center  were not enough to “affect
the overall integrity of the vote,” the group said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Sesay in Monrovia via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 