-- 
Hillary Clinton Over Joe Biden in 2012? Possible: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-10-14T00:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/hillary-clinton-over-joe-biden-in-2012-possible-jonathan-alter.html
When does “no” not really mean no?
When politicians say it. Reporters understand that if the
circumstances are right, the answer can always change.  On Thursday, NBC News’s Savannah Guthrie asked Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  about the rumor du jour, that President
 Barack Obama  might ask Clinton to swap jobs with Vice President
Joe Biden.  Clinton said , “I do not think it’s even in the realm
of possibility and in large measure because I think Vice
President Biden has done an amazingly good job.”  Of course that won’t end speculation about a Great
Switcheroo, and not just because it falls short of
“Shermanesque,” the standard General William Tecumseh Sherman
set in 1884 when he said, “I will not accept if nominated, and
will not serve if elected.”  When Bob Woodward first claimed on  CNN  in late 2010 that
such a switch was “on the table,” I was skeptical. In a  profile 
of Clinton I wrote for  Vanity Fair  this year, I doubted her
denials about running for president in 2016, but thought that a
switch with Biden was outlandish.  Then I heard from an old Chicago friend of Obama’s that
Woodward was right. Now, with the economy worse and the
president as the self-described underdog, I’d say the odds are
long -- but it’s definitely not impossible.  What It Takes  To understand why the idea of Clinton as Obama’s vice
presidential candidate and Biden as secretary of state in a
second Obama term isn’t just another far-fetched scenario cooked
up by bored pundits, consider the DNA of the players.  Obama, Biden and Clinton would not want to do this. But
like most politicians, they are genetically disposed to do “what
it takes,” to quote the title of Richard Ben Cramer’s seminal
campaign book, which included several chapters on Biden. “What
It Takes,” published nearly 20 years ago, focused on the
character traits necessary to survive a grueling campaign. The
concept also applies to the decisions necessary for victory.  Obama, Biden and Clinton are on good terms with each other,
and they view the stakes -- a possible conservative takeover of
all three branches of government -- as extremely high.  If it’s clear that Democrats need to do something dramatic
to avoid losing the White House, the Switcheroo will happen.  A Compelling Argument  Obama would swallow his pride and try to use wit to disarm
attacks that he’s acting desperate, cynical and weak. He would
admit publicly that he needs the help of both Clintons to
restore the good economic times of the 1990s. The Democrats’
message would be: “Vote for Obama if you want the Clinton
economy back. Vote for Romney if you want the Bush economy
back.” That’s a compelling enough argument to make an imperiled
president do something he would hate -- let  Bill Clinton  drag
him over the finish line.  Biden would reluctantly agree because his consolation prize
is a job he can truthfully argue he has coveted for 20 years. It
would leave him less humiliated than incumbent vice presidents
like Henry Wallace, whom Franklin D. Roosevelt dumped from the
ticket in favor of  Harry Truman  in 1944, and Nelson Rockefeller,
booted by  Gerald Ford  to make room for Bob Dole in 1976.  Clinton would say yes because she is dutiful to a fault and
because everyone asked to be on the ticket for the last 40 years
has accepted, with the exception of  Colin Powell  turning down
Dole in 1996 and  John McCain  rebuffing  John Kerry  in 2004
(that’s how liberal McCain was then).  Job switches of this kind are hardly unprecedented. In
1985,  Ronald Reagan  arranged for Treasury Secretary Donald Regan
and White House Chief of Staff  James Baker  to swap positions. In
1992, Baker reluctantly resigned as secretary of state and
returned to the White House as  George H.W. Bush ’s chief of staff
in an unsuccessful effort to save Bush’s foundering re-election
campaign. All of these guys do what it takes.  Gender Gap  The biggest reason for a Switcheroo would be if the gender
gap that has proved essential to Democrats in recent elections
were suddenly to close, sending Obama (whose current  approval
rating  is a paltry 40 percent) even further south in the polls.
With white men already lost (Obama got only 41 percent of them
in 2008; 9 percent in  Alabama ), a historic ticket with an
African-American and a woman would have little downside.  The president’s more immediate political problem is with
independents. We don’t know yet how much Clinton’s presence on
the ticket might help with them (especially women) or with
traditional Democrats. During the 2008 primaries, Clinton showed
more strength than Obama among blue-collar voters in states like
 Pennsylvania , which is essential to the president’s re-election.
(Although Biden, born in Scranton, is also popular there.)  In a larger sense, the move would lend excitement to what
will inevitably be a sour and dispiriting campaign. Imagine the
 unemployment rate  doesn’t budge and Obama goes into the
Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , in
early September trailing by six points with a mere eight weeks
until Election Day. The Switcheroo may be his only shot.  Neither the Obama campaign nor anyone else I know of has
done any polling on this, and even strong public support for the
idea right now wouldn’t matter much to the White House. This is
a decision for next summer, when the picture will be a lot
clearer. In the meantime, don’t let anyone tell you it’s out of
the question.  ( Jonathan Alter , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author
of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 