-- 
IMF Shouldn’t Do Much More for Europe, Canada’s Flaherty Says

-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-14T15:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/imf-shouldn-t-do-much-more-for-europe-canada-s-flaherty-says.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the  International Monetary Fund  shouldn’t be asked
to do much more to resolve the debt crisis in Europe, which has
enough resources to tackle the problem.  Discussions on increasing assistance from the IMF threatens
to distract European officials from the central problem of
putting together plans to resolve the sovereign-debt crisis and
recapitalize their banks, Flaherty said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV in Paris, where he is attending a meeting of policy
makers from the Group of 20 countries.  “The European situation is a problem for the euro zone to
sort out and the euro zone has adequate tools and adequate
resources to get the job done,” Flaherty said. “I don’t think
we ought to be asking the IMF to do a great deal more.”  Countries from  China  to  Brazil  are considering increasing
lending resources for the Washington-based IMF to help stem
Europe’s travails, G-20 and fund officials said.  Policy makers are discussing an expansion of the IMF’s
firepower as part of a global G-20 agreement next month in
Cannes,  France , according to three officials who declined to be
named because the discussions aren’t public.  ‘Meat on the Bones’  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last month
that her current $390 billion cash pile may not be large enough
to meet all loan requests should the global economy worsen.  European leaders need to put “meat on the bones” of their
proposal to shore up the region’s banks by indicating the size
of any bailout and indentifying the lenders affected, Flaherty
said.  Europe  must also come up with a specific plan to
restructure Greek debt, Flaherty said.  China’s reluctance to allow more flexibility in its
currency has been a “persistent thorn,” Flaherty said, adding
that a move in this direction would be in the Asian country’s
interests.  “There needs to be a recognition that flexibility of the
currency also benefits China,” Flaherty said. “Inflexible
currencies endanger free trade, ultimately, because they lead to
protectionist sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Paris at  targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in Paris at  mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  