-- 
India’s Inflation Exceeds 9% for 10th Month, Increasing Pressure on Rates

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-10-14T06:32:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/india-s-inflation-exceeds-9-for-10th-month-increasing-pressure-on-rates.html
India ’s inflation exceeded 9 percent
for a 10th straight month in September, maintaining pressure on
the central bank to extend its record interest-rate increases.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 9.72 percent from
a year earlier after a 9.78 percent jump in August, the commerce
ministry said in New Delhi today. The median of 21 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.75 percent increase.  Elevated inflation in India and  China  are crimping room for
policy makers to ease monetary policy and support global growth
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery. India’s
central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday that a
more than 9 percent inflation is above “comfort level.”  “The inflation trajectory is not decidedly shifting
downwards,” Samiran Chakraborty, a  Mumbai  based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said before the report. He expects the
 Reserve Bank  of India to raise its repurchase rate by a quarter
of a percentage point to 8.5 percent at its Oct. 25 meeting.  India’s rupee has weakened 8.9 percent against the dollar
this year as investors sold stocks in emerging markets because
of risks to global growth, making the currency the worst
performer in  Asia  and threatening to boost import costs.  The currency gained 0.1 percent to 49.06 per dollar at
11.47 a.m. in Mumbai. The yield on the 7.8 percent government
note due April 2021 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 8.79 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index advanced
0.6 percent.  ‘Comfort Range’  India’s inflation must ease before  interest rates  can be
reduced, Subbarao said Oct. 12. He said on Sept. 26 that price
gains will slow by March 2012, “but more slowly than initially
expected” and that a rate of 4 percent to 6 percent is the
“short-term comfort range” for inflation.  In China, inflation exceeded 6 percent for a fourth month,
according to a report today, limiting Premier Wen Jiabao’s room
to cut borrowing costs.  By contrast, Brazil and  Russia  are among the so-called BRIC
nations that have either cut rates or injected money into
lenders to protect their economies from a possible global
slowdown.  “As much as we look at what the other central banks are
doing, we take into account our own domestic circumstances and
the domestic context in formulating our policy,” Subbarao said
yesterday.  Political Issue  Inflation is a political issue in India as it erodes
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the population live on less than $2 a
day.  Subbarao has boosted the central bank’s benchmark rate 12
times since mid-March 2010 by a total of 350 basis points, the
fastest round of increases since the Reserve Bank was
established in 1935, Bloomberg data show.  That’s curbing consumer demand. Sales at companies
including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest
carmaker, fell 1.8 percent in September, the third straight
monthly decline, the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers 
said Oct. 10.  India’s industrial production rose less than expected in
August, according to the Central Statistical Office. Output at
factories, utilities and mines increased 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, slower than the 4.7 percent median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its forecast
for India’s economic growth. The South Asian economy will expand
7.8 percent in 2011, the Washington-based lender said, slower
than the 8.2 percent projected in June. For 2012, it lowered its
estimate to 7.5 percent from 7.8 percent.  “When inflation runs as high as 9.8 percent, it is
difficult to bring it down without compromising on growth,”
Subbarao said yesterday. “So we are trying the trade-off this
time, by bringing down inflation even if it means compromising
on growth by a few basis points.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  