-- 
India Economy to Grow at 7% This Fiscal Year, HSBC Private Says

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-10-14T10:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/india-economy-to-grow-at-7-this-fiscal-year-hsbc-private-says.html
Arjuna Mahendran, who helps manage
about $499 billion as head of  Asia  investment strategy at  HSBC
Private Bank  in  Singapore , comments on the outlook for Indian
equities in an interview with Bloomberg UTV.  The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index rose 1.2 percent to
17,082.69 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, the steepest weekly
climb in six weeks.  On India’s economic growth:  “Growth of 7 percent looks more realistic in the year to
March 31, 2012, and the reason being that the world is slowing
down. It’s already being factored into the financial markets.  ‘‘India remains a large domestically-driven economy, which
is her strength. Nevertheless, export and services sectors have
grown enormously in the last decade and those are the sectors
that are going to slow initially. The domestic sector will also
be impacted by higher  interest rates .’’  On inflation:  ‘‘The inflationary pressure that we have seen not just in
India, but across Asia and other emerging markets recently, has
been caused by the fact that we have grown too fast in the last
three years after the crisis. We have reached the limits of
growth and that is spurring wage increases, which have to be
restrained before we get into an inflationary vicious cycle.’’  ‘‘Foreign funds will start to flow once inflation in the
emerging markets is on a downswing. That would manifest itself
early next year, sometime in the first quarter.’’  On investment strategy:  ‘‘We are buying at current market levels. We do build in
some protection just to see that we don’t get caught out if
there’s another down draft. I am starting to buy judiciously,
not aggressively. I am still heavily in cash. We haven’t seen
these sort of economic conditions for several decades globally,
or for that matter in  India .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  