-- 
Indian Rupee Completes Weekly Gain as Investors Return to Stocks

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-14T12:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/indian-rupee-heads-for-weekly-gain-as-investors-return-to-stocks.html
India ’s rupee completed a weekly
gain on speculation European policy makers are a step closer to
resolving the region’s debt crisis, supporting demand for
emerging-market assets.  Overseas investors bought a net $227 million of Indian
equities this week as of Oct. 12, the biggest increase in
holdings since the period ended Sept. 2, according to exchange
data. The BSE India Sensitive Index of shares rose 5.2 percent
from a week ago after Infosys Ltd., the nation’s second-largest
software exporter, reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates.  “There is a sense that an imminent crisis in  Europe  has
been averted,” said J. Moses Harding, an executive vice
president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “Having said that,
the concerns have not yet disappeared.”  The rupee gained 0.3 percent this week to 49.0237 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
has appreciated 1.8 percent since reaching a 2 1/2-year low of
49.8900 on Sept. 23.  A government report today showed India’s inflation
accelerated 9.72 percent in September from a year earlier,
exceeding 9 percent for a 10th straight month and maintaining
pressure on the central bank to extend its record interest-rate
increases.  European Summit  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
yesterday the nation’s inflation must ease before the central
bank can reduce  interest rates .  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
global leaders from the Group of 20 nations are meeting in Paris
today, ahead of a summit in Brussels on Oct. 23. German and
French leaders pledged at a meeting Oct. 9 to devise a plan to
recapitalize banks, help  Greece  and strengthen Europe’s economic
governance. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said earlier this
month that Europe will do “everything necessary” to ensure
that banks have enough capital.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 49.69 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 49.74 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  