-- 
Infineon Predicts Sales, Profit Will Drop as European Crisis Cuts Spending

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-14T13:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/infineon-predicts-sales-profit-will-drop-as-european-crisis-cuts-spending.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest maker of semiconductors, predicts profitability
and sales will decline this quarter as the European debt crisis
makes clients more reluctant to spend. The stock dropped as much
as 5.4 percent.  Infineon’s operating margin -- which it calls the segment
result margin -- will drop at a mid-teens percentage in the
fiscal first quarter through December from the previous three
months, the Neubiberg, Germany-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Sales will decline by a mid-to-high single-
digit percentage, it said.  Clients are delaying spending as the European debt crisis
has pushed the region’s economies to the brink of recession.
Concerned that banks lack the capital to absorb a shock in
sovereign debt, European authorities are working on a plan that
may force financial institutions to raise at least 100 billion
euros ($138 billion) in additional capital, according to
analysts’ estimates.  “The guidance for the first quarter shows a higher decline
and therefore a lower segment result than we expected,” said
 Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies International in  London 
with a “hold” recommendation on the shares.  Infineon shares plunged as low as 6 euros today, after
rising 11 percent this month before today. They were down 1.7
percent at 6.24 euros as of 3:02 p.m. in Frankfurt trading,
valuing the company at about 6.8 billion euros.  Qimonda Provision  Infineon, whose customers include carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and consumer electronics company Royal Philips
Electronics NV, manufactures chips that replace mechanical parts
in cars, manage power in home appliances and windmills, and make
passports and contactless payment cards secure.  The automotive markets “should remain benign” in the
current quarter, Infineon said, adding that it expects customers
in the industrial and chip-card and security industries to be
cautious.  The company said fourth-quarter sales came in at 1.04
billion euros, “essentially flat” from the previous quarter.
Still, the company met its target, announced in July, of raising
full-year revenue by more than 20 percent from 3.3 billion euros
in the previous fiscal year.  Earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter were also hurt by the
expiry of service agreements linked to its former mobile-chip
unit, which it has sold to Intel Corp. Infineon also took
additional provisions of 150 million euros in connection with
the bankruptcy of its former memory-chip unit Qimonda.  “Economic uncertainty in light of the European debt crisis
and resulting financial market turmoil drove increasing caution
on the part of Infineon’s customers over the course of the
quarter,” the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  