-- 
ING Plans Debut in European Mortgage-Backed Securities Market

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-10-14T10:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/ing-plans-debut-in-european-mortgage-backed-securities-market.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  may sell mortgage-
backed securities in  Europe  for the first time, according to
Martin Nijboer, the Dutch firm’s head of long-term funding.  The biggest Dutch financial-services company may be ready
to sell bonds packaging Dutch home loans in a private placement
this year, and is considering a public sale of the debt in 2012,
Nijboer said in an interview yesterday.  Top-rated bonds backed by Dutch mortgages yield 148 basis
points, or 1.48 percentage points, more than benchmark rates on
average, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co data. That compares
with a spread of 215 basis points that investors demand to hold
Amsterdam-based ING’s 1 billion euros of unsecured floating-rate
notes due 2016, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  “I can see us doing public RMBS transactions, which we
haven’t done so far,” apart from a deal priced in  Australia ,
Nijboer said. “The RMBS market is now significantly tighter
than the senior unsecured market.”  Banks create mortgage-backed securities by pooling home
loans and selling them to investors as notes. The bonds allow
lenders to raise capital more cheaply than by issuing unsecured
debt.  Dutch companies are the second-largest sellers of mortgage-
backed securities in Europe after U.K. issuers, JPMorgan data
show.  Delta Lloyd  NV, Rabobank Groep and other Dutch firms
placed at least 15.3 billion euros ($21 billion) of mortgage-
backed securities this year, JPMorgan data show.  Delta Lloyd  sold  about 434 million euros of top-rated bonds
packaging home loans originated by its Amstelhuys NV unit, the
insurer said on Oct. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 