-- 
International Power Rejects U.K. Sea Wind on Need for Subsidies

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-10-14T11:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/international-power-rejects-u-k-sea-wind-on-need-for-subsidies.html
International Power Plc (IPR)  said the
engineering challenges of building offshore windfarms in the
U.K. and their overdependence on subsidies make them
unattractive compared with other types of generation.  “There are two reasons we have not gone into offshore wind
in the U.K.,” Chief Executive Officer Phil Cox said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s London bureau this week. “It’s a far
more hostile environment from an engineering point of view that
requires partners with very strong expertise and the second is
sustainability of incentives.”  The U.K. government said in July it wants to see a fivefold
increase in wind power by 2020 from turbines based on land and
offshore. Incentives to promote construction have included
renewable obligation certificates, which can be sold in the
market to energy suppliers generating carbon dioxide. A new
system being considered would require low-carbon developers to
submit a price they would accept for producing power.  Offshore wind, which currently has generating capacity of
1.3 gigawatts in the U.K., the most in the world, can be boosted
to 18 gigawatts by 2020, according to Energy Minister  Charles Hendry . To achieve that goal, the cost of the technology needs
to be brought down to 100 pounds ($158) a megawatt-hour of
generation from about 190 pounds, the minister said.  International Power would be more comfortable when the cost
of renewable generation is close to the underlying cost of power
in the market, Cox said.  Baseload power for next-working day rose 3.2 percent to 48
pounds a megawatt-hour, broker data shows. The contract for next
month increased 0.6 percent to 53.8 pounds. Baseload is
delivered around the clock.  Renewable projects being considered by the utility in the
U.K. include onshore wind farms and converting its Rugeley coal-
fired power station so it can burn biomass.  Britain derived 7.4 percent of its electricity from
renewables last year. That proportion must rise to 30 percent
for the U.K. to meet its European Union-set target of getting 15
percent of all energy from renewable sources by the end of the
decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  