-- 
International Power May Expand in India, Africa

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-10-14T09:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/international-power-may-expand-in-india-africa-to-find-growth.html
International Power Plc (IPR) , the U.K.-
based operator of power plants on five continents, may expand
into India, South Africa and  Morocco , betting electricity demand
in emerging markets will outstrip the U.S. and  Europe .  “We think that India has got the scale, it’s got the need
for inward investment and the appetite,” Chief Executive
Officer Phil Cox said in an interview in  London  this week.
“We’re in the early stages of a strategic review of the Indian
market, but there are clearly a lot of big issues to consider.”  Sluggish growth in Europe and the U.S. is unlikely to dent
demand in countries like South Africa or India, where
populations are growing and consumption rising, Cox said. About
404 million Indians, or 45 percent of households, do not have
access to power, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The majority of London-based International Power’s first-
half operating income came from emerging markets. International
Power is in the process of  building  6,600 megawatts of new power
plants, mostly in  developing countries . Sixty-seven percent of
the utility’s 1.47 billion euro ($2 billion) current operating
income in the first-half of the year came from nations like
 Brazil ,  Indonesia  and  Saudi Arabia .  Cox said International Power may also acquire assets
through acquisitions.  “If there are power generation assets becoming available
in any of our core markets, you should expect International
Power to be alive to that opportunity and taking a look,” the
executive said. “We do feel we have a competitive advantage
with our balance sheet and our liquidity but projects have to
meet our strict financial criteria.”  Merge Assets  International Power agreed to merge assets with Paris-based
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA last year, boosting its gross generation capacity
above 70,000 megawatts in 30 countries. The deal broadened the
company’s financing capabilities, Cox added. As of June,
International Power had 1.2 billion euros in cash, as well as a
3.1 billion pound credit line with GDF Suez.  “We do look and challenge ourselves on the markets we’re
not in,” Cox said. “India I would pull out as being the really
big scale that it is on the list.”  Given projected economic and population growth, Indian
generation capacity will have to increase more than fourfold
from 2008 levels to 748,000 megawatts by 2050, the IEA said in a
February report. Faster growth could mean the country will need
more than 1.2 million megawatts of wind farms, gas and coal-
fired power plants and nuclear reactors, the agency said.  Proven Difficult  India  has proven a difficult market for other international
energy companies. Enron Corp., the energy trader that filed for
bankruptcy in 2001, invested in a $3 billion 740-megawatt power
plant in India in the mid-1990s. The plant stopped operating
seven months before Enron went bankrupt because its sole
customer, a state-run electricity board, stopped paying bills,
saying the tariff was too expensive.  “India has huge power demand, but you need the right
market characteristics for a third party to operate there,”
Investec Ltd. analyst Angelos Anastasiou said in a telephone
interview. Fuel supplies must be secure, the country stable and
the government has to be committed to energy prices, he said.  International Power is further along and actively reviewing
specific assets in Vietnam and Morocco, as well as  South Africa 
where it’s considering peaking plant and wind projects, Cox
said. The three countries “make sense,” because power demand
is growing, their governments are supportive and long-term off-
take contracts are available, he said.  Seeking to avoid a repeat of 2008 power outages, which
temporarily shut down of mines and smelters, South Africa is
targeting capacity additions exceeding 40,000 megawatts by 2030,
according to the IEA. State-owned Eskom Holdings Ltd., which
supplies 95 percent of the nation’s power, is looking to double
its 41,194 megawatt capacity.  European Demand  Other European utilities have struggled to offset weak
power demand and regulatory shifts like windfall taxes and
nuclear plant closures. Government intervention has cut 200
billion euros from the region’s utility shares since January
2009, according to Citigroup Inc. Bloomberg’s European Utility
Index has retreated 13 percent this year.  RWE AG (RWE)  slashed full-year earnings targets when it announced
first half results in August. The next day, EON AG,  Germany ’s
largest utility, announced plans to eliminate 10 percent of its
workforce. EON was already considering international expansion
as one way to offset declining domestic earnings.  “We are in an arena where one would expect to see more
opportunities with more distressed players,” Cox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  