-- 
Israeli Consumer Prices Decline in September on Protests

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-10-14T13:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/israeli-consumer-prices-decline-in-september-after-protests.html
Israeli consumer prices declined in
September as protests helped push down costs, bringing the
annual inflation rate within the government’s target for the
first time this year.  Consumer prices declined 0.2 percent from August, the
 Central Bureau of Statistics  in Jerusalem said today. The median
estimate in a survey of 15 economists by Bloomberg was that
prices would be unchanged in the month. Annual inflation slowed
to 2.9 percent from 3.4 percent.  “Inflation is moderating,” said Ori Greenfeld, head of
the macroeconomics department at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in
 Tel Aviv . “Food prices have declined due to the consumer
protests. Some companies have halted planned price increases and
others have actually cut prices.”  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , who had been
raising rates for more than two years to battle inflation,
reversed policy on Sept. 26 and cut the key rate by a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent, citing the worsening global
economic outlook. The change came amid a drop in expectations
for inflation, which until September had exceeded the 1 percent
to 3 percent target range every month this year.  Housing Costs  The “headline number does not suggest an automatic rate
cut by the  Bank of Israel  this month,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , the
London-based head of emerging markets for the region at Morgan
Stanley. The increase in housing rental costs, which climbed 0.9
percent for the month, “was still high,” he said. Housing
purchase prices, which aren’t in the index, rose 0.8 percent.  Food prices declined 1.3 percent on the month, while fruit
and vegetable prices declined 5.3 percent.  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations declined to 2.3
percent, the lowest since February 2010, from 2.7 percent a
month earlier, the central bank reported on Sept. 20.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Cabinet approved a
program on Oct. 9 that aims to ease the cost of living after
rallies brought hundreds of thousands of protesters onto the
streets.  The demonstrations and boycotts, which started in June over
the cost of cottage cheese, prodded Tnuva Food Industries
Agricultural Co-Op In  Israel  Ltd., which controls about 70
percent of the dairy market, to announce on Oct. 2 that it was
cutting recommended selling prices by as much as 15 percent.
Competitor  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS)  followed with reductions of 12
percent on some of its  milk products .  The Bank of Israel cut its forecast for economic growth
this year and next on Sept. 22, citing increased uncertainty
about the global economy and a decline in the rate of growth in
world trade. The economy will expand 4.7 percent in 2011 and 3.2
percent in 2012, the central bank said, lowering its forecasts
from 4.8 percent and 3.9 percent.  The statistics bureau said Oct. 11 that the economy is
expected to expand 4.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 