-- 
J&J Unit Cleared of Liability for Alleged Levaquin Injuries in New Jersey

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-10-14T15:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/j-j-unit-cleared-of-liability-for-alleged-levaquin-injuries.html
A unit of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  isn’t
responsible for tendon damage suffered by two New Jersey men who
took the drugmaker’s Levaquin antibiotic, a jury found.  The state court jury in  Atlantic City , New Jersey,
deliberated about eight hours over two days before clearing
J&J’s Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical unit of liability for
Paul Gaffney’s and Robert Beare’s injuries. The two men contend
their Achilles tendon snapped after they took Levaquin to treat
respiratory infections.  It’s the company’s second win in a Levaquin case. In June,
a Minnesota jury rejected a man’s claim that the antibiotic
caused his Achilles injury. Another Minnesota jury in December
2010 awarded another former Levaquin user a total of $1.8
million in damages over his tendon injury.  “The evidence showed Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals
properly informed of the benefits and risks associated with the
use of Levaquin and that the company acted responsibly by
providing appropriate and timely information about” the drug,
William Foster, a spokesman for the J&J unit, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Levaquin, which generated more than $1 billion in sales
over an eight-year period starting in 2000, was J&J’s third-
largest selling product at one point. In 2008, the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  required all makers of antibiotics in
Levaquin’s class to beef up warnings about tendon ruptures.  ‘Obviously Disappointed’  Regulators required the upgraded warnings after finding
that the antibiotics increased the risk of tendon ruptures to
three to four times that of the general population, FDA
officials said.  J&J faces more than 2,600 claims in U.S. courts blaming
Levaquin for causing users’ tendon damage, court dockets show.  “We’re obviously disappointed with the verdict,” Andy Alonso, a lawyer for Gaffney and Beare, said in an interview
after the panel announced its decision. “We felt the evidence
was clear that the warnings were flawed. The jury felt
otherwise.”  Both Gaffney, 67, and Beare, 72, got Levaquin prescriptions
to deal with sinus infections that developed into bronchitis,
their lawyers told jurors during the trial. Both men wound up
with Achilles-tendon injuries that left them unable to walk and
required surgery.  Adequate Warning  Lawyers for the plaintiffs argued that officials of the J&J
unit knew Levaquin posed the highest risk of tendon damage of
all the antibiotics in its class and failed to include that
information on the drug’s warning label. That failure meant
patients and doctors didn’t have an adequate warning of the
antibiotics health risks, they alleged.  Attorneys for the J&J unit countered that federal
regulators didn’t require such “comparative risk” information
in drug labels. In addition, the drugmaker included warnings
about Levaquin’s potential effects on tendons on labels
stretching back to 1996, they added.  Jurors voted 8-1 in finding the J&J unit’s Levaquin
warnings were proper. Even if they had ruled against the
drugmaker, Judge Carol Higbee had barred the panel from
considering punitive damages in the case under  New Jersey  law.  The case is Beare v. Johnson & Johnson, L-196-10-MT,
Superior Court of New Jersey for Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  