-- 
Japan Tobacco May Increase Dividend to Narrow Gap With Global Competitors

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 
2011-10-14T10:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/japan-tobacco-may-raise-dividend-ratio-to-narrow-gap-with-rivals.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , the world’s
third-biggest publicly traded cigarette maker, may raise its
dividend payout target to trim gaps with rivals including  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  British American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)   “We’re obviously behind them,” Executive Deputy President
Masakazu Shimizu said in an Oct. 12 interview. The company may
raise the target ratio from the current 30 percent of profit in
the year beginning April 1, 2012, he said.  The cigarette maker rose in Tokyo trading today and is
considering the dividend increase after the Children’s
Investment Fund Management UK LLP called on the company in
September to return more cash to shareholders. Cash, near cash
and short-term investments rose 66 percent as of March 31 from a
year earlier to 277 billion yen ($3.6 billion), according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors know the company has the money to raise
dividends, even this fiscal year,” said Mikihiko Yamato, a
research partner at  Japan  Invest K.K. The current 30 percent
target would yield a 12,000 yen dividend, up from the company’s
planned 8,000 yen, in the current fiscal year, when fixed asset
depreciation and goodwill amortization are included, he said.  Shares Rise  The cigarette maker jumped 3.4 percent to 370,000 yen as of
the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo trading. The shares have gained 23
percent this year, compared with a 14 percent decline in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Japan Tobacco had a dividend payout ratio of 45 percent,
after goodwill amortization, last fiscal year for an annual
dividend totaling 6,800 yen, a 17 percent increase from the
previous year.  Philip Morris International paid out 62 percent and British
American Tobacco 79 percent as of the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shimizu said a decline in the number of smokers in Japan
means the company also needs cash to fuel growth.  “Investments are necessary to make innovative products
such as smokeless tobaccos, and to improve product lineups and
package designs, in an environment where demands for
conventional cigarettes are declining,” Shimizu said. The
targets for future dividends and investment haven’t been
formally decided by the company, he said.  The government needs to sell all its holdings in the
company to make it easier for Japan Tobacco to raise funds to
pursue acquisitions, Shimizu said.  Tax Increase  Cigarette sales have slumped in Japan as the government
raised taxes on them last year and as the population ages. The
average price of a pack of 20 cigarettes increased by 33 percent
last October to 400 yen, or about $5.20.  Japan Tobacco's domestic cigarette sales plunged 60 percent
by volume last month from a year earlier, according to a
 statement  the company filed to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange today.
September revenue from cigarettes dropped 46 percent to 53.8
billion yen, according to the statement.  The government and ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan have
said they support raising tobacco taxes further to help pay for
recovery from the March 11 earthquake.  Shimizu said increases in the tax would be offset by
declines in sales.  “There’s no point in raising the cigarette tax, as it
wouldn’t result in a net contribution to the government’s tax
revenue,” Shimizu said. “And tobacco taxes shouldn’t be raised
just because it’s easy, as it would hurt shop-owners and tobacco
farmers.”  -- With translation by Go Onomitsu and assistance from
Herngshinn Cheng in Tokyo. Editors: Dave McCombs, Nicholas
Wadhams  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  