-- 
Japanese Stocks Decline as Spain Credit Downgrade Stokes Europe Concern

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-10-14T07:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/japan-stocks-drop-as-spain-s-rating-downgrade-stokes-concern-over-europe.html
Japanese stocks fell, paring a
weekly advance, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Spain’s credit
rating, fueling concern that a deterioration of  Europe ’s debt
crisis will weigh on Asian economies and corporate earnings.  Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker that gets about 15 percent of
its revenue from Europe, dropped 1.7 percent.  Canon Inc. (7751)  slipped
2.6 percent after the camera maker said it’s preparing to move
production from two factories affected by flooding in  Thailand .
 Olympus Corp. (7733)  plunged 18 percent after the optical equipment
maker’s board ousted Michael Woodford as president.  “The market has taken positively the idea of
recapitalizing Europe’s banks and stocks have rebounded for the
past week,” said Kazuyuki Terao, chief investment officer of
RCM Japan Co. “Taking concrete action isn’t going to be easy
because Germany and France are divided on the issue. Until
markets get that, share prices are not going to rise.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.9 percent to 8,747.96
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, trimming its weekly advance to 1.7
percent. The broader Topix dropped 1.3 percent to 748.81, with
nearly seven stocks falling for each that advanced.  The Topix tumbled 17 percent this year amid concern the U.S.
would fall into another recession while Europe’s debt crisis
threatens to spread to the banking system. The slide has cut the
price of shares on the index to 0.88 times estimated book value,
near the lowest since March 2009.  Confidence slips  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2
percent today, reversing losses of as much as 0.4 percent. The
U.S. gauge slipped 0.3 percent in  New York  yesterday, paring
gains from the best rally over seven days since 2009, after
JPMorgan’s earnings dropped and amid speculation that equities
rose too much on optimism Europe’s debt crisis may be contained.  Stocks in Europe fell yesterday after the  European Central
Bank  said imposing further losses on holders of Greek debt posed
a risk to the euro area’s financial stability. The slump came
even as  Slovakia  approved Europe’s enhanced bailout fund,
completing ratification across the 17-country bloc.  An escalation in Europe’s debt crisis may trigger a selloff
in Asian assets and disrupt  currency markets , the  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday. Spain had its  credit rating  cut
one level by Standard & Poor’s as rising defaults threaten
efforts to stem Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and limit risks
for the region’s banks.  ‘Politically Difficult’  “Investors are hoping Europe will find a solution to the
sovereign-debt crisis, but if that doesn’t happen the market
could come back down again,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-
based fund manager at Schroders Plc, which oversaw $323 billion
as of June 30. “Politically, it’s going to be difficult to find
a solution. Governments in the U.S. and Europe are left with
limited stimulus options.”  Nissan dropped 1.7 percent to 713 yen. Gaming-console maker
Nintendo Co., which depends on Europe for about 40 percent of
its sales, declined 2 percent to 11,770 yen.  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, fell 1.5 percent
to 335 yen.  Companies with operations in Thailand saw shares drop as
floods that have killed almost 300 people in the country
crippled manufacturing hubs outside of Bangkok.  Canon dropped 2.6 percent to 3,445 yen. The company may
shift inkjet printer production to another plant in Thailand or
Vietnam as two of its factories were shut by flooding, said
Richard Berger, a company spokesman.  Honda, Olympus  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker by market
value, dropped 2.4 percent to 2,248 yen. The company reduced car
output at its Malaysia plant after its parts supply in Thailand
was disrupted, the Edge reported online.  Olympus tumbled 18 percent to 2,045 yen, the steepest drop
on the Nikkei and the stock’s most since 1974. The camera and
endoscope maker said its board voted to replace Woodford as
president with Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa due to disagreements
over management style.  “There was a high expectation among overseas investors
when Woodford was appointed that he would reform the company,”
Yukihiro Goto, a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
said by phone today. “He had announced clear financial targets
such as cost reductions, and it’s uncertain whether those
targets will still be pursued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  