-- 
Kansas City Catholic Diocese, Bishop, Charged With Child Abuse Cover-Up

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-14T21:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/kansas-city-s-catholic-bishop-diocese-charged-with-child-abuse-cover-up.html
The Kansas City,  Missouri , Catholic
Diocese and Bishop Robert Finn have been criminally charged with
failing to report another clergyman’s suspected child abuse, a
state prosecutor said.  “Finn and the diocese -- between Dec. 16, 2010, and May
11, 2011 -- had reasonable cause to suspect that a child may be
subjected to abuse,” by Father Shawn Ratigan, said Jackson
County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker in a statement today citing
the indictment.  Ratigan in August was indicted by a U.S. grand jury in
Kansas City on charges he sexually exploited five children,
using them to produce child pornography. Charged with 13
criminal counts, he has pleaded not guilty.  Images of the children were found on Ratigan’s computer in
December, Peters Baker said today. Officials in the diocese
turned over additional information to the police in May.  Finn and the diocese, through its attorney, entered pleas
of not guilty today in appearances before Jackson County Circuit
Judge John Torrence, said Mike Mansur, a spokesman for Peters
Baker.  “We will meet these announcements with a steady resolve
and a vigorous defense,” Finn said in a  statement  issued
jointly with the diocese and their counsel, in which they denied
criminal wrongdoing.  ‘Complete Cooperation’  “Months ago after the arrest of Shawn Ratigan, I pledged
the complete cooperation of the diocese and accountability to
 law enforcement ,” Finn said. “We have carried this out
faithfully. Diocesan staff and I have given hours of testimony
before grand juries, delivered documents, and answered questions
fully.”  Finn and counsel for the diocese are schedule to appear in
court again for a scheduling conference on Dec. 15, Mansur said.  “The fact that this is a misdemeanor count should not
diminish the significance of the case,” the state prosecutor,
Peters Baker, said. “I want to ensure that there are no future
failures to report resulting in other unsuspecting victims.”  Finn’s lawyer, J.R. Hobbs of  Kansas City ’s Wyrsch, Hobbs &
Mirakian PC, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed request for
further comment. Former federal prosecutor Jean Paul Bradshaw,
who is representing the diocese, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message.  Announced today, the county grand jury’s indictment was
returned on Oct. 6.  Ratigan has asked the court to postpone his schedule
Oct. 24 trial. A scheduling conference in that case is set for
Oct. 19.  The state case is State of Missouri v. Finn in the Jackson
County, Missouri, Circuit Court (Kansas City). The federal case
is U.S. v. Ratigan, 11cr169, U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Missouri (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 