-- 
Karen O’s ‘Virgens,’ Creators Project, Steve Jobs: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/karen-o-s-virgens-dumbo-wynton-marsalis-steve-jobs-met-n-y-weekend.html
Head out to St. Ann’s Warehouse in
DUMBO for Karen O’s psycho-opera “Stop the Virgens.”  As the lead singer of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Karen O embodies
downtown punk spirit, but in this new collaboration with “Where
the Wild Things Are” production designer K.K. Barrett, she
seems to be exploring the psychedelic territory of youth and
desire.  She plays the matriarch who leads a group of tender-aged
women into the demolition of their innocence, so expect a good
time.  38 Water St.,  Brooklyn . Information: +1-718-254-8779;
 http://stannswarehouse.org .  Saturday  “Virgens” is part of the Creator’s Project, a two-day
festival that brings together musicians, filmmakers, djs,
designers to showcase off-kilter mash-ups.  It’s a weird collaboration between Vice and  Intel (INTC)   -- a
straight-up tech company and a magazine that prides itself on
cultural irreverence.  Held in DUMBO on Saturday and Sunday, the festival features
Florence and the Machine, the electronic landscapes of Four Tet
and the Brooklyn hip-hop crew Company Flow.  Starts at noon both days. The archway under the Manhattan
Bridge is one stage; more action takes place near Tobacco
Warehouse, with a DJ hub at 55  Washington .  Information:  http://thecreatorsproject.com .  Saturday Matinee  Jesse Eisenberg, who got raves for his turn as the snarky
Facebook founder  Mark Zuckerberg  in “The Social Network,”
makes his debut as a professional playwright with “Asuncion.”  It’s a comedy about two liberal guys, Edgar and Vinny, who
get a young Filipina roommate and fall all over themselves to
show how non-racist they are.  Eisenberg stars as Edgar, while Justin Bartha plays Vinnie.  Produced by Rattlestick Playwrights, “Asuncion” is in
previews at the Cherry Lane Theatre, 38 Commerce St., for an
Oct. 27 opening. Information: +1-212-627-2556;
 http://www.rattlestick.org .  After the show, stop by Centro Vinoteca for a rustic pizza
or a plate of gnocchi in a rich Bolognese sauce. Wash it down
with a big glass of Chianti.  74 Seventh Ave. S. Information: +1-212-367-7470.  Saturday Night  Wynton Marsalis turns 50 on Tuesday and he’s celebrating
with a concert of his music at Jazz at Lincoln Center’s Rose
Theater.  Expect a sampling of movements from “Blood on the
Fields,” his Pulitzer Prize-winning magnum opus and selections
from his tribute to New Orleans, “Congo Square.”  Onstage party guests include Yacub Addy and his ensemble,
Odadaa! Damien Sneed & Chorale Le Chateau, tap dancer Jared
Grimes and pianist Marcus Roberts.  Broadway and W. 60th Street. Information: +1-212-258-9500;
 http://www.jalc.org .  Sunday  The great photographer Alfred Stieglitz had a keen eye for
art. His influential  New York  galleries promoted modernists, and
he acquired everyone from Matisse and Picasso to Charles Demuth
and Arthur Dove.  And of course he married Georgia O’Keeffe, whose “Cow
Skull” makes a big impression in the Met’s show of 200
paintings, sculptures, drawings and prints from his collection.  “Stieglitz and His Artists” runs through Jan. 2 at 1000
Fifth Ave. at 82nd St. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Matinee  “The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs” is Mike
Daisey’s one-man show about the late Apple founder, written
before he died.  Daisey riffs on the seductions of technology, while also
recounting his harrowing experiences in the Chinese factories
where the tech goodies are made.  In previews at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette St., for
an Oct. 17 opening. Information: +1-212-539-8500;
 http://www.publictheater.org .  Sunday Concert  The Met Orchestra is onstage at Carnegie Hall, led by new
principal conductor Fabio Luisi.  On the program Richard Goode plays Mozart’s Piano Concerto
No. 25, and mezzo-soprano Christine Rice sings the world
premiere of John Harbison’s “Closer to My Own Life,” set to
words by Alice Munro.  Then the players romp through the Strauss tone-poem about
the medieval prankster Till Eulenspiegel.  881 7th Ave.  Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Stroll down to Bobby Flay’s Bar Americain for lamb chops
with mustard barbeque sauce and sweet potatoes, accompanied by a
California pinot noir.  The blackberry souffle makes a sweet end.  152 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-212-265-9700.  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch and Patrick Cole. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 