-- 
Kenya Airways Shareholders Approve Doubling of Share Capital

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-10-14T11:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/kenya-airways-shareholders-approve-doubling-of-share-capital.html
Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  shareholders
approved a plan by sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest airline to
double the carrier’s share capital and sell new equity to
existing stockholders.  The size and timing of the rights offer will be determined
by directors once regulatory approval has been granted in Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda, Chief Executive Officer Titus Naikuni told
reporters at the company’s annual general meeting in Nairobi
today. The company plans to raise as much as 23 billion
shillings ($229 million), Business Daily, a Nairobi-based
newspaper, reported on June 6, citing the  Finance Ministry .  “We have a rough idea of the amount, but we are required to
not disclose the amount until we get approval from the  Capital
Markets Authority ,” Naikuni said. “The process of starting CMA
approvals in the three countries starts immediately.”  Kenya Airways is raising new capital to fund its expansion
in Africa. The airline plans to more than triple its aircraft
fleet to 107 by 2020 from 33 now, Daily Nation reported on Oct.
13. In August, the company agreed to buy 10 aircraft from Sao
Paolo, Brazil-based  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and signed an option to acquire
another 16 from the Brazilian manufacturer. On Oct. 12, it
signed an agreement with  General Electric Co. (GE)  to lease two
Boeing Co. 777-300 ER aircraft.  Shares in Kenya Airways fell the most in two weeks on the
Nairobi Securities Exchange, declining 6.5 percent to 25
shillings by the close. The stock has dropped 46 percent so far
this year, underperforming the bourse’s All Share index, which
has declined 29 percent over the same period.  Kenya Airways current share capital is 5 billion shillings,
according to the agenda circulated at today’s meeting. The
company plans to create 1 billion new shares, it said.  Shareholders also approved a dividend of 1.50 shillings per
share for the 12 months through March, Naikuni said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  