-- 
Khosla Increases Clean Technology Bet With $1.05 Billion Fund

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-10-14T21:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/khosla-increases-clean-technology-bet-with-1-05-billion-fund.html
Vinod Khosla , the billionaire
venture capital investor, is raising his bet on  clean
technology .  Khosla Ventures, the venture capital company he formed in
2004, created a $1.05 billion fund and will steer as much as 65
percent of that to back businesses developing renewable sources
of power, energy-efficiency technology and LED lighting
products, Khosla said today.  In supporting early stage companies with unproven
technology, Khosla expects some of them to fail. Lawmakers in
 Washington  have criticized a U.S. Energy Department program that
followed the same strategy by providing a loan guarantee to
Solyndra LLC, a solar company that filed for bankruptcy Sept. 6.  “When you’re trying new things, some things just don’t
work,” Khosla said in a phone interview. “Solyndra wasn’t cost
competitive with other companies in the Valley; there are other
companies that are doing fine.”  The  Khosla Ventures  IV fund the  Menlo Park , California-
based company announced yesterday will also support Internet,
mobile communication and information technology companies.  Khosla is seeking companies that are striving for
scientific breakthroughs, such as  Soraa Inc. , which he has
backed since 2007. Soraa has “fundamentally changed the
materials on which LEDs are built,” he said. That means there’s
“more science risk than just a little bit of engineering.”  Thermoelectrics  He’s also interested in thermoelectric materials, which
generate power from waste heat. “Thermoelectrics, if they have
a large enough breakthrough, which we hope for, could
revolutionize air conditioning, cooling and refrigeration,”
Khosla said. They may also revolutionize power generation to
become “both a demand-side and a supply-side technology.”  Khosla Ventures said its clean-technology portfolio has
generated about $1 billion in profits. That includes gains from
the initial public offerings of biofuels companies  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) ,
Gevo Inc., and Kior Inc. Khosla has also backed at least two
companies that have been acquired by larger entities -- solar
energy developer Ausra Inc. was bought by Areva SA in 2010 and
efficient motor maker Ramu Inc. by Regal Beloit Corp. in April.  Khosla Ventures in 2009 started a $300 million seed fund to
back high-risk companies and its $1 billion Khosla Ventures III
fund to make more traditional investments in early- and growth-
stage companies.  ‘High-Risk’ Investments  “We do a lot of very high risk, early investments,” he
said. “We’ll invest a million or two and we might fail at it,
but if it works then we’ll put 10, 20, 30 million in it.”  There are ways an investor can limit risk,he said. “Our
success rate is not lower than anybody else I know, even though
it seems like we’re taking larger risks,” Khosla said.  “Instead of just investing, we’re spending a fair amount
of time helping these entrepreneurs in how to build their
businesses,” he said. “That takes a high-risk project and
turns it into a lower-risk project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  