-- 
Naira Heads for Biggest 2-Day Drop in 2 Years on Bank Rules

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-10-14T14:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/naira-heads-for-biggest-2-day-drop-in-2-years-on-bank-rules-2-.html
The naira headed for the biggest
two-day drop in more than 2 1/2 years against the dollar after
 Nigeria ’s central bank said foreign companies will need to use
their own funds to repatriate dividends and capital.  The rules, which the Abuja-based bank released in a
circular on its website today, mean companies will be restricted
to using the interbank market rather than the twice-weekly
official foreign-exchange auctions to buy dollars, said  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. in  London .  The currency weakened as much as 1.2 percent to 161.8 per
dollar by 1:24 p.m. in Lagos, taking its two-day drop to 3.6
percent, the most since the two days through Jan. 13, 2009, on a
closing basis. The naira is the second-worst performer worldwide
after Mongolia’s tugrik, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It will make it more difficult for foreign companies
operating in Nigeria to repatriate their foreign-exchange
proceeds, unless they agree to take a hit by purchasing dollar-
naira at a higher level,” Gadio said by e-mail today. “Given
the lack of dollar liquidity in the  interbank market  and absence
of significant inflows, filling the extra demand will be
extremely complicated.”  The level set at auction is used as the prevailing exchange
rate, while the interbank rate moves freely.  Dollar Demand  Companies and lenders sought to buy $736.9 million at the
Oct. 10 sale, the most this year. The central bank sold naira
outside its targeted band at a Sept. 26 auction as declining
crude prices and reserves made it difficult for Nigeria to
defend the currency. The target band is three percentage points
above or below 150 per dollar.  Fuel importers will need to apply for foreign exchange at
least two days before the auction, provide final shipping
details 30 days after the arrival of cargo and show quarterly
receipts of sales to be allowed access to central bank sales,
the regulator said in a separate  circular  today.  “It’s as if only domestic corporates will be allowed to
access the window,” said Gadio. “Even that will be restricted
given the regulation included in the second circular.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, imports most of its
fuel products because of a lack of refining capacity.  Rate Increase  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi increased the benchmark
 interest rate  2.75 percentage points to a record 12 percent and
met all dollar demand at the most recent auction on Oct. 12 in
an attempt to stem the naira’s decline. The currency depreciated
166.6 per dollar on Oct. 10, the weakest since at least 1994.  The bank “is curtailing demand at its auction, but putting
the pressure on autonomous markets that have to cater for heavy
remittances and import bills, with the tendency to depreciate
the naira,” Usman Onoja, chief executive officer of Lagos-based
Lovonus Trust and Investment Ltd., which trades in currencies,
said by phone. “The permanent solution is to have refineries
and industries, which will suppress importation and reduce
pressure of funding the forex market on central bank.”  Nigeria’s inflation rate rose for the first month in four
to 10.3 percent in September as the government raised spending
and a weaker naira boosted import costs.  Inflation accelerated from 9.3 percent a month earlier, the
statistics agency said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of four economists was 9.7 percent.  Reserves Drop  The government doubled the  minimum wage  for state workers
in August and the government budget for 2012 aims to boost
spending, adding to price pressures in sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-biggest economy.  “One can argue that the new regulations are an attempt to
ease the pressure on the auction window and smooth the erosion
of foreign reserves,” said Gadio. “The new stance is at odds
with previous attempts to unify the official and interbank
exchange rates.”  The West African nation’s  foreign-currency reserves  dropped
to $30.9 billion on Oct. 7, the lowest in more than a year,
according to data from the Abuja-based central bank. The
country’s benchmark Bonny Light crude oil has fallen 13 percent
since reaching a three-year high on April 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  