-- 
New York Mets Owners Say Madoff Trustee Isn’t Entitled to Trial by Jury

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/new-york-mets-owners-say-madoff-trustee-isn-t-entitled-to-trial-by-jury.html
The owners of the  New York Mets  said
a jury shouldn’t be called upon to decide claims of hundreds of
millions of dollars against them filed by  Irving Picard , the
trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York set a March 19
trial date for the trustee’s case against the Mets owners after
narrowing by two thirds the $1 billion demanded by Picard from
 Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz. The remainder of the trustee’s suit
is based on bankruptcy claims that don’t carry a right to a jury
trial, the team owners said in a court filing yesterday.  “No decision supports the existence of a debtor’s jury
trial under these circumstances,”  Karen Wagner , a lawyer for
Wilpon and Katz said in court papers. “No jury trial attaches
to these claims.”  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and
$700 million in principal from the Mets partners in a complaint
alleging they turned a blind eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The
partners denied it.  To recover the profit, Picard must “simply” prove they
didn’t give equal value back for money received, Rakoff said in
his ruling.  The judge tossed most of the trustee’s allegations in an
11-count complaint in  Manhattan  federal court.  Rakoff said Picard could try to reclaim about $386 million,
based on bankruptcy claims. Picard has also asked Rakoff to let
him appeal the decision.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment about the filing.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  