-- 
News Corp.’s Murdochs Should Be Ousted, Hermes Equity Says

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T13:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/news-corp-s-murdochs-should-be-ousted-hermes-equity-says-2-.html
Hermes Equity Ownership Services, an
 investor  advisory service, will recommend investors vote against
the re-election of the Murdoch family to the  News Corp. (NWSA)  board of
directors after a slow response to a phone-hacking scandal.  Hermes Equity, which has over $140 billion in assets under
stewardship, is recommending the ouster of five board members
who are up for re-election next week, Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch, his sons James and  Lachlan Murdoch , as well as
Arthur Siskind and Andrew Knight, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Hermes’ clients alongside its own funds account for about
0.5 percent of News Corp.’s shares, according to Jennifer
Walmsley, a director of the advisory service.  News Corp. shut one of its most successful U.K. titles this
year, the News of the World, after reports that journalists had
hacked into voicemails and paid police for stories. Hermes joins
advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services and  Glass
Lewis  in calling for investors to remove the Murdochs from the
New York-based company’s board this month.  “News Corp. has not reacted with sufficient urgency to
investor concerns about its board composition and corporate
culture,” Walmsley said in the statement. “The time is right
for the company to appoint an independent chairman to rebuild
trust.”  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment.  Testimony  James and  Rupert Murdoch  have been questioned by the U.K.
government and senior executives have departed because of the
scandal, including  Les Hinton , head of Dow Jones, and Rebekah Brooks, CEO of the U.K. publishing arm.  News Corp.’s share structure, which divides economic and
voting interests, means that the Murdoch family controls the
majority of  voting rights , Walmsley said. The vote “will not be
fully reflective of the weight of investor concern.”  News Corp.  rose  2 percent to $17.46 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading in New York as of 9:35 a.m. The stock gained 18 percent
this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  