-- 
Nigeria Inflation Accelerates First Month in Four to 10.3%

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-10-14T14:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/nigeria-inflation-accelerates-first-month-in-four-to-10-3-.html
Nigeria ’s inflation rate rose for
the first time in four months to 10.3 percent in September as
the government raised spending and a weaker naira boosted import
costs.  Inflation accelerated from 9.3 percent in August, the
National Bureau of Statistics said in a statement today in
Abuja, the capital. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
four economists was 9.7 percent. Prices rose 1.4 percent in the
month.  The central bank of Africa’s biggest oil producer has
raised its benchmark  interest rate  6 percentage points to 12
percent over the past year, including a 275 basis point increase
this week to curb inflation and support the naira. Price
pressures may increase as the government prepares to remove a
fuel subsidy next year and raise spending by 7 percent after
doubling the minimum wage for state workers in August.  The medium-term risks to inflation stem from the “possible
deregulation” of the price of refined fuels starting next year
and “the sustainability of the exchange rate target” of the
central bank, Samir Gadio, an emerging markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail today.  Inflation accelerated after food prices increased 9.5
percent in September from 8.7 percent in the previous month, the
statistics office said. Food accounts for about half of the
 consumer price index .  The naira fell to a record low 164.15 per dollar on the
 interbank market  this month. The bank aims to keep the currency
within 3 percent of 150 against the dollar and inflation below
10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  