-- 
No Deal on Kyoto CO2 Goals Risks Collapse of UN Summit, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-10-14T13:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/no-deal-on-kyoto-co2-goals-risks-collapse-of-un-summit-eu-says.html
A failure by climate envoys
worldwide to extend emissions-reduction goals under the United
Nations  Kyoto Protocol  beyond 2012 may lead to a “complete
meltdown” of global talks,  Europe ’s negotiator said.  More than 190 nations will discuss climate-protection rules
for when the current greenhouse-gas targets for developed
nations expire in 2012 when they meet at a summit in Durban,
 South Africa , starting Nov. 28. The European Union is open to
the so-called second commitment period under Kyoto under certain
conditions, said Artur Runge-Metzger, the bloc’s envoy to the
talks.  “If there’s no continuation of the Kyoto Protocol’s
second commitment period I think it’s a deal breaker,” Runge-
Metzger said in an interview in Brussels today. “Then we would
see a collapse of the negotiations in Durban,” he said. “You
start from scratch then probably.”  The UN talks to fix post-2012 climate architecture -- which
involve extending emission-reduction goals under the  Kyoto
accord  and creating a new globally binding treaty -- have
stalled amid differences between rich and developing nations.  Countries including Japan and  Russia  have said they don’t
want to extend the  Kyoto treaty . Their absence, along with that
of the U.S.,  China  and  India , would leave the Kyoto pact without
targets for the five biggest national emitters of pollution from
burning fossil fuels.  As part of the EU negotiating mandate for Durban,
environment ministers agreed earlier this week that the bloc
would consider signing up for the second  commitment  under Kyoto
if the treaty guarantees environmental benefits and other
nations determine a roadmap for a legally binding global deal.  Legal Framework  “What we need to have is a roadmap for negotiations, a
work plan for the coming years on when do we want to decide
about a new legal framework, what could be the elements in
there,” Runge-Metzger said.  “In the meantime, you’ll need to
have the implementation of the Cancun agreements plus probably
the second commitment period of Kyoto, which is then kind of
transitional arrangement.”  The EU committed itself to cutting  greenhouse gases  that
scientists blame for  climate change  by eight percent when the
then 15-member bloc signed up to the Kyoto Protocol in 1997. Ten
out of 12 countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007 agreed
to reduce emissions by six or eight percent.  “Certainly, I don’t think that you can expect to get a
commitment from all countries to negotiate on new legally
binding agreement and not have the Kyoto Protocol continuing for
the second commitment period,” Runge-Metzger said.  Greenhouse Gases  The bloc will continue reducing greenhouse gases even if
there’s no agreement on extending the protocol, he added. The EU
has a binding internal target of cutting emissions by 20 percent
in 2020 compared with 1990.  “For us, Kyoto continues no matter what is being decided
in Durban,” he said. “It’s a legal treaty and the legal treaty
itself doesn’t have an end date. The question is, are we going
to make a decision whether some countries are going to continue
with the second commitment period or not. That’s what’s going to
be decided in Durban.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  