-- 
Obama, South Korea’s Lee Promote Trade Agreement’s Benefits for Automakers

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-14T20:03:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/obama-south-korea-s-lee-to-promote-trade-agreement-s-gains-for-automakers.html
President  Barack Obama  told workers
at a  General Motors Co. (GM)  plant near  Detroit  that the government’s
aid to U.S. automakers “paid off” in saving the U.S.
automotive industry and creating jobs.  The cars being made at GM’s Orion assembly plant “are a
testimony to the American spirit,” Obama said after touring the
factory with South Korean President Lee Myung-bak to showcase a
free trade agreement approved by Congress this week and defend a
federal “investment” to help GM and Chrysler LLC reorganize
under bankruptcy in 2009.  Lee told plant workers that the free trade agreement won’t
cause jobs to migrate to other countries. “Rather it will
create more jobs for you and your family,” he said through a
interpreter.  The accord with Korea provides GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC wider access to the Korean market while
protecting the U.S. industry against a surge in imports from
Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)   For Obama -- facing re-election next year with unemployment
stuck at 9.1 percent nationwide and 11.2 percent in Michigan --
congressional approval of the agreement on Oct. 12 marked the
end of a four-year stalemate. It was also a rare display of
bipartisan cooperation on an agreement that offers prospects for
new jobs in a battered industry.  Helping Auto Industry  “There’ve been a lot of policies benefiting the auto
industry, starting with the GM-Chrysler bankruptcy bailout and
electric-car battery plants,” said Matt Grossmann, assistant
professor of political science at  Michigan  State University in
East Lansing. “The overall message for Michigan is that when
other people were saying ‘let the American automotive industry
fail,’ they were behind it.”  Obama called Detroit a city “where a great American
industry is coming back to life and the industries of tomorrow
are taking root.”  Using a phrase from his 2008 presidential campaign he said,
“For every cynic that’s out there saying, ‘It can’t be done,’
there are folks out there saying, ‘Yes we can.’”  Obama told plant workers that some people said the auto
industry shouldn’t have received federal assistance. “In fact,
there are some politicians who still say that.”  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, in an Oct. 11
debate among Republican presidential candidates, criticized the
bailout. “Should they have used the funds to bail out General
Motors and Chrysler?” Romney asked. “No, that was the wrong
source for that funding.”  Ending Tariffs  Trade deals with South  Korea , Colombia and Panama that were
approved by Congress this week reduce or end tariffs faced by
U.S. exporters and are the biggest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement took effect in 1994. The Korean deal would end
tariffs on about 95 percent of U.S. exports of industrial and
consumer goods within five years and support about 70,000
American jobs, according to the White House.  They are a “major win,” Obama said, citing anticipated
increases in exports, support for tens of thousands of jobs and
protection of labor rights, the environment and intellectual
property.  Obama will sign the bill in “coming days,” he said
yesterday at a joint news conference with Lee.  ’Very Dynamic’  Lee, 69, is “very dynamic, very charismatic, in many ways
very Western in his behavior,” said  Victor Cha , former director
of Asian affairs at the National Security Council. There’s “a
chemistry with Obama,” and Lee is one of the very few foreign
leaders who can claim such ties with the U.S. president, he
said.  Obama, making his ninth visit to Michigan as president,
will see the assembly line at a GM factory that was dedicated by
President  Ronald Reagan . It was idled during GM’s bankruptcy.
The automaker reorganized in 2009 with the help of $49.5 billion
in federal funds.  In October 2010, Detroit-based GM reversed plans to close
the plant, and retained 1,550 hourly and salaried jobs there to
build the Chevrolet Sonic, which replaces its Korean-made Aveo.
The subcompact was engineered in South Korea.  “There’s a mutual recognition of the  auto industry  as a
global economic engine on both shores,” said  Greg Martin , GM’s
director of  Washington  policy and communication. Martin wouldn’t
offer any export projections as a result of the trade agreement.  U.S. Exports  U.S. exports of motor vehicles and parts to South Korea are
expected to increase by 54 percent, or about $194 million, as a
result of the trade accord, the International Trade Commission
said. Because South Korea starts with a bigger role in the U.S.
auto market, the 11 percent gain it may receive represents $907
million, the commission said.  Hyundai and Kia are South Korea’s two largest carmakers.
Combined U.S. sales for the two, which operate separately, were
860,319 this year through September and should reach 1.1 million
units in 2011, according to Jesse Toprak, an industry analyst in
 Santa Monica , California, for TrueCar.com.  Lee told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington on Oct.
12 that the agreement will create “good, decent jobs” in both
nations and will be “beneficial to workers, to small
businesses.”  South Korea  is the U.S.’s seventh-largest trading partner
with two-way trade of $87.7 billion in 2010, up 29 percent from
the previous year, Census Bureau figures showed. The South Korea
accord may help Obama achieve his goal of doubling exports to
$3.14 trillion a year by the end of 2014, from $1.57 trillion in
2009.  Limited Exports  While the Michigan-based auto industry stands to boost
exports to South Korea, immediate increases will be limited,
analysts said. The trade agreement’s tariff reductions won’t be
enough to draw buyers away from Hyundai and Kia, according to
Bill Visnic, an auto-industry analyst.  “It’s not just about the mechanical things like tariffs
and duties and taxes,” Visnic, of Santa Monica, California-
based Edmunds.com, said in an interview. “The populace itself
has to be accepting of the notion of imported cars and imported
makes. It will probably be decades before you see a significant
change in the mix there like we have here.”  South Koreans are unlikely to buy U.S. cars that they
consider less safe and fuel-efficient even if the trade
agreement makes it less costly for them to do so, said Christian
Yang, a market analyst at IHS Automotive in  Seoul .  ‘Minimal’ Benefits  “The benefits that U.S. automakers will see are minimal,”
Yang said in an e-mail. “Consumers purchase cars in Korea for
the brand, style, safety. The U.S. auto companies still have
some work to do to better meet the wants and needs of the Korean
consumer.”  The South Korea agreement was first negotiated under
President  George W. Bush . The United Auto Workers union,
initially opposed to the deal, changed course after changes were
made.  “The revised agreement creates significantly greater
 market access  for American auto exports and contains strong,
auto-specific safeguards to protect our domestic markets from
potentially harmful surges of Korean automotive imports,” UAW
President  Bob King  said in a statement.  Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade
Watch, said in a statement that the “job-killing” agreements
represent “a complete flip-flop for President Obama, who won
crucial swing states by pledging to overhaul our flawed trade
policies.”  Meredith Broadbent, former assistant U.S. trade
representative for industry and market access in the  Bush
administration , said the South Korea deal may bolster other
trade negotiations, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership
between the U.S. and eight other Pacific nations.  “It’s a really strong deal for autos,” she said. “It’s
going to jump-start the trade agenda.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Lake Orion, Michigan, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  