-- 
Obama Sends Troops Against Uganda Rebels

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-14T22:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/obama-sends-troops-against-uganda-rebels.html
President  Barack Obama  authorized
about 100 “combat-equipped U.S. forces,” including special
operations personnel, to central Africa to help fight against
Uganda’s renegade Lord’s Resistance Army and its leader,  Joseph Kony .  The troops are to “provide assistance to regional forces
that are working toward” Kony’s removal “from the
battlefield,” Obama said today in a letter to House and Senate
leaders released by the White House.  The White House was responding to 2010  legislation  pushed
by a group of lawmakers and human rights organizations that
supported a comprehensive U.S. effort short of active military
involvement to mitigate or eliminate the Lord’s Resistance Army
threat.  The Lord’s Resistance Army for more than 20 years “has
murdered, raped and kidnapped tens of thousands of men, woman
and children in central  Africa ,” Obama’s letter said. The State
Department has designated the group a terrorist organization,
and in 2008 the Treasury Department added Kony to its list of
Specially Designated Global Terrorists.  The U.S. has provided more than $40 million since 2008 for
“critical logistical support, equipment and training” to
forces fighting Kony, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said.  Previous assistance includes 17 U.S. military advisers on a
training mission, U.S. Africa Command spokesman Kenneth Fidler
said in an e-mail.  Removing Kony  “Even with some limited U.S. assistance, however, regional
military efforts have thus far been unsuccessful in removing
Kony or his top commanders,” Obama’s letter said.  The 100 troops, primarily U.S. special operations forces,
will assist forces from  Uganda , South Sudan, the Central African
Republic and the  Democratic Republic  of the Congo with
“information, advice, and assistance,” the letter said.  U.S. troops will not directly engage Kony’s forces “unless
necessary for self-defense,” Obama said.  “We don’t know how long the duration” of the deployment
will be, and “hope it will lasts until Kony and his commanders
are brought to justice,” said Michael Poffenberger, executive
director of Resolve, a Washington-based human rights groups
pushing for action. Poffenberger said he was briefed by the
National Security Council before release of the Obama letter.  ‘Internal Defense’  The special operations forces will be performing “foreign
internal defense” training that’s to “provide the right
balance of strategic and tactical experience to supplement host
nation military efforts,” Fidler said.  “Our forces are prepared to stay as long as necessary,”
he said. The personnel will be commanded by Special Operations
Command-Africa.  Besides the humanitarian grounds for sending troops cited
by Obama, the U.S. has growing concern that the instability
caused by the LRA will benefit militant Islamic groups in
Somalia and northern Africa.  So far, said William M. Bellamy, a former U.S. ambassador
to  Kenya  who heads the Africa Center for Strategic Studies at
the National Defense University in  Washington , there is no
evidence that the LRA has links to any Islamist groups. “The
LRA is kind of off on its own planet,” he said.  The U.S. does have a growing interest in helping Uganda
battle the LRA, Bellamy said, in part because the country is
preparing to send an additional 2,000 peacekeeping troops to
battle the militant group al-Shabaab in Somalia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  