-- 
Oil in New York Climbs to Three-Week High on G-20 Talks and U.S. Sales

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-10-14T19:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/oil-in-new-york-heads-for-second-weekly-gain-on-g-20-talks-and-u-s-sales.html
Crude oil rose to a three-week high
as the Group of 20 began discussions in Paris on a solution to
 Europe ’s debt crisis and U.S. retail sales climbed.  Futures increased 3.1 percent after G-20 and International
Monetary Fund officials said the IMF may bolster its lending
resources to help stem the crisis. U.S. retail sales advanced
1.1 percent last month, the Commerce Department said today.
Brent oil in  London  traded at a record premium to West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, for the second straight day.  “The debt crisis is far from over but it appears that they
are making progress, which is bullish for oil,” said  Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market research at Societe Generale SA
in New York. “Economic data, especially in the U.S., has
improved recently. It’s now mixed, rather than negative.”  Crude oil for November delivery rose $2.57 to $86.80 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Sept. 20. Prices climbed 4.6 percent this week
and have dropped 5 percent in 2011.  Brent oil for November settlement rose $3.57, or 3.2
percent, to end the session at $114.68 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. November futures expired
today. The more active December contract climbed $3.03, or 2.8
percent, to $112.23.  The European benchmark future exceeded the New York
contract by $27.88 a barrel today, based on front-month closing
prices. The previous record spread was $26.88 yesterday.  ‘Waning’ Relevance  The relevance of West Texas Intermediate to oil markets is
“waning” as some commodity indexes raise weights of Brent,
 Barclays Capital  said. The Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index
announced Oct. 11 it will include Brent for the first time in
January, with a weighting of 5.31 percent, and cut its WTI
allocation to 9.69 percent from 14.71 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index said on Oct. 6 it will make similar changes.  European leaders may complete a debt plan at an Oct. 23
summit to present to a gathering of G-20 chiefs Nov. 3-4.
Yesterday, Standard & Poor’s cut  Spain ’s credit rating for the
third time in three years and new data showed the eight largest
U.S. money-market funds almost halved their lending to French
banks last month.  “The outlook for an IMF-G-20 plan is overshadowing all of
the country and bank downgrades,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The prospect of
bailouts is bullish for oil. When there’s a new plan in the
works it’s a signal for investors to buy commodities.”  European Proposals  European officials are considering writedowns of as much as
50 percent on Greek bonds, a backstop for banks and continued
central bank bond purchases to combat the debt crisis, people
familiar with the discussions said. The Greek bond losses may be
accompanied by a pledge to rule out debt restructurings in other
countries that receive bailouts, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the negotiations are ongoing.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.3 percent to
1,219.79 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 1.1 percent
to 11,602.10. The dollar dropped 0.7 percent to $1.3874 against
the euro. A weaker U.S. currency bolsters the appeal of dollar-
denominated raw materials as an investment.  “What the market does each day recently depends on how we
are looking at the European debt situation,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Today we’re wearing rose-tinted
glasses.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
climbed 2.6 percent to 639.14. The index is up 5.4 percent this
week and headed for the biggest weekly gain since December.  Economic Outlook  “Oil is moving on the economic outlook and the overall
strength in commodity markets,” said  Rick Mueller , a principal
with ESAI Energy LLC in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “It’s
responding to the better outlook for U.S. economic growth and
speculation that we may be near some sort of resolution to the
euro-zone crisis.”  August retail sales climbed 0.3 percent, up from a previous
estimate of no change, the Labor Department in  Washington  said.
Ten of 13 major U.S. retail categories showed increases last
month, led by auto dealers and clothing stores.  “We’re experiencing a swing in sentiment based on hope and
optimism, not a change in the underlying fundamentals,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “The retail numbers were nice but we need to see a gain
in income as well for this to signal something sustainable.”  OPEC Meeting  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet
on Dec. 14 in Vienna to discuss whether to cut or increase
member’s production targets.  “The rise in prices will make OPEC’s task a lot easier in
December,” Armstrong said. “The Brent price was recently
flirting with $100, but is now comfortably higher. There’s
probably a comfortable feeling in the  Middle East  as a result.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 587,280
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 759,857
contracts yesterday, 13 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.43 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  