-- 
Olympus Ousts First Foreign-Born Chief After Seven Months; Shares Plunge

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-10-14T09:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/olympus-shares-tumble-in-tokyo-after-president-steps-down.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  ousted its first non-
Japanese president after less than seven months in the job,
sending shares of the camera and medical-equipment maker
plunging the most in 37 years.  The board voted to replace Michael C. Woodford, 51,
following disagreements about his management methods, the Tokyo-
based company said in a  statement  today. Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa will take over the president’s role.  Woodford, a Briton who described himself as “loud-
mouthed” and “direct” in an interview last month, took over
after profit slumped 85 percent last fiscal year and sought to
cut costs. Woodford, one of a handful of foreign corporate
leaders in a country that prizes consensus, bypassed unit
managers to give orders directly to employees and “wouldn’t
listen,” Kikukawa said.  “This isn’t just about cultural differences,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co., which oversees about $600 million in Tokyo.
Woodward’s ouster stemmed from a “feud between the president
and the chairman,” Akino said.  A call to Olympus seeking to speak with Woodford was
connected to the company’s public relations office. Woodford
wasn’t available for an interview, said Seisho Tanaka, a Tokyo-
based spokesman. He declined to comment on Woodford’s
whereabouts.  ‘Causing Problems’  The stock plunged 18 percent to close at 2,045 yen in Tokyo
-- the biggest drop since 1974, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Almost 36 million shares changed hands, 16 times more
than the six-month daily average of 2.2 million.  “There was a high expectation among overseas investors
when Woodford was appointed that he would reform the company,”
Yukihiro Goto, a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
said by phone today. “He had announced clear financial targets
such as cost reduction, and it’s uncertain whether those targets
will still be pursued.”  Woodford was ousted “unanimously” at a 9 a.m. board
meeting with 13 attendants, including Woodford, who wasn’t
allowed to vote because the matter involved his own interests,
Kikukawa said.  “Michael C. Woodford has largely diverted from the rest of
the management team in regard to the management direction and
method,” the company said in the  statement . “It’s now causing
problems for decision making by the management team.”  ‘Opinionated, Loud-Mouthed’  Woodford said previously that his management style may be
at odds with the Japanese culture.  “I can be very opinionated,  loud-mouthed , strong-headed
and direct,” Woodford said in an interview published in the
September edition of the Magazine of the British Chamber of
Commerce in  Japan . “These attributes perhaps are excused,
because ‘that’s what gaijin are like.’”  Gaijin is a Japanese word for foreigner.  “The president was a reformer,” Akino said. “There are
always possibilities that a reformer causes frictions within an
organization.”  Woodford gave job instructions directly to employees,
skipping unit leaders, Kikukawa said at a press conference in
 Tokyo .  “I gave him warnings repeatedly but he wouldn’t listen,”
Kikukawa, 70, said. “Maybe he was focusing on speed but I don’t
know.”  ‘Differences’ in Style  Profit at the company plunged 85 percent in the year ended
March 31 to 7.38 billion yen after sales declined. Olympus will
cut at least 30 billion yen in annual expense by March 2015,
revive its imaging business and strengthen microscopy and
industrial operations, Woodford  said  in May.  “I valued his strength in decision making and putting
plans into action, but there were differences in management
style,” Kikukawa said. Woodford “didn’t focus on the common
goal,” he said without elaborating.  Woodford joins Stuart Chambers, former president of Nippon
Sheet Glass Co., to leave Japanese companies after a short term
as a non-Japanese president. Chambers, a British national, left
Nippon Sheet after 14 months as CEO in 2009, citing family
reasons.  Public board room tussles aren’t common in a country where
only a few of the top major corporations, such as Sony Corp. and
Nissan Motor Co., are run by expatriates.  Howard Stringer  has been chairman and chief executive
officer of Sony, Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter,
since 2005.  Carlos Ghosn  has been president of Nissan Motor Co.
since 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  