-- 
OmniVision Falls as Website Sees Sony Sensor in Apple IPhone

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-14T21:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/omnivision-falls-after-website-reports-its-sensor-excluded-from-new-iphone.html
OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  tumbled
9.4 percent after an analysis of the new iPhone raised concern
that one of the company’s key components may have been excluded
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s best-selling device.  An iPhone 4S taken apart by Chipworks, which studies
electronics components, sported an image sensor made by  Sony
Corp. (6758) , rather than OmniVision, which had been used in at least
one previous iteration of the device, according to the  analysis .
It’s possible that some units have sensors made by other
manufacturers, Chipworks said.  Inclusion in Apple devices is a boon for component makers,
while exclusion can mean lost sales.  TriQuint Semiconductor Inc. (TQNT) 
rose the most in almost a decade yesterday after analysis by
Ifixit showed its chips are included in iPhone 4S, which went on
sale today.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  chips beat out those from  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
for placement in the smartphone,  IHS Inc. (IHS)  said.  Chipworks plans to review additional iPhones to see whether
OmniVision made it into some units. Scott Foster, a spokesman
for OmniVision, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  OmniVision, based in Santa Clara, California, dropped $1.65
to $15.95 in New York. The stock had fallen 41 percent this year
before today.  Image sensors are used in digital cameras to convert an
optical image into electronic signals.  Apple may sell as many as 4 million iPhones on its debut
weekend, according to Carl Howe, an analyst at Yankee Group.
Customers lined up at stores in the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Japan and U.K. to be the first with the device.  Next year, Apple may sell more than 100 million iPhones,
according to Wayne Lam, an analyst at IHS in El Segundo,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  