-- 
London Court Clerk Pleads Guilty in First Bribery Act Case

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-14T13:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/london-court-clerk-pleads-guilty-in-first-bribery-act-case-1-.html
A  London  court clerk accused of
asking for a 500 pound ($789) bribe to help clear a suspect of a
driving offense became the first person to plead guilty under
the U.K.’s new bribery law.  Munir Patel, 22, who worked as an administrative clerk at
Redbridge Magistrates’ Court in the Ilford neighborhood of
London, pleaded guilty today to requesting and receiving a bribe
under the law, which took effect in July. He also pleaded guilty
to misconduct in public office.  “Public corruption is an extremely serious offense that
undermines public faith in the integrity of those who work in
the criminal justice system,” said Gaon Hart, a lawyer for the
 Crown Prosecution Service ’s special crime and counter-terrorism
unit.  The Bribery Act, considered by some lawyers to be the
world’s strictest anti-corruption law, spurred companies doing
business in the U.K. to hire lawyers and advisers to ensure they
wouldn’t violate it.  Patel’s lawyer,  Janice Johnson , told Judge John Price the
clerk is “a man of good character.” He is scheduled to be
sentenced in November.  Under the law, which is similar to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, companies must prove they have adequate controls
to prevent corruption in order to defend themselves if a bribe
is paid on their behalf anywhere in the world, even if company
officials didn’t know.  “It is slightly ironic that the first prosecution under
the Bribery Act has nothing to do with the much talked about and
debated corporate offense of ‘failing to prevent bribery’ and
the defense of ‘adequate procedures,’” Neill Blundell, the head
of fraud at the law firm Eversheds in London, said in an e-mail.
“We still therefore await to see which companies will be the
very first to be targeted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  