-- 
London ‘Super Prime’ Home Sales Surge to Record on Overseas Purchasers

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-10-14T14:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/london-luxury-home-sales-surge-to-record-on-overseas-purchasers.html
Sales of  London ’s most expensive
homes reached a record as foreign buyers dominate the city’s
luxury residential market,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said.  The number of houses and apartments that sold for more than
5 million pounds ($8 million) rose to 262 from 200 in the nine
months through September, 31 percent more than a year earlier,
the real-estate broker said today in an e-mailed report.  Overseas buyers make up 65 percent of the market for homes
costing more than 5 million pounds, according to the report. The
costliest purchases remain concentrated in central London
neighborhoods such as Belgravia, Knightsbridge and Mayfair, said
Lucian Cook, Savills’s director of residential research.  “Knightsbridge and Belgravia have a high proportion of
London’s best-performing flats,” Cook said in the report.
“Mayfair has seen significant levels of  capital investment  and
improved amenities which have underpinned price growth.”  International buyers are investing in London homes to
protect wealth amid financial or political volatility at home,
London-based Savills said.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may be
worse than the Great Depression, according to Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King, and uprisings in countries including
Libya, Syria and Egypt have cost a total of $55.84 billion,
consultant Geopolicity Inc. said today in a report.  Victorian Building  Buyers from the  Middle East , North Africa, Eastern Europe
and former Soviet Union are pushing prices in Knightsbridge and
Belgravia to new records, Cook said. Values in the west London
neighborhoods have risen 93 percent and 94 percent since 2006
compared with 87 percent across prime central London residential
real estate.  Four penthouse apartments at the Porchester Building near
London’s Paddington Station are expected to sell at 1,200 pounds
a square foot, property broker Hamptons International said by e-
mail. The six-story Victorian site, which has 41,500 square feet
of  office space , was put on sale today at 28 million pounds.  Sales of homes above the 5 million-pound threshold totaled
3.2 billion pounds in the nine-month period compared with 2.1
billion pounds a year earlier, Savills said. About 60 percent of
the buyers in the last three months were foreign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 