-- 
Monsanto Sorghum Seeds to Yield Brazil Ethanol During Cane Break

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-10-14T20:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/monsanto-sorghum-seeds-to-yield-brazil-ethanol-during-cane-break.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, will sell enough sweet sorghum for 20,000 hectares
(49,400 acres) of plantations in Brazil this year as sugar cane
mills struggle to meet demand for ethanol and are seeking an
alternative source of the renewable fuel.  The plantations may generate enough sorghum to produce 80
million liters (21.1 million gallons) of ethanol, said Jose
Carramate, St. Louis-based Monsanto’s sugar cane leader.  Sweet sorghum, an 8-foot (2.4-meter) plant that resembles
sugar cane and may yield 80 percent as much fuel, may become an
alternative feedstock for Brazilian mills after a poor cane
harvest forced some plants to close this month, more than a
month early, for the annual inter-harvest break during the rainy
season.  “This year will be the magic year,” as mills put the crop
to the test, he said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We
could see 100,000 hectares planted next year at the very
least.”  Farmers will plant the sorghum in October on fallow land
and harvest it as early as February when early season cane has
low sucrose levels and produces little ethanol.  Monsanto is working with 20 mills, he said. The company
will either sell the seeds or furnish them for free and take a
cut of the profits, according to Carramate.  “This isn’t a replacement crop. It’s planted in addition
to cane,” on land that mills clear each year to renew their
plantations, he said.  Brazil  clears and replants about 1.7 million hectares of
cane plantations each year that may support sorghum crops during
the inter-harvest period, he said.  Low Costs  Crushing sorghum stems and processing the juice into
ethanol requires no modification to mills’ machinery, though
some farmers have had difficulty planting the small seeds, he
said. “The challenge here isn’t industrial but agronomic,” he
said.  Sweet sorghum may provide mills with an extra $5 million of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization a
year, Bill Burnquist, general manager of U.S. seed company Ceres
Inc.’s Brazil unit, said at a Sao Paulo conference Sept. 29.  Brazil, the world’s largest producer and exporter of sugar,
will grow 588.9 million tons of sugar cane this year, down from
last year’s 623.9 million tons, the country’s crop-forecasting
agency Conab said Sept. 5.  “This is a great opportunity for sweet sorghum to offset
part of the production gap,” Carramate said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  