-- 
Moody’s, S&P, Fitch Settle Connecticut Lawsuit Over Public Bond Ratings

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-10-14T19:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/moody-s-s-p-fitch-settle-connecticut-lawsuit-over-public-bond-ratings.html
Moody’s Investors Service Inc.,
 Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Inc. reached settlements resolving
claims by Connecticut that the credit rating companies unfairly
gave lower ratings to public bonds.  The companies will credit Connecticut about $900,000, which
will be used to offset the expense of obtaining future ratings
on the sales of state bonds, Attorney General George Jepsen said
today in a statement.  Connecticut sued Moody’s, S&P and Fitch, claiming that
because of deceptive practices by the companies, the state,
municipalities and school districts paid higher interest rates
than they should have on bonds they issued, and bought
unnecessary bond insurance.  “Moody’s is pleased to have reached an agreement with the
state of Connecticut to resolve this matter without costly and
protracted litigation,” said  Michael Adler , a spokesman for New
York-based Moody’s.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
Bill Lockyer, California’s treasurer, and other officials had
complained that the credit-rating companies systematically
graded municipal bonds lower than corporate bonds, forcing
government borrowers to pay higher interest rates.  Richard Blumenthal , then Connecticut’s attorney general and
now a U.S. senator, sued the ratings companies in July 2008,
calling the system “a secret Wall Street tax on Main Street.”  Same Scale  In March 2010, Moody’s said it would start rating state and
local government bonds on the same scale as corporate
securities. Fitch also recalibrated its grades for municipal
bonds.  “We are pleased to have reached an amicable resolution
with the state of Connecticut and look forward to rating the
state’s future bond offerings,”  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for
New York-based Standard & Poor’s, said in a statement.  Daniel Noonan , a Fitch spokesman, said in a statement that
the settlement “reflects our strong belief that Fitch’s ratings
were fair and transparent.” Fitch is a unit of Paris-based
 Fimalac (FIM)  SA.  Connecticut filed separate lawsuits against Moody’s and S&P
in March 2010 over alleged misrepresentations the companies made
about their analysis of structured-finance securities. Those
lawsuits are unaffected by the settlement and remain pending,
the attorney general said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  