-- 
China Stocks Fall After Inflation Report, Narrowing Week’s Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T08:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/most-china-stocks-fall-after-inflation-report-banks-decline.html
China ’s stocks fell, paring the
biggest weekly gain since August, after a report on inflation
signaled the government won’t loosen its tightening policies.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  led declines for property developers after
China’s consumer prices increased 6.1 percent in September from
a year earlier. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. and shipper China Cosco
Holdings Co. slumped at least 0.9 percent after UBS AG advised
investors avoid steel and shipping stocks. NARI Technology
Development Co. fell the most in a year after saying 30 million
shares will become tradable next week.  Chinese stocks “will be under great pressure this quarter,
as inflation is high and doesn’t provide much comfort for a
policy easing,” said Gao Ting, Beijing-based chief China
strategist at UBS, in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in
Shanghai. “Investors should stay cautious.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 7.4 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,431.38 at the close, narrowing this week’s gain to
3.1 percent. The CSI 300 Index fell 0.3 percent to 2,653.78.  The  Shanghai  Composite capped its best weekly rally since
the week ended Aug. 26 on government support measures. The State
Council announced this week easier access to loans for cash-
strapped smaller companies, while a unit of China’s sovereign
wealth fund began buying shares of the nation’s four biggest
lenders and Xinhua News Agency reported regulators approved
cross-border exchange-traded funds.  China’s consumer prices matched the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists and followed a 6.2
percent gain in August. Food prices rose 13.4 percent in
September, the same pace as in August, as pork costs jumped 44
percent, the report from the National Bureau of Statistics said.
The government’s full-year inflation target is 4 percent.  Inflation ‘Sticky’  Elevated inflation is limiting Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s room
for easing monetary policy as  Europe ’s debt crisis cuts demand
for exports and small businesses in China report a credit
squeeze. Growth in the world’s second-biggest economy is already
slipping, with analysts forecasting that data next week will
show a 9.3 percent expansion in the third quarter, down from 9.5
percent in the previous three months.  Gemdale slid 1.2 percent to 4.87 yuan. Shanghai Shimao Co.
sank 1.3 percent to 11.58 yuan. Conditions are not yet ripe for
China to relax its tightening policies on the  property market 
and some of the measures may be maintained as home sales in the
first half of the year were still “sound,” Wang Yulin, deputy
head of the policy research center at the Ministry of Housing
and Urban-Rural Development said in an interview in today’s
China Securities Journal.  Stocks Outlook  The Shanghai index has tumbled 13 percent this year,
driving down estimated price earnings to 11.2 times, compared
with the record low of 10.8 times set on Oct. 10, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China has raised  interest rates 
three times in 2011 and ordered lenders to set aside a bigger
portion of their deposits to curb inflation, running near a
three-year high.  The Shanghai measure may drop a further 10 percent from
current levels by the year end, according to UBS’ Gao. Investors
should avoid cyclical industries including construction
materials, steel, shipping and ports, he said.  PetroChina Co., the biggest  oil company , dropped 1 percent
to 9.89 yuan. Baoshan Steel, China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, lost 0.9 percent to 5.27 yuan. China Cosco Holdings
slumped 1.6 percent to 6.66 yuan.  NARI Technology plunged 7.5 percent to 31.82 yuan, the
biggest drop since Oct. 13, 2010. The company said 30 million
shares will become tradable on Oct. 21, which account for 2.87
percent of its total, according to a statement to the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange .  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 rose 4.8 percent
this week, led by a 13 percent rally for Haitong Securities Co.
Brokerages surged on the prospect of an earnings boost from
working on cross-border ETFs.  After the market close today, the People’s Bank of China
said China’s new local-currency lending was 470 billion yuan
last month and M2 money supply rose 13 percent. The M2 growth
figure was the lowest since February 2002, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  