-- 
Mountain West, Conference USA Form 22-Member College Football League

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-15T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/mountain-west-conference-usa-combine-22-football-programs-into-one-league.html
The Mountain West Conference and
Conference USA agreed in principle to combine their schools’
football programs into a 22-team association, the conferences
said yesterday on their websites.  The  Big East , meanwhile, will send out invitations as early
as next week to  Boise State University ,  Air Force  and Navy as
football-only members, and the University of  Central Florida  for
all sports, CBS Sports reported, citing industry officials.  The combined Mountain West-Conference USA program includes
schools in five time zones and 16 states.  “Rather than await changes in membership due to
realignment, it became clear the best way to serve our
institutions was to pursue an original concept,” Mountain West
Commissioner Craig Thompson said in a statement. “The creative
merger of our football assets firmly positions our respective
members for the future.”  Conference USA has current television partnerships with Fox
Sports and  CBS Sports , as well as ESPN for its championship
game, the schools said. The Mountain West has partnerships with
CBS Sports and Comcast/NBC Universal.  The Big East presidents and chancellors, meanwhile, are
meeting either tomorrow or Oct. 17 to approve an exit fee of at
least $10 million for football members, twice the current
amount, CBS Sports said.  The Big East will have 10 football schools if Boise State,
Air Force, Navy and Central Florida join and Texas Christian,
Pittsburgh and Syracuse defect, CBS Sports reported. The league
also is considering Houston, Southern Methodist and Temple for
membership, CBS Sports said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  