-- 
EPA Pollution Standards for U.S. Boilers Blocked in U.S. House

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/house-votes-to-delay-epa-pollution-regulations-for-boilers-1-.html
Limits on air pollution from U.S.
industrial boilers would be blocked and replacement standards
delayed under legislation passed by the Republican-led  House of
Representatives .  The measure was approved 275-142 yesterday as Republicans
push to curtail Environmental Protection Agency regulations they
say are harming the economy.  “We simply believe that this legislation is a common-sense
approach to protect jobs, revisit the rules and give industries
time to comply,” Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky
Republican, said before the vote.  President  Barack Obama ’s aides have said they would
recommend that he veto the bill if it reached his desk.  The House vote sends “a strong message of the importance
of providing EPA with additional time to issue achievable
standards,” Thomas Ryan, a spokesman for Memphis, Tennessee-
based  International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s largest paper and
pulp producer, said in an e-mail before the vote. A companion
 measure  in the Senate has 35 co-sponsors, and continues “to
gain momentum,” he said.  The EPA is preparing to issue a set of rules for boilers
aimed at cutting emissions of toxics such as mercury and soot.
The estimated cost of the regulation is $3 billion, according to
the White House.  The EPA’s efforts to cut pollution from boilers have been
opposed by paper processors such as International Paper and
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , as well as refiners, manufacturers and some
universities and hospitals. The legislation to block the rules
is backed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business
lobbying group, and the  American Petroleum Institute , whose
members include  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Court Order  The EPA issued boiler standards in February under court
order, and then pledged to reconsider them following criticism
by business groups. The revised EPA rules are scheduled to be
released before the end of this month and take effect in April.  A representative of boiler makers such as  Babcock & Wilcox
Co. (BWC)  and Cleaver-Brooks Inc. criticized Congress for stepping
ahead of the regulators.  “What the House is saying is that my industry doesn’t have
the know-how or talent to do the job,” W. Randall Rawson,
president of the American Boiler Manufacturers Association in
Vienna, Virginia, said in an interview.  After 10 years of delay, new EPA standards would spur sales
in the $3 billion to $5 billion-a-year boiler industry, he said.  15 Months  Under the legislation, the EPA would have 15 months to
rework the rules, and companies would have an additional five
years to comply. The  Clean Air Act  gives industry a three-year
compliance deadline.  Democrats said the House measure would squander the
potential for years of health benefits.  “We do not have to make the false choice between a healthy
economy and healthy environment,” Representative Gerald Connolly, a  Virginia  Democrat, said in debate before the vote.
“The consequence of acting on the false premise would be
catastrophic for health.”  The bill is H.R. 2250.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  