-- 
Perry Blames Obama for Energy Costs

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-14T18:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/perry-unveils-economic-plan-says-energy-search-will-create-jobs.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Perry  accused President  Barack Obama  of “intentionally”
pushing up oil and gas prices to “drive consumers to green
energy,” as the Texas governor called for opening up swaths of
Alaska and other areas to oil drilling.  “The quickest way to give our economy a shot in the arm is
to deploy the American ingenuity to tap American energy,” Perry
today said at U.S. Steel Corp.’s Mon Valley Works in West
Mifflin,  Pennsylvania , near Pittsburgh.  In his first major economic policy speech as a White House
candidate, he said expanding domestic energy exploration would
create 1.2 million jobs.  “My plan will break the grip of dependence that we have
today on foreign oil from hostile countries like  Venezuela  and
those unstable Middle Eastern countries,” Perry said. “It will
allow us to grow jobs and our economy.”  Perry, 61, who soon after entering the Republican
presidential race in August led in polls on the strength of his
job-creation record and his appeal to conservatives, now trails
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and businessman  Herman Cain . Perry is seeking to shore up his economic credentials and
standing with the party’s conservative wing.  ‘Kill Jobs’  Speaking in front of rolls of steel coil manufactured at
the plant and a giant American flag suspended from a crane,
Perry framed his candidacy as a choice between economic growth
and Obama’s policies.  “When it comes to energy, the president would kill
domestic jobs through aggressive regulations, while I would
create 1.2 million American jobs through safe and aggressive
energy exploration right here at home,” Perry said.  He said the Environmental Protection Agency has waged “a
war on American fossil fuel production.”  Perry would suspend and reconsider all new clean air
regulations, repeal the EPA’s authority over  greenhouse gases ,
and cut the agency’s budget by 60 percent, his campaign said in
a policy paper issued today. He also would limit the EPA’s
enforcement authority to “national or regional issues for which
the individual states seek arbitration or assistance,” the
policy paper said.  No Accident  High energy prices during the Obama administration are
“not an accident,” and instead are “intentional,” Perry said
in his speech.  Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  dismissed Perry’s
criticism as “doubling down on finite resources with no plan to
promote innovation or to transition the nation to a clean-energy
economy.”  The president’s strategy has “created hundreds of
thousands of jobs in the clean-energy sector,” and his securing
an agreement of fuel-economy standards will strengthen  energy
security , LaBolt said in an emailed statement.  During the Obama administration, imports of foreign oil
 declined  9 percent to 4.3 billion barrels in 2010 from 4.73
billion barrels in 2008.  U.S. oil  production  reached 5.47 million barrels a day in
2010, the highest level since 2003. Output from the  federal
waters  of the  Gulf of Mexico  rose to 1.56 million barrels a day
in 2009 from 1.15 million barrels in 2008. It was 1.55 million
barrels a day in 2010, when BP Plc’s Macondo well exploded in
the gulf. New drilling permits were temporarily suspended after
the explosion in April 2010.  Perry said he would create energy-related jobs by returning
drilling permits in the Gulf of Mexico to 2007 levels, expanding
exploration in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas off  Alaska , and
allowing drilling in Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.  Everglades Exempt  “Ecological treasures, like the Everglades or Yellowstone
National Park” would be kept off limits to oil exploration,”
Perry said. He said he’d respect states’ decisions not to drill
in certain areas, “but those instances are truly the
exception.”  Taking aim at Obama’s efforts to promote clean energy,
Perry said he would “level the competitive playing field among
all of the energy producers” by stopping subsidy checks to
“any and all sectors of the  energy industry ,” as well as
“industry-specific tax credits,” which he would phase out over
time.  In an  op-ed  in the New Hampshire Union Leader published on
Oct. 11, Perry said his plan would increase domestic oil
production by 25 percent.  Perry’s Appeal  Much of the recent private-sector growth in  Texas  was
generated by its energy industry and a boom in  oil prices .
Perry’s appeal as a candidate stressed the state’s job growth
during the recession and a philosophy of low taxes and
regulatory restraint.  While Perry has suffered from criticism of his performance
in televised debates and a backlash among social conservatives
against his support for allowing in-state tuition for children
of illegal immigrants living in Texas and a mandate he backed as
governor to vaccinate schoolgirls against the human
papillomavirus, he also has been eclipsed by Romney and Cain on
the economy.  Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents, 22
percent named Romney as the candidate who would most improve the
economy, followed by Cain at 20 percent in an Oct. 6-9
Bloomberg-Washington Post National poll. Perry was the choice of
12 percent on that question.  Romney was backed as the choice to be the party’s nominee
by 24 percent, with Cain second at 16 percent and Perry third at
13 percent. All other contenders were in single digits.  Cain’s Proposal  Cain has promoted a “9-9-9” plan that would replace the
tax structure with 9 percent flat business tax and individual
income tax rates and a 9 percent national sales tax. Romney, who
founded Boston-based private equity firm Bain Capital LLC, has
stressed his business background and offered a 59-point economic
program.  Perry has said that Cain’s plan would increase sales taxes
for states, making it difficult to gain passage.  “It sounds pretty cool to just say 9-9-9, but at the end
of the day it’s a really big tax increase,” he said in an
interview today on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “It’s going
to be tough sledding for 9-9-9.”  In the Bloomberg News/Washington Post Republican
presidential debate Oct. 11, Perry called for an “American
declaration of independence” on energy.  Fall Short  If Perry succeeded in increasing domestic oil production by
25 percent, the nation’s domestic supply still would fall far
short of liquid-fuel consumption, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg from projections by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  The EIA projects the U.S. would rely on imports for about
42 percent of its liquid-fuel consumption in 2035, down from
about 50 percent currently. The increase in domestic output
Perry envisions would leave the country importing 35 percent of
its needs in 2035, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some of the biggest financial backers of Perry’s
gubernatorial campaigns include executives and investors in
energy companies, according to Texans for Public Justice, an
Austin-based watchdog group.  The list includes executives of Belmont Oil and Gas Corp.
J. Ralph Ellis Jr., president of Belmont Oil and Gas Corp. in
Irving, Texas, and Joy Ellis, who gave $420,000 to Perry’s
gubernatorial campaigns; Paul Foster, chairman of El Paso,
Texas-based  Western Refining Inc. (WNR) , who gave $408,758, and  T. Boone Pickens , chairman of Dallas-based BP Capital LLC, who gave
$377,500.  Perry’s wife, Anita, said yesterday that her husband had
been “brutalized” in the press and by his Republican rivals
because of his Christian faith and status as the “only true
conservative” in the race, comments Perry told ABC’s “Good
Morning America” that he stood by.  “She’s right,” he said. “She’s hit me on my mark both
times there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania, at   mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington D.C. at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 