-- 
Philippines Buys Back $1.3 Billion Worth of Overseas Bonds

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-10-15T07:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/philippines-buys-back-1-3-billion-worth-of-overseas-bonds.html
The Philippines will spend about
$1.7 billion buying back $1.3 billion worth of foreign-currency
debt in its bid to better manage liabilities and win a higher
 credit rating .  The exercise was “in line with our on-going objective to
rebalance our debt portfolio in favor of local currency,”
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a statement today in
Manila. “This should be supportive of our effort to obtain
investment grade ratings.”  The $200 billion Asian economy is reducing its  budget
deficit , extending debt maturity and cutting its foreign-
currency risks to achieve a higher credit rating. The
administration of President  Benigno Aquino  had conducted bond
exchanges and sold peso-denominated bonds to overseas investors
since starting a six-year term in June 2010.  The government expects savings of around $165 million in
“net present value” from the buyback, Finance Undersecretary
Rosalia de Leon said today. Bonds due from 2013 to 2032 were
accepted for purchase by the government in a transaction to be
settled this month, according to the statement.  Of the $17 billion debt that qualified for repurchase,
about $2.2 billion of bonds were offered by investors, the
government said. The nation will use mostly internal funds for
the buyback, and the $1.7 billion figure includes accrued
interest along with the bonds’ original price, it said in the
statement.  “This exercise highlights our strong liquidity and prudent
debt management policy amid global volatility,” Treasurer
Roberto Tan said in the statement.  Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were the arrangers,
helped by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , HSBC Holdings Plc., Standard
Chartered Plc and UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  