-- 
Piraeus Says Increase in Greek Bond Losses Won’t Help Nation

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-10-14T14:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/piraeus-says-increase-in-greek-bond-losses-won-t-help-nation-1-.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  Chairman Michalis Sallas said increasing bondholders’ losses to 50 percent under a
voluntary swap of Greek debt would result in few savings and
force the government to resort to more international borrowing.  “The benefit would be about 20 billion euros ($28 billion)
to 25 billion euros and not 180 billion euros, which, either
from ignorance or partial information, many believe,” Sallas,
the head of the country’s fourth-biggest bank, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Sallas said Greek banks, pension funds and insurance
companies made up more than half the investors that had pledged
in July to take part in the swap, which proposed a 21 percent
writedown, and that had the most to lose from imposing stiffer
losses.  “ Greece  will be forced again to resort to European
countries and the IMF for loans to boost its social security
funds and recapitalize its banks,” Sallas said.  Piraeus Bank said Aug. 31 it wrote down the book value of
6.8 billion euros of bonds eligible for inclusion in the debt
swap that will help fund Greece until 2013. Piraeus, based in
Athens, also made provisions for 371 million euros of bad loans
as the economy shrank after wage and pension cuts implemented in
exchange for the first 110 billion-euro bailout in May 2010.  Sallas said the proposals for writedowns don’t relate to
official loans or bonds held by the  European Central Bank  and
also excludes as much as 45 billion euros in Greek bonds that
expire after 2020.  More Greek banks will need to use the Hellenic Financial
Stability Fund if the loss on their Greek government bond
holdings is more than 35 percent, Athens-based newspaper
Kathimerini reported today, citing unnamed fund officials.  A cut in the value of the banks’ government bond holdings
of 50 percent would result in almost all Greek lenders resorting
to the fund, following the example of Proton Bank, which was
restructured on Oct. 10 with the Financial Stability Fund as the
sole shareholder, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  