-- 
Pittsburgh Penguins’ Sidney Crosby Cleared to Practice With Full Contact

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-10-14T04:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/pittsburgh-penguins-sidney-crosby-cleared-to-practice-with-full-contact.html
Sidney Crosby , the Pittsburgh
Penguins’ captain and leading scorer from last season, has been
cleared to practice with full contact as he continues to recover
from post-concussion symptoms.  Crosby took part in contact drills with the Penguins
yesterday and discussed his condition with reporters after the
National Hockey League team’s practice.  “It’s full contact,” Crosby said on the NHL’s  website .
“It’s a good step in the right direction. It’s a big step.
We’ll see how it goes.”  Crosby has not been cleared to play in a game, he said.  “When you’ve waited this long, you just want to make sure
everything is right,” he said “It’s exciting. We just have to
wait to see how I respond to getting hit, I guess.”  Crosby, a 24-year-old center, is recovering from hard hits
in the team’s Jan. 1 Winter Classic outdoor game against the
 Washington Capitals  and a Jan. 5 game against the  Tampa Bay
Lightning . Team doctors have said Crosby won’t be cleared to
resume playing until he is 100 percent healthy.  After being cleared in July to resume workouts, Crosby
stopped skating in mid-August when the concussion symptoms
returned.  Crosby missed the final 41 games of last season due to the
injury. He registered 66 points in 41 games, setting an NHL
record for the fewest games played by a team’s leading scorer.  He was the first pick of the 2005 draft, and two years
later won the Hart Trophy as the NHL’s Most Valuable Player at
the age of 19, the youngest to get the honor. He also scored the
gold medal-winning goal at the 2010 Winter Olympics in
 Vancouver , lifting  Canada  over the U.S. in overtime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  