-- 
Port Authority Agrees to Rebuild Greek Orthodox Church Destroyed on 9/11

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-10-14T16:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/port-authority-agrees-to-rebuild-greek-orthodox-church-destroyed-on-9-11.html
The Port Authority of New York and
 New Jersey  and the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America agreed
to rebuild a lower  Manhattan  church destroyed in the Sept. 11,
2001 terrorist attacks, ending litigation over the site.  The agreement, signed today by the Port Authority, the
 Greek Orthodox Archdiocese  and St. Nicholas Parish, allows for
the rebuilding of St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox church at 130
Liberty St., the authority said in a statement.  Negotiations between the church and the authority broke
down in 2009 and the archdiocese sued in February in federal
court in Manhattan, accusing the bistate agency of reneging on
an agreement to rebuild.  A 4,100-square-foot church with a nondenominational
bereavement center that will serve as a “venue for interfaith
dialogue” will be constructed, the authority said. The  church 
was founded by Greek immigrants in 1916 and began services at
its location on Cedar Street in 1922.  The agreement is the result of a four-month independent
engineering study conducted as a result of settlement talks
between the authority and the archdiocese mediated by  New York 
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s office, the authority said.  Structural Issues  The study found that structural issues could be resolved
that would allow the church to be located on Liberty Street “at
significantly reduced cost” from the original agreement, which
called for the authority to give the church $20 million to
defray the cost of construction.  The church will exchange its land on Cedar Street for the
rights to the Liberty Street parcel, with no payments from the
authority, and the litigation will be terminated upon approval
of the agency’s board, the authority said.  The Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left with its press
office seeking comment on the agreement.  The case is Hellenic Eastern Orthodox Church of Saint
Nicholas of the Downtown Part of the City of New York v.  Port
Authority  of New York and New Jersey, 11-cv-0985, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 