-- 
Qualcomm Displaces Intel in IPhone Baseband Chips, IHS Says

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-14T20:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/qualcomm-displaces-intel-in-iphone-s-baseband-chips-ihs-says.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone chips, is displacing  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in the
latest version of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, according to IHS Inc.  Apple is using Qualcomm’s MDM6610 chip in its new iPhone
4S, IHS said in a preliminary report. Apple had previously used
baseband chips from Qualcomm and Infineon Technologies AG’s
wireless unit, which is now owned by Intel.  Apple will sell more than 100 million iPhones next year,
predicts Wayne Lam, an IHS analyst in El Segundo,  California .
Apple’s decision means that Qualcomm will be supplying the main
radio for more than 80 percent of those devices, he estimates.
Apple will continue to sell the older models at reduced prices,
and some of those will contain the Infineon-Intel chips.  The move represents a setback for Intel, which has
struggled to convert its personal-computer dominance into a
bigger role in mobile devices and electronics. Earlier this
week, Intel said it would be pulling back from an effort to get
its chips into televisions.  Baseband processors, which convert radio signals into sound
and data, are among the most expensive components. Qualcomm is
supplying Apple with a chip capable of working with the world’s
two dominant phone standards: the global system for mobile
communications and code division multiple access.  Claudine Mangano, an Intel spokeswoman, and Qualcomm’s
 Emily Kilpatrick  declined to calls seeking comment. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, also
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Intel Shares  Shares of Santa Clara, California-based Intel rose 11 cents
to $23.50. They have gained 12 percent this year. Qualcomm,
based in  San Diego , climbed $1.67 to $54.98, bringing this
year’s advance to 11 percent.  Intel bought Infineon’s wireless operations in January for
about $1.4 billion, giving it a foothold in the mobile-phone
business.  Apple is projected to sell as many as 4 million units of
its new iPhone 4S this weekend as customers around the world
clamor for the device. The phone has received mostly positive
reviews for its voice-recognition software, speedier processor
and improved camera.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  