-- 
Radium, Not Fukushima, Source of Western Tokyo Radiation Spike

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-10-14T06:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/radium-not-fukushima-source-of-western-tokyo-radiation-spike.html
Radioactive  radium-226  was the
source of a high radiation reading in  Tokyo ’s Setagaya district
yesterday, officials said, ruling out the possibility it may
have come from the crippled Fukushima nuclear reactors.  An investigation of a house near the contaminated area
turned up two boxes of bottles containing radium-226, Takao
Nakaya, head of the Science Ministry’s office of the radiation
regulation, said by phone today.  “The high readings have nothing to do with Fukushima,”
 Nakaya said .  Investigators found the radium under the floor of the house
in Tsurumaki 5-chome and readings suggested an elderly woman who
had been living there until February may have been exposed to
radiation 30-times safety levels, Nakaya said. The ministry is
investigating where the radium came from, according to another
ministry official Tomokazu Ueda.  The woman is about 90 and her daughter told officials
yesterday she had no knowledge of how the radium got under the
floorboards, said Nakaya. The elderly woman has an illness
unrelated to radiation and he declined to give more details
citing privacy laws.  Radium-226, which has a half-life of about 1600 years, is a
naturally-occuring radioactive metal and has uses in x-rays and
luminiscent paint, according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Long term exposure to radium increases the
risk of cancer, the agency said.  Setagaya ward , a mostly residential district with a
population of more than 840,000 people, is 233 kilometers (145
miles) from the Fukushima reactors leaking radiation.  Other Areas  Other areas in Tokyo and Yokohama have reported radiation
readings requiring further investigation, with most originating
from local residents using personal dosimeters.  Setagaya adjoins Ota ward where radiation levels exceeding
the ward’s own safety standard of 0.25 microsieverts per hour
were detected at 13 schools, according to the Ota ward board of
education.  In Yokohama, officials are testing samples in an area of
 Kohoku ward  after a resident removed sediment from an apartment
building roof that laboratory tests showed contained strontium
found in radioactive fallout.  “We received data from a resident about strontium and we
are carrying out an investigation in the neighborhood by picking
up samples for lab tests,” said Yokohama city official John
Kuramochi yesterday. He declined to confirm if the first lab
tests showed the sediment contained strontium 90.  Strontium 90  has a similar structure to calcium and tends
to accumulate in bone and can cause bone cancer and leukemia,
Hiroaki Koide, a nuclear physics scientist at  Kyoto University ,
said yesterday by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  