-- 
Rajaratnam, Goldman Sachs, Brocade, Amaranth in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-14T12:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/rajaratnam-goldman-sachs-brocade-amaranth-in-court-news.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder whom prosecutors called “the modern face of
illegal  insider trading ,” was sentenced to 11 years in prison,
one of the longest terms ever for insider trading, though less
than half of the maximum sought by the government.  Rajaratnam, 54, is the central figure in what U.S.
investigators called the largest hedge fund insider trading case
in U.S. history. The probe, which leveraged the widespread use
of FBI wiretaps for the first time in such an inquiry, led to
convictions of more than two dozen people.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell sentenced Rajaratnam
yesterday. Holwell, who agreed with prosecutors that Rajaratnam
led the scheme and that he obstructed a Securities and Exchange
Commission probe, pointed to Rajaratnam’s philanthropy and
health in giving him less time than prosecutors had sought.
According to filings unsealed yesterday, Rajaratnam suffered a
“severe cryptogenic stroke” in 2007, and, also has kidney
disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and
sleep apnea.  “This is a lighter sentence than anticipated,” said
 Anthony Sabino , a professor at St. John’s University in  New
York , pointing to the U.S. request for as many as 24 1/2 years.
Sabino said the judge still sent a message with the 11-year
term. “Holwell is clearly achieving a crucial goal here, that
is, telling  Wall Street  that this kind of criminality will not
be tolerated, and will be severely punished.”  Holwell denied Rajaratnam’s request to remain free on bail
while he appeals his conviction, and told him to surrender on
Nov. 28. The judge said he would recommend sending him to the
medical center at the federal correctional complex in Butner,
North Carolina.  Bernard Madoff , the convicted Ponzi scheme
mastermind, is serving a 150-year term at the facility.  The judge also ordered Rajaratnam to forfeit $53.8 million
and sentenced him to two years of supervised release after his
prison term is up. Prosecutors said he made more than $72
million by using illegal tips to trade in stocks of companies
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
ATI Technologies Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Rajaratnam said nothing to reporters as he left the
courthouse and got into a black sport-utility vehicle.  There is no parole in the federal prison system.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here. To see a list of previous sentences
tied to the nationwide insider-trading probe, please click here.  Lawsuit News  Goldman Sachs Investor Lawsuit Over Pay Plan Dismissed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. persuaded a judge to throw out
shareholders’ claims that the investment bank’s compensation
system improperly rewarded employees for taking risks that hurt
the firm’s stock price.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock concluded Oct.
12 that Goldman Sachs’s board acted properly in setting up a pay
plan for the fifth-biggest U.S. bank. The judge dismissed a
consolidated investor lawsuit claiming the plan wrongly awarded
billions of dollars in bonuses to executives and employees,
including Chairman  Lloyd Blankfein , even as the firm’s market
value declined by $50 billion since 1999.  Delaware law “provides corporate directors and officers
with broad discretion to act as they find appropriate in the
conduct of corporate affairs” and “in the exercise of their
business judgment on behalf of the corporation,” Glasscock
wrote in a 67-page opinion.  Goldman Sachs, which set a Wall Street pay record in 2007,
faced criticism from politicians and labor unions for its
compensation practices after getting taxpayer aid during the
financial crisis.  Lawyers for the  Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority , the operator of Philadelphia’s bus and rail network
and a Goldman Sachs shareholder, argued that the firm’s board
should be held accountable for not properly overseeing the
compensation system and employees’ wrongful conduct.  Septa’s lawyers said in court filings that Goldman Sachs
officials received billions of dollars in pay and bonuses last
year, while the firm settled U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that executives misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.  Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million, the largest
penalty ever levied by the SEC against a Wall Street firm, to
resolve claims that marketing materials about the investments
had “incomplete information.” The bank didn’t admit wrongdoing
as part of the accord.  Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the Delaware ruling.  The Delaware case is In re the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Shareholder Litigation, CA5215, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Stanford Judge Says Receiver May Need to Wind Down Search  R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed receiver may need to
stop searching for a secret “pot of gold” and pay defrauded
investors from the assets he has recovered so far, the judge
overseeing the case said.  “I’m concerned the receiver is expending resources that
could otherwise be distributed to investors trying to track down
missing resources,” U.S. District Judge David Godbey said
during a court hearing yesterday in Dallas for dozens of
Stanford-related civil cases.  Stanford, 61, was sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in February 2009 on claims he swindled investors of
more than $7 billion through allegedly bogus certificates of
deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  “If we knew where it was and were able to go get it, we
would’ve,” SEC attorney David Reece told Godbey, referring to
Stanford’s missing billions.  “When the U.S. Justice Department has already checked and
there’s no pot of gold, then the receiver can stand down,”
Godbey told lawyers for the receiver and investors.  Godbey told lawyers in Dallas yesterday he’s concerned that
receiver Ralph Janvey is duplicating efforts by U.S.
prosecutors, who are also tracking Stanford’s assets overseas.
The Justice Department has won administrative freezes on more
than $300 million in Stanford-related bank accounts in
Switzerland and the U.K. These accounts are beyond Janvey’s
control and may represent the receivership’s largest category of
recoverable assets, according to court filings.  The Stanford receivership has about $100 million in
unrestricted cash on hand, Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s lead lawyer,
told Godbey yesterday.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials and Appeals  Ex-Brocade Chief Reyes Conviction for Backdating Upheld  Greg Reyes, the former chief executive officer of  Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) , lost a bid to reverse his
conviction for backdating employee stock-option grants and
hiding the practice from auditors and investors.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco yesterday upheld
the 18-month prison sentence and $15 million fine imposed after
his second criminal trial. Reyes’s first conviction was thrown
out by the same appeals court in 2009 because of prosecutorial
misconduct.  The three-judge appeals panel said that it found no
misconduct in the second trial and that there was sufficient
evidence that the backdating was material to investors. Reyes,
49, argued that prosecutors falsely alleged that he granted
himself backdated stock options and made other mistakes at
trial.  Seth Waxman, Reyes’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment on the ruling.  In 2007, Reyes was the first chief executive convicted by a
jury in a broad government crackdown on options backdating.
Hiding the backdated stock grants inflated the San Jose,
California-based company’s shares because the costs associated
with the grants weren’t reported to shareholders or regulators,
prosecutors said.  Brocade investors lost as much as $197.8 million in 2005
when they sold shares that had fallen in value after the
practice was uncovered and the company restated financial
results, prosecutors said in court filings. The company paid a
$7 million fine to resolve a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit over backdating and $160 million to settle
securities-fraud claims by shareholders.  Reyes was ousted from Brocade, a maker of switches for
data-storage systems, in 2005.  The case is U.S. v. Reyes, 10-10323, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  Lehman, Nortel Lose Appeal Over $3.5 Billion Pension Shortfall  The administrators of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
Nortel Networks Corp. lost a bid to overturn a court order
forcing them to pay 2.25 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) into
underfunded pensions plans.  A  London  appeals court ruled in favor of the U.K. Pensions
Regulator, which is seeking 148 million pounds from Lehman and
2.1 billion pounds from Nortel to meet the shortfall. The case
hinged on whether employee pensions take priority over creditors
when a company collapses into administration.  “It would be extraordinary if the onset of insolvency were
to thwart a process already under way, or even only
contemplated, on the part of the Pensions Regulator,” Justice
Timothy Lloyd said today.  Lehman filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008, and the U.K. unit is being liquidated in London.
Nortel and affiliates filed for bankruptcy in the U.S. and
 Canada  in January 2009 while its U.K. operations were placed in
administration.  In a December ruling appealed by the companies, Judge
Michael Briggs said Lehman and Nortel’s administrators would
have to find money to ensure they could meet their obligations
to a combined 43,000 members of their pension plans.  The ruling is likely to be appealed to the U.K. Supreme
Court, said Nick Moser, an insolvency lawyer in the London
office of Taylor Wessing LLP.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts and Settlements  Pinault’s Artemis to Settle AIG Suit for $62.5 Million  French billionaire Francois Pinault’s holding company
Artemis SA agreed to pay  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
SunAmerica unit $62.5 million to settle a lawsuit over an
investment in a  California  insurer.  AIG Retirement Services, as SunAmerica is now known, and
Artemis on Oct. 12 filed a request for U.S. District Judge John
Walter in Los Angeles to approve the settlement, The other
defendants in the case, Credit Lyonnais SA and MAAF Assurances
SA, already settled with AIG.  With the Artemis settlement, AIG’s total recovery from the
lawsuit is $236.5 million.  “We’re very pleased to have resolved this matter
amicably,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said
yesterday in a phone interview. The case was scheduled for trial
Oct. 18.  The AIG unit sued a group of French companies including
Artemis in 2005, alleging that it was defrauded when it bought a
33 percent stake in New California Holdings Inc. because it
didn’t know that the French owners, a group led by MAAF
Assurances, were a front for Credit Lyonnais. At the time, the
French bank couldn’t own an insurer under U.S. law.  Pinault’s holding company, whose other investments include
auction house Christie’s International and retailer and luxury-
goods maker PPR SA, is still a defendant in a lawsuit by the
California Insurance Commissioner over the company’s role in the
Executive Life transactions.  Alan Salpeter, a lawyer representing Artemis, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the AIG settlement.  The case is AIG Retirement Services v. Altus Finance,
05-1035, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  Amaranth Reaches Settlement in Natural Gas Class Action  Amaranth Advisors LLC, the hedge fund that collapsed in
2006 after losing $6.6 billion on natural gas trades,
tentatively settled a class-action lawsuit in which it was
accused of market manipulation.  U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin in Manhattan said
in an order Oct. 5 that the parties in the case had reached an
agreement. In August 2009, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission announced that Greenwich, Connecticut-based Amaranth
paid $7.5 million to settle allegations that the hedge fund
tried to manipulate natural gas futures three years earlier.  In April, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission issued a
$30 million civil penalty against Amaranth trader Brian Hunter,
who was accused of manipulating the natural gas market in 2006.  Hunter’s attorney,  Michael Kim , didn’t return calls seeking
comment. Chris Lovell, an attorney for the plaintiffs at Lovell
Stewart Halebian LLP in New York, and Stephen Senderowitz, a
lawyer for Amaranth at Winston & Strawn LLP in  Chicago , declined
to comment. A hearing in the case is scheduled for Nov. 30.  The case is In Re Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities
Litigation, 07-06377, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan.)  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Noven Files Patent Suit Against Watson Over Daytrana Copy  Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co.’s Noven Pharmaceuticals unit
sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  to prevent it from selling a
generic version of Daytrana, a skin patch for children with
attention deficit disorder.  Watson is seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval to sell a copy of Daytrana, according to the complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey . Miami-
based Noven said the Watson version would infringe two patents
and seeks a court order to prevent sales until the patents
expire in 2018.  Under federal drug law, the filing of the lawsuit prevents
the FDA from granting Watson final approval for 30 months unless
a court rules in the generic-drug maker’s favor before then.  “We are challenging the patents on the product,” said
Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, in a phone interview. He declined to comment further.  The case is Noven Pharmaceuticals v. Watson Laboratories,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Law Firm News  Clifford Chance Boosts New York Practice With Three Hires  Clifford Chance LLP hired former Nixon Peabody partner
Edward O’Callaghan and former prosecutors David Raskin and
Christopher Morvillo in New York.  The moves will help Clifford Chance strengthen its white
collar criminal defense, regulatory enforcement and government
investigations group, the firm said yesterday in a statement.  “It’s a rare occurrence when three litigators the caliber
of David, Chris and Ed agree to move from different
organizations to form, and join, a terrific team,” David
DiBari, head of Clifford Chance’s U.S. Litigation & Dispute
Resolution practice, said in the statement.  All three new hires are former federal prosecutors.
O’Callaghan, 42, led Nixon Peabody’s government investigations
and white-collar defense group. Morvillo, 47, is a partner at
the New York white-collar firm Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand,
Iason, Anello & Bohrer and the son of name partner Robert
Morvillo. Raskin, 47, joins Clifford from the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Manhattan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 