-- 
Rajaratnam Sentence, ICE Access Fee, Natixis Fined, Volcker: Compliane

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-14T13:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/rajaratnam-sentence-ice-access-fee-natixis-fined-compliance.html
Raj Rajaratnam , the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder whom prosecutors called “the modern face of
illegal insider trading,” was sentenced to 11 years in prison,
one of the longest terms ever for insider trading, though less
than half of the maximum sought by the government.  Rajaratnam, 54, is the central figure in what U.S.
investigators called the largest hedge fund insider trader case
in U.S. history. The probe, which leveraged the widespread use
of FBI wiretaps for the first time in such an inquiry, led to
convictions of more than two dozen people. Prosecutors said he
made more than $72 million by using illegal tips to trade in
stocks of companies including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell sentenced Rajaratnam
yesterday before a packed courtroom in lower Manhattan, saying
his term was enhanced because of his leadership role in the
scheme and obstruction of a related Securities and Exchange
Commission probe. Holwell also noted that he received more than
200 letters on the fund manager’s behalf, and that Rajaratnam,
who declined to speak, suffers from diabetes and needs a kidney
transplant.  Holwell denied Rajaratnam’s request to remain free on bail
while he appeals his conviction, and told him to report to the
medical center at the federal correctional complex in Butner,
North Carolina, in 45 days.  The Galleon case helped trigger two other overlapping
insider-trading investigations that relied heavily on wiretaps,
a tool more commonly used to probe organized crime. A federal
jury in Manhattan convicted Rajaratnam on May 11 of all 14
counts of securities fraud and conspiracy against him following
a two-month trial.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  German Banks Said to Prepare for Up to 60% Loss on Greek Debt  German banks are preparing for losses of as much as 60
percent on their Greek government debt holdings as European
officials push for more private-investor involvement in a rescue
of the debt-stricken country, said three people with knowledge
of the matter.  The country’s banks held a conference call this week and
participants discussed the potential for losses on Greek bonds
of between 50 percent and 60 percent, though no final figure has
been set, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann,
who led talks in July when  Europe ’s banks and insurers agreed to
a voluntary loss of about 21 percent, said he will go to
Brussels next week to discuss the potential for a bigger
reduction. Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group
of euro-area finance ministers, said separately that talks are
under way with the Washington-based Institute of International
Finance, which Ackermann chairs, on the cost to investors of a
second bailout package for  Greece .  Separately, European banks are “deeply concerned” by
plans to bring forward the implementation of the Basel III
capital levels to 2012 from 2015, according to lobbyists at the
European Banking Federation.  While banks will continue to take the necessary steps to
build up more reserves, they are concerned about finding
additional funds on the open market in a climate of decreasing
profitability, the Brussels-based group said in a statement
yesterday.  For more, click here and click here. see EXT4, for more on
the euro-area financial crisis.  EU Resumes Talks Oct. 18 on Short-Selling, Sovereign CDS Rules  European Union lawmakers and government officials will
continue talks on Oct. 18 aimed at reaching a deal on possible
rules for short-selling and sovereign credit-default swaps, the
 European Parliament ’s press service said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Compliance Action  ICE Proposes New York Floor-Access Fee as Trading Moves Online  ICE Futures U.S. proposed that individual members pay a fee
of $3,000 for the first half of 2012 to use the New York
options-trading floor for contracts including sugar and coffee.  ICE noted in a  letter  dated yesterday to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission that as electronic trading of
exchange options contracts continues to increase in both
absolute terms and as a share of total options volume, “we
anticipate a further decline in the number of brokers and locals
on the trading floor.”  ICE is part of Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
Options for sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton and orange juice change
hands in New York via open outcry in a trading pit. Futures pits
were shut in early 2008, and those contracts trade only
electronically.  The exchange proposed rebates, linked to trading volume,
for as much as the full access fee. The cost for the second half
of 2012 will be determined at least 60 days before the start of
the period, according to the letter.  Natixis, Employees Fined 355,000 Euros by French Watchdog  Natixis SA, BPCE SA’s investment banking unit, and three
employees were fined a total of 355,000 euros ($487,300) by
France’s financial markets regulator for violations at the now-
shuttered  Natixis (KN)  Securities brokerage unit.  Natixis was fined 250,000 euros and the employees were each
fined 35,000 euros, the Autorite des Marches Financiers said
yesterday in a  decision  posted on its website.  The fine concerns “isolated and old” actions, said
Victoria Eideliman, a spokeswoman for Natixis. “We are studying
the decision and reserve the right to appeal.”  U.S. Consumer Bureau Outlines Mortgage Servicer Supervision  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will make
mortgage servicing a priority as it begins supervision of the
nation’s largest banks, Raj Date, special adviser to the
Treasury Secretary for the consumer bureau, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The bureau’s supervisory program will focus initially on
loans that are in default and homeowners who are struggling to
make payments, the bureau said in the statement.  For example, the bureau will examine loan modification
procedures to ensure that servicers are providing accurate
information about alternatives to foreclosure, and will
scrutinize the foreclosure process, the statement said. It will
also look carefully at the fees charged to defaulting borrowers,
according to the statement.  The consumer agency, which was created by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory law of 2010, made the announcement as it also
released the  first edition of its examination manual , the
document that tells bureau employees and the banks how it will
conduct its oversight.  On July 21, the new agency officially took over banking
supervision for consumer issues. Its authority is limited to
those U.S. banks, currently 105, that have more than $10 billion
in assets.  Mortgage Probe Short of Results With States Divided After Year  A year after the start of a nationwide investigation of
foreclosure practices, state and federal negotiators haven’t
settled with banks and face infighting that may leave some
states outside any agreement.  A year ago yesterday, all 50 state attorneys general
announced they were investigating the foreclosure procedures of
banks following reports they were using faulty documents to
seize homes and possibly violating state laws.  The effort, since broadened to force banks to provide
mortgage relief for homeowners, hasn’t resulted in a deal.
States, meanwhile, are fighting among themselves. The biggest,
 California , walked away from the talks, possibly putting a
nationwide agreement out of reach.  The investigation was triggered by the disclosure of so-
called robosigning, in which foreclosure documents were
processed without proper verification. Banks said they were
suspending foreclosure actions across the country to review
their procedures.  While the investigation continues, bank shares have
declined in value and homeowners have complained of difficulty
in obtaining loan modifications.  For more, click here.  Zynga Chooses Nasdaq Over NYSE for Social-Game Company’s IPO  Zynga Inc., the online-game developer founded in 2007 that
is planning an initial public offering, filed to list its shares
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Zynga applied to list its stock under the symbol ZNGA,
according to a filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Zynga said in July it would seek to raise
$1 billion in an IPO.  By listing on the Nasdaq, the gaming startup bucks a recent
trend of young Internet companies listing on the New York Stock
Exchange. The Nasdaq has traditionally had an edge with
technology companies.  Earlier this week, Zynga announced a new service, called
Project Z, geared toward reducing its dependence on users of
Facebook Inc.’s social network.  EU Says EBA Intends to Complete Bank Reassessment by Ecofin  The European Banking Authority intends to complete an
assessment of the region’s capital needs in time for a meeting
of European Union finance ministers next week, said  Jonathan
Todd , a spokesman for the European Commission.  “The EBA’s intention is to finalize their reassessment in
time for that” meeting, Todd told reporters in Brussels.  SEC Faults Direct Edge For Weak Controls That Caused Losses  Direct Edge Holdings LLC and two electronic exchanges it
operates were faulted by U.S. regulators for having weak
controls that led to about $2.8 million in trading losses and a
systems outage.  In November 2010, an untested change to a computer code
caused the EDGA and EDGX exchanges to execute more orders from
three members than what they wanted, totaling about $773 million
in unwanted trades, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
in an administrative order yesterday.  While Direct Edge and the exchanges returned $2.1 million
in customer losses, they were faulted for having done so in
violation of rules prohibiting exchanges from trading their own
capital. The firms, which didn’t pay any fines, agreed to
implement new risk-management policies and train employees about
securities laws.  In a second instance in April, a mistake from an
administrator, who had inappropriate access according to the
SEC, shut down connections to an EDGX database. That resulted in
stopping orders and forcing the use of the “self-help” rule by
other trading centers, bypassing the exchange.  The exchange reimbursed about $668,000 in customer losses
resulting from the second instance.  In settling the matter, Direct Edge and the exchanges
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  “Several months ago, we developed a comprehensive plan to
ensure the fulfillment of our obligations in a sustainable,
repeatable and demonstrable way,” Direct Edge said in a
statement. “We have vigorously executed this plan, with
significant investments made to enhance our technology,
personnel and processes.”  Courts  Lehman, Nortel Lose Appeal Over $3.5 Billion Pension Shortfall  The administrators of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and
 Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  lost a bid to overturn a court order
forcing them to pay 2.25 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) into
underfunded pensions plans.  A  London  appeals court ruled in favor of the U.K. Pensions
Regulator, which is seeking 148 million pounds from Lehman and
2.1 billion pounds from Nortel to meet the shortfall. The case
hinged on whether employee pensions take priority over creditors
when a company collapses into administration.  “It would be extraordinary if the onset of insolvency were
to thwart a process already under way, or even only
contemplated, on the part of the Pensions Regulator,” Justice
Timothy Lloyd said today.  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in September 2008, and the U.K. unit is being liquidated
in London. Nortel and affiliates filed for bankruptcy in the
U.S. and Canada in January 2009 while its U.K. operations were
placed in administration.  Today’s ruling is likely to be appealed to the U.K. Supreme
Court, said Nick Moser, an insolvency lawyer at Taylor Wessing
LLP.  Former Citadel Employee Charged With Trade-Secret Theft  Yihao “Ben” Pu, 24, a former Citadel LLC employee, was
arrested yesterday and charged with stealing trade secrets from
the Chicago-based investment firm, according to a statement by
U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in  Chicago .  Citadel hired Pu last year to help develop proprietary-
trading strategies for the $11 billion hedge fund. Citadel
officials allegedly discovered Pu copying company data onto a
removable storage device, according to the U.S.  Fitzgerald, citing evidence recovered in the investigation,
said Pu was “attempting to construct a trading strategy similar
to the one used by Citadel.”  Citadel sued Pu in Illinois state court in August.  Pu is being held in federal custody while awaiting a
detention hearing scheduled for today, according to prosecutors.  Robert Greenspoon, the attorney representing Pu in the
civil suit, yesterday declined to comment on the criminal
allegations. Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined
to comment on the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Pu, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The civil case is
Citadel LLC v. Pu, 11CH30493, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit
Court, Chancery Division (Chicago).  Interviews/Speeches  Volcker Rule May Mostly ‘Go Up in Smoke,’ Levitt Says  The Volcker rule, which would bar banks from trading for
their own accounts, is likely to be postponed and weakened amid
lobbyists’ resistance, said former Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt, who advises  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   Wall Street “will be doing all it can to delay this until
they hope there’s a Republican president and a Republican
Senate,” Levitt said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “This is going
to be a long slog, and much of that rule that you see today is
going to go up in smoke.”  Levitt, a Democrat appointed to the SEC by former President
Bill Clinton, is also on the board of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News.  Berenzweig Says Rajaratnam Case to Influence Compliance  Seth Berenzweig, managing partner at  Berenzweig Leonard ,
talked about Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s 11-
year prison sentence, the outlook for more insider-trading
investigations by the government and the impact of the case on
corporate compliance policies.  Berenzweig spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart.”  For the video, click here.  Smith Says Rajaratnam ‘Caught a Break’ With Sentence  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney  Jeffrey Smith  and  Andrew
Stoltmann , a Chicago lawyer who represents investors in
securities litigation, talked about Raj Rajaratnam’s prison
sentence.  The Galleon Group LLC co-founder, whom prosecutors called
the modern face of illegal insider trading,’’ was sentenced to
11 years in prison, one of the longest terms ever for insider
trading. Smith and Stoltmann talked with Mark Crumpton on
Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 