-- 
Rajaratnam May Join Madoff, Blind Sheikh in ‘Crown Jewel’ Prison

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/rajaratnam-may-join-madoff-rigas-and-blind-sheikh-at-crown-jewel-prison.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund
manager given the longest sentence for  insider trading , may
serve that time at a North Carolina prison whose inmates include
Ponzi scheme mastermind  Bernard Madoff , corporate looter John Rigas and terrorist leader Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who imposed the 11-
year sentence Oct. 13 in Manhattan federal court, said he would
recommend that the Galleon Group LLC co-founder be sent to the
federal medical center in Butner, North Carolina, because of
Rajaratnam’s health problems, which include diabetes.  “It’s the crown jewel of the federal prison system,” said
Alan Ellis, a former president of the National Association of
Criminal Defense Lawyers and an expert on sentencing and
prisons. “It’s a very well-run facility.”  The 5,045 inmates at the Butner prison complex, north of
Raleigh in eastern  North Carolina , also include Samuel  Israel ,
the Bayou Group LLC hedge fund co-founder who directed a $400
million fraud, and  Timothy Rigas , son of the Adelphia
Communications Corp. founder John Rigas and a participant in the
fraud that destroyed their company.  Central Figure  Rajaratnam is the central figure in what U.S. investigators
called the largest hedge fund insider-trading case in U.S.
history. The probe, which leveraged the widespread use of FBI
wiretaps for the first time in such an inquiry, led to
convictions of more than two dozen people.  Prosecutors said the hedge fund manager made more than $72
million by using illegal tips to trade in stocks of companies
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
ATI Technologies Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Holwell denied a request by Rajaratnam’s lawyers that the
defendant remain free while appealing his conviction. Samidh
Guha, one of Rajaratnam’s lawyers, said the defense would
challenge the use of wiretaps in the case.  The choice of prison may be critical for Rajaratnam, 54,
who, in addition to advanced diabetes, faces  kidney failure  and
the necessity of transplant surgery, according to Holwell.  “Based on the information that we have provided there are
serious doubts as to whether the Bureau of Prisons can provide
the care that he needs,” Terence Lynam, a lawyer for
Rajaratnam, told Holwell at the sentencing hearing. “Any
lengthy term of imprisonment will surely shorten his life.”  Type II Diabetes  Information filed by Rajaratnam’s lawyers and unsealed by
Holwell on Oct. 13 shows Rajaratnam was diagnosed with Type II
diabetes in 1992 and has relied on insulin since 2003. He also
suffers from high  blood pressure , high cholesterol and sleep
apnea, according to the filing.  “His diabetes remains under poor control,” Phillip Wise,
a former warden at federal prison facilities in  Minnesota  and
 West Virginia , said in the July court filing. “As a result he
has suffered diabetic nerve damage, diabetic eye damage,
advanced diabetic kidney damage and chronic anemia.”  In 2007, Rajaratnam suffered a “severe cryptogenic
stroke,” or a stroke of undetermined cause, Wise said. He will
soon need dialysis and his doctors have begun the process of
obtaining a kidney transplant.  Rajaratnam has been hospitalized several times this year,
Holwell said at the Oct. 13 sentencing. In May, he missed part
of jury deliberations in his trial because he required emergency
foot surgery to treat a bacterial infection, his lawyers said at
the time.  No Guarantee  Holwell’s recommendation doesn’t guarantee Rajaratnam will
be sent to Butner. While U.S. prison officials frequently honor
a judge’s request to assign an inmate to a particular prison,
Rajaratnam’s selection will go before a Bureau of Prisons
medical review panel in  Washington . The panel will evaluate his
condition before deciding whether to assign him to one of the
few spots available in prison medical centers, Ellis said.  “They really don’t pay much attention to the
recommendation in my experience,” he said.  Butner includes one of the four federal medical centers
that provide care to male inmates. Butner also includes one low-
security and two medium-security prisons, and a minimum-security
prison camp, according to the Bureau of Prisons. The  medical
facility  is a full-service hospital, equipped to provide
 emergency services , surgery, psychiatric care and cancer
treatment.  Fellow Fraudsters, Terrorist  If Rajaratnam were assigned to Butner, he would be in the
company of fellow fraudsters like Madoff and Rigas, as well as
one of the spiritual architects of the first World Trade Center
attack.  Omar Abdel Rahman was convicted in 1995 of inciting
followers to carry out the 1993 bombing of the complex’s parking
garage. His lack of sight earned him the nickname “blind
Sheikh.” Rahman is assigned to the Butner medical center for
treatment of his diabetes and heart problems.  Madoff, serving a 150-year term at Butner for perpetrating
the largest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history, was transferred to the
medical unit for about 10 days in 2009 for treatment of
hypertension.  John Rigas, who has had  heart disease  and bladder cancer,
is assigned to Butner’s low security prison. At his sentencing
in 2005, U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand in Manhattan said he
could be freed if doctors determined he had less than three
months to live.  Genovese Family Boss  Butner was also home to Vincent “Chin” Gigante, the head
of the Genovese organized crime family in  New York . He was known
for attempting to avoid prosecution by feigning insanity as he
wandered the streets of Manhattan’s Greenwich Village and talked
to himself. Gigante died in the Bureau of Prisons’ Springfield,
Missouri, medical center in 2005.  In Rajaratnam’s case, Holwell unsealed a declaration by
Sandra Howard, clinical director at the federal medical center
in Devens,  Massachusetts , that was filed by the government last
month. According to the filing, the Devens facility has the
capacity to provide dialysis to 125 inmates. Since 2004, 15
inmates have received kidney transplants at Devens, Howard said.  Another 31 inmates had transplants before being imprisoned.
Once the Bureau of Prisons approves an inmate for transplant, he
may be placed on a national organ donor list, on the same
footing as other candidates, Howard said.  Unapproved Drugs  “Rajaratnam has medical conditions that are managed
routinely by the Federal Bureau of Prisons at major medical
centers such as FMC Devens and does not appear to have any
issues that are not commonly dealt with on a daily basis at FMC
Devens,” Howard said in the declaration.  Wise, the former warden, responded in a Sept. 22 letter to
Holwell, also unsealed on Oct. 13, saying Rajaratnam requires
two forms of insulin and a stroke-prevention drug, none of which
is on the Bureau of Prisons’ list of approved drugs.  “Howard’s declaration does not explain whether, or how
many times, inmates have died in BOP custody while receiving
dialysis,” Wise said in the letter. “It also gives no
indication of whether or not a deceased inmate was considered
and rejected by BOP for a transplant.”  As many as half of all adults with diabetes develop
advanced kidney failure that requires dialysis, said Vincent
Canzanello, director of the diabetic nephropathy clinic at the
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.  The five-year survival rate for diabetics getting dialysis
is 30 percent, worse than most cancer diagnoses, said
Canzanello, who hasn’t treated Rajaratnam and said he couldn’t
speak specifically about his condition. After a kidney
transplant, the five-year survival rate increases to 75 percent,
he said.  “They are often in and out of hospitals, with heart
attacks and angina,” Canzanello said in a telephone interview.
“Diabetics are one of the most intense groups to care for.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  