-- 
Rand Gains as G-20 Debt Talks Spur Demand for High-Yield Assets

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-10-14T14:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/rand-gains-as-commodities-jump-on-chinese-inflation-stockpiles.html
The rand advanced, set for its best
weekly gain since July, as prospects the Group of 20 will
increase funding to stem Europe’s debt crisis improved investor
appetite for  South Africa ’s higher-yielding stocks and bonds.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy climbed 0.6
percent to 7.8527 per dollar by 4:09 p.m. in Johannesburg from
yesterday’s London close of 7.8968, taking its gain this week to
1.9 percent, the most since the five days ending July 1. The
rand has appreciated 3.1 percent this month, paring a 16 percent
slump in the third quarter, the most out of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg after  Brazil ’s real.  Foreign investors have bought a net 5.9 billion rand ($753
million) of South African stocks and bonds since Oct. 1,
according to the JSE Ltd., reversing an outflow of 28 billion
rand in September, when the rand weakened 14 percent. G-20
policy makers are discussing boosting the International Monetary
Fund’s lending resources, according to three officials, who
declined to be named as the talks aren’t public.  “As the overall risk of exposure to the  euro zone 
dissipates, a general reduction in  risk aversion  will stand
emerging-market currencies in good stead,” Tradition Analytics
strategists led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote
in a research note. “Portfolio flows play a massive role in the
performance of the rand and any signs that these flows are
returning would be significant in helping the local unit stage a
meaningful recovery.”  Spain  Cut  Trade in the rand is likely to remain volatile after
Spain’s credit rating was cut for the third time in three years
by  Standard & Poor’s  and ahead of today’s meeting of G-20
finance ministers in Paris, John Cairns and Nema Ramkhelawan-
Bhana, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in a research note.  “The short-term risks to the dollar-rand are to the
topside but once stress eases, the rand can claw back its
losses,” they wrote.  The rand stayed stronger after U.S. retail sales rose more
than forecast in September, easing concern the world’s biggest
economy is stalling.  South African bonds rose on speculation the stronger rand
will give the central bank room to cut  interest rates  to bolster
growth, even as consumer prices rise. The yield on the 13.5
percent notes due 2015 dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.70 percent. The notes are set for a third
week of increases.  “The rand benefited substantially over the last week from
an improvement in risk appetite,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led
by London-based Bartosz Pawlowksi wrote in a research note. “A
stabilization of the dollar-rand at about 7.80 could boost the
 Reserve Bank ’s ability to deliver a rate cut at its next
meeting” on Nov. 11, they wrote.  Repo Rate  Governor Gill Marcus kept the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent last week and said the Monetary Policy Committee was
“ready to act” if the economic crisis in the U.S. and  Europe 
threatens to derail growth in the largest economy in Africa.  “Governor Marcus has been particularly dovish recently and
remains very worried about both the euro zone crisis and the
lack of domestic demand in South Africa,” the BNP analysts
wrote. “While inflation is expected to exceed the target by
year-end, we think the Reserve Bank could begin to place more
emphasis on the bleak growth outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  