-- 
Transatlantic Bids Need $1 Billion Windfall to Succeed: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-14T20:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/transatlantic-bids-need-1-billion-windfall-with-buffett-rebuked-real-m-a.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the
reinsurer circled by five suitors this year including  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , needs to demand a $1 billion windfall to ensure
shareholders aren’t stuck with the industry’s cheapest deal.  Buyers must offer at least $3.9 billion to value
Transatlantic at 92 percent of its net assets, the lowest
multiple in a reinsurance or property and casualty insurance
takeover in the last five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be $1.15 billion more than the company’s
market value in June before any bidders emerged and a 23 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price. It’s also 11 percent
higher than the top proposal so far, from  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)   Allied World Assurance Co. Holdings AG and a unit of Warren Buffett’s Berkshire each tried and failed to combine with
Transatlantic this year as reinsurers on average traded as much
as 31 percent below their book value after a magnitude-9
earthquake and subsequent tsunami hit  Japan  in March. Now,
Validus and at least two more bidders are pursuing the New York-
based company as its chief executive officer prepares to step
down at the end of 2011.  “As the Transatlantic saga unfolds, it’s very difficult
for a management team to want to sell itself under book value,”
Keith Walsh, an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. “I can’t see this selling for book value
with what the returns are in the group and where the group is
trading, but we need to see better offers. I don’t think we’ve
seen anyone’s best offer yet.”  Six Continents  Transatlantic and Validus declined through representatives
to comment on the bidding process.  Transatlantic gained 0.8 percent to $51.28 today in New
York, while Validus rose 1.6 percent to $25.89.  With operations on six continents, Transatlantic sells
reinsurance, or coverage for primary carriers to protect against
the costliest property and casualty claims. The reinsurer was
previously majority owned by bailed-out insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , which sold its stake in public
offerings in 2009 and 2010.  Takeover proposals for Transatlantic emerged after the
stock declined 15 percent this year through June 10. Bidders are
pursuing a company that was trading at 0.68 times book value
when it closed at $44.01 on June 10, before a now-terminated
merger agreement with Allied World.  Transatlantic ended yesterday at $50.86, giving it a market
capitalization of almost $3.2 billion and valuing the company at
0.75 times book value. The stock last traded above the value of
its assets minus liabilities more than three years ago.  ‘Acceptable’ Bids  Transatlantic needs a bid of at least 0.92 times its book
value of about $67.76 a share as of June to avoid being the
cheapest takeover of a publicly traded reinsurer or property and
casualty insurer greater than $500 million since 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That would equate to an offer for
Transatlantic’s equity of about $62.34 a share, a 23 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price and 42 percent higher than
the price before any suitors were announced.  “They need to find something that’s acceptable to both
their board as well as their shareholders,” said Citigroup’s
Walsh. “This has more legs to play out.”  The lowest price-to-book multiple in the property and
casualty insurance industry in the last five years was AIG’s
purchase of the 45 percent of  Osaka , Japan-based Fuji Fire &
Marine Insurance Co. it didn’t already own for 46.4 billion yen
($557 million), an 8 percent discount to book value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. AIG, the New York-based insurer
majority owned by the U.S. government, agreed to the deal in
February before Japan was struck by its strongest earthquake on
record. The acquisition closed in July.  Bidding War  Bermuda-based Validus won a bidding war for property
reinsurer IPC Holdings Ltd. with a stock-and-cash offer of about
$1.7 billion. That valued the Bermuda-based company at about
0.94 times book value when it was announced in March 2009, the
cheapest reinsurance deal on record, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Berkshire had made a cash offer for IPC, two people
familiar with the matter said at the time. IPC put itself up for
auction after a planned merger with Max Capital Group Ltd. was
rejected by shareholders.  Transatlantic mostly writes casualty reinsurance, which
means the company has longer-term liabilities than a reinsurer
that covers primarily property like IPC, Michael Paisan, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone interview.
Bidders would want to pay less than book value to acquire any
casualty reinsurer because reserves for long-term liabilities
may be inadequate, he said.  Reserve Risk  “There’s always reserve risk,” Paisan said. “Given that
element of risk, you really don’t want to pay more than book
value for it.”  Shares of reinsurers have dropped since disaster claims
including Japan’s earthquake and tsunami cut capital. The
Bloomberg Industries index for companies principally focused on
property and casualty reinsurance had fallen 15 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 4.3 percent decline for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The industry’s discount to book value “makes dealmaking
quite difficult because you’ve lost your buyer and seller,” W. Marston Becker, CEO of reinsurer  Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE) ,
said at the third annual Reactions Magazine conference in New
York last month. “What you’re left with is these very awkward,
stock-for-stock, book-for-book transactions. Those are tough.”  ‘Puzzling’ Deal  Bidding for Transatlantic kicked off June 12 when Zug,
Switzerland-based Allied World announced a merger agreement in
which Allied World would exchange 0.88 share for each
Transatlantic share. The all-stock transaction, challenged by a
competing offer from Validus, was opposed by Transatlantic’s
largest shareholder, Davis Selected Advisers LP. The deal was
terminated on Sept. 16.  Tom Shrager, one of four managing directors at Tweedy
Browne Co., an investor in Transatlantic, also objected to the
deal and said it was “puzzling” that the company would want to
sell itself at such a “big discount” to book value.  Transatlantic said CEO Robert Orlich would retire when it
announced the deal with Allied World. After the deal fell apart,
the company said he’ll step down at the end of the year and be
replaced by Chief Operating Officer Michael Sapnar.  Before it was terminated, one of Transatlantic’s financial
advisers, Moelis & Co., signed off on the agreement with Allied
World, saying it was in line with book multiples of comparable
deals, including the takeover of IPC and Max Capital’s purchase
of closely held Harbor Point Ltd. that formed Alterra.  ‘Opening Act’  Transatlantic then rejected a $3.25 billion takeover offer
from National Indemnity Co., a unit of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, saying the proposal was a “substantial discount to
book value” and wouldn’t “deliver fair value to
stockholders,” according to a Sept. 19 statement. The all-cash
bid was for $52 a share, 23 percent less than Transatlantic’s
book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I don’t fault them for rejecting at all,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior  money manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors
in Cincinnati, which oversees $14.6 billion, said in a phone
interview. “Given where the share price has been hovering, the
market confirms that it may be just kind of the opening act in
this drama.”  Now Validus is left to vie for control with two other
groups. Validus is offering 1.5564 shares and $8 in a cash
dividend for each Transatlantic share, or $55.95 a share when it
was disclosed July 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was
the equivalent of a 17 percent discount to book value.  ‘Battle Royale’  As of yesterday, the proposal was worth $47.66 a share with
the dividend after Validus’ shares declined 17 percent. Validus
signed a confidentiality agreement with Transatlantic Sept. 23
that placed a limited standstill on its bid until Oct. 31.  Transatlantic then disclosed Sept. 26 and Oct. 11 that it
entered into confidentiality agreements with two additional,
unidentified parties.  Private equity fund manager Christopher Flowers may be part
of the group including Enstar Group Ltd. and C.V. Starr & Co.
that’s in  talks  with Transatlantic, the Insurance Insider
reported Oct. 11. The publication said last month that Joseph Brandon, the former CEO of Berkshire’s General Re, is also
leading a group of investors.  Flowers’ assistant Brianne Mai and a representative for
C.V. Starr declined to comment on bidding for Transatlantic.
Richard Harris, a spokesman for Enstar, and Brandon didn’t
respond to telephone messages requesting comment.  “It’s going to be a continued battle royale,” said Paisan
at Stifel Nicolaus. “Transatlantic is doing anything they
possibly can to get a bid that’s higher than what’s out there.
They’re trying desperately to find somebody to make a reasonable
offer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at +1-212-617-2432 or  dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 