-- 
RBS Cancels Christmas to Reduce Costs

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-10-14T12:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/rbs-cancels-christmas-for-investment-bankers-to-reduce-costs.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is
canceling Christmas for its investment bankers this year as the
government-owned lender tries to reduce costs.  The bank will stop subsidizing holiday parties and has
banned staff entertainment for the rest of the year, Chris Kyle,
chief financial officer of RBS’s investment bank, wrote in an e-
mail to employees obtained by Bloomberg News. A spokesman for
the lender confirmed the contents of the memo.  RBS reduced its spending on holiday parties to 10 pounds
($16) a head, enough to buy two pints of lager and a packet of
potato chips, in 2008 after receiving the biggest banking bailout
in the world in the financial crisis. The lender announced 2,000
job cuts at the securities unit in August.  The bank is seeking to “further tighten and minimize the
rate of spend on non-staff costs,” Kyle wrote. RBS has also
frozen spending on  computer hardware , new Blackberries and
additional newspaper subscriptions, he said.  “International travel for internal purposes is to cease
across all areas” and “travel under four hours duration will
be in economy class without exception.”  Employees have also been stopped from organizing off-site
meetings and from taking taxis home before 10 p.m., he said. All
contractors will take a “mandatory” vacation from Dec. 19 to
Dec. 30, Kyle wrote.  The lender may also have to raise capital as European Union
regulators force banks to bolster themselves against losses from
the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  RBS might need to raise as much as 19 billion euros ($26
billion) of new capital to pass a third round of stress tests,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Carla Antunes-Silva wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. Evolution Securities Ltd.’s  Ian Gordon  said in a note today that RBS has “absolutely no need”
to raise more capital because the bank wrote down its holdings
of Greek debt by 50 percent in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  