-- 
Treasuries Advance as Spain Rating Cut Spurs Demand for Safer Securities

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-14T06:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/treasuries-advance-as-spain-rating-cut-spurs-demand-for-safety.html
Treasuries held gains from yesterday
after Spain had its long-term sovereign-debt rating cut by
 Standard & Poor’s , increasing investor appetite for the relative
safety of U.S. government securities.  Treasuries returned 4 percent in the past three months as
of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
as European officials struggled to contain a debt crisis that is
threatening to curb global economic growth. The MSCI All Country
World Index of stocks tumbled 11 percent in the period. S&P
lowered Spain’s rating to AA- from AA and the outlook is
negative, the company said in a statement.  “The flight to quality will continue,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, an investor in  Tokyo  for Mizuho Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of $43 billion and is a unit of
 Japan ’s second-largest bank. “European turmoil is still going
on.”  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 2.18
percent as of 7 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent security maturing in August
2021 changed hands at 99 1/2.  The rate will fall to 1.7 percent by year-end, said
Nakamura, who correctly predicted the rally that sent yields to
a record low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  Fed Operation  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to buy $4.25 billion to $5
billion of Treasuries maturing from November 2019 to August 2021
today, according to the central bank  website , as part of its
plan to keep borrowing costs down.  Japan’s 10-year bonds rose for the first time in six days,
pushing the rate down one basis point to 1.01 percent.  “We see heightened risks to  Spain ’s growth prospects,”
S&P said in its statement. “The financial profile of the
Spanish banking system will, in our opinion, weaken further.”  Europe’s debt crisis has pushed  Greece  to the brink of
default, threatened to curb world economic growth and raised
speculation the 17-nation euro won’t last in its current form.  U.S. yields have risen from this year’s lows as the
American economy showed signs of improvement.  A Commerce Department report today will say retail sales
climbed 0.7 percent in September from August, the most in six
months, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  “Yields are going to be higher by the end of the year,”
said  Peter Jolly , the head of market research in Sydney at the
investment-banking unit of National Australia Bank Ltd., the
South Pacific nation’s largest lender as measured by assets.
“Treasuries look pretty expensive.”  Ten-year notes yield about negative 1.62 percent after
accounting for inflation as measured by the  consumer price index .
The five-year average is positive 1.44 percentage points.  Inflation Outlook  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has risen to 1.89
percentage points from this year’s low of 1.67 percentage points
set last month. The five-year average is 2.05 percentage points.  The 10-year yield will be at 2.14 percent by Dec. 31 and
2.88 percent at the close of 2012, according to a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies in which the most
recent forecasts are given the heaviest weightings.  BlackRock’s Bet  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, is
betting the U.S. will avoid a severe recession, said Rick Rieder,
chief investment officer for fundamental fixed income at the New
York based firm. The company has been buying Italian debt and
the bonds of financial firms in the U.S. and  Europe , he said.  “For the next couple of years, we’re going to go through
modest growth in the developed world,” Rieder said yesterday in
an interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s
“Inside Track.”  Treasuries advanced yesterday as concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will threaten the global economy spurred demand at a $13
billion sale of 30-year bonds.  The securities drew a record-low yield of 3.12 percent,
compared with a forecast of 3.166 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of eight of the Fed’s 22 primary dealers. The bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of debt offered, was 2.94, the most since March.  “It was a very strong auction and gives you indication of
which way sentiment is in the broader market, and that is away
from risk into safe assets,” said James Caron, head of U.S.
interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Morgan Stanley, which as a
primary dealer is obligated to bid in U.S. debt auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  