-- 
Refinancing Chills Demand for U.S. Home Purchases Amid Economic ‘Squeeze’

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/refinancing-chills-demand-for-u-s-home-purchases-amid-economic-squeeze-.html
Amy Haenner, a broker at Legacy
Lending Group in  Fort Wayne ,  Indiana , is processing eight
mortgages this week. None of them are for home purchases.  A year ago, her business was evenly split between home-
purchase loans and refinancings that reduce interest rates on
existing mortgages. That’s changed as a slowing  U.S. economy 
curtails buying demand and encourages current owners to save
cash by locking in near-record-low borrowing costs, she said.  “People are deciding to stay in place until the economy
turns around,” Haenner said. “That same concern for the
economy is causing buyers to take a wait-and-see attitude.”  About $783 billion of mortgages will be refinanced in 2011,
according to a forecast released at this week’s  Mortgage Bankers
Association  conference in  Chicago . The projection is more than
double the group’s estimate of $352 billion at the beginning of
the year. Refinanced mortgages now account for 85 percent of
home-loan originations, up from 70 percent six months ago.  The refinancing boom is combining with a U.S. jobless rate
above 9 percent and a surplus of distressed properties to limit
buyer demand for houses. People who refinance usually remain in
a home for at least the time it takes to recoup fees and start
seeing the benefit of a lower interest rate, and many stay
longer as savings kick in. The National Association of Realtors
estimates that homeowners now stay at the same address for at
least a decade, compared with a 2006 average of six years.  Staying Put  “To fully recover the refinancing upfront fees, you
generally would need to stay for three years or possibly
longer,”  Lawrence Yun , chief economist of the Chicago-based
Realtors group, said in a telephone interview. “Some people
after a refinance may psychologically not want to move, after
paying for the refinancing costs.”  Fees and other costs of originating mortgages are near an
all-time high of 0.95 percent of loan balances in August, second
to March’s 1 percent, according to data from the Federal Housing
Finance Agency. The payback period is calculated by dividing the
amount of fees by the monthly savings.  Monthly savings on a refi may amount to almost $300, based
on a 1.5 percentage point change of interest rate on a $300,000
home loan. Over three years, that amounts to about $10,000.  “It’s good for the economy to redeploy those dollars into
consumer buying,” Ron Peltier, chairman and chief executive
officer of Minneapolis-based real estate company HomeServices of
America Inc., said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . “We’ve seen the consumer’s earning
stream diminish in the last few years. By refinancing, it’s like
they’re giving themselves a raise.”  Record Mortgage Rates  Borrowing costs have fallen to the lowest level on record,
with the average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropping to
3.94 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac data going back
to 1971. That hasn’t translated to increased demand for
homebuying as concern grew last month that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will trigger a global recession and the  Federal Reserve  said
there are “significant downside risks” to the U.S. economy.  Purchase mortgages likely will tumble 15 percent this year,
the Mortgage Bankers Association said in this week’s forecast. A
month ago, the group predicted an 11 percent decline.  “People are all about deleveraging now,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in Chicago.
“People don’t want to take on more debt by buying a new home.
They want the extra cash they’ll get from refinancing.”  Falling Incomes  The median income for American households fell to $49,445
at the end of 2010, below the level reached in the 1990s,
according to government figures. Without a reversal of that
trend, most families will never be able to buy homes,  Jared
Bernstein , senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, said during a panel discussion at the Mortgage
Bankers convention.  “The middle-class squeeze is greater than ever,”  David Axelrod , former senior adviser to President  Barack Obama , said
at the conference. “Americans are working faster and faster to
meet their bills and pay their mortgages.”  That drop in home purchases will heighten real estate’s
drag on the economy,  Mark Zandi , chief economist at  West
Chester , Pennsylvania-based Moody’s Analytics Inc., said at the
convention. In the first half of the year, U.S. growth slowed to
the lowest rate since the recession.  Back to ‘Soup’  “This economy broadly is not going to engage until housing
is at least moving in the right direction,” Zandi said. “Right
now, we are very close to going back into the soup.”  About 40 million mortgaged homes have at least 5 percent
equity, meaning they may be eligible to be refinanced. In the
second quarter, 11 percent of new mortgages bought by  Fannie
Mae , the largest U.S. home-loan finance company, had equity of
10 percent or less, according to regulatory filings.  Another 11 million borrowers can’t move and can’t refinance
because their mortgages are bigger than the value of the homes
that secure them, according to CoreLogic Inc., a  Santa Ana ,
California-based real estate research firm. About 2.4 million
have equity of 5 percent or less. A government effort known as
Home Affordable Refinance Program allows homeowners who are up
to 25 percent underwater to get new loans.  Homeowners who commit to stay in place are investing in
inexpensive renovation projects, as people make do with what
they have. Of the 125 million households that remodeled last
year, 40 percent spent less than $1,000 and 60 percent spent
less than $3,000,  Census Department  data show. Permits for
remodeling jumped 24 percent to a record in July, according to
BuildFax, an Austin, Texas-based real estate data company.  Turning to Remodels  Owners “are more and more turning to renovating and
remodeling their current properties,” said Joe Emison, head of
research and development at the real estate data company.  Every 1 percent decline in mortgage rates makes 3 million
more people eligible to refinance, as income and debt loads are
measured against the rate, though not all of them will apply for
home loans, said Yun.  “One good side of a slowing economy is  interest rates  have
continued to fall, creating high demand for refinancing
activity,” said  David Stevens , the former head of the  Federal
Housing Administration  who six months ago became president and
CEO of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said at the conference.
“It may be the only good side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Chicago at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 