-- 
Republicans and Democrats Disagree on How to Save Defense Budget

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-10-14T20:19:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/republicans-and-democrats-disagree-on-how-to-save-defense-budget.html
U.S. Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the California Republican who leads the U.S.
House Armed Services Committee, and  Adam Smith  of  Washington ,
the panel’s top Democrat, are urging Congress’s supercommittee
to avoid further cuts to the Pentagon’s budget.  Their Senate counterparts are doing the same. Where they
disagree is on how that might be done.  The two House colleagues yesterday released their letters
to the supercommittee, which is tasked with cutting the federal
deficit by up to $1.5 trillion over the next decade. McKeon
called on the panel to find reductions in non-defense
entitlements, such as Medicare and Social Security. Smith
pressed the special panel to increase federal revenue instead.  McKeon said that his message to the 12-member
supercommittee is to find the cuts “out of the mandatory
side,” while Smith in a letter to the special panel said that
“including revenues in an overall balanced approach to deficit
reduction is the best course of action for the committee.”  In the Senate,  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , chairman of the
armed services panel, and  John McCain  of  Arizona , the panel’s
top Republican, repeatedly said this month and last that they
wouldn’t recommend further cuts beyond the roughly $450 billion
in reductions already projected over the next 10 years.  Senate Plans  Hawaii Democrat Daniel Inouye, who leads the Senate
Appropriations panel, said last week that cutting the defense
budget more than already planned would be “detrimental” to
national security.  “We have not been asked to make any additional
recommendations on discretionary spending,” Levin said in an
interview. “We may make recommendations on some of the
entitlements.”  Levin and McCain in their official letters making
recommendations to the supercommittee urged no further cuts to
the  defense budget . Both lawmakers detailed their support for
revisions to military health care and retirement benefits.  McCain today said he supported a proposal made by President
Barack Obama to establish an annual enrollment fee for the
military’s Tricare for Life health insurance program.  “While this fee increase would hit those age 65 and over,
a group on mostly fixed incomes who are vulnerable to
unanticipated changes in expenses, I believe this fee increase
is a reasonable step,” McCain wrote.  Pharmacy Fees  McCain also backed an Obama proposal to increase fees for
pharmacy services. McCain cautioned that it might lead to
“significant increases in out-of-pocket costs” for
beneficiaries and pressed for consultation with the Defense
Department on the matter. Another issue of consultation with the
Pentagon would be a Congressional Budget Office proposal to
restrict working-age military retirees and their dependents from
enrolling in Tricare Prime, the military health-care option with
the lowest out-of-pocket expenses, said McCain.  McCain also said that he would support the president’s
proposal to establish a commission to review military retirement
benefits. The panel would operate similarly to the 2005 Defense
Base Closure and Realignment Commission, which presented
Congress with a plan it had to either accept or reject without
changes. McCain cautioned that current retirees and those
already serving should be “grandfathered” so that their
retirement benefits are not reduced.  Independent Commission  Bloomberg News reported on Oct. 6 that the supercommittee
may consider whether cuts in all federal pensions, pay and
health-care benefits, including those for the military, should
be drafted by an independent, BRAC-like commission.  Levin, in his letter to the supercommittee, today
recommended that the independent commission looking into
military health care and retirement should also consider
military compensation, including basic pay, allowances, special
and incentive pay.  Levin rejected the president’s proposal to apply the same
co-payment to preferred and non-preferred brand name drugs under
the Tricare pharmacy benefit. “The president’s proposal would
compromise the Department’s negotiating leverage with
pharmaceutical manufacturers,” Levin wrote to the
supercommittee. “These discounts are important to reducing the
cost to DOD.”  McKeon yesterday cautioned against overhauling military
health care and military retirement benefits, which was
suggested by a Pentagon advisory board.  Caution Urged  “We urge the joint select committee to exercise caution
when considering many of the existing deficit reduction
proposals relating to service-member benefits,” McKeon wrote on
behalf of Republican members of his panel.  “Avoid to the greatest possible extent adopting multiple
simultaneous changes to military retirement and health care,”
he said. The “combined effects will have a devastating impact
on the fiscal and quality of life of military retirees.”  Military benefits must be viewed with the dangers and the
extended absences from family in mind, McKeon said. The benefits
must also be formulated “in the context of expected life stream
earnings.”  The Defense Department faces cuts of about $450 billion
from its 10-year spending plans, even before the supercommittee
makes its recommendations. If Congress fails to act on the
recommendations by Dec. 23, the August budget bill signed by
President  Barack Obama  calls for automatic cuts, including an
additional $500 billion from defense spending over a decade, not
including interest.  Forced Choice  McKeon told an audience at the  American Enterprise
Institute  on Sept. 12 that his “suspicion” was “the White
House and congressional Democrats insisted on that defense
number for one purpose: to force Republicans to choose between
raising taxes or gutting defense.”  During a question and answer period after his speech,
McKeon said that, if he were faced with the choice between
raising taxes or protecting the defense budget, he would “go to
strengthen defense.” McKeon said that he had never voted for an
increase in taxes and that he would “never plan on voting” for
such an increase.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and defense industry trade
groups, such as the Aerospace Industries Association, have
raised alarms. In a hearing before McKeon’s panel yesterday,
Panetta said that additional cuts and particularly the automatic
trigger would “truly devastate our national defense.”  “It will badly damage our capabilities for the future,”
Panetta said.  If the automatic cuts take effect, the Pentagon would have
its budget cut to about $437 billion -- about the same amount as
in fiscal year 2003, McKeon said. The Pentagon would operate
under such a budget through 2021, according to McKeon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  