-- 
U.S. Retail Sales Rise More-Than-Forecast 1.1%, Easing Recession Concern

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-14T20:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-rise-more-than-forecast-1-1-easing-recovery-concern.html
Retail sales rose in September by
the most in seven months, showing American consumers are helping
the world’s largest economy fend off a slump.  Purchases grew 1.1 percent, exceeding the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Commerce Department
data showed today in  Washington . Another report called into
question whether gains in spending can be sustained as household
confidence unexpectedly dropped this month.  Retailers like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are among those
planning to boost hiring, betting demand will hold up into the
November-December holidays, the biggest selling season of the
year. Stocks surged globally after the sales figures beat
estimates and countries in the Group of 20 began talks to try to
mitigate the European debt crisis.  “It looks like we’re going to be avoiding a recession,”
said  Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
America Inc. in New York, who projected sales would climb 1
percent. “Even though consumers don’t feel good, there is job
growth going on and that is fueling some pickup in spending.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent to
1,224.58 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York , capping its biggest
weekly gain since July 2009.  Treasury securities  fell, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.25 percent from
2.18 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.7 percent rise in purchases last month. Estimates
ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 1.6 percent. The Commerce
Department revised the August figure to show a 0.3 percent
increase from little change previously reported.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 57.5 this month from
59.4 in September. The median estimate of economists surveyed
called for a reading of 60.2.  The gauge of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 47, the lowest since May 1980.  “For the most part, the labor market has held up OK so
far, and ultimately the spending numbers are driven by spending
power more than anything else,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. “That’s not to say
that we should dismiss the big drop in confidence as irrelevant.
It does keep alive the possibility that the labor market will
weaken more over the next couple of months and in turn consumer
spending will weaken.”  Broad-Based Gains  Ten of the 13 major retail categories showed increases last
month, led by auto dealers and clothing stores.  Vehicle sales climbed 3.6 percent, the most since March
2010, today’s report showed. The results are in line with
industry figures.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 13.1 million seasonally
adjusted annual rate in September, according to  Woodcliff Lake ,
New Jersey-based Autodata Corp. The rate was the highest since
April’s 13.2 million, when lost output caused by Japan’s
earthquake and tsunami began crimping supply of cars and parts.  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales also
rose 0.6 percent, the most since March, after a 0.4 percent
August increase.  Consumers, for now, are weathering a stagnant job market.
Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers in September and the jobless
rate was 9.1 percent for a third month, Labor Department figures
showed earlier this month.  Unemployment a Concern  “The U.S. has a long-term issue with unemployment that for
the average consumer is going to remain challenging,” Blake Jorgensen, chief financial officer for Levi Strauss & Co., said
in a telephone interview this week from  San Francisco , where the
closely held company is based. “We’re remaining cautious.”  President  Barack Obama , lawmakers and the Federal Reserve
face pressure to spur the jobs needed to support household
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  The Fed last month decided to extend maturities of its
Treasury holdings while selling an equal amount of shorter-term
securities, as part of the so-called Operation Twist, in a bid
to push down long-term borrowing costs. Obama has vowed to keep
pressing Congress to vote on individual components of his $447
billion jobs bill that was blocked in the Senate on Oct. 11.  Budget Shortfall  The government today report its annual  budget deficit 
exceeded $1 trillion for a third consecutive fiscal year,
showing how difficult it will be for legislators to agree on new
proposals. The shortfall registered $1.3 trillion in 2011, up
from $1.29 trillion the prior year and the second-highest on
record, according to Treasury Department data. It reached $1.42
trillion in 2009, the highest ever.  Some retailers are looking beyond the fiscal headwinds.
Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, is
increasing hiring of mostly part-time workers by 4 percent for
the holiday season to match sales growth in its stores and
online. Kohl’s, the fourth-largest U.S. department-store chain,
said last week it may hire more than 40,000 holiday workers, a 5
percent increase from 2010.  A third report today showed inventories at U.S. companies
rose more than forecast in August, signaling businesses are
anticipating a pickup in sales. The 0.5 percent increase in
stockpiles matched the gain in July that was larger than
initially estimated, according to the Commerce Department.  The increase was led by the biggest jump in auto and parts
stockpiles in more than a year, showing supply-chain constraints
from  Japan ’s March disaster have abated.  Also today, Labor Department figures showed prices of
imported goods unexpectedly rose in September, reflecting a jump
in metals and higher costs of crude oil that have since receded.
The 0.3 percent gain followed a revised 0.2 percent decrease in
August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  