-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in September

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-september-on-auto-demand.html
Retail sales in the U.S. increased
in September at the fastest pace in six months, boosted by
vehicle purchases, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.7 percent gain would follow little change
in August, according to the median of 85 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Another report may show consumer
confidence is improving this month.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are among retailers planning
to boost hiring heading into the year-end holidays, even amid
limited job growth. President  Barack Obama , lawmakers and the
Federal Reserve face pressure to spur the employment gains
needed to support household spending, which accounts for about
70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  “Consumers remain relatively resilient,” said  Ryan Sweet ,
a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “It’s evident they don’t want to cut back on
spending. It’s going to be a decent but not spectacular holiday
shopping season.”  The Commerce Department will report the sales data at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of
0.2 percent to 1.6 percent.  September light-vehicle deliveries climbed to a seasonally
adjusted annualized rate of 13.1 million, according to  Woodcliff
Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata Corp. The rate is the highest
since April’s 13.2 million, when lost output caused by  Japan ’s
earthquake and tsunami began hurting supplies of cars and parts.  Sales Minus Autos  Retail purchases excluding auto dealers rose 0.3 percent
last month after a 0.1 percent increase in August, according to
the survey median.  Same-store sales at retailers, excluding Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., climbed 5.5 percent in September from a year earlier,
according to the  International Council of Shopping Centers .  At the same time, persistent unemployment, the real-estate
slump and a volatile stock market will limit retail sales growth
to 2.8 percent during the holiday season this year, according to
the  National Retail Federation .  The gain compares with a 5.2 percent jump last year and a
10-year average of 2.6 percent, the Washington based NRF said
last week. Stores may hire 480,000 to 500,000 seasonal workers,
in line with the 495,000 added last year, the group said.  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, is
increasing hiring of mostly part-time workers by 4 percent for
the holiday season to match sales growth in its stores and
online. Kohl’s, the fourth-largest U.S. department-store chain,
said last week it may hire more than 40,000 holiday workers, a 5
percent increase from 2010.  ‘Very Cautious’  “Households have been very cautious in their spending
decisions,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 in
congressional testimony. “Probably the most significant factor
depressing  consumer confidence , however, has been the poor
performance of the job market.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of sentiment for October rose to 60.2 from 59.4, according
to the median projection before today’s 9:55 a.m. report. While
improving since reaching an almost three-year low in August, the
measure remains lower than the 64.2 averaged during the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in September even as
employers added more workers to payrolls than forecast. The
Labor Department said Oct. 7 that employment climbed by 103,000
after a revised 57,000 increase the prior month that was more
than originally estimated.  “The U.S. has a long-term issue with unemployment that for
the average consumer is going to remain challenging,” Blake Jorgensen, chief financial officer for Levi Strauss & Co., said
in a telephone interview this week from  San Francisco , where the
closely held company is based. “We’re remaining cautious.”  Retailers are faring better than the overall market. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index is up 3.4
percent this year, while the broader  S&P 500 Index  has declined
4.3 percent during the same period.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  