-- 
Revamping Phone Subsidy Key to Job Creation, FCC Chief Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-14T15:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/revamping-phone-subsidy-key-to-economic-growth-fcc-chief-says.html
Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  told the largest U.S. business lobby
that his agency’s plans to revamp a $4.3 billion landline phone
subsidy to expand high-speed Internet will spur economic growth.  “We’ve got to get the broadband infrastructure right,”
Genachowski said today in a speech before the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in  Washington . “If we don’t, we’ll still have the job
losses here” and new jobs will go to other nations that are
investing in  Internet access .  The changes to the subsidy for phone service in high-cost
regions, were proposed Oct. 6 by Genachowski, who favors
broadband adoption as a vehicle for stimulating the economy and
creating jobs. The proposal will be brought before the agency’s
four commissioners at an Oct. 27 FCC meeting.  Under Genachowski, the FCC has sought to increase the share
of people who use high-speed Internet at home to 90 percent from
the current 65 percent, according to the agency’s national
broadband plan. Between 14 million and 24 million Americans lack
access to broadband, “and immediate prospects for deployment to
them are bleak,” the FCC said in a report last year.  FCC is seeking to transform the  Universal Service Fund ,
which includes the subsidy for high-cost regions, into a
“Connect America Fund” designed to ensure affordable high-
speed Internet service in regions that lack access and to
promote mobile broadband nationwide.  The USF, which also supports phone service to schools and
libraries, is financed by charges on long-distance calls paid by
telephone subscribers, and it subsidizes companies including
 Windstream Corp. (WIN)  and Frontier Communications Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  