-- 
Rizal Bank Asks Philippine Court to Review Tax Agency Bond Rule

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-10-14T09:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/rizal-bank-asks-philippine-court-to-review-tax-agency-bond-rule.html
Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  said
it asked a Philippine court yesterday to review a government
order that seeks to impose a 20 percent tax on bonds sold in
2001 that were supposed to be exempt from the levy.  Rizal is “questioning the propriety and legality” of a
Bureau of Internal Revenue ruling this month that a final
withholding tax is applicable on 35 billion pesos ($808 million)
of  government bonds  due Oct. 18, Macel Fernandez Estavillo, the
bank’s head of legal and regulatory affairs, said in a telephone
interview today from  Manila . The ruling is in breach of contract,
she said.  The government will generate almost 5 billion pesos in
revenue from the levy, the tax agency estimated last week.  The Bankers Association of the  Philippines , which
represents the nation’s 36 commercial lenders, is seeking a
dialog with the government to discuss the issue, Nestor Tan,
head of the association’s tax committee, said by telephone.  “We are hoping the government will reconsider this ruling
because this sets a bad precedent for future capital issues,”
said Tan, who is also president of  Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. (BDO) 
“It will impact profits of banks in varying degrees.”  The internal revenue agency on Oct. 7 said that the 20
percent tax on the bonds will be deducted by the Bureau of the
Treasury at the time of redemption. The bonds weren’t subject to
a withholding tax, according to a term sheet distributed to
investors when the debt was issued in 2001.  “This ruling came as a total surprise to all the banks,”
 Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co. Treasurer Fernand Antonio Tansingco said in a separate phone interview. “Investors who in
good faith bought the government bonds according to the term-
sheet details will suffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  