-- 
Roma Owner DiBenedetto Says Club Wants Young Players Who Can Win

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-14T11:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/roma-owner-dibenedetto-says-club-wants-young-players-who-can-win.html
Thomas DiBenedetto, who heads a
group of U.S. investors that became majority owners of AS Roma
in August, gives his impressions of the three-time Italian
soccer champion. The Americans bought 67 percent of the club
and partnered with  Italy ’s largest bank UniCredit, which took
control of the team in July 2010 because of debts owed to it
by the former owners.  DiBenedetto, also an investor in Boston Red Sox owner New
England Sports Ventures, was speaking in an interview in  London .  On the club’s finances and focus on youth:  “The sins of the past are coming to be paid now. I think
it’s important that you can lay out to the future what you
anticipate your payroll is going to be and it’s much easier when
you’ve got young players.  “The key is not having young players, but young players
who can win. They can play in your system and clearly the kind
of system we play is fast paced and very exciting, but it takes
people in incredible physical condition who can run for 90
minutes.”  On decision to invest:  “The upside is substantial when you look at the different
categories: media, merchandising, a new stadium. We have a
unique level of expertise with some of our partners in brand
development and the ability to really have the right kinds of
relationships with global sponsors. I see Roma five years from
now being a team that is very successful on the pitch and very,
very profitable as a business.”  On European soccer’s new financial regulations:  “I think it was important to put some kind of rationality
into the way teams operate and financial fair play does it. I
think it will save a lot of the smaller teams because they won’t
be tempted to sign players they can’t afford and I think it’ll
put more emphasis on trying to develop your own players, young
players, who are much more economical. Clearly teams like
Liverpool and  Manchester United  and others that have big revenue
at the moment certainly have a big advantage. I think Roma
certainly has the potential to have those kind of revenue
numbers.”  On UniCredit:  “I can’t speak for UniCredit, but I’ll assume at some
point they’ll sell their interest to a couple of Romans who’ll
be good additions to our team. I think in the meantime UniCredit
is and will be quite helpful to us.”  On rookie coach Luis Enrique and the importance of star player
 Francesco Totti :  “Early on, the Italian press was all over Luis, tried to
be all over me, was somewhat critical, tried to get me to say
things that would have been contradictory to Luis and I
supported him 100 percent. I think that was essential and I
believe in him and I believe in the idea we have.  “It’s important that everybody’s part of the team and no
one is bigger than the team. You don’t want a team where players
rely upon one player to bail them out. You want everybody to be
doing their best and working at their optimum capacity to make
things happen.”  On media attention:  “It’s a new experience for me and I’m someone who really
doesn’t like to be public. Now all of a sudden I’m a public
figure, at least in  Rome .  When I go back to the States I can
hide, lead a normal life.  “I try to be honest with the press. I’ve told them from
the beginning you have to be patient. An idea takes a long time
and we’ll work very hard to do the best we can and we have a lot
of people who work very hard.  “I’m surprised how intense it has been, yes. I thought it
would be a lot, but I never anticipated it would be like this.”  On personal history:  “I was an investment banker for ten years after business
school, then started into various venture type investments. I
worked for Morgan Stanley in real estate and then I worked for
 Salomon Brothers  in their corporate finance department.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  