-- 
Romney, a Management Consultant to Believe In: Michael Kinsley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 
2011-10-14T00:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/romney-a-management-consultant-to-believe-in-michael-kinsley.html
How great a leader can you be if you
go on and on about what a great leader you are?  In Tuesday’s Bloomberg-Washington Post Republican
presidential  debate , Mitt Romney crowned himself a leader -- “a
leader with the experience of leading” -- again and again,
without doing much to demonstrate it, such as taking a
courageous -- that is, unpopular -- stand on something.
Anything.  He also said, obnoxiously, that in deciding whom to vote
for, people “are not going to be looking for someone who is not
successful.” For Romney, the presidency is just the last rung on
a long ladder of success. Not reaching it the last time hit him
hard; he had never missed a step before.  Romney clearly thinks he’s smarter than the other
Republican candidates, and he may well be right. Certainly he is
smarter than the only serious Republican opponent he has left,
Governor  Rick Perry  of Texas. Perry knew that his job on Tuesday
was to show that he’s not a moron, and he totally failed in this
modest ambition. He didn’t even finish his homework in time. He
said, about the government’s budget, “You need a president with
a plan -- ” Right. A plan. And your plan, governor? “ -- which
I’m laying out over the next three days.”  How lame can you get? I guess the possibility that someone
might raise a question about the budget in a debate on the
economy, and that Perry ought to have a few prepared thoughts,
is one nobody could have predicted. (They didn’t have to be his
own thoughts, for heaven’s sake.)  Planning Is Good  Perry also took the opportunity to endorse energy
independence. Later, on the subject of foreign trade, he said,
“What we need to be focused on in this country today is not
whether or not we are going to have this policy or that policy.
What we need to be focused on is how we get Americans working
again.” A plan is good. A plan we need (and I’ll have it to you
on Friday). But a policy? Feh. And, he added, we also need
energy independence.  A softball from the moderator,  Charlie Rose : What are the
differences between Perry’s health-care notions and Romney’s?
Perry’s answer: I have a plan for energy independence.  Perry’s great claim is to have created a million jobs in
Texas, 54,600 of them through a state program that gives
subsidies to promising companies. Perry noted in the debate that
75 percent of these companies are not even campaign
contributors. How does Perry reconcile this with his alleged
deep belief in free markets -- he claims to be a disciple of  Ayn Rand  -- and how does he distinguish it from similar subsidies
provided by the Obama administration, which he criticizes
bitterly? Why does he think such a program can even work?  Perry’s answer: First, he only opposes such subsidies from
the federal government. It’s OK by him if states want to do it.
But that makes no sense, does it? If it’s offensive in
principle, and stupid in practice, for the federal government to
take my money and give it to corporations, how can it be a good
thing when states do it? Perry went on to say that “those people
that have jobs today in the state of  Texas , they are absolutely
happy that we have got a program like that.” In other words, it
works -- so forget about ideology.  Romney had a strangely similar answer to a similar
question: How does his health plan as governor of  Massachusetts 
differ from President Barack Obama’s plan, which all the
Republican candidates excoriate? Experts find them nearly
identical. Romney said, first, that his plan was on the state
level (as if that makes a difference) and second, “We have less
than 1 percent of our kids who are uninsured.” In other words,
it works.  Take Your Pick  So Romney is a pragmatic moderate campaigning as a right-
wing zealot, and Perry is a right-wing zealot governing in some
ways as a pragmatic moderate. Take your pick. And don’t count
out Perry just yet. The  Republican Party  has done pretty well in
recent decades with presidential candidates who weren’t
considered to be the brightest pebbles on the beach.  Romney will have to be careful not to appear smug. This is
contrary to his training as a  management consultant , where
establishing that you are the smartest guy in the room is
central to convincing clients that they should pay you to tell
them how to run their businesses.  But Romney will adapt. Everyone agrees that his debate
performance this week was not just better than four years ago,
but better than four weeks ago. He’s a quick study. Little
shoots of what may be real personality are starting to break
through the shiny carapace.  Positively Clintonian  He risked a couple of non-prepackaged wisecracks. He had a
cute exchange with a questioner about whether her question was
hypothetical (which for some reason politicians feel entitles
them not to answer it). And then he gave quite a good answer,
neatly summarizing the financial crisis and subsequent bailout,
saying he approved of some parts of the bailout and not others,
and declining to promise not to bail out a bank ever again. It
was positively Clintonian. None of the other Republican
candidates could have done it.  The notion that something might be a mixed bag -- some
good, some not so good -- shows a level of sophistication that
has rarely surfaced in these Republican debates. Generally, it’s
all black and white, good and evil.  The eye-opener of the evening was a video clip of Romney
unloading on  China . Among the long list of things he has
promised to do on “day one” of his administration (kill
“Obamacare,” kill the Dodd-Frank financial  reform , break up
those moving boxes for the recycler, etc.) is this:  “I will label China as it is, a currency manipulator. And I
will go after them for stealing our intellectual property. And
they will recognize that if they cheat, there is a price to pay.
I certainly don’t want a trade war … but we can’t have a trade
surrender either.”  Where did this come from? It’s certainly not the position
of the Republican business establishment Romney comes from. It
is not the position of the Tea Party/conservative/libertarian
agglomeration of the Republican right that Romney has been
pandering to. Threatening a trade war is not even the correct
position (in my view) on the merits. In short, there seems to be
nothing in it for Romney to be way out front on getting tough
with China. Could this be something he really believes in?  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 