-- 
Royal Bank of Canada to Expand Asian Private Banking Assets 20%

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-10-14T00:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/royal-bank-of-canada-to-expand-asian-private-banking-assets-20-.html
Barend Janssens, head of emerging
markets at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s wealth management unit, talks
about growth forecasts and regional challenges.  Janssens, who oversees about C$20 billion ($19.5 billion)
of the C$60 billion of emerging market assets the Canadian
wealth manager has under management, spoke in  Singapore 
yesterday.  On RBC’s growth targets in Asia:  “Overall growth targets are initially about 20 percent on
an annual basis. That will be a target which combines
acquisitions and organic growth. For emerging markets, that’s a
realistic target. And we want to accelerate that towards the end
of a four-year period. So we’ll see that coming up to 25
percent.”  On banking in Asia:  “Virtually every single bank in the world is under
pressure in their home markets. They want to go to emerging
markets with a specific focus on  Asia . That is going to create
even more tension than we already have. In emerging markets, not
many banks are ready to give up. There are about a 100 players
in the Asian markets. It’ll take more time for people to give up.
But it’s going to happen.”  On Asian growth:  “Asia has had a lot of good things going for it,
especially the big Chinese machine. I think we need to become a
bit more doubtful about the big Chinese machine. We’ve seen the
first bailouts on banks. We’ve seen the international rail
company needing a little nudge from the government. You see
these things starting to happen.  “There are a lot of question markets around the
individual’s saving capacity and willingness to save, which fed
a very solid funding stream to all kinds of projects. When China
sneezes, Asia is sick. You need to be realistic about the
influence from there.”  On  Latin America :  “The issue in Latin America always is that the political
environment is relatively volatile. You have to take into view
that your asset build-up there will always be influenced by
events that you have difficulty controlling.”  On Africa:  “Africa is a specialized market. You really have to have
deep knowledge to understand which clients and which country you
want to bank.  “There’s a lot of wealth building going on there right
now.”  On the  Middle East :  “The volatility locally will influence wealth creation to
a certain extent, but less than you see in other regions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  