-- 
Jackson Plays Randy Dr. King; Zoe Kazan’s Debut: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/samuel-l-jackson-plays-randy-dr-king-zoe-kazan-s-debut-jeremy-gerard.html
Accounts of  Martin Luther King ’s
final nights on earth did not include details of a pillow fight
preceding his assassination.  That oversight is rectified in Katori Hall’s feather-
brained two-hander “The Mountaintop” on Broadway.  Set in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , the play stars Samuel L. Jackson
as the civil rights leader and Angela Bassett as a -- what’s the
word I’m looking for? Sassy? -- maid who brings him coffee but
has other things on her mind.  King and his colleague Ralph Abernathy are in town
organizing support for black sanitation workers. It’s a dark and
stormy night and King has dispatched his friend to find
cigarettes, leaving the Reverend alone and jumpy, the thunder
bursts sounding too much like gunshots.  He calls for room service and is pleased when coffee is
brought by Camae, played to the hilt by Bassett. Camae is no
stranger to the leering looks of men, nor is she indifferent to
them. Especially when the man behind the look is this world
famous marcher.  Dazzling Bassett  So the comedy in this sitcom unfolds in verbal thrusts and
parries between the practiced seducer and his amiable prey.  Camae is equipped not only with caffeine, cigarettes and a
flask, but a new generation’s growing impatience with King’s
nonviolence. Hall gives her several brazen monologues and a
final, surreal rap, all dazzlingly delivered by Bassett.  Jackson is less comfortable, perhaps because he hasn’t been
on stage in over 15 years, and perhaps because, even with
prosthetics, he bears less resemblance to King than to his
ambitious acolyte, Jesse Jackson.  It’s not news that King was unfaithful to his wife, but
Hall and Jackson conspire to paint him as a horndog whose
rhetorical gifts are best used as chick bait.  Things turn sober when Camae’s true mission is revealed.
King gets to try out his fatalistic “I’ve been to the
mountaintop” speech before delivering it the next day. Branford Marsalis’s accompanying musical tone poem heightens the mood.
Outside, the storm rages ominously. Nothing in “The
Mountaintop” is left to the imagination.  Through Jan. 15 at the Jacobs Theatre, 242 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-212-362-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
**  ‘We Live Here’  Zoe Kazan has an increasingly significant career as a stage
and film actress. Now she makes her  New York  playwriting debut
with “We Live Here,” which has been given a beautifully
pitched staging by Sam Gold at the  Manhattan Theatre Club . It
marks the welcome return to the stage of Amy Irving (who, like
Kazan, comes from theater royalty).  In the opening scene, Irving is furtively unwrapping her
elder daughter’s wedding presents, which have been stacking up
in the living room of their Connecticut colonial.  Mother is caught in the act by her appalled younger
daughter, who announces rather sheepishly that she’s expecting
the arrival of her new boyfriend in time to join the nuptial
celebrations. Even more sheepishly, she confides to her father
that this boyfriend is no stranger to the household.  I can’t reveal more. But you’ll know from his entrance that
Daniel, amiably played by Oscar Isaac, is a Bad Seed.  When the big secrets have been revealed and all the rumpled
linens have been aired, it’s Irving who is unwrapped, a sorry
sight.  “We Live Here” is a melodrama of the “Oh, dear” school:
Nearly every sentence made me think, “Oh, dear. I don’t believe
a word of this.”  Through Nov. 6 at City Center Stage I, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;  http://www.mtc-nyc.org . Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is the drama critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 