-- 
SAP Has Better-Than-Expected Earnings as Mobile, Analytics Increase Sales

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-14T14:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sap-reports-higher-third-quarter-earnings-revenue-stock-climbs-3-5-.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, reported third-quarter earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates as new mobile and real-time
analytics offerings boosted sales.  Operating profit, based on non-international financial
reporting standards, rose 23 percent to 1.13 billion euros
($1.57 billion) while sales on that basis gained 12 percent to
3.41 billion euros, the company said today. The average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for earnings of 1.01 billion
euros on revenue of 3.31 billion euros.  Co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and  Bill McDermott , whose contracts were extended in July to 2017, aim to
boost SAP’s annual revenue to 20 billion euros by 2015, driven
by mobile products, services and the real-time analytics
technology Hana. While the Walldorf, Germany-based company today
reiterated its full-year forecast, Evolution Securities analyst
Roger Phillips said results were better than expected.  “It’s a big beat,” said Phillips, who has a “neutral”
recommendation on SAP shares. “It now becomes a lot more
clear” how the company plans to achieve its targets, he said.  SAP shares rose as much 3.7 percent to 42.04 euros and were
up 2.6 percent as of 4:08 p.m. in Frankfurt. The shares have
gained 9.2 percent this year, giving SAP a market value of 51.1
billion euros. Oracle climbed 1.8 percent to $31.69 as of 10:09
a.m. in  New York .  Programming Reliance  SAP is betting on innovation in programming rather than on
large purchases or adding hardware to battle  Redwood City ,
California-based  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which ranks second in  business
software . SAP beat Oracle in software license sales in its
second quarter. The U.S. company is scheduled to report earnings
for its fiscal second quarter on Dec. 16.  SAP boosted its net result by 723 million euros after
cutting a provision related to potential damage payments
stemming from a legal fight with Oracle over copyright
infringement by SAP’s former TomorrowNow unit. A U.S. federal
judge last month threw out a $1.3 billion verdict, reducing the
amount that SAP would have to pay to $272 million or allowing
for a new trial. The company didn’t provide a figure for net
income in today’s statement.  Pipeline  McDermott said in July that “the pipeline for Hana is the
biggest in the history of SAP.” Abbreviated from High-
Performance Analytic Appliance, the in-memory computing product
is designed to speed up analysis of business data. It comes on
servers from companies such as Hewlett-Packard Co.,
International Business Machines Corp., Dell Inc. and Cisco
Systems Inc.  SAP, which makes payroll management, business intelligence
tools and software that helps companies reduce their  carbon
emissions , also provides software for the order fulfillment
behind Apple’s iTunes download system. Non-IFRS software and
software-related services revenue rose 16 percent in the first
nine months, the company said today.  This year, SAP won the U.S. National Hockey League team San
Jose Sharks as a user of its on-demand software Business
ByDesign, while  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and Lenovo Group Ltd.
started using the Hana in-memory technology.  “SAP’s pipeline remains very strong and companies continue
to invest in  information technology , in particular in innovative
software solutions,” the company said today, adding that the
“ongoing uncertain macroeconomic environment” prevented it
from raising its targets.  The company said it still predicts that non-IFRS software
and software-related services revenue growth will reach the top
end of a range of 10 percent to 14 percent in the full year.  SAP said it now expects the effective IFRS tax rate to be
28.5 percent to 29.5 percent this year, up from 22.5 percent in
2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  