-- 
Scene Last Night: Blankfein Honored by Police, Fireman’s Fund

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/scene-last-night-blankfein-honored-by-new-york-city-police-fireman-fund.html
Thursday night  Lloyd Blankfein 
addressed 1,200 guests gathered at the Park Avenue Armory for
the  New York  Police & Fire Widows’ & Children’s Benefit Fund 10-
13 Answer the Call Gala.  “At a time in this country when there’s so much disunity,
it’s nice to find a cause on which everyone can agree,” said
Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and the event’s honoree.  It must also have been nice, a month into the Occupy Wall
Street protests, to be Lloyd Blankfein and be so warmly
welcomed.  “People should appreciate his courage coming out here
tonight,” said Patrick Kelly, president and chief operating
officer of Brigade Capital Management LLC, speaking from his
dinner seat.  “He’s a great American success story,” said Stephen Dannhauser, chairman of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and of the
Police & Fire Widows’ & Children’s Benefit Fund, at the lectern.
“That’s what the children of our widows are looking for.”  Twenty-five children of deceased police officers and
firefighters sang “God Bless America” at the event.  The fund provides financial assistance to families of New
York City police officers and fire fighters killed in the line
of duty including Port Authority police officers and emergency
medical service workers. In its 26 years, it has helped 700
families.  The gala, along with efforts leading up to it, raised $2
million. Guests included  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  chairman and CEO
Steve Schwarzman (and a table of analysts and associates from
the firm);  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s head of asset management, Kevin Parker; Mark Messier, former New York Rangers center; and Alan
Greenberg, former chief executive of Bear Stearns & Co.  Bagpipes and Drums  “What could be easier to give to?” Greenberg said moments
before a ceremonial unit of fire fighters and police officers
marched down the aisles playing the bagpipes and drums.  Decor consisted of two New York Fire Department trucks with
their ladders extended to the ceiling. From the balconies hung
343 American flags honoring the 343 New York fire fighters who
died on Sept. 11, 2001.  “My brother was with Ladder 5,” said the fund’s director
of development, Linda Giammona. “He was my best friend. He died
helping people, and I feel I should live helping people.”  The meal was steak au poivre, potatoes and spinach flan.
For dessert, waiters passed brownie ice cream sandwiches.  In a live auction, George McNeely of Christie’s sold two
rides on Marine 1, the New York City Fire Department’s historic
fireboat, for $22,000 each. Shannon Riley, a social worker, won
a day with New York City Police Commissioner Ray Kelly for
$25,000.  “I was bidding on behalf of my family’s foundation,”
Riley said, before introducing her mom, dad and two sisters.
“We haven’t decided which sister gets to go.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 