-- 
Schaeuble Says Bank Recapitalization Part of Crisis Effort

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-10-14T18:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/schaeuble-says-bank-recapitalization-is-part-of-crisis-effort.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said efforts to strengthen banks’ finances is part of
European leaders’ fight against debt-crisis contagion risks.  “We’re taking measures to fight the dangers of
contagion,” Schaeuble told reporters today in Paris, where he’s
attending a Group of 20 meeting of finance ministers and central
bankers. “The recapitalization of banks is part of this
effort.”  European officials are under pressure to find a solution to
their debt crisis, which is roiling financial markets and
threatening to tip the global economy back into recession. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who is attending the G-20
meeting in Paris, has criticized  Europe  for indecisiveness.  “We will tell our colleagues that we’re on a path to
taking clear measures to fight the risk of contagion, part of
which is to better ensure that all systemically-important banks
are equipped with the necessary capital,” Schaeuble said.  Concerned that banks lack the capital to absorb a shock in
sovereign debt, European authorities are working on a plan that
may force financial institutions to raise at least 100 billion
euros ($138 billion) in additional capital, according to
analysts’ estimates. That money would come either from existing
investors -- who are signaling they may resist providing it --or
state funding that may come with strings attached.  “Systemically-relevant banks will have time to fulfill
 capital requirements ,” Schaeuble said. “If they can’t do that
by their own means, they would be helped by the governments as a
last resort.”  Schaeuble said it’s important for Europe to “fight the
causes of this crisis,” which he said are “a lack of financial
market regulation and an abundance of government deficits and
debt.”  The policy of budget consolidation “has to be continued
where debts are too high,” Schaeuble said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  