-- 
SEC Says Ethics Contractor Improperly Shared Employee Trade Data

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-14T22:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sec-says-ethics-contractor-improperly-shared-employee-trade-data.html
A company hired to track securities
trading by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission employees
passed data to subcontractors and consultants who weren’t vetted
by the agency, according to a letter sent to SEC staff.  Financial Tracking Technologies LLC, which was monitoring
trading to support an SEC ethics program, acted improperly in
sharing the information, which may have included workers’ “full
name and brokerage account information,” the SEC said in the
letter to employees dated Oct. 7.  “Because FTT did not seek the SEC’s preapproval, the SEC
had not subjected the unauthorized personnel to background
investigation,” Thomas Bayer, the agency’s chief information
officer, wrote in the letter.  The agency isn’t “aware of any actual misuse” of the
information, Bayer said in the letter. The agency is offering to
sign employees up for a credit monitoring service for a year, he
wrote.  The SEC learned about information-sharing when a former FTT
employee approached the agency to express concern, said  John
Nester , a spokesman for the regulator. The agency hasn’t
determined what to do about the FTT contract, Nester said in a
telephone interview.  Tony Turner, principal at Greenwich, Connecticut-based FTT,
didn’t respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  FTT was hired in 2009, when the ethics program began
tracking employee trading activity. In a statement at the time,
the company said its software “provides for SEC employees to
pre-clear and report personal securities transactions and
holdings and enable the Ethics Office to administer, supervise
and manage the SEC’s ethics program.”  Reuters reported on the SEC letter earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 