-- 
SEC Urges Disclosure of Hacker Threats in Public Company Filings

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-14T15:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sec-urges-disclosure-of-hacker-threats-in-public-company-filings.html
Publicly traded companies should
disclose real or potential cyber attacks capable of disrupting
business operations or financial stability, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said.  Under  guidance  issued yesterday by the agency’s division of
corporation finance, the SEC said financial statements should
address the threat posed by hackers if a network breach is
“reasonably likely” to have a material effect on a company,
including the theft of intellectual property or increased
security costs.  “This guidance fundamentally changes the way companies
will address cybersecurity in the 21st century,” Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said in a news release.
Rockefeller and four other senators wrote to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  on May 11 urging the agency to issue recommendations
regarding corporate disclosure of cybersecurity risk.  Data breaches at  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and other
companies have sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how
businesses safeguard consumer information and respond to cyber
attacks. The Obama administration on May 12 sent Congress a
proposal that called for shielding banks, power grids and
government computers, creating a uniform data-breach
notification law and requiring owners of critical systems to
develop network-security plans.  “For years, cyber risks and incidents material to
investors have gone unreported in spite of existing legal
obligations to disclose them,” Rockefeller, chairman of the
Senate Commerce Committee, said. “Intellectual property worth
billions of dollars has been stolen by cyber criminals, and
investors have been kept completely in the dark.”  Cybersecurity Legislation  A House Republican task force led by William “Mac” Thornberry of Texas released recommendations for boosting the
nation’s cybersecurity that emphasize voluntary industry
incentives. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, is compiling comprehensive cybersecurity legislation.  In its guidance, the SEC said it recognizes concerns that
“detailed disclosures” may give hackers a road map to
infiltrate corporate networks, and said such disclosures are not
required under federal  securities law . The agency also cautioned
companies to avoid generic “boilerplate” disclosures and
instead provide “sufficient” information to “allow investors
to appreciate the nature of the risks.”  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment beyond the
agency’s guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  