-- 
SEC May Adopt Audit Trail Rule, Ex-Official Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-10-14T19:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sec-likely-to-adopt-audit-trail-rule-this-year-ex-official-says.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission will probably adopt its plan to collect and store
data on U.S. equity orders and trades later this year, according
to a former official.  “I think it will happen before year-end,” James Brigagliano, former deputy director of the SEC’s division of
trading and markets, said at a Security Traders Association
conference today in  West Palm Beach ,  Florida . He left the agency
last month. Brigagliano said he expects the SEC to “look hard
at the cost-benefit in terms of what information should be
required to be real-time versus available on a delayed basis.”  The SEC proposed requiring exchanges and the Financial
Industry regulatory Authority to develop a so-called
consolidated audit trail after the crash on May 6, 2010. It  said 
the system would help it analyze and explain the cause of events
such as the rout 17 months ago that erased $862 billion in 20
minutes. The SEC took three months to gather data on  stock
trading  after the plunge since information didn’t exist in a
uniform or accessible format from exchanges and brokers.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
timing of the consolidated audit trail.  Regulators want real-time data to help pursue enforcement
actions and improve surveillance of a market in which
transactions occur on more than 50 platforms, the SEC said.  Euronext, Scottrade  Finra and firms such as NYSE Euronext,  Scottrade Inc. ,
 Wells Fargo & Co.  and the  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association  have told the SEC that collecting real-time
information will be too costly and that data available at the
end of the day or the next should be sufficient. Martin Manion,
chief operating officer at Citadel Execution Services, a unit of
Chicago-based Citadel LLC, said yesterday at the conference that
end-of-day data should be “fine.”  The SEC estimated in its proposal that an audit trail
project would cost exchanges and brokers $4 billion to establish
and $2.1 billion a year to maintain. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
later said that the $4 billion estimate was too high. The system
would initially include equities trading data and later options,
according to SEC officials.  Regulators should proceed with plans to collect and store
data on all U.S. securities trading, an initiative that is
“absolutely critical” to ensuring that markets are fair,  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  Chief Operating Officer  Larry Leibowitz  said at a
conference in New York today.  “The SEC proposal to create a centralized audit trail is
absolutely critical so we can say someone is surveilling across
all markets,” Leibowitz said. “It’s our job as an industry and
the exchanges in particular to stand up for transparency and
integrity.”  Plan of Action  In adopting a consolidated audit trail, the SEC would tell
exchanges and Finra what the system must include, according to
Brigagliano, who left the agency last month after  25 years  for a
job as partner at Sidley Austin LLP. The companies and Finra,
which oversees almost 4,500 brokers, would then develop a plan
to build the system.  While exchanges and larger brokers agree that regulators
need an audit trail to monitor equities trading across different
venues, the “big pushback” is about whether the SEC should
require real-time data or not, David Shillman, an associate
director in the SEC’s division of trading and markets, said at a
Sifma conference on Sept. 21 in New York.  Easier Than Thought  Technology may have advanced enough in recent years that
gathering real-time data may not be as difficult and costly as
market participants expect, Shillman said. The commission is
deciding “how strict it’s going to be” about the plan that
will eventually have to be submitted to the agency by the
exchanges and Finra, he said.  Richard Redding, a managing director at Chicago-based  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , said at the STA conference that he didn’t see the
benefits of mandating real-time data for a consolidated audit
trail in the securities industry. CME Group’s markets such as
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange have access to data the next day
and have compiled the data for years, he said.  “I’m not sure what you can do with it in real time,”
Redding said. “I’m not sure the regulators can even process it
in real time.”  The SEC adopted a rule in July related to the audit trail
requiring large traders to use an identification code for their
buying and selling. Employing a uniform code for transactions
handled through brokers will enable the SEC to produce a
complete picture of their activity.  Blue Sheets  The  project  expands the data available to the SEC through
the so-called Electronic Blue Sheets, a system regulators use to
make and receive requests for data as part of investigations or
other actions. In contrast the audit trail would gather all
order and trade information for all activity in the market.  Large traders must register with the SEC by December, while
brokers have until April to comply with the rule requiring them
to provide requested data the day after it’s asked for,
Brigagliano said.  “Both of these initiatives are intended not only to
augment the ability of regulators to better oversee the markets,
but also to provide a wealth of continuous data that can inform
broader discussions about market structure, including the role
and impact of high-frequency trading,” Gregg Berman, adviser to
the SEC’s director of trading and markets, said at the Sifma
conference in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  