-- 
Singapore Cuts Economic Growth Forecast, Central Bank Eases Policy Stance

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-14T00:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/singapore-cuts-economic-growth-forecast-central-bank-eases-policy-stance.html
Singapore  cut its economic growth
forecast for this year and predicted a further slowdown in
expansion in 2012 as the global outlook weakens, prompting the
central bank to ease its monetary policy stance.  Gross domestic product may increase 5 percent this year,
compared with an earlier forecast range of 5 percent to
6 percent, the trade ministry said in a statement today. The
Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the island’s dollar
as its main tool to manage inflation, said it will reduce the
slope of the policy band of its currency and continue with a
modest and gradual appreciation.  The risk of another global recession erased $10 trillion of
equities worldwide last quarter and prompted officials from
 China  to  Indonesia  to boost fiscal measures or cut  interest
rates . With a potential Greek default threatening to disrupt
world financial markets, Singapore is trying to stimulate growth
just six months after its last monetary tightening, and the
government said this week it will increase spending in the next
five years.  “We expect central banks across the region to ease given
increasing signs of a sharper global downturn,” Chua Hak Bin, a
Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said
before the releases. “The smaller, more open economies are
seeing the hit from the external slowdown. If things do turn for
the worse, we can expect the Singapore government to respond
with fiscal measures in the coming months.”  Quarterly Growth  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy increased an
annualized 1.3 percent last quarter from the previous three
months, when it shrank a revised 6.3 percent, the trade ministry
said. GDP expanded 5.9 percent from a year earlier, after rising
1 percent the previous quarter.  The  Singapore dollar , the fourth-worst performing Asian
currency in the past month, rose 0.6 percent to S$1.2708 against
its U.S. counterpart at 8:11 a.m. local time today. It had
reached unprecedented levels since the  central bank  said in
April it would allow further appreciation to tame price gains,
trading below S$1.20 in July.  The Singapore monetary authority guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. It
adjusts the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the
slope, width and center of the band.  The island, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait, is among the first countries in
the region to report third-quarter data.  Asia ’s growth has
slowed since the second quarter, the  International Monetary Fund 
said yesterday as it reduced forecasts for regional expansion
this year and next.  Regional Moves  The global slowdown has prompted some Asian central banks
to start cutting interest rates or refrain from increasing
borrowing costs. Pakistan and Indonesia have lowered rates this
month while the  Bank of Korea  left borrowing costs unchanged
yesterday for a fourth straight month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks has slumped about
14.8 percent this year. The Singapore’s benchmark  Straits Times
Index (FSSTI)  has dropped 14.3 percent in the same period, led by
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest container
carrier, and  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. (CMA) , an owner of shopping malls
across the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  