-- 
Singapore Shows Asia Dilemma as Inflation Compounds Global Economy Risks

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-14T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/singapore-cuts-growth-forecast-central-bank-eases-currency-policy-stance.html
Singapore ’s decision to slow its
currency’s advance rather than halt gains shows the dilemma
facing Asian nations trying to tame inflation while protecting
exporters from faltering economies in Europe and the U.S.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which uses the
island’s dollar to manage prices, said yesterday it will
continue to allow the currency to advance even as the trade
ministry cut its growth forecast for 2011 and the central bank
said the expansion may slow further next year.  The Singapore dollar rose as much as 0.8 percent as policy
makers signaled they’ll maintain efforts to curb prices rising
at the fastest pace in almost three years. China yesterday
reported inflation exceeded 6 percent for a fourth month even as
bank lending fell to the lowest level since 2009, limiting
Premier Wen Jiabao’s scope to ease policy to support growth.  “A slower pace of currency appreciation should provide
some support against slowing growth but still dampen
inflationary pressures and anchor inflation expectations” in
Singapore, said Wai Ho Leong, an economist at  Barclays Capital 
in Singapore. “Inflation remains a policy concern as there is
less clarity as to how fast and to what extent inflation will
fall this time.”  Gross domestic product may increase 5 percent this year,
compared with an earlier forecast range of 5 percent to 6
percent, the Singapore trade ministry said in a  statement 
yesterday. The island’s export-dependent economy may expand
“more slowly” in 2012 and growth may be below its potential
rate of 3 percent to 5 percent, the central bank said.  Exports Ease  Singapore’s exports probably rose at a slower pace in
September, while electronic shipments by companies such as
Venture Corp. likely slumped for an eighth month, according to
the median estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before an Oct. 17 report. Overseas shipments rose 3.5 percent
last month from a year earlier, after climbing 5.1 percent in
August, according to the median estimate of 11 economists.  The  Singapore dollar , the fourth-worst performing Asian
currency in the past month, rose 0.6 percent to S$1.2702 against
its U.S. counterpart yesterday. It had reached unprecedented
levels since the  central bank  said in April it would allow
further appreciation to tame price gains, trading below S$1.20
in July.  The Singapore monetary authority guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. It
adjusts the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the
slope, width and center of the band. The central bank, which
releases a policy statement every six months, tightened monetary
conditions at each of its last three reviews.  Global Recession  The risk of another global recession erased $10 trillion of
equities worldwide last quarter and prompted officials from
China to  Indonesia  to boost fiscal measures or cut  interest
rates . With a potential Greek default threatening to disrupt
world financial markets, Singapore is trying to stimulate growth
just six months after its last monetary tightening.  Singapore’s GDP increased an annualized 1.3 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, when it shrank a revised
6.3 percent, the trade ministry said. The $223 billion economy
expanded 5.9 percent from a year earlier, after rising 1 percent
the previous quarter.  “The outlook for the global economy has deteriorated
sharply against the backdrop of increased uncertainty in
financial markets,” the Singapore central bank said yesterday.
“Given the stresses and fragility in the advanced economies,
the prospects for growth in Singapore’s major trading partners
have deteriorated.”  IMF Forecast  Asia ’s growth has slowed since the second quarter, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 13 as it reduced forecasts
for regional expansion this year and next.  “There won’t be an easy solution or a quick rebound for
Asia this time around because the European crisis may be long
drawn, the  U.S. economy  is struggling and there are trepidations
about  China ’s economy,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “Many in the region
have tightened quite a bit and they now have dry gunpowder. The
shift will unequivocally be towards loosening policy.”  The global slowdown has prompted some Asian central banks
to start cutting interest rates or refrain from increasing
borrowing costs. Pakistan and Indonesia have lowered rates this
month while the Bank of  Korea  left borrowing costs unchanged
this week for a fourth straight month.  Stocks Slump  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said yesterday that
inflation isn’t his country’s primary challenge at a time when
the global economy is slowing.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks has slumped about 15
percent this year. Singapore’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  has
dropped about 14 percent in the same period, led by Neptune
Orient Lines Ltd.,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest container carrier,
and  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. (CMA) , an owner of shopping malls across the
region.  Singapore’s inflation will average about 5 percent this
year and 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent in 2012, the central bank
said yesterday. Consumer prices rose 5.7 percent in August from
a year earlier.  “The ongoing slowdown in domestic economic activity will
reduce tightness in the labor market and alleviate price
pressures,” the central bank said. “Inflationary pressures
emanating from abroad should also subside.”  Core inflation , which excludes private road transport and
accommodation costs, will ease to a range of 1.5 percent to 2
percent in 2012, from an average of about 2.1 percent this year,
the monetary authority predicts.  “They are concerned about the growth outlook going into
next year, but at the same time inflation remains an issue so
the central bank wants to be prudent about keeping the Singapore
dollar on an appreciating trend,” said Kun Lung Wu, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “This will
help contain inflation pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  