-- 
Singapore Reduces Dollar-Band Slope as Inflation Eases; Currency Advances

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-10-14T01:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/singapore-to-slow-currency-gain-as-faltering-global-growth-eases-inflation.html
Singapore  will slow gains in the
local currency because the deteriorating global economic outlook
is expected to lead to a moderation in inflation, the central
bank said today in its semi-annual exchange-rate review.  “Given the stresses and fragility in the advanced
economies, the prospects for growth in Singapore’s major trading
partners have deteriorated,” the Monetary Authority of
Singapore said in a  statement .  The nation’s dollar climbed against all its most-traded
peers and advanced 0.2 percent to S$1.2748 against its U.S.
counterpart as of 9:01 a.m. Singapore time. It reached S$1.3199
on Oct. 4, the lowest level this year, and has gained 0.7
percent since Dec. 31.  Fourteen of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the move. Seven forecast an easing of monetary
conditions. One said the central bank will maintain the
currency’s appreciation after re-centering the band upward at
its  last review  in April to cool inflation.  “I think the policy is appropriate,” said Leif Eskesen, a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. who was among
the 14 forecasters predicting today’s decision. Inflation
pressures have "proven higher and more sticky than originally
anticipated. On the other hand, there is the expected slowdown
in growth as a consequence of global economic headwinds.’’  Growth Outlook  Growth in the Singapore economy could fall below its
potential rate of 3 percent to 5 percent, according to the
central bank’s statement. The Southeast Asian nation’s gross
domestic product may increase 5 percent this year, compared with
an earlier forecast range of 5 percent to 6 percent, the  trade
ministry  said in a separate report today.  “The decision was a bit disappointing because we had
actually expected further easing by the central bank,” said
Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency strategist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , who called for a re-
centering of the currency band and a shift to a zero slope.  “They could miss the targets and there could be a sharper
slowdown in the economy going forward,” he said.  The economy increased an annualized 1.3 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, when it shrank a revised
6.3 percent. GDP expanded 5.9 percent from a year earlier, after
rising 1 percent the previous quarter.  Regional Central Banks  Bank of Korea policy makers held their key rate in a
unanimous decision yesterday. Central banks from  Malaysia  to
 Australia  have refrained from raising their benchmarks rates in
recent months as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S.
economy dimmed the outlook for the region’s export-reliant
nations.  Singapore’s monetary authority uses the  exchange rate 
rather than borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy,
adjusting the pace of appreciation or depreciation against an
undisclosed trade-weighted band of currencies by changing the
slope, width and center of the band.  A flatter slope allows slower appreciation or depreciation
over time. The MAS tightened monetary conditions at each of its
last three gatherings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  