-- 
Sinopec to Pay Lower Resource Tax Rate, Chairman Fu Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-10-14T10:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sinopec-group-to-get-lower-resource-tax-rate-chairman-fu-says.html
China  Petrochemical Corp., known as
Sinopec Group, will pay a lower resources  tax rate  because of
government tax breaks for production at old oilfields, Chairman
Fu Chengyu said.  The company will be subjected to a tax rate of 3.7 percent,
Fu told reporters in Hong Kong today.  China is introducing a nationwide oil and gas tax at a rate
of 5 to 10 percent of sales starting next month, replacing a
volume-based tax.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the group’s
Hong Kong-listed unit known as Sinopec, produces oil at the 50-
year-old Shengli field, also the company’s largest.  The tax rate “may impact Sinopec’s earnings by 5 to 6
percent, but it’s slightly less than the headline rate, which is
a positive,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based senior analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by telephone. “The
important thing is how this change occurs in the context of
potential changes to other taxes, the reform of product prices
and natural  gas prices .”  China, which controls fuel prices to curb inflation, should
make its oil-product pricing system more transparent, Fu said.  The government introduced a mechanism in December 2008
allowing the National Development and Reform Commission to
adjust fuel prices when benchmark crudes fluctuate more than 4
percent over 22 working days. Controls on fuel tariffs mean
refiners cannot pass on higher global crude costs to consumers.  China may increase the frequency of fuel-price adjustments
and change the global crude benchmarks that it monitors, the
NDRC said on Oct. 8, without being more specific.  Sinopec’s Production Costs  Sinopec rose 1.1 percent to close at HK$7.22, compared with
the 1.4 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .
PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest oil and gas producer,
gained 0.5 percent, while  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  slid 4.6 percent.  China rolled out a 5 percent tax on oil and gas sales in
Xinjiang on a trial basis in June last year to help fund
development of the western province.  “This 3.7 percent tax rate is lower than expected as
Xinjiang is charging 5 percent,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “This is another example of China trying to balance
between the strong -- Cnooc and PetroChina -- and the weak --
Sinopec. Sinopec’s upstream oil and gas segment has the highest
production cost of the oil trio.”  Sinopec’s exploration and production segment posted first-
half operating expenses of 274 billion yuan ($43 billion), up 46
percent from a year earlier, according to its earnings statement.  PetroChina reported a 24 percent increase to 78 billion
yuan for the segment. Cnooc’s operating expenses for all its
segments were 73.8 billion yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 