-- 
Softbank Halts IPhone Sales for 3 Hours on Computer Glitch; Shares Fall

-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-10-14T07:45:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/softbank-suspends-new-contract-orders-after-system-trouble.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  resumed sales of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone 4S today after a three-hour halt
triggered by a computer glitch. The shares fell 2.7 percent.  The computer system that registered customer information
went down soon after the iPhone 4S debuted for sale at 8 a.m. in
 Tokyo , spokeswoman Makiko Ariyama said by phone. The glitch,
which was fixed leading to the resumption of sales at about 11
a.m., occurred because the carrier had “greater-than-expected
orders,” said Naoki Nakayama, a Softbank spokesman.  The device, available today in the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Japan and U.K., is projected to outperform last
year’s introduction of the iPhone 4, with Apple poised to sell
as many as 4 million units this weekend. More than 200 people
had gathered in line in front of a Softbank shop in Tokyo before
the phone went on sale, as customers around the world clamor for
one of the last products developed under  Steve Jobs .  Softbank, Japan’s third-largest wireless carrier, lost its
three-year monopoly on selling Apple’s iPhone in Japan when
bigger rival  KDDI Corp. (9433)  began selling the 4S.  Shares of Softbank slid to 2,478 yen at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. KDDI rose 1 percent to 585,000 yen.
Softbank has declined 12 percent this year and the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average has dropped 14 percent, while KDDI has
climbed 25 percent.  Softbank President Masayoshi Son apologized for the sales
disruption in his Twitter account.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  