-- 
Republicans Expand Solyndra Probe to Investor Role on Navy Work

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/solyndra-investor-s-role-in-a-u-s-navy-project-gets-republican-scrutiny.html
U.S.  House Republicans  expanded the
investigation of Solyndra LLC., which received federal backing
two years before it collapsed, to include the role an investor
played in getting the company close to winning Navy work.  “It is being looked at,” Representative  Joe Barton , a
Texas Republican, said yesterday after a House Energy and
Commerce panel hearing on Solyndra’s $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee. “The primary focus is on the  Department of Energy ,
but it goes throughout the government.”  At the hearing, Treasury Department officials said
an effort to save Solyndra last February was the first case they
recalled in which private investors gained priority over U.S.
taxpayers.  Gary Grippo, deputy assistant Treasury secretary for
government financial policy, and Gary Burner, chief financial
officer of Treasury’s Federal Financing Bank, told the committee
that February’s restructured agreement was unusual.  Republicans have said making taxpayer debt subordinating
taxpayer debt to $75 million in new money in a last-ditch effort
to avoid bankruptcy by Solyndra was illegal. They cite
administration e-mails in which Treasury Department officials
raise the same question.  In the Navy case, the Pentagon picked the solar-panel maker
to get $400,000 of a $1 million pilot program, said Navy
Lieutenant Richlyn Neal, a spokeswoman. Discussions ended when
Solyndra filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6, she said yesterday in
an e-mail.  RockPort Capital  “As we found out about the situation with the company, it
just didn’t seem prudent for us to be pursuing that and we
quickly went to the next one down the list,” said  Thomas Hicks ,
deputy assistant secretary of the Navy for energy, in a
telephone interview.  Solyndra was chosen from among 161 companies identified by
the Pentagon’s Defense Venture Catalyst Initiative, formed a
decade ago to spot emerging technologies with potential military
applications, Hicks said. Solyndra investor RockPort Capital
Partners was one of 26 firms serving as consultants to the
Pentagon, according to the initiative’s website.  The Wall Street Journal said yesterday that RockPort
principal Kevin Kopczynski, a member of the advisory group,
pushed Solyndra and four other companies for the program.
Kopczynski told the Journal he disclosed RockPort’s financial
interest in Solyndra without discussing the deteriorating
financial condition at the Fremont, California-based company.  30 Companies  The Pentagon invited 30 companies to participate in an
energy-focused workshop sponsored by the initiative in April,
Neal said. Three were selected for technology demonstrations at
naval installations, she said.  RockPort officials didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking
comment on its involvement with the Navy project. The firm
invested about $47.5 million in Solyndra, according to financial
documents.  Barton said the push by RockPort was additional evidence
that investors were promoting Solyndra to the government.  Solyndra won a $535 million federal loan guarantee in
September 2009 and two years later filed for bankruptcy and
fired about 1,100 workers. It is the subject of congressional
and criminal investigations.  E-mails obtained last week show RockPort’s managing general
partner David Prend promoting Solyndra to the White House.  In a March 4, 2009, e-mail to a White House official, Prend
referred to a meeting the previous week with  Carol Browner , the
administration’s environmental adviser, as he sought to
publicize Solyndra’s technology.  Unusual Restructuring  “I look forward to working with you to get the message out
and effect real change in the  energy industry ,” Prend wrote.  Solyndra founder and chief executive officer Chris Gronet
sent the same White House official an e-mail two days later, at
Prend’s suggestion. The company is “ramping up production to
meet a very strong demand,” Gronet wrote to the White House
official.  Late yesterday, the White House said it won’t hand over
internal communications relating to Solyndra’s loan guarantee to
House Republicans, citing Executive Branch confidentiality
interests.  Kathryn Ruemmler, counsel to President  Barack Obama , said
in a letter to the House Energy and Commerce committee  that
“encroaching” on those interests isn’t necessary because three
federal agencies involved with the loan program gave
congressional investigators more than 70,000 documents, which
include communications between the agencies and White House
officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  