-- 
Sony Ericsson Beats Sales Estimates as Asia Demand Increases

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-14T10:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sony-ericsson-beats-sales-estimates-while-europe-demand-suffers.html
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications
AB posted third-quarter sales and pretax profit that exceeded
analysts’ forecasts after sales climbed in  Asia  while Western
European revenue suffered from withering  consumer confidence .  Pretax profit fell 53 percent to 31 million euros ($42.6
million), the 50-50 handset joint venture of  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
Ericsson AB said in a statement today. That beat the average
estimate of 22.6 million euros in a SME Direkt survey. Sales
rose 7.8 percent to 1.6 billion euros, beating the 1.36 billion-
euro average estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Sony Ericsson, formed in 2001, has survived the era of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone by focusing on smartphones based on Google
Inc.’s Android platform. The company aims to distinguish itself
from rivals through its integration with Sony’s entertainment
range and distinctive hardware designs such as the Xperia Play,
an Android phone with Playstation console controls and games.  “The results confirm the portfolio turnaround and that the
company is going in the right direction, with extremely strong
average selling prices, strong volumes and positive cashflow,”
said Mats Nystroem, a Stockholm-based analyst with SEB Enskilda.
“I think the market will upgrade its estimates for  Sony
Ericsson .”  Ericsson climbed 3.6 percent to 71.15 kronor as of 11:54
a.m. in Stockholm trading.  Distinctive Designs  Sony Ericsson’s profit in the third quarter “rounded below
500,000 euros,” Chief Financial Officer Bill Glaser said in an
interview. That compared with analyst expectations for net
income of 16.4 million euros, according to the average of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Asia sales gained 81 percent in the quarter to 985 million
euros while  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa declined 43 percent
to 480 million euros.  “Asia is going well for us,” Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg said in a telephone interview. “Western Europe is
very, very weak. Western Europe is clearly suffering from
consumer confidence, that’s our view.”  Sony is reviewing the partnership with an eye to adding it
to its consumer electronics businesses, according to a Wall
Street Journal report this month.  Nordberg referred questions about the possibility of a Sony
buyout to the parent companies.  Sony Ericsson has about 12 percent of the global unit
market for Android handsets, it said in the statement. The
company reviews its platform strategy regularly and is “very
impressed” with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 tablet software,
Nordberg said.  The company posted a net loss in the second quarter as
supply problems from the Japanese earthquake pared sales just as
it was shipping new products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  