-- 
South Sudan Detain Money Changers in Bid to Stabilize Currency

-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 
2011-10-14T10:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/south-sudan-detain-money-changers-in-bid-to-stabilize-currency.html
South Sudanese authorities detained
more than 20 illegal money changers as part of a plan to help
stabilize the newly independent nation’s currency, a police
spokesman said.  Information including the names of those held and the
amount of currency they were carrying was handed to the Justice
Ministry, Biar Mading said in a phone interview today from Juba,
the capital. Mohamed al-Haj Baballa, the mayor of the city,
issued the order for the police to take action, he said.  “There will be more arrests,” Mading said.  The country introduced the South Sudanese pound after
splitting from the north and declaring independence on July 9.
The new currency, which replaced the Sudanese pound, currently
trades at about 4 per dollar on the black market. The central
bank said on July 18 the pound would be equal to the Sudanese
currency, which traded at 2.67 per dollar that day. Three
foreign exchange bureaux in Juba quoted the official rate at
2.96 per dollar today.  The decline in the pound’s value on the black market
contributed to a rise in prices of food and other commodities in
South  Sudan , Mading said. “It’s causing inflation,” he said.  The decision to curb trade on the black market came after a
meeting on Oct. 11 of the Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry, the central bank and security agencies, the  New Sudan
Vision  news website reported on Oct. 12, citing Deputy Interior
Minister Salva Mathok Gengdit.  After independence, South Sudan gained control of about
375,000 barrels a day of oil, about 75 percent of the former
Sudan’s total output, the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 