-- 
Spain Sticks to ‘Ambitious’ 6% Deficit Target, Salgado Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-10-14T15:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/spain-sticks-to-ambitious-6-deficit-target-salgado-says-1-.html
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the nation is sticking to its “ambitious” budget
deficit target even as growth slows and borrowing costs rise.  Spain  has pledged to cut its budget shortfall to 6 percent
of gross domestic product this year from 9.2 percent in 2010.  “We are sticking to the ambitious 6 percent target which
we consider cannot be renounced,” Salgado said in a Madrid news
conference today. “The central government’s budget situation is
better than forecast” due to 1.8 billion euros ($2.5 billion)
in revenue from the auction of radio spectrum and debt servicing
costs that were 2 billion euros less than budgeted, Salgado
said.  Spanish, Italian and Greek bonds fell today after Spain’s
credit rating was cut yesterday for the third time in three
years by  Standard & Poor’s  to its fourth-highest investment
grade. Group of 20 and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated ahead of a meeting today in Paris that the IMF may
seek additional funds to shelter nations such as Spain and Italy
from contagion from a sovereign debt crisis that threatens to
trigger another global economic slump.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 4 basis points to 5.25
percent. Spain is paying more than twice what  Germany  pays to
borrow for a decade even after the  European Central Bank  stepped
in to prop up its  bond market  starting on Aug. 8.  The deficit will grow less in the second half of the year
than in the first, Salgado said. The budget gap increased in the
first two quarters because of accounting adjustments made by the
statistics institute INE, Salgado said, adding that the
government expects to publish in the coming days a summary of
the fiscal consolidation plans adopted by the nation’s 17 semi-
autonomous regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  