-- 
Spain’s PP to Analyze Airport Model Before Privatizing Aena

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-10-14T11:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/spain-s-pp-to-analyze-airport-model-before-privatizing-aena.html
Spain ’s People’s Party will
reconsider the sale of airport-management contracts and the sale
of a stake in state-owned airport operator Aena Aeropuertos SA
if it wins the election on Nov. 20, as polls indicate it will.  “Selling airport concession contracts can be appropriate
when the circumstances are right,” Andres Ayala, the PP’s
infrastructure spokesman, said on Onda Cero radio today. “This
requires first analyzing the whole airport model.”  Aena Aeropuertos said yesterday its plans to extend the
period to present offers for the Madrid Barajas and Barcelona El
Prat airport concessions by three months until Jan. 31. Spain’s
government had initially set a deadline of Oct. 31 for companies
including  Ferrovial SA (FER)  to present bids for the countries’ two
largest airports as it aims to reduce the amount of debt it
needs to issue this year.  “It is necessary to say what we’ll do with all the
airports and not only the two which seem most emblematic but
aren’t the most profitable at the moment,” Ayala said.  The Socialist government aimed to raise at least 3.7
billion euros ($5.1 billion) from the contract for Madrid
Barajas airport and 1.6 billion euros from Barcelona El Prat.  Spain’s Finance Ministry yesterday denied any impact on the
country’s debt issuance. Potential revenue from the sale wasn’t
been taken into account in the calendar, which remains
unchanged, said a spokeswoman, who declined to be named in line
with government policy.  Deadline Extension  The deadline was extended because of the difficulties
encountered by potential bidders in raising funds, Aena said.
The conditions for the concessions remain the same, it added.  Ferrovial, the owner of  London ’s Heathrow, has teamed up
with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Australia’s Industry
Funds Management Pty Ltd. and Infinity Investments of  Abu Dhabi 
for its offer to run both airports, while  Acciona SA (ANA)  is allied
to Frankfurt airport operator Fraport AG.  A group led by Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA and
including Singapore’s Changi Airport Group and Munich-based
 Siemens AG (SIE)  is also bidding for the two hubs, as is GMR
Infrastructure Ltd. of India and a team including  Aeroports de
Paris (ADP)  and Global Infrastructure Partners of the U.S.  Grupo San Jose is bidding solely for Madrid Barajas, while
Barcelona-based  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  wants to run only
its home city’s hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  