-- 
Spanish Peaks Resort Owner Seeks Bankruptcy to Liquidate

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-14T23:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/spanish-peaks-resort-owner-seeks-bankruptcy-to-liquidate-1-.html
Spanish Peaks Holdings II LLC, owner
of a Montana resort, The Club at Spanish Peaks, sought
 bankruptcy protection  to liquidate its assets.  The company, based in Big Sky, Montana, listed debt of as
much as $500 million and assets of as much as $50 million in
Chapter 7 documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, a trustee is
automatically appointed to sell the company’s assets and
distribute the proceeds to creditors.  Thomas J. Francella Jr., a lawyer representing the company,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment after regular business hours.  The Club at Spanish Peaks is a 5,700-acre private resort,
surrounded by Yellowstone National Park, Gallatin National
Forest, and the biggest ski terrain in the U.S., Big Sky resort,
according to its  web site .  Yellowstone Club, another private  Montana  ski resort near
Spanish Peaks whose members included Microsoft Chairman  Bill Gates  and hotelier  Barry Sternlicht , sought protection from
creditors in November 2008 as real estate sales slowed,
according to court records.  Spanish Peaks boasts an 18-hole golf course and private ski
lift access to Big Sky Ski Resort. Members also enjoy fishing in
the Gallatin River, where “A River Runs Through It” was
filmed, horseback riding and mountain biking, among other
activities. Stays at three-bedroom mountain homes start at about
$1,200-a-night.  Some homes at the resort are going for about  $1.95 million 
to about  $5.88 million , according to listings on  trulia.com .  The company shut and fired its workers this week, according
to a report in the local paper, the  Bozeman Daily Chronicle .  The case is In re Spanish Peaks Holdings II LLC, 11-13300,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 