-- 
Sportingbet Turkish Deal Trades Lower Profit for Lower Risk

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-10-14T15:49:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/sportingbet-turkish-deal-trades-lower-profit-for-lower-risk-1-.html
Sportingbet Plc (SBT) , an online sports
betting company, agreed to sell its Turkish website to East
 Pioneer Corp. (6773)  for at least 125 million pounds ($197 million) to
boost sales in lower-risk regulated markets at the cost of
depressing profit, at least temporarily.  The London-based company had been looking to sell its
Turkish unit to clear the way for an acquisition by U.K.
bookmaker  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) ; those talks collapsed this week.  Ladbrokes ended discussions in part because of concerns
about potential liabilities in Turkey. Sportingbet said today in
a statement it’s selling the Turkish unit because regulated-
market operations bring lower risks and a promise of higher
stock ratings, even though the sale and strategy of moving to
regulated markets will at least temporarily lower profit.  “Disposal of  Turkey  was always a question of when, and not
if,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew McIver said in a telephone
interview. “We believe the unregulated income stream drags down
the group.”  McIver said Sportingbet will start cutting costs to offset
the extra costs of taxation and complying with rules in
regulated markets. He wouldn’t give details.  Sportingbet rose 0.75 pence, or 1.9 percent, to 39.5 pence.
The shares have dropped as much as 36 percent so far this year,
giving the company a market value of 261 million pounds.  Bids  The sale of the Turkish unit might increase the possibility
of bids from companies such as  Betfair Group Plc (BET) , Bwin.party
digital entertainment Plc or  Greece ’s  OPAP SA (OPAP) , a Collins Stewart
analyst,  Simon Davies , wrote this week.  Sportingbet said the sale will push the proportion of
overall revenue from regulated markets to half, and later to as
much as 70 percent.  Still, in Turkey, where online gambling companies operate
untaxed, Sportingbet has been generating its highest profit
margin by far, according to David Jennings, an analyst with Davy
stockbrokers in Dublin.  Sportingbet said the Turkish operations generated 35.2
million pounds in operating profit before central costs, which
might represent 84 percent of the company’s earnings before
interest and tax, Jennings wrote in a note to investors.  “We believe Sportingbet is doing the right thing
strategically,” he said. “While the sale of Turkey is clearly
earnings-dilutive, the group’s traded multiple should expand
significantly over time.”  East Pioneer has a service agreement with Isle of Man-based
 GVC Holdings Plc (GVC) , Sportingbet said in its statement.  Earlier this week, Sportingbet acquired two Danish gambling
companies to expand in Denmark, which starts licensing online
betting on Jan. 1.  The Turkish sale price is based on Sportingbet receiving a
portion of the profit for at least three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  