-- 
Standard Life Buys Canadian Stocks, Saying Recession Is Unlikely

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/standard-life-buys-canadian-stocks-saying-recession-is-unlikely.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/)  increased
investments in Canadian equities for the first time since 2009,
betting that prices have plunged to levels justified only if the
 U.S. economy  contracts, which the firm says is unlikely.  Standard Life Investments Inc., the insurer’s Canadian
asset-management unit, has boosted its allocation to equities in
the nation, buying shares of larger base-metals, energy and
industrial companies in the past month, said Charles H. Jenkins.
The unit, which oversees about C$5.7 billion ($5.6 billion), has
sought stocks most-tied to economic growth.  “This is a mid-cycle slowdown, subpar growth, but we’re
going to muddle through it,” said Jenkins, a senior vice
president for Canadian equities at the unit. He spoke during a
telephone interview yesterday. Standard Life, based in
Edinburgh, is  Scotland ’s largest insurer.  Canadian stocks entered a  bear market  this month, with the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index falling more than 20
percent from its peak in April, amid concern that the U.S.
economy is stalling. The index has rebounded 6.6 percent since
then after European leaders said they are working toward a
solution to the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Oil and metals
prices have also rallied, driving up their producers in  Canada .  The index’s price relative to earnings forecasts for the
next 12 months dropped to the lowest level since March 2009 on
Oct. 4, while the yield on Canadian 10-year  government bonds 
declined to a record low last month. That made equities too
enticing to pass up, Jenkins said.  “If you look at some of the metals stocks, they’re down 50
percent,” said Jenkins, who declined to name the stocks he
bought. “Their balance sheets are pristine.”  Base-metals and coal companies in the S&P/TSX have less
than one-third the debt relative to equity they had at the end
of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stocks
have tumbled 40 percent since Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 Nbaker7@bloomberg.net  