-- 
Statoil Targets North Sea Finds After ‘Fantastic’ Year

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-10-14T12:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/statoil-targets-north-sea-finds-after-fantastic-year-correct-.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  is targeting more
prospects in the  North Sea  after the Aldous-Avaldsnes oil find
revived interest in the area and strengthened the company’s goal
of keeping output at current levels until 2020.  “From an exploration perspective, 2011 has been a
fantastic year,” Oeystein Michelsen, head of development and
production in Norway, said yesterday on a platform at the North
Sea Troll field. “Despite it being a mature area, we still see
a lot of possibilities in the North Sea. It will deliver steady,
high production.”  Statoil and Lundin Petroleum AB this year struck oil at the
Aldous and Avaldsnes prospects in the North Sea, which together
may hold as much as 2.6 billion barrels, the third-biggest oil
find off  Norway  in more than 40 years of exploration. The
country’s Petroleum Directorate estimated this week that
resource growth is likely to outstrip production for the first
time since 1997.  The Aldous-Avaldsnes discovery will help Statoil in its
plans to add 700,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in new
production by 2020 to keep domestic output at 1.4 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day. Gas will take a bigger share
than today’s 50 percent, Michelsen said in an interview at
Troll, off Bergen.  Lot of Prospect  “We plan to maximize the value of the North Sea and still
see a lot of prospects, such as in the Oseberg area,” he said.
Government-owned Statoil, which operates about 80 percent of
Norway’s petroleum production, is investing 17 billion kroner
($3 billion) in four rigs and two compressors at the Troll field
to boost output, after spending 6 billion kroner on a new
pipeline and expanding facilities, Michelsen said.  Oil production for the seventh-largest crude exporter has
dropped 50 percent in the past 10 years as North Sea fields such
as Troll, Norway’s biggest gas deposit, mature and discoveries
have become smaller. Gas production in Norway, which is less
profitable, has doubled in the past decade.  Statoil is expanding in countries such as  Angola ,  Brazil 
and the U.S. as in a bid to increase production and replace its
reserves. While the company raised its replacement ratio to 87
percent in 2010 from 73 percent in 2009, it hasn’t been above
100 percent since 2004.  The North Sea “is undoubtedly an area where everybody has
started looking at the seismic data again, wondering what
they’ve missed,” Bente Nyland, head of the directorate, said at
an Oct. 12 press conference in Stavanger.  Troll Output  Statoil expects to maintain gas output from Troll at
current levels until 2030 and keep overall production going
until 2060, recovering an estimated 6.5 billion barrels of oil
equivalents, Michelsen said. Troll is also Norway’s third-
biggest oil producer.  Statoil is investing in modifications on its installations
off Norway to reduce the maintenance halt interval to every
third year from every other year now, Michelsen said. The
company expects to maintain spending levels on maintenance and
upgrades at its platforms, which amounted to 10 percent of
investments this year, he said.  “We don’t see investments galloping going forward --
they’ll remain at a solid, responsible level,” Michelsen said.
“To the extent that we increase investments, that share may be
somewhat less.”  While finds farther north in the  Norwegian Sea  have been
disappointing in the past years, with prospects such as
Dalsnuten, Gro and Victoria coming in at the lower end of early
estimates, the Barents Sea is emerging as a “new industrial
horizon,” Michelsen said.  Goliat Start  Eni SpA’s Goliat field, in which Statoil owns 35 percent,
is scheduled to start production in 2014. Statoil is targeting a
record development time of less than six years at the Skrugard
find, which is estimated to contain 250 million to 500 million
barrels, and will next year make a decision on investing in a
second liquefied natural gas plant at Melkoeya, the onshore
production facility near Snohvit.  “The probability of finding a profitable solution to this
is good,” said Michelsen. Building a pipeline to the  Barents
Sea , which is being assessed by Norwegian authorities, “would
require huge investments and large resources,” he said.  GDF Suez SA today reported that it had drilled a dry well
in the Barents Sea, the third failed well this year in the sea
off Norway’s northern tip. Three other wells found resources,
including the Skrugard deposit.  Statoil also has “very big expectations” for the newly
delimited area in the southeastern Barents Sea along the border
with  Russia , Michelsen said. OAO Lukoil’s Chief Executive
Officer Vagit Alekperov last month said the company was
interested in working with Statoil in the area.  Michelsen declined to comment on whether the company was in
talks with Lukoil. “There are a lot of discussions on
collaboration in the Barents Sea between just about all the
companies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  