-- 
State Revenue Under Forecasts to Produce Cuts From New York to California

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/state-revenue-under-forecasts-to-produce-cuts-from-new-york-to-california.html
New York,  California  and  Florida  are
among states reporting revenue collections trailing forecasts in
the fiscal first quarter, prompting preparations for a fresh
round of budget reductions.  California’s receipts fell more than 3 percent short of
estimates for the three months through September, raising
concern that school aid may be cut. In fiscal 2013, New York
state may face a $2.4 billion deficit because of smaller Wall
Street bonuses and job cuts, Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said
Oct. 11.  States are projecting combined budget gaps of $31.9 billion
in fiscal 2013,  according  to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures  in Denver. A 14 percent third-quarter drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the worst performance since the end
of 2008, and concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread have
dented consumer and business confidence, curbing tax receipts.  “It’s going to be quite a while before happy days are here
again for many state legislatures,” John J. Pitney Jr., a
politics professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,
California, said by telephone. “There is such weak job growth
and income growth. Everything that should be up is down.”  A revenue miss of $1 billion in California would trigger
automatic cuts in funding for universities and social services,
under the state’s 2012 budget. A $2 billion shortfall would spur
cuts to schools. For the first three months of the fiscal year,
receipts trailed projections by $654 million, or 3.4 percent,
the state Finance Department said yesterday, citing declines in
corporation and sales levies.  ‘Weak’ Job Growth  “If you look at job growth in the past five months, it’s
been very weak,” said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica
Inc., a Dallas-based  bank holding company . “Especially in
August, measures of  consumer confidence  nosedived and we remain
in a period of heightened risk and uncertainty.”  Florida forecast revenue to miss budget estimates by as
much as $1.57 billion over two years through fiscal 2013 as home
building and job growth slow,  Amy Baker , the Legislature’s chief
economist, said, citing an Oct. 11 report. First-quarter
receipts fell $106 million short of estimates, prompting a cut
of 2.5 percent in the state’s revenue outlook for this year.  Weaker collections in recent months reversed a trend in
which a majority of states took in more revenue in fiscal 2011
than projected, said Michael Leachman, director of state fiscal
research at the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a
nonprofit research organization in  Washington . Revenue in most
states remains below peak levels reached in 2007 and 2008, while
demand for health care and education has risen, he said.  Curbing Demand  “States shouldn’t be making decisions based on these
short-term trends,” Leachman said by telephone. “If you are
only cutting spending, then you are pulling demand out of the
economy.”  The center, which focuses on issues affecting lower-income
Americans, said in June that 24 states already were projecting a
combined $46 billion in 2013 deficits.  New York  City’s securities industry lost 4,100 jobs since
April, and may lose almost 10,000 more by the end of 2012, while
profit is declining, according to an Oct. 11 report from state
Comptroller DiNapoli. Citing a “ripple effect” on the economy,
the report projected state tax revenue to be weaker than
estimated earlier, widening budget deficits.  Rising Illinois Deficit  While Illinois may collect more revenue than projected in
the current fiscal year, as income-tax receipts surge, the
budget deficit is forecast to climb to $5 billion by the Civic
Federation, a nonpartisan research organization in  Chicago . In
January, Governor Patrick Quinn, a Democrat, signed the biggest
tax increases in state history to cut the deficit, pay bills and
help fund public pensions.  “We’re not going to grow out way out of this and they are
going to have to do more in terms of cutting,” said Laurence J. Msall, the nonprofit federation’s president, noting that state
tax collections remain below 2008 levels. Msall said the state
plans to spend $454 million more than projected revenue in the
2012 budget, after ending fiscal 2011 with a deficit of $4.6
billion that was carried into this year.  Even in states where revenue growth remains strong, such as
 Texas  and  Ohio , it is still forecast to weaken.  Ohio’s fiscal first-quarter tax receipts were $35 million,
or 0.8 percent, above forecast, the state budget office said
this week. However, September fell 1 percent short of estimates
as $511 million in sales levies missed by 3.5 percent.  Texas Revenue  Sales-tax receipts in Texas, the most-populous state after
California, rose to a record $1.76 billion last month, up almost
12 percent from a year earlier, according to Comptroller Susan Combs. The state’s fiscal year began Sept. 1. In an Oct. 11
 statement , Combs credited business spending increases, led by
the oil and gas industries, for the revenue gain.  In fiscal 2011, receipts from sales levies rose 9.4 percent
from 2010, John Heleman, the comptroller’s chief revenue
estimator, told lawmakers last month. He predicted gains would
slow this year.  Texas and other states with extensive oil and gas resources
are rebounding from the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009 faster than the U.S. overall, according to Comerica’s Dye.  “While states may have to make slight downward revenue
revisions, most states will not need to make as significant
midyear budget cuts as in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010,” said
Scott D. Pattison, Executive Director of the  National
Association of State Budget Officers , in a Sept. 19 blog posting
on the Washington-based group’s website.  “It’s just really early in most state fiscal years to be
able to know for sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  