-- 
Stockpiles at U.S. Companies Increase 0.5% as Autos Rebound

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-14T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/stockpiles-at-u-s-companies-increase-0-5-as-autos-rebound.html
Inventories at U.S. companies rose
more than forecast in August as businesses anticipated faster
growth in sales.  The 0.5 percent increase in stockpiles matched the advance
in July that was larger than initially estimated, the Commerce
Department said today in Washington. The median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.4 percent advance. Sales
climbed 0.3 percent in August.  The biggest jump in auto and parts stockpiles in more than a
year signals supply-chain constraints from  Japan ’s March disaster
have abated. The gain in goods on hand also indicates companies
are prepared for improving demand after a report today showed
retail sales rose more than forecast in September, easing concern
slumping confidence and scant hiring will derail spending.  “Businesses haven’t lost heart, they are just using their
heads,”  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered
Bank in  London , said before the report.  Estimates for stockpiles ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to
0.8 percent in the Bloomberg News survey of 49 economists. July
stockpiles were revised from a previously reported 0.4 percent
advance.  Purchases at retailers advanced 1.1 percent in September,
the biggest in seven months, other Commerce Department figures
showed today. The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.7 percent rise last month.  A report from the Labor Department showed prices of imported
goods unexpectedly rose in September, reflecting a jump in metals
and higher costs of crude oil that have since receded. The 0.3
percent gain followed a revised 0.2 percent decrease in August.  Retail Inventories  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, climbed 0.8 percent in August,
the most in five months, as sales increased 0.3 percent.  Auto and parts stockpiles increased 1.5 percent, the biggest
gain since August 2010.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest car maker, is
ramping up its U.S. inventory levels to catch up with demand
after plant shutdowns earlier in the year due to Japan’s March
earthquake.  “Virtually all of our plants are working overtime, and
fourth quarter production will actually exceed our initial
plans,” U.S. sales vice president  Bob Carter  said on an Oct. 3
conference call. “The flow of Toyota, Scion, and Lexus vehicles
is rapidly increasing and so will all our inventories.”  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
total stockpiles, grew 0.4 percent in August, the Commerce
Department said Oct. 4. Another 30 percent of inventories, held
by wholesalers, grew 0.4 percent during the month, figures showed
Oct. 7.  Goods on Hand  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.28 months in August, the same as in the prior
month, according to today’s figures.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after growing at a 0.4 percent pace in the first
three months of this year, the weakest six-month period of the
recovery that began in June 2009. Stockpiles subtracted 0.3
percentage point from gross domestic product in the second
quarter, while in the prior quarter they added 0.3 point,
Commerce Department figures showed on Sept. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  