-- 
Supercommittee Weighs Old Ideas Before ‘Ridiculous’ Deadline

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-10-14T19:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/supercommittee-weighs-old-ideas-as-ridiculous-deadline-nears.html
Members of Congress on the
supercommittee charged with trimming the national deficit are
facing a menu of leftovers.  The 12-member panel’s closed-door meetings for the past
month have focused on spending cuts in areas accounting for 12
percent of the federal budget -- the same areas lawmakers
discussed in previous unsuccessful talks led by Vice President
 Joe Biden , according to one Republican and one Democratic aide
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Today is the deadline for congressional committee leaders
to submit recommendations to help the panel identify $1.5
trillion in savings over the next decade. The bipartisan
committee is assigned to propose a plan by Nov. 23, and if
Congress doesn’t pass it by Dec. 23, across-the-board spending
cuts of $1.2 trillion would begin in fiscal 2013.  “The time frame they’re expecting these people to operate
in is just completely unrealistic and ridiculous,” said Scott Lilly, former Democratic staff director of the House
Appropriations Committee. “The work hasn’t begun yet.”  House Democrats made their recommendations yesterday,
focusing more on  job creation  than debt reduction. After a
series of standoffs over spending cuts sought by  House
Republicans  that almost shut down the government, Republican
leaders of House committees overseeing taxes and entitlements
aren’t offering formal proposals to say how they would cut the
government.  ‘Recommend to Myself’  “I’m on the committee, so I don’t think I need to
recommend to myself,” House Ways and Means Committee Chairman
 Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, said in an interview
yesterday. The House Energy and Commerce Committee also doesn’t
plan to make a recommendation to the supercommittee, a
Republican committee aide said.  Congress created the supercommittee in early August as part
of a deal to raise the U.S. debt limit. On Aug. 5,  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time,
saying lawmakers weren’t doing enough to reduce record deficits.  Since then a stalemate has persisted between Democrats, who
want higher taxes to help close the deficit, and Republicans who
oppose tax increases and seek to reduce entitlement programs
such as Medicare.  Some lawmakers are talking about short-circuiting the
automatic cuts set to take effect in 2013.  “The Congress is not bound by this,” Arizona Senator  John McCain , a Republican, said yesterday at a news conference.
“It’s something we passed; we can reverse it.”  No ‘Grand Bargain’  Months of 9 percent unemployment have turned the focus in
Congress to job-creation bills and away from President Barack Obama’s onetime priority of a “grand bargain” between the
parties to rein in the debt.  Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf told
supercommittee members last month that the real deadline for a
proposal is early November, to give his agency time to calculate
how much money a plan would save.  The savings House Democrats identified yesterday, such as
expanded auctioning of airwaves, amount to a tiny fraction of
the budget. The top Republican on the House Armed Services
Committee, Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of  California , urged the
panel to cut entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security
instead of defense.  Medicare and Medicaid  According to a memo outlining options during previous talks
led by Biden, negotiators could wring about $224 billion to $332
billion out of the budget over 10 years by targeting areas such
as spectrum broadband auctions, postal service overhaul and
agricultural subsidies.  Because those programs account for a sliver of the overall
budget, supercommittee negotiators can’t get to their $1.5
trillion goal without touching entitlements, said Lilly.  There are some signs lawmakers want to give the committee a
boost. Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said on Oct. 12 that parts of Obama’s unsuccessful
jobs plan could be considered by the supercommittee.  That same day the Blue Dog Coalition of fiscally
conservative House Democrats said it supports a bipartisan
Senate proposal to allow American multinational companies to
bring back overseas earnings to the U.S. at reduced tax rates to
help stimulate the economy. They estimate up to $1.4 trillion in
private money could return to the U.S.  Finance Committee  Today, nine of the 11 Republicans on the Senate Finance
Committee released a set of recommendations. They called for
overhauling the  tax code  in a way that doesn’t raise revenue,
repealing the 2010 health-care law and addressing the
eligibility age for Medicare. The committee’s Republicans
proposed converting Medicaid health care for the poor from an
open-ended entitlement to states to a block grant that would cap
the federal contribution and give states greater flexibility to
control eligibility and benefits.  Representative  John Kline  of  Minnesota , chairman of the
Education and the Workforce Committee, asked the supercommittee
to consider restricting the Pell college tuition grant program
to give money for no more than 12 semesters, down from 18, and
to eliminate grants to students who attend college less than
half-time.  Kline, whose committee has voted to end 42 federal
education programs, also suggested the supercommittee look at
his panel’s list of education and job-training programs it
considers duplicative.  Common Ground  Democratic Senator Tom Carper of  Delaware , a member of a
bipartisan group urging the supercommittee to go bigger than its
$1.5 trillion mandate, identified potential common ground areas
such as pension overpayments to postal workers, cracking down on
late and delinquent tax filings and eliminating Medicare and
Medicaid fraud and waste that could save billions of dollars.  Lilly suggested Congress may let the supercommittee move
back its Nov. 23 deadline. The panel will probably need at least
two more months to complete its work, he said, and in the
meantime, Congress can forestall the automatic cuts through the
annual appropriations process.  David Walker , former U.S. comptroller general, said the
committee could set a goal for savings to be identified by
various congressional committees that could put off a broader
debt deal until after the 2012 elections.  “We have to be realistic given the composition of this
committee and the limited amount of time they have to do their
work,” said Walker, a leading proponent for a debt deal.
“They’re not going to be coming up with any grand bargain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  