-- 
Suzuki Sends Volkswagen Notice Alleging ‘Numerous’ Partnership Breaches

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-10-14T06:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/suzuki-sends-volkswagen-notice-alleging-numerous-partnership-breaches.html
Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  accused
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  of violating a partnership agreement by not
sharing technology and reiterated its demand that the German
carmaker sell back its stock.  Suzuki sent a letter to VW asking it to remedy “numerous”
breaches of an agreement, the Hamamatsu, Japan-based company
said in a statement today, without providing details of the
alleged infringements. The German carmaker bought 19.9 percent
of Suzuki in 2009 and the Japanese company took a 1.49 percent
share of VW.  “This capital alliance was intended to facilitate Suzuki’s
access to VW’s core technologies,” Suzuki’s Chairman  Osamu Suzuki  said in the statement. “I remain disappointed that we
have not received what we were promised. If VW will not allow
access, it must return Suzuki’s shares.”  Suzuki is seeking to end its partnership with Volkswagen,
which has accused the Japanese company of violating the
cooperation agreement by purchasing engines from Fiat SpA.
Chairman Suzuki said Sept. 22 that VW’s allegation had
“significantly disparaged Suzuki’s honor” and demanded a
retraction.  “The accusations are completely unfounded,” VW spokesman
Michael Brendel said today by telephone from the carmaker’s
Wolfsburg, Germany headquarters, in response to the letter from
Suzuki.  “Volkswagen has from the start done all it could to
safeguard the partnership.”  Suzuki’s shares fell 0.2 percent to 1,656 yen as of the 3
p.m. close of  Tokyo  trading, while the benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average dropped 0.9 percent.  Broken Relationship  “Now that both companies are claiming that the other
infringed on the partnership, it seems like they will have to
legally resolve this process,” said  Tatsuya Mizuno , director of
Mizuno Credit Advisory in Tokyo. “It doesn’t look like they
will be able to rebuild their relationship.”  Suzuki has given VW “several weeks to remedy the
breaches,” Executive Vice President Yasuhito Harayama said
today at a media briefing in Tokyo. He declined to say when
Suzuki expects the partnership to end. Top executives from both
companies are holding talks,  he said.  The two automakers have been at odds since VW said in its
March annual report that it could “significantly influence
financial and operating policy decisions” at Suzuki, describing
the Japanese company as an “associate.”  The cooperation agreement hasn’t resulted in a single
project, the companies have said. The Japanese automaker plans
to sell its holdings in VW should the tie-up end, the company
said Sept. 12. VW has said it doesn’t plan to sell or reduce its
stake in Suzuki.  “Competition in  India  and at home is intensifying,”
Masatoshi Nishimoto, a Tokyo-based analyst at IHS Automotive,
said in a phone interview. “If the partnership with VW is
delaying their development of new technology and cars, they need
to end it as soon as and as calmly as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  