-- 
Syngenta Predicts ‘Substantial’ Gain in Full-Year Revenue

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T09:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/syngenta-expects-substantial-increase-in-full-year-revenue.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN)  forecast full-year
revenue will rise “substantially” as the world’s largest maker
of agricultural chemicals sees no drop-off in orders.  Syngenta, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , raised prices by 3
percent in the third quarter and the company is planning further
increases for 2012, Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said
today in an interview. Third-quarter sales rose 21 percent to
$2.66 billion, beating a $2.48 billion analyst estimate.  Farmers, especially in  Latin America , are benefiting from
higher crop prices, helping Syngenta pass on the price increases
needed to improve margins and offset raw-material costs, Ramsay
said by phone. The company aims to gain market share as it
reorganizes its business by integrating its crop-protection and
seed units. The growth in sales volumes continued into the
current quarter, Ramsay said.  “We’re really pleased that the pricing came through,”
Ramsay said. “It puts a seal on the past and signals that
pricing has changed for the better.”  The stock gained as much as 4.4 percent to 276.4 Swiss
francs in Zurich trading, the biggest jump since July 22 when
Syngenta last reported quarterly figures. The shares, up 2.7
percent at 271.8 francs as of 11:20 a.m., are little changed
this year for a value of about 25 billion francs ($28 billion).  Profit Outlook  Profit in the third quarter, which the company didn’t
release today, is in line with current plans, Ramsay said.
Profit “momentum” is similar to that of the first half, he
said. Analysts probably shouldn’t raise their estimates for the
company because it’s an “uncertain world,” Ramsay said.  “I’m not being unnecessarily pessimistic,” he said. “I
just think we have to be realistic and not get carried away.”  Analysts predict annual revenue will rise 13 percent, based
on the average of four estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Cash
flows are at a record and the company will likely raise its
dividend from 2010’s 7 francs a share, company spokesman Michael
Isaac said. Bloomberg predicts a 7.40-franc payout.  The Swiss company plans to grow its seed business, which
contributes about a fifth of sales, and is seeking smaller
acquisitions, Ramsay said today. While seed companies are
expensive at the moment, marketing synergies may still mean that
a purchase would add value, the CFO said.  The company plans to report figures for its lawn and garden
business separately once the integration of crop protection and
seeds is complete, Ramsay said. While the business is small,
it’s profitability is attractive because of technology and
manufacturing synergies, the CFO said. Syngenta sees the unit as
core and plans further investment, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  