-- 
Syrian Opposition Council Would Try Assad, Allies for Killings

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-10-14T19:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/syrian-opposition-council-would-try-assad-allies-for-killings.html
The Syrian National Council, the
newly formed opposition coalition, will put President Bashar al- Assad on trial if it succeeds in toppling his regime, a senior
member of the group said.  Burhan Ghalioun, a spokesman for the council, said Assad
and other officials would face charges stemming from the
regime’s violent crackdown on anti-government protests that has
killed thousands of Syrians.  “This will be something normal, and it won’t be just him
that will be tried but anyone who has given orders to kill and
is responsible for the killing of Syrians,” Ghalioun, a
political sociologist at Sorbonne University in Paris, said in a
telephone interview from Paris today.  Asked if the council would seek the death penalty for
Assad, Ghalioun said, “We will leave it to the legal system. If
we are to impose his punishment, then we are not a democratic
state,” he said. “The state will determine the punishment
according to the crimes committed according to the law.”  The leaders of the SNC, formed Oct. 2, are trying to follow
the path taken by  Libya ’s former rebels, whose National
Transitional Council became the governing authority in the North
African country in August after  Muammar Qaddafi ’s overthrow.  The Syrian group, which includes the Muslim Brotherhood,
aims to coordinate the struggle to end Assad’s 11-year rule
while calling for peaceful means to oust him.  United Opposition  The opposition movement, which traditionally has been
fragmented, is now united in seeking to end Assad’s rule, moving
toward a democratic political system and opposing foreign
military involvement, Ghalioun said. A leader of the council
will be decided within the coming week, he said, declining to
specify where members would be meeting next for security
reasons.  Protests demanding Assad’s ouster started in March as part
of the wave of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
this year that has unseated governments in Tunisia, Egypt and
Libya. Assad has blamed the demonstrations in Syria on foreign-
backed extremists.  At least 4,000 Syrian civilians have been killed by
security forces, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. Qurabi, a regime critic,
has questioned the capabilities of the opposition council
because of its divergent views and a large Islamist component.  Ghalioun, 66, a senior member of the council, is a native
of the central governorate of Homs, which has been hit by
sustained assaults from Syrian security forces since the
uprising began in March.  Against Violence  “We will never support violence under any circumstances,”
Ghalioun said when asked if the council would resort to violence
to resist the state security forces. Libyan rebels took up arms
against Qaddafi after an uprising began in February and were
able to end his four-decade rule with the help of an air
campaign by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Russia and  China  have blocked efforts by the U.S. and its
Western allies in the  United Nations Security Council  to pass
resolutions authorizing expanded sanctions or other actions
against Syria. Both Russia and China, key allies of Syria, have
said the U.S. and its NATO allies overstepped their UN mandate
in Libya.  The council’s goal “is to topple this dictatorial regime
and create a pluralistic system that guarantees the freedoms of
all people,” Ghalioun said. “The future government will not be
affiliated with a particular sect or ethnic group but
representative of all the Syrian people and the next era will
not be one of revenge.”  Iraq Lessons  “We are against any military intervention,” he added,
saying the council “seeks to preserve the state and its
institutions, including the military to ensure continuity and
normal life.”  “We want Syria to avoid all that happened in  Iraq  in terms
of destruction of the state and its institutions and the
continued unrest there that led to chaos,” he said. “We want
to avoid civil war and the use of arms.”  After the fall of  Saddam Hussein ’s regime in 2003, one
criticism of the U.S. was its disbanding of the Iraqi army,
which was followed by a loss of control over borders with
neighboring countries and the rise of a violent insurgency.  “Of course I have a fear that the country could slide to
civil war, and that’s why I say, if we want Syria to avoid civil
strife, we have to ramp up the diplomatic and international
pressure on the regime,” Ghalioun said. “We have been
contacted by many states and have held meetings with Britain,
 Sweden  and plan to meet with  Germany .”  ‘Step Forward’  So far, only Libya’s NTC has recognized the Syrian council
as the legitimate representative of the nation’s people,
Ghalioun said.  The European Union welcomed this week the formation of the
council, calling it a “positive step forward,” according to a
 statement  by EU foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg. Britain
also began courting members of the SNC this week.  Qatar’s emir, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, stressed
this week the need for the violence in Syria to end and called
on the government to engage in a dialogue with the opposition
council. The SNC “is an important step,” the emir said,
according to the state-run Qatar News Agency.  “It is to the benefit of the Syrian government if it’s
able to sit down and reach an understanding with the council on
a new constitution that preserves the nation,” he said.  ‘Severe’ Measures  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem said Oct. 9 his
government would retaliate with “severe” measures if any
country formally recognized the opposition umbrella group.  The council seeks to have “the  Arab League  as well all
states recognize us as the legitimate representatives of the
Syrian people,” he said, adding that the council woln’t
publicly request the league to recognize it.  The council wants the Arab League to help by “providing
any support it can to help end the daily killing in  Syria ,” he
said.  “We want to gather as much momentum internationally
against this regime to cut any hope for it, and any entities
that support it and eliminate any notion that there can be any
return to the past or that there can be any compromise,”
Ghalioun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  