-- 
U.S. Delays Its Global Currency Report at a ‘Delicate Time’ for China Ties

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-15T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-treasury-delays-report-on-currencies-until-after-apec-g-20-meetings.html
The U.S. postponed a report on the
exchange-rate policies of its trading partners, including  China ,
until after global meetings scheduled for this month and next.  The delay will “give us a chance to assess progress
following several international meetings,” including this
week’s Group of 20 finance ministers’ session in Paris, a G-20
summit in November and meetings involving Asia-Pacific finance
ministers and leaders in November, the Treasury Department said
in a statement yesterday, a day before the report was due.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has been pushing
China to allow its currency to strengthen, saying that would
help support global growth, while avoiding actions that could
cause friction with the world’s No. 2 economy and the second-
largest U.S. trade partner.  “The delay clearly reflects that it’s a delicate time,”
said  Paul Ballew , chief economist at Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Co. in Columbus,  Ohio . “We’re trying to make sure we’re
creating a fair-trade environment and not creating undue tension
within the system. And we don’t want to further upset financial
markets by creating a trade war with China right now.”  The Treasury frequently delays the report. The last one,
due April 15, was released May 27. The previous one, due Oct.
15, 2010, was released Feb. 4, 2011.  ‘Very Supportive’  The Obama administration is “very supportive” of the
goals of a Senate bill aimed at punishing China for keeping the
yuan undervalued, Geithner said this week. Still, Congress
should address concerns about “the consistency of some
provisions with our international commitments.”  The Senate voted 63-35 on Oct. 12 for the legislation,
which would let U.S. companies seek duties to compensate for
“misaligned” currencies. House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
has “grave concerns” with the bill because it might start a
“trade war,” casting doubt on whether it will become law.  Ma Zhaoxu, a spokesman for China’s foreign ministry, this
week condemned the measure as “protectionism and a serious
violation of World Trade Organization rules.”  Chris Fernandes, a  San Ramon , California-based vice
president at Bank of the West focusing on foreign exchange and
capital markets, said, “Every year, we hear the same things:
the Chinese currency is too low, we’re losing jobs to China.”  “The Chinese invariably turn around and point fingers at
the U.S. and all of that ends up having minimal impact on
foreign exchange markets,” he said. Bank of the West is based
in  San Francisco .  Undervalued Currency  China has been relying on an undervalued currency to keep
its exports cheap in overseas markets and drive the fastest
growth among the world’s major economies.  China’s economy 
expanded 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.  The  U.S. trade deficit  with China in August rose to a
record $29 billion as imports from the nation were the highest
ever.  The yuan has appreciated 10 percent, adjusted for
inflation, since mid-2010, a pace that’s too slow, Geithner said
this week.  The yuan rose for a second week after a government report
showed that inflation exceeded 6 percent for a fourth month. The
yuan gained 0.12 percent this week to 6.3785 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trading System.  China’s central bank limits conversion of the yuan onshore
for investment purposes and restricts daily movements to 0.5
percent from its daily fixing. Intervention by buying and
selling the currency has contributed to the buildup of $3.2
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest.
Chinese investors hold $1.2 trillion of Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  