-- 
Court Delays Parts of AL Immigration Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-10-14T20:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-appeals-court-delays-enforcement-of-parts-of-alabama-immigration-law.html
A U.S. appeals court temporarily
blocked  Alabama  laws making it a crime for illegal immigrants to
not carry registration papers and forcing schools to determine
the legal status of students as they enroll.  The Atlanta-based court today also rejected requests by the
U.S. and, separately, by civil rights groups to bar enforcement
of other provisions of legislation signed by state Governor
Robert Bentley on June 9.  The federal government and the rights groups showed a
“substantial likelihood” they would win their challenges to
the barred provisions of the Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and
Citizen Protection Act and a likelihood of irreparable harm if
those measures were enforced, the three-judge panel said. The
rulings are provisional and remain in effect only until the
appellate court considers the underlying legal challenges.  “Today’s order recognizes that there’s a need to put the
brakes on this misguided law,” said Andre Segura, a lawyer for
the  American Civil Liberties Union , one of the groups opposing
the school-tracking provision and other aspects of the act.  The U.S. Justice Department and the rights groups
challenged the constitutionality of the legislation. The U.S.
also argued that regulating immigration is solely the province
of the federal government.  Alabama isn’t seeking to supplant the U.S. role, state
Attorney General Luther Strange said in a filing that opposed
delaying enforcement of the act while it’s on appeal.  ‘Traditional’ Powers  The legislation draws on the state’s “traditional police
powers,” and helps ensure that federal immigration law is
respected, Strange said.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham, Alabama, last month rejected arguments against those
measures in rulings on the separate lawsuits.  Blackburn blocked parts of the act that would make it a
crime to hire people living unlawfully in the U.S. or to harbor
or transport them. She declined to bar statutes empowering
police to question the immigration status of people they stop
for other reasons and making it a felony for unregistered aliens
to do business with Alabama or its political subdivisions.  The judge also denied requests to stay enforcement of those
parts of the act she found lawful while the rights groups and
the U.S. appealed her rulings.  ‘Lengthy Legal Process’  Alabama has told the appellate court it too seeks to
overturn some of her decisions.  “Today’s decision by the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals is
simply one more step in what we knew would be a lengthy legal
process,” Bentley, a Republican, said in an e-mailed statement
in which he reaffirmed his determination to defend the
legislation.  “If the federal government had done its job by enforcing
its own immigration laws, we wouldn’t be here today,” he said.  “We are pleased that the 11th Circuit has blocked
Alabama’s registration provisions which criminalized unlawful
presence and chilled access to a public education,” the  Justice
Department  said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to
believe that the other key provisions we challenged are also
preempted, and we look forward to the upcoming consideration by
the court of appeals of the merits of the appeal.”  The appeals court directed the U.S. and the civil rights
groups to file their substantive briefs by Oct. 31. The state’s
opposition papers are due by Nov. 22.  The cases are U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, and
Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley, 11-14535,
11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 