-- 
U.S. Stocks May Rally to Highest Level This Year, Gayed Says

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-14T13:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-stocks-may-rally-to-highest-level-this-year-gayed-says.html
U.S. stocks may rally to their
highest level this year as investors become more bullish amid
optimism there won’t be a second Lehman-type event, according to
Michael Gayed, chief investment strategist at Pension Partners
LLC in  New York , predicting what he calls a “fall melt-up.”  “The markets have behaved as if a second Lehman-type event
already occurred, based on how sectors and bonds have
outperformed,” Gayed said in a phone interview, referring to
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
Pensions Partners manages $140 million. “Only that event never
happened -- it was just priced in. It isn’t about what has
happened, but about what hasn’t happened.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 9.5 percent
since it came within 1 percent of entering a  bear market  on Oct.
3. The benchmark measure rebounded amid speculation that
European leaders are nearing a plan to tame their sovereign debt
crisis and after the  Federal Reserve  said it discussed further
asset purchases to boost the economy.  “Markets may be realizing that it won’t be as extreme a
scenario as everyone thought during the summer,” Gayed said.
“There will likely be a strong move up as investors turn more
bullish. I wouldn’t be surprised to see the stock market making
new highs by December and acting as if this whole summer crash
never even happened.”  The benchmark measure for American equities sank 7.2
percent in September, its biggest monthly slump since May 2010,
as euro-area leaders struggled to contain the region’s sovereign
debt crisis and concern mounted that the global economic
recovery is stalling.  Drugmakers, Utilities Underperform  While the  S&P 500  has rallied 6.4 percent since Sept. 30, a
gauge of U.S. health-care companies has risen 2.6 percent and a
measure of utility shares was little changed. Health-care and
power companies outperformed in August, when they lost 2.4
percent and gained 1.7 percent, respectively, while the S&P 500
slumped 5.7 percent.  Gayed, who  predicted in June  that the market would post “a
significant decline,” said that the underperformance in
defensive sectors this month compared with the main market
indicated that the S&P 500 will rebound.  “It is possible that we have been in a stealth bear market
since February, in which case the August crash may have marked
the end of it,” Gayed said.  Gayed said he has changed his positions, investing in
equities and moving away from bonds. He predicted that financial
shares will outperform.  A gauge of U.S. banks has retreated to 10.2 times the
estimated earnings of its constituent companies earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banks have taken such a big beating,” Gayed said. “They
may be huge bargains at these levels given that they have
reacted to an event that has not occurred. That means that the
magnitude of the declines in bank shares in the absence of a
Lehman-type event is ultimately irrational.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  