-- 
U.S. Won’t Start Long-Term Care Insurance

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-14T22:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-won-t-start-class-long-term-care-insurance-sebelius-says.html
A long-term disability care program
shepherded into the U.S. health overhaul by Senator Edward Kennedy before his death was canceled as financially
unsustainable by health secretary  Kathleen Sebelius .  Republicans opposed the so-called Class Act that created
the program. It will be indefinitely suspended, Sebelius said
today in a statement, because the program isn’t likely to
generate enough revenue to pay for its benefits.  Democrats led by Kennedy created the plan to help people
disabled by illness or accident. By paying premiums while
employed, beneficiaries would be eligible after five years for
at least $50 a day toward health and support services provided
at home. The program was billed as paying for itself.  “I do not see a viable path forward for Class
implementation at this time,” Sebelius said in a letter to
congressional leaders.  Republicans celebrated the program’s demise, calling it
misguided policy used as a financial gimmick to reduce cost
estimates of the health law. At the time, the  Congressional
Budget Office  subtracted $70 billion from the cost of the law
thanks to Class -- which stands for Community Living Assistance
Services and Supports -- contributing to $143 billion in total
savings, because the program’s premiums would exceed benefits
over its first decade.  The program “was destined to fail in the real world,”
said Senator  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the senior Republican
in the chamber, in a statement.  Saving the Program  Advocates for the program said it can be salvaged.  “Where our position has been and continues to be is that
they have the authority to move forward and twist this Rubik’s
Cube until a solution pops up,” Connie Garner, executive
director of AdvanceClass, said in a telephone interview before
Sebelius’ announcement. Her group represents nursing homes,
disability organizations and seniors’ lobby AARP in pushing for
the program’s implementation.  Representative Frank Pallone of  New Jersey , a Democrat who
was one of the program’s leading proponents in the House, said
the Obama administration was “wrong to abandon” it.  “Giving up on it is simply not an option,” he said in a
statement. “If the program needs improving, then let’s find the
way to do it.”  Needed Changes  The government could make 95 percent of the necessary
changes to help fix the program without congressional action,
Garner said.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, described an
early version of the program as a “ Ponzi scheme .” He later
supported the law that created it. Republicans, seizing on that
statement, have derided Class as an unaffordable entitlement
that would cost more than it took in from premiums.  The program’s demise was “sad but not surprising,” said
Paul Van de Water, a Medicare and budget specialist at the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a nonprofit research
group whose studies often support Democratic policies.  “The aim here was a good one,” he said in an interview.
“But the program as written in law was over-constrained.”  The health law required Class to sustain itself on
beneficiary premiums without taxpayer subsidies, Van de Water
said, and Sebelius wasn’t allowed to begin it unless actuarial
analysis showed it would be financially stable for 75 years.  The program didn’t meet that bar, said Kathy Greenlee,
assistant secretary for aging in the  Department of Health  and
Human Services, in a memo to the secretary.  Actuary’s Estimate  The chief actuary for the U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services,  Richard Foster , predicted in an April 2010
report that the program would cost the federal government more
than it took in starting in 2025.  Because it is voluntary, Class faced a “problem of adverse
selection,” in which only people who need the insurance, or
think they will, would sign up, he said.  Sebelius telegraphed the program’s demise in February when
she told a Senate Finance Committee hearing that Class “will
not start unless we can be certain it will be solvent and self-
sustaining into the future.”  A spokesman for her department, Richard Sorian, confirming
last month that Class was on the ropes, said that “it is an
open question whether the program will be implemented.”  Republican Reaction  Republicans in Congress plan to keep investigating the
program that Democrats used to “inflate alleged savings and
mask the true costs” of the health law, said Debbee Keller, a
spokeswoman for the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, Republican  Fred Upton  of  Michigan , whose panel has
jurisdiction. “Everyone saw the writing on the wall that this
program was not sustainable, yet the administration continued to
stand behind the program right up until this announcement.”  Ending the program may add to the deficit. The
Congressional Budget Office estimated in February that total
savings from the health law will be $210 billion across 10
years, of which Class accounts for $86 billion.  The Senate Appropriations Committee passed a fiscal 2012
spending bill for the health department on Sept. 21 that
eliminated funding to enact Class, saying it wasn’t clear
whether it would proceed. Obama had asked for $120 million for
the program.  Kennedy died in August 2009 before the health-care law was
signed by Obama in March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  