-- 
Treasuries Head for Longest Losing Streak Since April on Europe Optimism

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-10-14T20:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-treasuries-poised-for-weekly-decline-before-retail-sales-data-release.html
Treasuries fell, with 10- and 30-
year securities poised for their longest weekly losing streaks
in more than six months, as European leaders’ efforts to resolve
the sovereign-debt crisis damped refuge demand.  Ten-year yields approached a six-week high as U.S. retail
sales rose more than forecast, easing concern the nation is
headed for a recession. Group of 20 finance ministers began a
two-day meeting in Paris amid speculation they’ll agree to give
the  International Monetary Fund  greater firepower to resolve
Europe’s debt woes.  “Europe finally seems to be getting its act together,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “That’s brought a lot of relief to the
fear trade going on in Treasuries. U.S. data has been relatively
strong. The idea of the U.S. heading into a double-dip is being
put to the side.”  The benchmark 10-year yield increased seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.25 percent at 4:34 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Earlier it
touched 2.26 percent. The yield, which has risen 17 basis points
this week, reached 2.27 percent on Oct. 12, the most since Sept.
1. The 2.125 percent security due in August 2021 dropped 19/32,
or $5.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 7/8.  Thirty-year bond yields gained nine basis points to 3.24
percent. They reached a three-week high of 3.25 percent Oct. 12,
and have climbed 22 basis points for the week.  Weekly Losses  Both the 10- and 30-year Treasuries were headed for their
third weekly losses. It would be the 10-year’s longest five-day
decline since the three weeks ended April 8, and the longest for
the bond since the three weeks ended Jan. 21.  Stocks advanced and the dollar and yen, traditionally
considered havens, fell against most of their major
counterparts. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent.  Treasuries have lost 0.9 percent this month, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show, as the  U.S. economy  showed
signs of improvement and European leaders made progress in
resolving the debt crisis.  “We view rising yields as a buying opportunity,” James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New York at Morgan
Stanley, one of the 22 primary dealers that trade with the
 Federal Reserve , wrote in a client note. “We think the upper
limit for U.S. Treasury 10-year yields is 2.56 percent unless
the market starts to price material upgrades to growth and
inflation expectations.”  Bond-Dealer Survey  The Treasury Department asked bond dealers for their newest
fiscal and economic forecasts for 2012 and 2013, and for
recommendations on how it could issue floating-rate notes.  The survey, released in a statement today, is for an Oct.
28 meeting between Treasury officials and Wall Street bond
dealers in advance of next month’s quarterly auctions of notes
and bonds.  Treasuries extended losses as U.S. retail sales rose 1.1
percent in September, the most since February, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.7 percent rise last month.  U.S. debt  trimmed its decline after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment unexpectedly slipped this month. The gauge fell to
57.5 from 59.4 a month earlier, the group reported today.  Inflation Outlook  The yield gap between 10-year Treasuries and comparable
inflation-indexed debt, a measure of traders’ outlook for
consumer prices known as the break-even rate, widened to 1.99
percentage points, the highest since Sept. 8.  The extra yield investors get to hold U.S. 30-year bonds
instead of five-year notes increased to 2.1 percentage points.
The average is 2.5 percentage points this year and 1.6
percentage points over the past five years.  European officials are outlining a rescue plan that may
include deeper investor losses on Greek bonds, higher bank
capital levels and increased firepower for bailouts and the IMF.
The plan’s elements emerged as G-20 finance ministers and
central bankers began talks in Paris, seeking ways to end
 Europe ’s two-year sovereign debt crisis.  “European policy makers have put out some very positive
and optimistic messages, but they have been very vague, and at
some point the market will need something more concrete and
specific,” said Brett Rose, an interest-rate strategist at in
New York at the primary dealer Citigroup Inc.  Shorter-Term Treasuries  While positive news from Europe may move Treasury yields
higher, the effect on shorter-term notes will likely “be muted
due to the Fed being on hold until 2013,” Rose wrote today in a
note to clients. The central bank has pledged to keep  interest
rates  near zero until mid-2013.  U.S. two-year note yields declined one basis point today to
0.27 percent.  Treasuries remained lower as the U.S. government posted its
third consecutive annual  budget deficit  in excess of $1 trillion
in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30. The shortfall registered $1.3
trillion in fiscal 2011, the second-highest on record, according
to Treasury Department data issued today in Washington.  Today is the deadline for congressional committee leaders
to submit recommendations to help the supercommittee charged
with trimming the national deficit identify $1.5 trillion in
savings over the next decade.  The Fed bought $4.597 billion today of Treasuries maturing
from November 2019 to August 2021, according to the central
bank’s website. The purchases are part of a program known as
Operation Twist to keep borrowing costs down by buying $400
billion of longer-term Treasuries through June and selling an
equal amount of shorter-term debt in the Fed’s portfolio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  