-- 
U.S. Deficit Panel Urged by Bachus to Weigh Dodd-Frank Overhaul

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-14T15:50:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-deficit-panel-urged-by-bachus-to-weigh-dodd-frank-overhaul.html
Republicans on the House Financial
Services Committee urged a congressional  deficit-reduction  panel
to consider overhauling the Dodd-Frank Act as a way to spur U.S.
economic growth and boost federal revenue.  “Some 15 months after Dodd-Frank was enacted, many small
businesses are starved for customers and credit; unemployment
has soared to more than 9 percent; and for far too many American
families, economic security seems further away than ever,”
Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who leads
the Financial Services panel, wrote in a letter to
Representative  Jeb Hensarling  and Senator  Patty Murray , the co-
chairmen of the  Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction .  Bachus’ letter, signed by 21 Republicans on his committee,
included 11 pages of recommendations that track closely with
measures the panel has weighed since taking majority control in
January. He proposed trimming or ending housing programs run by
the Department of Housing and Urban Development, raising
guarantee fees charged by mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  and rolling back Securities and Exchange Commission
limits on the number of shareholders companies can have while
remaining closely held.  Creating an environment for economic growth is “as
important a priority as cutting government expenditures,”
Bachus wrote on the letter. Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul
enacted last year, is “the most significant impediment to
economic growth” within the panel’s jurisdiction, he wrote.  Full Repeal  Attached to the letter is an inventory of 24 House bills to
reshape or repeal portions of the law, which was passed by a
Democratic-led Congress with little Republican support. The
proposals range from changing the structure and funding of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and expanding exemptions
from new derivatives regulations to a full repeal of the law.  Lawmakers are filing final recommendations to the 12-member
supercommittee led by Hensarling, a Texas Republican, and
Murray, a  Washington  Democrat. The group, created by Congress as
part of the August deal to prevent a U.S. default, is tasked
with finding $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction by Nov. 23.
Congress would then have a month to hold an up-or-down vote on
the proposal. If Congress doesn’t act, automatic spending cuts
begin in fiscal 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  