-- 
U.S. Stocks Slump as Germany Damps Optimism on Crisis Solution

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-17T21:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-stock-futures-gain-before-economic-data-google-climbs.html
U.S. stocks declined, after the
biggest weekly gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since
2009, as financial shares slumped and the German government
damped optimism of a quick fix to Europe’s debt crisis.  Banks in the S&P 500 tumbled 6.3 percent as a group.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  slipped at least 1.6
percent as revenue dropped amid economic weakness and market
turmoil linked to Europe.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
retreated more than 3 percent to pace losses among companies
most-tied to the economy. Gannett Co. sank 8.7 percent after
profit fell as newspaper advertising declined.  The S&P 500 decreased 1.9 percent to 1,200.86 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The benchmark gauge for American equities rallied 6
percent last week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated
247.49 points, or 2.1 percent, to 11,397 today.  “European leaders want to strike the right tone that they
will fix things, but not create too much expectations,”  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based
Palisade Capital Management LLC, which manages $3.4 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “If we don’t have a healthy
financial system, it’s going to be difficult for there to be a
sustainable economic recovery. In addition, the market is
selling off because we got near the top of the trading range.”  The  S&P 500  rose last week amid optimism over corporate
earnings and steps by European leaders to support the region’s
banks. It surged 11 percent from Oct. 3, its lowest close in
more than a year, through Oct. 14. The rebound brought the gauge
close to the top of a price range between 1,074.77 and 1,230.71,
where it’s traded for more than two months.  No Complete Fix  Germany said European Union leaders won’t provide the
complete fix to the euro-area debt crisis that global policy
makers are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit. Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers concluded weekend talks in Paris
endorsing parts of an emerging plan to avoid a Greek default,
bolster banks and curb contagion.  “There’s not going to be a quick fix to the problems in
 Europe ,” Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo Funds Management, which oversees
$215 billion, said in a telephone interview. “This economic
recovery will be uneven in terms of geography and the sectors
that are really benefiting from the slow growth.”  U.S. equity futures fell before the open of regular trading
as data showed that manufacturing in the New York region
contracted in October at a faster pace than forecast. Separate
figures showed that industrial production in the U.S. advanced
in September.  Alcoa, Caterpillar  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy lost 3.1 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, a proxy for the economy, retreated 2.8 percent. Alcoa,
the largest U.S. aluminum producer, slumped 6.6 percent to
$9.58. The shares had the biggest decline in the Dow.
Caterpillar retreated 3.1 percent to $81.52.  The KBW Bank Index decreased 3.9 percent as 23 of its 24
stocks fell. The index jumped 6.9 percent last week.  Wells Fargo dropped 8.4 percent to $24.42. Investors
shrugged off the record profit posted by Wells Fargo today and
focused on a 6 percent decline in revenue to $19.6 billion. That
missed the $20.2 billion estimate of analysts as low  interest
rates  cut into profit on loans. Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  is focusing on costs as the 9.1 percent U.S. jobless rate
and slow economy keep borrowers on the sidelines.  “The economic recovery has been more sluggish and uneven
than anyone anticipated,” Stumpf said in a statement. “We
can’t change the economic environment, yet we have worked hard
to control the variables we can.”  Citigroup Slumps  Citigroup retreated 1.7 percent to $27.93, even as its
quarterly profit beat analysts’ estimates, helped by an
accounting gain and a reduction in losses tied to soured loans.
Excluding the accounting adjustment, revenue fell 8 percent.  Gannett slumped 8.7 percent to $9.99. The owner of 82
newspapers and 23 television stations reported third-quarter
profit decreased 1.6 percent as publishing revenue, including
advertising and circulation, declined 5.3 percent.  American Airlines  parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  dropped 6.1 percent to
$2.76, after falling as much as 11 percent today, triggering a
brief halt in trading. American Airlines said it recessed
negotiations with its pilots union today after making
“significant progress” toward a contract that would end more
than five years of talks.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-largest oilfield
services provider, fell 7.9 percent to $34.48 on concern about
oil-price volatility and the slower-than-expected growth in its
international business.  M&A Deal  El Paso Corp. (EP)  surged 25 percent, the most since 2002, to
$24.45, as  Kinder Morgan  Inc. agreed to buy the company for
$21.1 billion. The cash and stock offer is valued at $26.87 per
El Paso share, or 37 percent more than the Oct. 14 closing
price, Houston-based Kinder Morgan said in a statement
yesterday.  Utility, telephone and consumer staples providers, which
are least-tied to the economy, outperformed the S&P 500 today.  Stock market bulls and bears agree on at least one thing.
The highest valuations for makers of household goods since 2008
signal the best is over after the industry rose more than any
other group this year.  Bears say the easy money has been made in so-called
defensive shares should the world slip into a recession. Bulls
favor companies with faster earnings growth and cheaper
valuations. The last time household-goods producers were this
expensive versus the  MSCI World (MXWO) , stocks were about to begin an
advance in which bank, mining and industrial stocks jumped more
than 137 percent, while consumer staples rose 76 percent.  ‘Too Much Money’  “You’ve got too much money that has been bet that we’re
going into a recession,” said  Jeffrey Saut , who helps oversee
$300 billion as chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “If we don’t go into a
recession, you’ll get a whole rotation out of these highly
valued defensive stocks into more aggressive stocks.”  Barton Biggs , who bought stocks when the market bottomed in
March 2009, boosted bullish bets on equities in his Traxis
Global Equity Macro Fund on improving U.S. economic data. The
fund’s net long position rose to 65 percent from 40 percent
about a month ago, according to Biggs, the founder of Traxis
Partners LP, in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” program. Biggs said on Sept. 22
that bullish bets at all Traxis funds had fallen to 20 percent.  “I’m inclined to stay where I am, which is moderately,
cowardly bullish,” Biggs said. “The thing that makes me want
to hang in there is that the high frequency economic news from
the U.S. has definitely improved. It’s gotten pretty good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  