-- 
U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Unexpectedly Falls as Outlook Sours

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-14T14:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-unexpectedly-falls-as-outlook-sours.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly dropped in October as Americans’ outlooks for the
economy and their finances slumped to the lowest level since
1980.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 57.5 this month from
59.4 in September. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a reading of 60.2. The gauge of
consumer expectations for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of  consumer spending , dropped to
47, the lowest since May 1980.  Consumers may be questioning the recovery’s durability as
incomes stagnate,  home prices  fall and policy makers debate ways
to strengthen the recovery. Faster job growth may hold the key
to bigger gains in consumer spending that accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “Sentiment is consistent with a still-struggling  U.S.
economy , and if confidence were to hold at these levels, that
would reflect bad news on the job market,” said  James Shugg , a
senior economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in  London . “There are
still real concerns among consumers about the outlook.”  Estimates of the 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
the confidence measure ranged from 57 to 64. The difference
between the median projection and the actual figure was the
biggest in percentage terms since November 2010. The index
averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession that
began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  Stocks pared gains after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.9 percent to 1,214.39 at 10:40 a.m. in
 New York  after increasing as much as 1.5 percent.  September Sales  The confidence figures show a larger-than-projected
increase in retail purchases in September may not persist. Sales
rose 1.1 percent, the biggest since February, according to the
Commerce Department in Washington. The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.7 percent rise
in purchases last month.  Today’s confidence figures mirror the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, which hovered last week near a record low. The
Bloomberg gauge of sentiment was minus 50.8 in the week to Oct.
9, marking the fourth consecutive reading lower than minus 50,
something that has happened just three previous times in its 26-
year history.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, decreased to 73.8 from 74.9 the prior month.  Inflation Expectations  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.2 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.3 percent in the prior survey.  Over the next five years, the range tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expect a 2.7 percent rate of
inflation, the lowest since September 2010, after 2.9 percent
last month.  Recession fears receded some last week when Labor
Department figures showed U.S. employers added 103,000 workers,
more than forecast, in September after payrolls were revised
higher the prior two months. The jobless rate held at 9.1
percent.  Stocks have also rebounded after touching the lowest level
in more than a year at the beginning of the month, which may
help lift moods among consumers. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has risen 9.5 percent through yesterday since hitting the low on
Oct. 3.  At the same time, a prolonged housing market slump,
concerns over  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and stagnating
household incomes are still darkening consumer sentiment.  ‘Dour Mood’  “There has been a fairly dour mood by consumers in the
summer and early fall timeframe, and I think it will continue on
for some time until we really see true economic uptick in the
U.S. and in Europe,” Blake Jorgensen, chief financial officer
of closely-held Levi Strauss & Co., said in an Oct. 11
teleconference.  Levi Strauss, the maker of jeans and Dockers pants, said
expects weaker consumer spending this holiday season after
higher prices deterred back-to-school shoppers in the U.S.
Levi’s gross margin, the share of sales remaining after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 47 percent in
the quarter from 49 percent a year earlier, the San Francisco-
based company reported before Jorgensen spoke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  