-- 
U.S. September Import and Export Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-10-14T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-september-import-and-export-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. import and export price index report from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  U.S. IMPORT AND EXPORT PRICE INDEXES -  SEPTEMBER 2011  U.S. import prices rose 0.3 percent in September, the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. Over the past five
months, import prices have shown little net change. Export
prices increased 0.4 percent in September after advancing 0.5
percent the previous month.  Imports  All Imports: Import prices advanced 0.3 percent in September
after falling 0.2 percent the previous month. Overall, import
prices have not changed by more than 0.6 percent in any month
since rising 2.6 percent in April. Higher prices for both fuel
and nonfuel imports contributed to the September advance. The
price index for overall imports increased 13.4 percent over
the past 12 months, led by a sharp rise in fuel prices. A 5.5
percent advance in nonfuel prices also contributed to the
overall increase.  Fuel Imports: Fuel prices ticked up 0.1 percent in September,
but declined in three of the past five months, falling 4.1
percent over that period. Despite the recent decreases, fuel
prices rose 43.4 percent for the year ended in September. For
September, import petroleum prices advanced 0.3 percent after
falling 1.6 percent in August. Petroleum prices increased 45.9
percent over the past 12 months. Natural gas prices declined
4.8 percent in September, yet rose 9.2 percent for the
September 2010-11 period.  All Imports Excluding Fuel: Prices for nonfuel imports
increased 0.2 percent in September. Rising nonfuel industrial
supplies and materials prices were the largest contributor to
the higher nonfuel prices, although foods, feeds, and
beverages prices and prices for each of the major finished
goods categories all recorded increases for the month. The
price index for nonfuel imports rose 5.5 percent over the past
year. The largest previous year-over-year advance was 6.1
percent for the year ended September 2008.  Exports  All Exports: Export prices increased 0.4 percent in September
after rising a similar 0.5 percent in August, resuming an
upward trend following a 0.3 percent downturn in July. Higher
prices for agricultural and nonagricultural exports each
contributed to the advance. Prices for U.S. exports rose 9.5
percent over the past year. Despite increasing in August and
September, the 12-month increase in export prices is less than
the recent peak of 10.1 percent recorded in June.  Agricultural Exports: Prices for agricultural exports rose 1.6
percent in September after a 2.1 percent increase the previous
month. For the second consecutive month, higher prices for
wheat, corn, and soybeans, up 13.3 percent, 5.2 percent, and
3.6 percent, respectively, in September drove the overall
advance. Agricultural prices increased 22.9 percent over the
past year, led by rising prices for corn, soybeans, wheat, and
cotton.  All Exports Excluding Agriculture: The price index for
nonagricultural exports advanced 0.3 percent for the second
consecutive month in September. The increase was led by higher
prices for nonagricultural industrial supplies and materials,
while finished goods prices were mixed. Prices for
nonagricultural exports rose 8.0 percent over the past year.  SELECTED SEPTEMBER HIGHLIGHTS  Import Prices  Nonfuel Industrial Supplies and Materials: Prices for nonfuel
industrial supplies and materials increased 0.7 percent in
September following a 0.9 percent advance the previous month.
A 0.9 percent advance in unfinished metals prices was the
largest contributor to the September rise in the price index
for nonfuel industrial supplies and materials prices. Higher
prices for gold and other precious metals more than offset
price declines for aluminum, copper, nickel, zinc, and tin.  Finished Goods:  Consumer goods  prices rose 0.3 percent for the
fourth consecutive month in September. Prices for consumer
goods advanced 2.4 percent over the past year, the largest 12-
month increase since a 2.8 percent rise for the year ended
October 2008. The price indexes for capital goods and
automotive vehicles each increased in September, ticking up
0.1 percent.  Foods, Feeds, and Beverages: Prices for foods, feeds, and
beverages advanced 0.5 percent in September after declining
0.7 percent in August. Coffee prices, which fell 12.7 percent
in August, rose 11.4 percent in September. The overall price
index for foods, feeds, and beverages increased 14.4 percent
over the past 12 months.  Imports by Locality of Origin: Import prices from  China  and
the European Union each increased in September, ticking up 0.2
percent and 0.1 percent, respectively. Prices for imports from
China rose 3.8 percent over the past year, the largest 12-
month advance since the index increased 4.3 percent in October
2008. In contrast, prices for imports from  Canada  fell 0.6
percent in September, while import prices from Japan and
 Mexico  were unchanged.  Transportation Services: Import air passenger rates declined
2.1 percent in September following a 3.0 percent drop in
August. The decrease was driven by a 7.9 percent fall in Latin
American/Caribbean fares and a 3.4 percent decline in Asian
fares. Import air freight prices edged down 0.1 percent in
September after decreasing 0.2 percent in each of the two
previous months.  Export Prices  Nonagricultural Industrial Supplies and Materials: The price
index for nonagricultural industrial supplies and materials
rose 0.8 percent in September, similar to the 0.7 percent
advance the previous month. Higher prices for nonferrous
metals and steelmaking materials, up 5.1 percent and 3.7
percent, respectively, drove the September rise.  Finished Goods: Prices for consumer goods and automotive
vehicles each increased 0.3 percent in September, while
capital goods prices edged down 0.1 percent for the month. The
price index for consumer goods  rose 5.1 percent over the past
year. Automotive vehicles prices advanced 2.5 percent over the
same period.  Transportation Services: The index for export air passenger
fares dropped 12.9 percent in September after an 8.5 percent
increase the previous month. The September decrease was led by
lower Asian and European fares, down 17.3 percent and 12.9
percent, respectively. In contrast, export air freight prices
rose 0.5 percent, the first increase since a 3.6 percent
increase in May.  Import and Export Price Index data for October 2011 are
scheduled for release on Thursday, November 10, 2011 at 8:30
a.m. (EST). 