-- 
U.S. Import Prices Unexpectedly Rose on Petroleum, Metals

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-14T12:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-import-prices-unexpectedly-rose-0-3-on-petroleum-metals.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. unexpectedly rose in September, reflecting higher costs of
crude oil that have since receded and a jump in metals.  The 0.3 percent gain in the import-price index followed a
revised 0.2 percent decrease in August, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.4 percent
September drop, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Prices excluding fuel rose 0.2 percent.  Slower growth from  Europe  to  Asia  and a strengthening
dollar may help limit gains in the cost of goods and materials
from abroad. At the same time, a lack of  job creation  is holding
down wages, the biggest expense for companies.  “Even with rising import prices, it’s not an indication of
inflationary pressures building,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “Slack in the labor
market and a sluggish economy are dampening corporate pricing
power.”  Projections for import prices ranged from a decrease of 2
percent to a 0.4 percent increase, according to the Bloomberg
survey of 50 economists.  Retail sales rose more than forecast in September, easing
concern slumping confidence and scant hiring will derail the
biggest part of the economy, another report showed today.  The 1.1 percent advance, the biggest since February,
followed a 0.3 percent gain for August, a stronger performance
than previously estimated, according to the Commerce Department
in  Washington . The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.7 percent rise in purchases last month.  Last Year  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 13.4
percent, today’s report showed, up from a 13 percent increase in
the 12 months ended in August.  The cost of imported petroleum climbed 0.3 percent from the
prior month and was up 46 percent from a year earlier. The price
of imported unfinished metals jumped 0.9 percent, led by gold
and other precious metals.  Import prices excluding all fuels increased 5.5 percent
from September 2010.  Imported food was 0.5 percent more expensive last month.
Costs of imported automobiles rose 0.3 percent and were up 2.5
percent from September 2010, the biggest 12-month increase since
November 1991.  Consumer Goods   Consumer goods excluding vehicles showed a 0.3 percent gain
and were up 2.4 percent over the past 12 months. Costs for
clothing made overseas were up 11.5 percent last month from
September 2010.  Levi Strauss & Co. is bracing for tepid  consumer spending 
this holiday season after back-to-school shoppers in the U.S.
balked at higher prices on its namesake jeans and Dockers pants
following gains in cotton prices earlier this year.  “Price increases in the value channel were much harder on
the consumer,” Chief Executive Officer Blake Jorgensen said in
an interview this week. Regular prices of those jeans were $30
to $50 in the quarter, after jumping by $5 to $15 to make up for
higher costs, he said.  A strengthening of the  U.S. dollar  over the last couple
months may make foreign goods cheaper in the U.S. while
American-made goods become more expensive overseas. Since late
July, the dollar has gained about 6.2 percent against a basket
of currencies of major trading partners after falling 9.1
percent in the prior 12 months.  Imported goods from  China  increased 0.2 percent, and were
up 3.8 percent over the past 12 months, the biggest year-over-
year gain since October 2008.  Bernanke on Inflation  “Inflation appears to have moderated since earlier in the
year as prices of energy and some commodities have declined from
their peaks,” Fed policy makers said Sept. 21 after their most
recent monetary policy meeting. “Longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable.”  Core prices have moved up on a year-on-year basis while
remaining below the Fed’s target range. The Fed’s preferred
price gauge, which excludes food and fuel, rose 1.6 percent in
August from a year earlier. Fed policy makers aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2 percent, according to
their June forecast.  U.S. export prices increased 0.4 percent after increasing
0.5 percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices
of farm exports increased 1.6 percent, while those of non-farm
goods rose 0.3 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out Oct. 18, followed the next day by the consumer-price index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  