-- 
Corporate Credit Risk Falls on Confidence in Europe Plans, U.S. Economy

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-10-14T20:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-falls-as-europe-outlines-rescue-plan.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell for a second week as investors wager that
 Europe ’s leaders will contain the region’s fiscal crisis,
reducing risks that the world’s largest economy may slip into
recession.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
typically drops as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, declined 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 130.2
basis points as of 3:52 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Investors pushed the index lower as European leaders
signaled that they’ll take the necessary steps to resolve the
region’s debt crisis, reducing the odds it will spill over into
the U.S. Confidence was also bolstered by Commerce Department
data released today showing U.S. retail sales increased 1.1
percent in September, the most in seven months.  “Europe finally seems ready to take the financially
painful steps necessary to contain the debt crisis,” Edward Marrinan, head of macro credit strategy at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said today in an e-
mail. Confidence also grew as data showed that the U.S. “is at
less risk of slipping back into recession,” he said.  The gauge has decreased from 150.1 on Oct. 3 as policy
makers developed a plan to prevent a Greek default from
threatening the region’s banking system.  European officials are considering writedowns of as much as
50 percent on Greek bonds, a backstop for banks and continued
central bank bond purchases in a revamped strategy to combat the
debt crisis, people familiar with the discussions said. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
pledged on Oct. 9 to deliver a comprehensive plan and said
recapitalizing banks was a priority.  Investors use credit-default swaps to protect bonds against
losses or to speculate on defaults. The swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 