-- 
UAW Says Vote on Ford Pact Flips to Approval From Rejection

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-15T14:57:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/uaw-says-53-of-hourly-workers-reject-ford-contract-so-far-1-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  hourly workers have
voted 56 percent in favor of a tentative four-year labor
agreement, according to results released today by the  United
Auto Workers .  The tally has seesawed since yesterday. The day started
with 53 percent voting against and ended with 54 percent in
favor. The union’s Ford division said on its Facebook page as of
10 a.m. New York time that 8,577 members had cast votes for the
accord while 6,710 had voted against it.  The post didn’t specify the percentage of Ford’s 40,600
U.S. hourly workers who have had the chance to cast a ballot.
Voting is set to conclude Oct. 18.  UAW President  Bob King  said Oct. 12 that he expected
members to ratify the agreement reached with Ford on Oct. 4. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based company pledged 12,000 new jobs, $6.2
billion in factory upgrades, and bonus and profit-sharing
payments this year that total as much as $10,000 per worker. It
won’t give raises for senior workers or restore cost-of-living
pay increases workers gave up to help Ford survive.  “The fact the vote is this contentious suggests at worst
that the contract is not overly generous to the UAW and at best
is a good deal for Ford,” Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley, wrote in an Oct. 13 research note suggesting investors
buy Ford on UAW uncertainty.  “UAW leadership is anxious to ratify the current contract
as a rejection could open the door to a less attractive deal
thanks to a deteriorating economy,” wrote Jonas, who rates Ford
“overweight.”  Ford Optimistic  “We remain optimistic that the tentative agreement will be
approved,” Karen Hampton, a spokeswoman for Ford, said in an e-
mail yesterday. “The agreement is fair to our employees and
improves Ford’s competitiveness in the U.S.”  UAW Local 600, Ford’s largest union local representing
workers at its vast Rouge complex in Dearborn, concluded voting
yesterday. The UAW didn’t specify whether the results released
today included Local 600’s vote. While it is King’s home local,
it went against the union president’s recommendation two years
ago and voted down concessions such as a ban on strikes until
2015.  That Local 600 vote helped defeat the proposals, meaning
only Ford faced a strike possibility in this year’s labor talks.
The UAW agreed to a strike ban at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Fiat
SpA-controlled Chrysler Group LLC as part of their U.S.-backed
bankruptcies.  ‘No’ Votes  “People feel they deserve more,” Gary Walkowicz, a UAW
Local 600 union official who is leading a “Vote No” campaign,
said yesterday. “There is a lot of anger out here.”  Workers at a Ford metal-stamping plant in Chicago this week
rejected the contract with 70 percent of the vote, according to
results posted on the website of UAW Local 588. At a company-
owned parts plant in Saline,  Michigan , 59 percent of production
workers Oct. 13 voted to turn down the contract, while 51
percent of skilled-trades employees rejected it, according to
UAW Local 892’s website.  The proposed agreement also has been rejected by Ford’s
 Chicago  assembly plant, which builds the Taurus sedan and
Explorer sport-utility vehicle, and a factory in Wayne,
Michigan, that produces the Focus small car.  Agreement Approvals  Members at Ford’s Mustang factory in Flat Rock, Michigan,
voted 72 percent in favor of the agreement, with 1,190 workers
for it and 318 against, according to a post on UAW Local 3000’s
website. The factory is to get a second shift to produce the
Fusion midsize sedan under the new contract.  Workers at Ford’s engine plant in Brook Park, Ohio, two
days ago approved the agreement with 57 percent of the vote,
according to UAW Local 1250 President Mike Gammella. The
factory, which employs 943 people, is gaining a third shift of
workers as part of the new contract.  “This is a very good contract in a very poor economy,”
Gammella. “People understand that.”  Votes are to be conducted this weekend at big assembly
plants in Avon Lake,  Ohio , and Claycomo,  Missouri . The
ratification vote will conclude Oct. 18 when Ford’s Kentucky
truck plant and Louisville assembly plant complete two days of
voting. The factories produce pickups and SUVs.  Ford’s ‘Riches’  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s 2010 compensation rose 48
percent to $26.5 million. Ford also awarded him more than $56
million in stock in March for leading the company’s turnaround.  Ford borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of GM and Chrysler.  Workers at GM last month approved a new contract with the
automaker. Chrysler reached a tentative labor deal with the
union Oct. 12 that, like the Ford agreement, is subject to a
ratification vote by UAW members.  “Ford has had an embarrassment of riches, so their workers
expected a major improvement over the GM agreement,” said  Gary Chaison , a professor of industrial relations at  Clark University 
in Worcester,  Massachusetts . “They know they can go on strike
and they feel Ford is vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  