-- 
Ukraine Needs to Do More Than Just Set Free Tymoshenko: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-14T00:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/ukraine-will-need-to-do-more-than-just-release-tymoshenko-from-jail-view.html
Ukraine’s leader took a step in the
right direction Thursday by announcing that he supports
scrapping the Soviet-era law that led to a seven-year prison
sentence for his chief political rival, former Prime Minister
 Yulia Tymoshenko .  Early in the day, there were indications that President
 Viktor Yanukovych ’s conciliatory words would be rapidly followed
by Tymoshenko’s release, along with the restoration of her right
to participate in parliamentary elections next year. The U.S.
and the European Union, while they have sharply condemned her
trial and sentence as trumped-up and politically motivated, have
indicated that such an outcome would restore reasonably warm
relations with Ukraine.  Yet Western nations should resist the temptation to simply
wipe Ukraine’s slate clean, even though there are some very
compelling incentives to do so. Not least of these is the need
to keep Ukraine from falling deeper into the gravitational pull
of its former overlord:  Russia .  Tymoshenko’s trial and imprisonment have imperiled one of
the principal bulwarks against Russian influence by threatening
a wide-ranging free-trade agreement between Ukraine and the EU
that was to be signed in December. The EU rightly sees greater
commercial and political engagement as a way to ensure that
Ukraine renews its commitment to democracy.  Russian Pressure  Russia, meanwhile, is pressuring Yanukovych to turn
eastward and join a common trade area that would also include
Belarus and  Kazakhstan , both of which were part of the  Soviet
Union . In exchange, officials in Moscow have dangled the
possibility of lowering the price of Russian natural gas, which
the Ukrainian economy depends on. (Ironically, Tymoshenko’s
trial stemmed from her decision as prime minister to sign a deal
locking in high Russian prices.)  It is understandable, then, that the  EU  and the U.S. would
welcome any effort by the government in Kiev to quickly resolve
the Tymoshenko affair, so they could resume their focus on the
much bigger geopolitical issues at stake.  But this would be a mistake. Rather, the EU and U.S. should
secure commitments from Yanukovych that go well beyond
Tymoshenko’s freedom. As a condition of the  trade pact , Western
countries should also require evidence that his government will
reverse its steady undermining of the  democratic gains  of the
2004 Orange Revolution. Abuses have included the curbing of
press and civil liberties, dubious elections and the use of
courts to neutralize political opponents.  In any case, that conversation may never take place. Only
hours after Yanukovych voiced his encouraging support for a
change in the law, the country’s security service announced it
had opened a separate criminal investigation into allegations
that Tymoshenko transferred $405 million of debt from a company
she ran in the late 1990s to the state budget. That offense,
which an ally of Tymoshenko said was “absolutely absurd and
falsified,” is punishable by up to 12 years in prison.  It’s news that no doubt brought smiles at the Kremlin, and
a reminder to the West of how much Ukraine has disappointed
since the promise of the Orange Revolution.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 