-- 
Hulu Owners May Seek IPO for Video Website After Halting Auction

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-10-14T19:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/hulu-s-owners-may-pursue-an-ipo-for-video-website-after-canceling-auction.html
Hulu LLC’s owners may reconsider an
initial public offering of the online video-streaming website
after deciding to cancel an auction.  A share sale would let Hulu, owned by News Corp.,  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and Providence Equity Partners, raise capital to add
content and help retain senior management, said Laura Martin, a
Needham & Co. analyst in Pasadena, California.  Cash from an IPO would help Hulu compete with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  for programming, Martin said. The service
dropped plans for an IPO last year that envisioned a $2 billion
value. By keeping Hulu, the media companies retain control over
how shows are distributed online and can use the service to
steer viewers to their networks, Fox, NBC and ABC.  “Are the owners willing to fund that themselves, which is
a less expensive source of capital but comes with more risk?”
Martin said in an interview. “Or will they turn to the public
markets, that’s the question.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jason Kilar  angered some of Hulu’s
owners in February by  suggesting  online ads are superior to
traditional TV marketing. Kilar wants to be CEO of a public
company, Martin said.  “If the owners commit to an IPO in the next two years,
markets permitting, I think they will be able to keep Jason
Kilar,” Martin said. “If not, I think they could lose him.”  The end of the auction also may lead to conversations about
buying out stakes in Hulu held by Kilar and other members of
senior management, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a
person familiar with the matter.  ‘Compelling Value’  Disney, based in Burbank, California, gained 2.2 percent to
$34.27 at 3:11 p.m.  New York  time and was down 11 percent this
year before today.  News Corp. (NWSA) , controlled by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, gained 0.5 percent to $17.20
and was up 18 percent this year.  Hulu’s owners and management, in calling off the sale
yesterday, said in a statement they will map out a future for
the online service, citing its “unique and compelling strategic
value.”  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
wouldn’t comment beyond the statement. NBC Universal, also a co-
owner of Hulu, was required to give up oversight when it was
acquired by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   With rival Netflix trying to contain a subscriber backlash
over a price increase, Hulu is positioned to win users, said
 David Bank , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  Hulu offers free and paid services. The $7.99-a-month Hulu
Plus has more than 1 million subscribers, Kilar said in an Oct.
5 blog  post . Hulu expanded to  Japan  on Sept. 1 and has added to
the number of devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software that
can access its premium service.  Content Control  “The media companies are really wise for terminating the
process,” Bank said. “They are making a very smart move to
leave their content in their own hands and not leave their
destiny to a third party.”  Hulu drew offers from Google Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Yahoo
Inc. and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , people familiar with the matter
said last month. Dish, which has started a Blockbuster-branded
online streaming service, bid $1.9 billion, one person said.  Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based
Dish, declined to comment.  When Hulu was put up for sale in June, its price tag was
estimated to be $2 billion or more, based on data compiled then
by Bloomberg and SNL Kagan.  Netflix, Hulu’s larger rival in online streaming, has
fallen more than 50 percent since the Hulu sale plan was
reported in June. Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , fell
0.7 percent to $116.22.  This week Netflix reversed a decision to separate its
streaming and DVD-by-mail business, which was to be renamed
Qwikster. Analysts said Netflix, which cut its third-quarter
subscriber projection by 1 million on Sept. 15, changed its
plans to stem customer losses.  “Netflix is in less of a position to pay Hulu’s owners for
content,” Martin said. “It’s probably in their best interest
to hold onto Hulu as a way to monetize their content.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  