-- 
Hungary Audit Office Sees Risks in ’12 Budget on Taxes, Spending

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-10-14T14:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/hungary-audit-office-sees-risks-in-12-budget-on-taxes-spending.html
Hungary ’s 2012 budget contains risks
for both revenue and spending and its effectiveness can’t be
judged as background calculations and documents are missing, the
state audit office said.  The audit office was unable to assess the “overall
feasibility of the budget due to the lack of background
calculations and documents supporting a significant part of the
2012 revenue targets” and discrepancies in the data provided,
the office said in a statement posted on its  website  today.  Hungary, which is rated the lowest investment grade at
 Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and
Poor’s, is struggling to trim its  budget deficit  to less than 3
percent of output next year as slower growth cuts  tax revenue .
The government raised or introduced new taxes, on top of already
existing extraordinary taxes levied on several industries, and
froze wages in the public sector to rein in the shortfall.  The audit office estimated that 10 percent of the planned
tax revenue carried risk, adding that the feasibility of 27
percent of the targeted tax revenue “couldn’t be judged.”  “A potential deterioration in macroeconomic indicators
compared with targeted levels will render several tax revenue
targets, especially the value-added tax, risky,” it said.  The government is basing its 2012 budget on a growth
forecast of 1.5 percent, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said
last month. The  central bank  expects the economy to expand by 1
percent next year, according to the bank’s Inflation Report
published in September.  The budget doesn’t calculate with 95 billion forint ($452
million) in losses at the central bank that will have to be
covered by the government, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  