-- 
Unilever to Buy Russia’s Kalina in $694 Million Deal to Aid Emerging Push

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-10-14T11:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/unilever-agrees-to-acquire-82-of-russian-skincare-maker-kalina.html
Unilever, the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods company, agreed to acquire OAO Concern  Kalina (KLNA)  in
a deal that values the Russian skincare maker at 21.5 billion
rubles ($694 million) to tap growth in emerging markets.  Unilever will buy 82 percent of the maker of Black Pearl
facial products and Silky Hands creams for about 16.7 billion
rubles and make an offer for the rest once the transaction is
completed, the London and Rotterdam-based company said today.  The maker of Dove skincare and Magnum ice cream is looking
to expand in faster-growing emerging markets as increasing
competition and sluggish economies stint sales in western Europe
and  North America . Kalina, headquartered in Ekaterinburg,
 Russia , also meets the company’s goal of boosting its personal-
care unit, which was Unilever’s fastest-growing division last
year as consumers snapped up products including Vaseline.  “The deal metrics are really quite compelling,” said
 Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec in London. “It’s an
expression of their strategic intent to grow personal-care in
developing and emerging markets.”  Kalina (KLNA)  rose as much as 40 percent to 3,077.2 rubles in
Moscow trading. Unilever gained 2.8 percent to 24.74 euros in
Amsterdam.  The acquisition “will transform Unilever’s personal-care
business in Russia, giving us leading positions in skin care and
hair care, as well as establishing a presence in oral care,”
Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said in a statement.  ‘Attractive Acquisition’  Kalina, Russia’s largest personal-care company, more than
doubled net income to 975 million rubles in 2010 from 413
million rubles a year earlier, aided by demand for cosmetics.
The business, which employs about 1,900 people, will have sales
of about 13 billion rubles this year, Unilever estimated.  Kalina “is an attractive acquisition for Unilever as it
would provide the company with dominant market shares in the
Russian personal-care market,”  Richard Withagen , an analyst at
SNS Securities in Amsterdam, wrote today in a note.  Unilever aims to double sales within 10 years. The company
bought Sara Lee Corp.’s international toiletries unit last year
for 1.2 billion euros ($1.7 billion) and added hair-care brands
including Nexxus and TRESemme with the $3.7 billion acquisition
of Alberto Culver Co., its biggest deal in a decade.  Emerging Markets  Almost half of Unilever’s sales last year came from home
and personal-care products, while more than 55 percent of its
business is generated in emerging markets. So-called organic
growth is the “cornerstone” of the company’s ambition to
double sales, Polman said in the statement.  The transaction implies an enterprise value of 25.9 billion
rubles for Kalina, Unilever said, and a deal multiple of 11.7
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Unilever has paid an average multiple of 12.11 for
deals in the last five years, according to Bloomberg data.  “These are fair multiples for what should prove to be a
decent acquisition,” said Andy Smith, an analyst at MF Global
in  London . “It is strategically sensible and reinforces the
group’s emerging-markets footprint.”  Unilever may be able to reduce costs by as much as 30
million euros after the acquisition,  Alex Smith , an analyst at
Nomura in London, wrote in a note today. The purchase will make
Unilever the fifth-biggest company in the “fragmented Russian
beauty and personal-care market,” he said.  Russian Growth  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI)  jumped in Stockholm trading today on
speculation that other eastern European personal-care companies
might attract investment, according to Ian Simpson, an analyst
at RBS. Oriflame, which got 58 percent of revenue from the
 Commonwealth of Independent States  and Baltic regions last year,
rose as much as 6.2 percent.  Unilever entered Russia in 1992. The company acquired the
Russian sauces business of ZAO Baltimore in 2009 and Inmarko,
the country’s biggest ice-cream maker, in 2008.  Russia is set to report economic growth of 4.5 percent this
year and in 2012, more than twice as high as the U.S. and
 Europe , according to Bloomberg data.  Kalina is Unilever’s second purchase this week, and the
third this year. The company said on Oct. 11 it agreed to buy
Ingman Ice Cream Oy Ab in  Finland , while in August it bought
Darko, a Bulgarian ice-cream maker.  Kalina, which first sold shares in an initial public offer
in 2004, was founded in 1942 in Russia and sells products in
countries including Ukraine and  Germany , its  website  shows.  Unilever said it expects to complete the transaction by the
end of 2011, subject to regulatory approvals. The company was
advised on the deal by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 