-- 
Turkey’s Lira Strengthens After Central Bank’s Dollar Sales ‘Stop Panic’

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-10-14T08:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/turkey-s-lira-strengthens-after-central-bank-s-dollar-sales-stop-panic-.html
The lira gained in Istanbul trading,
indicating that the central bank has stabilized the currency’s
value after selling a record amount of dollars in an auction
last week.  The lira rose 0.3 percent to 1.8310 per dollar at 11:49
a.m., climbing alongside other emerging market currencies in the
region. It advanced 0.1 percent to 2.5289 per euro.  The central bank sold a record $750 million for liras in a
daily auction on Oct. 5 in an effort to stem a decline in the
lira to a record 1.9096 liras per dollar the previous day. Since
then it has reduced the dollar sales as concern about the debt
crisis in  Europe  subsided. The bank announced no sale of dollars 
for liras today. The lira has lost 16 percent this year, more
than any other emerging market currency.  “The sharp increase in the amount of daily dollar sales
helped to stop the panic in the market,”  Yarkin Cebeci ,
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, said by e-mail in
response to questions. “Flows have stabilized in the last few
days and we are not seeing any significant outflows from the
emerging markets. Now, people know that the central bank could
sell dollars whenever there is a sell-off in the lira. That
should help to bring down the volatility.”  The central bank sold $210 million for liras in a total of
two auctions this week. Sales each day last week totaled $1.64
billion.  “I think the central bank would rather see the currency a
bit stronger but they know that they have to pay a big price in
terms of reserve depletion to achieve further strength,” Cebeci
said.  The central bank’s foreign exchange reserves declined $2.4
billion in the week to Oct. 7 to $85.1 billion, the lowest level
since February, data published yesterday showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  