-- 
Utility Gauge Signals Treasury Yields to Rise: Chart of the Day

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-14T02:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/utility-gauge-signals-treasury-yields-to-rise-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. utility stocks are signaling
Treasury yields will rise because the companies, which have high
debt relative to other industries, are lagging behind broader
share indexes, according to Pension Partners LLC.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows weekly performance for the 15-
member Dow Jones Utility Average Total Return index and the
benchmark industrial average of 30 companies. The lower screen
tracks U.S. 30-year yields, which tumbled as the power and gas
providers pulled ahead of the broader gauge in August and
September.  The utility share index climbed in the third quarter while
the main Dow average slid as investors bet borrowing costs would
fall, said Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist at
Pension Partners, a New York-based money management company.
This month the opposite has happened: The broad market has
outpaced the electricity and gas companies, foreshadowing debt-
yield increases, he said.  “Utilities are lagging, and that means  interest rates  are
expected to rise,” Gayed said. “Because these companies have
high debt and generally stable revenue growth, the most
important determinant of stock price is expectations for future
interest rates. Utilities may be underperforming now because the
cost of rolling over their debt is expected to increase.”  The utilities index has gained 0.3 percent this month,
versus 5.2 percent for the overall Dow. That’s a shift from the
third quarter, when the sector gauge advanced 1.1 percent, while
the broader measure dropped 12 percent and Treasury yields
tumbled to a 33-month low of 2.69 percent. Treasury 30-year
rates will climb to about 3.50 percent by year-end, said Gayed,
who predicted the July-August equities slide in a June  article 
on the Seeking Alpha website.  The members of the utilities index, which include
Consolidated Edison Inc. and NextEra Energy Inc., have debt that
is equivalent to 35.07 percent of assets on average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the broader Dow, the figure
is 26.77 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  