-- 
Venizelos Slams Wave of Strikes as Assault on Greek Democracy

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-14T09:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/venizelos-slams-wave-of-strikes-as-assault-on-greek-democracy.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said a wave of strikes and walkouts over the
government’s plans to cut wages and pensions and dismiss about
30,000 employees is an assault on the country’s democracy.  “The picture we have seen over recent days is one of
lawlessness,” Venizelos told lawmakers in Parliament in  Athens 
today, in comments televised live on state-run Vouli TV. “Some
believe that occupations, strikes, blackmail, pressure can lead
to the satisfaction of vested interests to the detriment of the
national interest.”  Greek customs workers declared a 10-day strike from today,
threatening fuel supplies. They are the latest group of state
employees to join the wave of walkouts ahead of approval by
Parliament next week of new austerity measures that Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  needs to qualify for international
financing.  The Federation of Greek Customs Workers will hold five 48-
hour strikes, according to a statement posted on the group’s
 website . The move will have an immediate and long-term negative
effect on exporters and the Greek economy as no shipments will
be customs-cleared, the  Panhellenic Association of Exporters 
said in a statement.  Public transport was halted today for a third time this
week. Workers were joined by taxi drivers who kept cabs home in
opposition to the government lifting restrictions on their
licenses. Finance Ministry workers continued to blockade the
central Athens ministry building and plan to strike for 10 days
from Oct. 17, complicating efforts by the government to collect
taxes.  Doctors, Lawyers  “The state must operate,” Venizelos said. He said
blocking access to offices such as the General Accounting Office
were actions that struck at democratic rule.  Other groups on strike and planning strikes include
lawyers, prison workers, port workers, bank employees, doctors
and health staff and journalists at state-run television and
radio.  The Health Ministry may declare rubbish that has been
uncollected during a municipal workers’ strike a health hazard
and employees may face jail terms of three months if they don’t
immediately return to work,  Skai news  reported on its website,
citing Deputy Health Minister Paris Koukoulopoulos. City workers
have blocked access to city garages and garbage dumps around
 Greece , causing rubbish to pile up on streets.  Greece’s private and public sector unions have called a 48-
hour general strike for Oct. 19, ahead of next week’s
parliamentary vote on Papandreou’s legislation.  Venizelos has announced about 6.6 billion euros ($9.1
billion) in measures this year and next, including a property
tax, to close a gap in government accounts that has appeared as
the economy contracts. European Union and International Monetary
Fund officials indicated this week Greece will qualify for an 8
billion-euro loan next month, part of a 110 billion-euro bailout
to prevent the country from defaulting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  