-- 
VIX Tumbles Most in 19 Years as Profits Calm Equities: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-10-14T21:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/vix-tumbles-most-in-19-years-as-profits-calm-equities-options.html
Corporate profits are calming U.S.
stocks more than any time in 19 years, reducing the cost of
insurance against losses at the same time investors gain
confidence in European efforts to solve the debt crisis.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index fell 28
percent in the six trading sessions before New York-based  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  posted results, a record drop before the start of earnings
season, according to data since January 1993 compiled by
Bloomberg. The VIX, as the benchmark measure of U.S. equity
derivatives is known, has fallen 14 percent since Alcoa’s
earnings trailed analyst estimates Oct. 11.  Prospects for the eighth straight quarter of earnings
growth combined with a pledge by French and German leaders to
present a plan by Nov. 3 have helped reduce the VIX from an 29-
month high of 48 on Aug. 8. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
added 9.5 percent since the VIX climbed above 45 on Oct. 3.  “We were very nervous, and rightfully so, about Europe,”
said John Farrall, director of derivatives strategy at PNC
Wealth Management in  Cleveland , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The firm oversees $109 billion. “Now earnings have
taken the forefront of attention, and corporate profits are
supposed to be good,” he said.  The VIX fell an eighth straight day yesterday, the longest
streak since March 2010, even after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
quarterly report drove the S&P 500 down 0.3 percent. The VIX
dropped 8 percent to 28.24 at 4:15 p.m. New York time, falling
for a ninth straight day and extending its retreat since Aug. 8
to 41 percent.  More Bets  The S&P 500 added 1.7 percent today and completed the
biggest weekly advance since July 2009.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  rallied 5.9
percent in its ninth straight gain after the most popular search
engine reported sales and profit that beat estimates as
businesses spent more to reach online consumers through
advertisements.  Traders are placing more bets than any time since 2009 that
the VIX will drop, a sign they expect concern about Europe’s
credit crisis to recede and the  S&P 500  to rally. There were 109
puts to sell the VIX for every 100 calls as of Oct. 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit for S&P 500 companies will climb 17 percent in the
third quarter and rise 18 percent to a record $99.86 for all of
2011, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
S&P 500 is trading for 10.9 times forecast earnings for 2012,
compared with its five-decade average of 16.4 times reported
income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First Day Rally  The gauge added 1 percent on Oct. 12 even after Alcoa’s
earnings missed projections by 38 percent. When the S&P 500
rallies on the first day of earnings season, it advances the
rest of the period 64 percent of the time, with gains averaging
1.2 percent, according to data since 2003 compiled by Harrison,
New York-based Bespoke Investment Group LLC.  “People are not going to gamble on volatility and selling
short if they expect positive earnings and good news,” Carlo Panaccione, co-founder of Navigation Group, which oversees $350
million in Redwood Shores,  California , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Everybody is expecting a pretty decent earnings
season, if not a great one. They’re expecting a rally.”  Analysts have cut projections for S&P 500 per-share profit
in the third quarter by 0.9 percent since the start of October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s  David Kostin , a New York-based equity strategist, said in
an Oct. 12 note that he expects a “modest upside surprise.”  The VIX closed at 32.86 on Oct. 11, the seventh-highest
level at the start of an earnings season since January 1993,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More Than Usual  “Investors are going into earnings with more pessimism
than usual, and if you have low expectations, it’s easier for
executives to clear them,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee
about $400 billion as chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Sometimes the lack of bad news can be
good news.”  The economy isn’t growing fast enough for companies to
achieve earnings forecasts, said Jim Strugger, a derivatives
strategist at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . U.S.
gross domestic product will expand by 2 percent in the third
quarter, according to the median of 88 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s down from a prediction of 3.2 percent in
August and a peak of 3.5 percent in March.  “Those are significant downgrades to economic forecasts,
yet earnings estimates have remained stable,” Strugger said in
a telephone interview yesterday. Falling volatility doesn’t
necessarily signal that investors believe earnings will exceed
expectations, he said.  Finding a Solution  “If anything, it’s related to more constructive news about
finding a potential solution to the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe ,” he said. “This is a shock that began in August that
had nothing to do with earnings.”  Equities have rallied this week, driving the S&P 500 up 4.2
percent, after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 9
that European leaders will do “everything necessary” to ensure
banks have enough capital.  Since earnings season began, seven of the nine S&P 500
companies that reported third-quarter results beat the average
analyst profit projection, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Despite all our consternation about how bad the economy
is, I think earnings are going to be pretty good,”  Bob Doll ,
chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., which manages $3.6
trillion, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “Guidance 90 days
ago for this quarter was ‘I really don’t know,’ and they’ve come
through with pretty good news. Relative to earnings, stocks are
very cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  