-- 
Wall Street Dealers Cut Corporate Inventories to 8-Year Low

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-14T18:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/wall-street-dealers-reduce-corporate-bond-inventories-to-an-eight-year-low.html
Wall Street bond dealers cut their
holdings of corporate securities to a more than eight-year low
as banks reduced risk amid the European sovereign debt crisis
and concerns that the economic recovery is faltering.  The 22 primary dealers of U.S. government securities that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve  reduced inventories of
corporate debt due in more than a year by 9.6 percent to $54.6
billion in the week ended Oct. 5, according to Fed data.
Stockpiles have dropped 42 percent since May to the lowest since
July 2003.  The decrease underscores the fragility of debt markets even
as prices rally from the biggest losses since 2008. Evaporating
liquidity crippled trading in corporate bonds and contributed to
declines of 7.6 percent in August and September for junk-rated
securities. It also caused a surge in a measure of the cost to
buy and sell credit to a more than two-year high.  “On both sides of the ocean, banks are holding more cash
and continue to de-risk,” said Alberto Gallo, senior credit
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “The
impact that all of this has on secondary trading is a prolonged
dry-up in liquidity. Transaction costs have increased. Investors
are trying to stick to liquid instruments, and they demand a
premium to buy illiquid assets. Unfortunately we don’t see that
changing between now and year-end.”  Bid Ask Spreads  The gap between where dealers buy and sell protection using
credit-default swaps reached the widest since July 2009 this
month. The so-called bid-ask spread for the 15 most-traded
credit-default swaps on U.S. investment-grade companies expanded
to 18.7 basis points on Oct. 4, compared with 4.9 basis points
at the end of July, according to market prices compiled by
London-based CMA. That’s equivalent to $18,700 on a $10 million
contract. The spread narrowed to 13.2 basis points yesterday.  Junk bonds , graded below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , have gained 1.3 percent
this month.  The Fed data also includes holdings of mortgage securities
not backed by government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or
federal agency Ginnie Mae.  The $600 billion market for U.S. commercial-mortgage-backed
securities may be the most damaged by the unwillingness of
dealers to take risk, said  Paul Norris , a senior  money manager 
at Dwight Asset Management Co. in Burlington,  Vermont , which
manages and advises on about $54 billion of assets.  “It’s frightening how this is like 2008 again to me as far
as liquidity goes,” he said in a telephone interview referring
to CMBS. Dealers have pulled backed after “a lot got burned
really badly” carrying inventories of the bonds or property
loans that they intended to package into securities, he said.  Volcker Rule  Banks have been pulling back even before the implementation
of a regulatory overhaul that seeks to increase  capital
requirements  and ban them from trading for their own accounts.  Fixed-income trading desks could suffer a 25 percent
decline in revenue under a proposal being considered by U.S.
regulators that may forbid market-makers who trade debt
securities for customers from amassing positions “in
expectation of future price appreciation, Brad Hintz, a
brokerage analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in an
Oct. 10 note to investors.  The proposed so-called Volcker rule has yet to impact
dealer inventories, which are declining because of cautious risk
managers and the weak economy, Hintz said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  