-- 
Wall Street Protesters Arrested as Park Occupation Continues

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/wall-street-protesters-arrested-in-lower-manhattan-police-say.html
Fourteen protesters in lower
 Manhattan  were arrested after a decision to delay closing
 Zuccotti Park , the site of demonstrations against the financial
industry, police said.  Protesters arrested included those who stood or sat down in
the street,  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the  New York City
Police Department , said in an e-mail. Others taken into custody
included individuals who allegedly overturned trash baskets or
hurled bottles, Browne said. At least one demonstrator was
detained after he allegedly knocked over a police scooter.  The arrests took place near Broadway and Exchange Place.
They came after a decision yesterday to keep Zuccotti Park, near
Liberty Street and Broadway, open rather than close it for
cleaning.  The postponement averted a confrontation between Occupy
Wall Street demonstrators, who had gathered in greater numbers
overnight, and police who threatened to remove tents and
sleeping bags.  As protesters filed out of the park and marched on lower
Manhattan streets, more than 30 police cruisers and 50 officers
gathered near the federal courthouse at the eastern end of the
Brooklyn Bridge.  An Oct. 1 march onto the bridge by protesters resulted in
hundreds of arrests. Protesters arrested in the march sued  New
York City , Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Police Commissioner
 Raymond Kelly  for allegedly violating their constitutional
rights.  Civil Rights Lawsuit  Five of the protesters, seeking to represent about 700
people arrested, filed a civil rights complaint Oct. 4 in
Manhattan federal court, claiming police officers lured them
onto the bridge’s roadway to trap and arrest them.  The  National Lawyers Guild , a nonprofit bar association, is
representing at least 30 arrested protesters who have appeared
in court already and is seeking to represent the more than 800
other demonstrators who have been charged since the protests
began Sept. 17, said Martin R. Stolar, a member of the guild.  The guild is representing four people arrested on Oct. 12,
including James Lafferty, 73, executive director of the guild’s
 Los Angeles  chapter, and his 63-year old wife, who were charged
with obstructing governmental administration, disorderly
conduct, and resisting arrest, Stolar said.  Guy Fawkes   The other two people, aged 18 and 20, were arrested for
wearing masks of Guy Fawkes, a conspirator in the 1605 plot to
blow up English Parliament, who is memorialized in Britain’s Guy
Fawkes Day, held on Nov. 5, Stolar said.  James Lafferty was arraigned Oct. 13, according to
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office.  Lafferty yelled loudly at a police lieutenant who was
arresting two other protesters, causing a large crowd of people
behind him to “grow agitated and express alarm,” according to
an indictment. Lafferty flailed his arms and threw his weight
into an officer when police tried to arrest him, causing the
officer to fall, according to the complaint.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State Supreme Court
in Manhattan at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  