-- 
Wall Street Protests Planned for Canadian Cities This Weekend

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-14T12:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/wall-street-protests-planned-for-toronto-montreal-vancouver-this-weekend.html
Protests are planned in Canadian
cities including Toronto starting tomorrow, expanding the Occupy
 Wall Street  demonstrations that began in  New York .  Protesters are scheduled to set up camp at 10 a.m. in
Toronto’s  financial district  near a Bank of  Canada  office,
according to the  OccupyToronto  website. Similar demonstrations
are planned near financial and government buildings in  Montreal ,
Ottawa, Calgary,  Vancouver  and Halifax throughout the weekend,
according to local websites.  The demonstrations, in concert with events planned this
weekend in cities including London, Madrid and Milan, aim “to
seek and work towards drastic changes to economic systems that
are destroying our economy,” according to a statement on the
OccupyToronto site.  Spokespeople for the organization didn’t immediately return
e-mail queries placed by Bloomberg News.  The rallies began Sept. 17 in New York’s financial
district, where people have been staying in Lower Manhattan’s
Zuccotti Park to protest inequality and advocate higher taxes
for the wealthy. Protesters have marched on the homes of Wall
Street figures including billionaire hedge fund manager  John
Paulson  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie
Dimon.  An anemic global economy, the European sovereign debt
crisis and high U.S. unemployment has led to discourse among
protesters, who have vowed to occupy Wall Street for months.
Demonstrations have spread to cities including  Los Angeles  and
Boston.  Toronto, Canada’s most populous city, is also the third-
largest financial center in North America, according to the
Toronto Financial Services Alliance. The city houses 10 domestic
banks, 129 securities firms and 60 life insurers, according to
the organization’s  website . The financial-services sector
contributes 14 percent to Toronto’s gross domestic product,
according to the TSFA.  Toronto’s financial district was damaged last year during a
weekend of violent Group of 20 summit-related protests, which
led to hundreds of arrests and left police cars burned and
windows smashed.  Canada’s banks, which include  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , have been ranked
the world’s soundest for four straight years by the Geneva-based
World Economic Forum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 