-- 
Texans Face Billions in Water Works Bills as Drought Saps Perry’s Economy

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/water-starved-texas-rice-crops-erode-u-s-harvest-prospects-as-prices-gain.html
Allan Ritter pushed a bill to make
25 million Texans pay an extra $3.25 a year to help provide
water for decades. Then, with a record drought devastating farms
and ranches, the state representative’s party leaders waded in.  “We couldn’t get the votes,” said the Republican from
Nederland who heads the Natural Resources Committee in the  House
of Representatives . Lawmakers who run the chamber sought to
oblige Governor  Rick Perry ’s pledge not to boost taxes instead.  “You couldn’t get the votes in the House to raise revenue
for anything last session,” Ritter said. Since 1996, when
lawmakers mandated statewide water planning, Texans haven’t
agreed on how to pay for needed work. This year, as crops
withered and cattle went to early slaughter, pressure rose for
action to protect the economy and sustain a surging population.
Perry called on citizens to pray for rain six months after the
drought began. On Nov. 8, voters will decide on letting the
state carry as much as $6 billion in water-related debt.  Perry, who appoints most members of boards overseeing state
agencies and local water authorities, didn’t include developing
resources among his priorities for the past legislative session.
He entered the race for the Republican presidential nomination
in August, after lawmakers had adjourned for the year.  The governor supports the November ballot measure, said
Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman. She referred questions to the
Environmental Quality Commission, where Commissioner Carlos
Rubinstein said he can’t comment on bond issues.  Record Low Rainfall  The driest 12-month period in  Texas  since records began in
1895 may lead the Lower Colorado River Authority, which oversees
water for 1.1 million people in cities such as Austin, to ask
the commission to stop irrigation supplies for area farms.  Texas
A&M University  has said the drought caused a record $5.2 billion
in agricultural losses for the state’s $1.2 trillion economy.  Water managers in the district may cut some irrigation
flows as soon as March. In 2009, agriculture accounted for 3.1
trillion gallons of consumption statewide, more than twice the
amount used by cities, according to the Texas Water Development
Board.  About $142 billion is needed for new reservoirs, treatment
plants and pipelines to meet projected demand or risk annual job
losses forecast to reach 1.1 million by 2060, if drought
conditions affected the entire state, the water board has said.
Income losses are estimated to climb to $116 billion a year and
 population growth  to slow by 1.4 million.  Not Unexpected  “We’ve known for at least a dozen years that there would
eventually be shortages,” Ronald Gertson, a rice grower near
Eagle Lake, about 70 miles (113 kilometers) west of Houston,
said by telephone. He won’t plant more than half of his 3,000-
acre (1,215-hectares) farm next year if he can’t irrigate.  Resolving the state’s water woes will take more than money,
said Robert Puente, chief executive officer of San Antonio Water
Systems, which serves the city’s 1.3 million people. Control
over water use is scattered among too many groups for effective
long-term planning, he said. The resources are overseen by
multiple agencies and hundreds of groundwater district boards,
municipal water departments and river authorities.  “What we unfortunately have in Texas are some very
parochial areas that are focused on taking care of their own,”
said Puente, a former lawmaker who led the House Natural
Resources panel. “Planning ends at your political boundary when
it should look at the entire region.”  Resource Development  San Antonio  and the Lower Colorado Authority agreed a
decade ago on a $2 billion program for a new reservoir and other
projects to expand supplies in central Texas, Puente said. Newer
authority board members, appointed by Perry, voted in 2009 to
end the agreement, prompting a lawsuit that remains pending.  “It’s going to take major legislative changes in water law
for us to get anywhere,” said Pix Howell, a former Lower
Colorado Authority board member who now owns an engineering-
consulting business in Leander, an Austin suburb. “The
statewide water plan is really a compilation of the desires of
various regions. It’s not really Texas water planning.”  While financial and legal impediments have blocked many
water projects, the drought is focusing attention on the need
for action, said Kathleen White, a senior fellow at the Texas
Public Policy Foundation. Less than 12 inches (30 centimeters)
of rain has fallen on average statewide since last October, said
John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist in  College Station .  “Our population is growing faster than other states, and
when you are in a horrible drought like this, it makes you feel
like you are hundreds of years late in addressing the issue,”
said White, who once led the state environmental agency.  Local Role  “The plan was never intended to be imposed from the
headquarters of the state,” White said. “The focus was that
this was a private and local-sector responsibility.”  Water infrastructure projects in Texas are funded by
communities and water districts through borrowing and local
taxes. Since 2008, the state has spent about $1.5 billion from
its general-revenue fund on such development with subsidies and
deferred loans to communities, said Melanie Callahan, the water
board’s interim executive administrator. In the fiscal year that
ended Aug. 31, Texas used about $3.78 billion to build highways,
according to the state Transportation Department in Austin.  Local control and resource rights that give priority to
those with the oldest claims remain fundamental in Texas and
unlikely to change, said Rubinstein, a former Brownsville city
manager appointed to the environmental agency by Perry in 2009.  “If a city in Texas is running out of water, it’s because
that city didn’t plan effectively,” he said.  Waterless August Day  In Kemp, about 50 miles southeast of  Dallas , 16 major
breaks in city water lines occurred in July and August, as pipes
as much as 60 or 70 years old shifted in parched soil. The leaks
drained the community’s two storage towers, forcing an Aug. 7
shutdown that left 1,150 residents to rely on bottled drinking
water for more than 24 hours during repairs.  Kemp needs to spend as much as $50 million to update pipes,
valves, tanks and a treatment plant, Mayor Donald Kile said in
an interview. The city hasn’t budgeted for repairs and is
seeking state grants to cover the most urgent work.  “We just don’t have the revenue income that the bigger
cities do” to pay for new pipes and equipment, Kile said. “If
we have another summer like we did this summer, we could be
right back up against the wall again.”  Next month’s ballot measure to expand the water board’s
bonding authority is backed by business and municipal groups
that support increased investment to develop water resources.
White’s policy foundation, a nonprofit organization closely
aligned with Perry, opposes the measure because it doesn’t put a
time limit on the borrowing it permits.  Forecast Needs  The water board, which forecast the state’s population to
climb 82 percent to 46.3 million by 2060, estimates 562
infrastructure projects are needed to ensure adequate water
supplies in the next 50 years, according to a draft report
released last month.  While the state faces $20 billion in economic losses from
the drought, mainly in agriculture, those effects have been
mitigated by growth in other segments, said Ray Perryman, an
economic forecaster and former Baylor University professor in
Waco. The state is the biggest U.S. producer of cattle, cotton
and hay, and supplies 7 percent of the nation’s rice.  “The drought is a significant drag, but at present it is
being offset by other factors,” he said, citing an almost 21
percent gain in population from 2000 to 2010, the fourth-biggest
jump among U.S. states. Nevada, Arizona and  Idaho  grew at a
greater rate, according to U.S. Census Bureau figures.  Credits Unaffected  Credit ratings of water utilities haven’t been affected by
the drought because they had “normal or above-normal supply
sources” as dry conditions set in,  Fitch Ratings  said Oct. 12.  “Negative ratings pressures could emerge if the drought
continues into 2012, forcing water utilities to escalate
conservation measures and negatively affecting financial
performance,” Doug Scott, a Fitch managing director in Austin,
said in a statement.  Municipalities across Texas are taking steps to conserve
water. Austin and San Antonio have restricted everything from
watering lawns to using ornamental fountains and charity car
washes. Austin said last month it plans to raise water and sewer
rates for next year by 5.1 percent. Fort Worth and Houston are
limiting outdoor water use.  Known as Proposition 2, the water board bond measure asks
voters to give the agency the authority to loan out as much as
$6 billion and to use repayments to finance new borrowing up to
that amount. The board currently lends based on a $4.23 billion
one-time authorization that has less than $1 billion remaining.  Financing Drain  “We are running out of authority to be able to assist
entities,” the board’s Callahan said. Some communities that
borrow through the board can get better terms, based on the
state’s top Aaa credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service.
Callahan said the savings on rates paid by debt issuers have
been as much as 1.84 percentage points.  “It will be good for issuers to have that state backing,”
said Doug Benton, a bond analyst at Cavanal Hill Investment
Management Inc. in Dallas. Municipal borrowing in Texas and
other states has slumped this year after federal economic-
stimulus subsidies on such debt ended in 2010, he said.  A 10-year Palestine, Texas, waterworks bond maturing in
July 2014 and rated A by  Standard & Poor’s  sold at a yield of
2.12 percent on Sept. 22, Benton said. By comparison, a water
board bond maturing in August 2014 and rated AA+ by S&P, one
step higher, had a yield of 0.45 percent in a Sept. 8 sale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lack of Funding  Water infrastructure has been underfunded in Texas, said
Mike Howe, the executive director of the Austin-based state unit
of the American Water Works Association, a nonprofit industry
organization located in Denver.  Ritter, the Nederland Republican, will try again to get his
bill to impose a statewide water fee passed in 2013, when the
Legislature is set to reconvene, he said. The revenue would be
used for water projects. The measure also would shift money from
a state fund that helps low-income residents pay utility bills.
He predicts support will build the longer the drought lasts.  That could be another year or more, according to Nielsen-
Gammon, the state climatologist. He cited long-range forecasts
tied to global weather patterns.  “The drought has absolutely helped people recognize the
need,” said Heather Harward, who heads H2O4Texas, an Austin-
based advocacy group pushing for passage of the measure. “This
is the most important issue facing the state.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 