-- 
Weakest Rupee Sends Refiners to Dollar Loans for Oil Imports: India Credit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-10-14T05:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/weakest-rupee-sends-refiners-to-dollar-loans-for-oil-imports-india-credit.html
The combination of a weakening rupee
and U.S. interest rates near a record low is prompting  India ’s
state-owned refiners to turn to dollar funding for oil imports.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. are in
the process of raising $865 million in loans, according to
people familiar with the transactions. That would increase
overseas debt taken on by state-run refineries this year to
$1.57 billion, the most since Bloomberg started compiling the
data in 2004.  The benchmark cost of borrowing in dollars between banks
for three months has dropped to 0.4 percent from a five-year
average of 2.1 percent, below the 9.38 percent rate for rupee
borrowing. The currency’s 9 percent slide against the dollar
this year, the biggest drop among Asian currencies, wiped out
the benefits of an 8 percent retreat in crude  oil prices  for the
world’s fourth-largest energy consumer.  “The rupee’s decline is hurting the refiners and is one of
their biggest headaches right now,” Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-
based credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd., said in an interview
on Oct. 12. “Dollar borrowings are cheaper and allow refiners
to pay for crude in that currency, hedging the currency risk.”  Earnings were already being eroded because the companies
are required to sell fuels below cost under a government plan to
keep consumer prices low. Refineries are losing 2.7 billion
rupees ($55 million) a day from selling diesel, kerosene and
cooking gas at a discount, oil ministry data show. Such losses
at  Bharat Petroleum  are estimated at 280 billion rupees in the
year ending March 2012, according to Finance Director S.
Varadarajan.  Foreign-Exchange Loss  Every one-rupee decline in the Indian currency against the
dollar increases annual revenue losses for the three government-
owned refiners by 80 billion rupees, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said in a statement on Oct. 10. The rupee was little
changed at 49.12 per dollar today. Implied volatility on one-
month dollar rupee options, a gauge of expected swings in the
 exchange rate , has risen to 9.7 percent from 5.7 percent three
months ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The value of India’s oil imports averaged $10.6 billion
during the first eight months of this year, 28 percent more than
a year earlier, as the local currency fell, government data
show.  Oil companies  are favoring dollar debt after the  Reserve
Bank  of India raised its benchmark repurchase rate by 3.5
percentage points since March 2010 to a three-year high of 8.25
percent, in the nation’s fastest monetary tightening on record.
The yield on Hindustan Petroleum’s 7.7 percent rupee notes due
in April 2013 has surged 192 basis points, or 1.92 percentage
point, since they were issued in April 2010 to 9.62 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Rupee Debt Cost  “Dollar borrowings bailed us out this time as rupee debt
costs remain high,” Bharat Petroleum’s director Varadarajan
said in an interview on Oct. 11. “Our revenue losses from fuel
sales this year are expected to be significant and we are
increasing overseas funding to lessen that problem.”  Interest costs at the Mumbai-based company rose to 3.35
billion rupees in the three months ended June 30, the most since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Such expenses
climbed to 2.64 billion rupees, the most since the first three
months of 2010, at Hindustan Petroleum and to 10.4 billion
rupees, the highest level in seven quarters, at Indian Oil
Corp., the nation’s biggest petroleum processor.  Overseas Borrowings  Indian Oil raised $500 million in July selling 5.625
percent U.S. currency-denominated bonds maturing in 2021. The
yield gap between the company’s 7.4 percent rupee debt and the
4.75 percent dollar securities, both due in 2015, increased 121
basis points this year to 600, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company plans to raise a limit on its total debt
by 38 percent to 1.1 trillion rupees as losses from fuel sales
mount, the Business Standard reported Sept. 23.  Lenders including Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  State
Bank  of India and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. raised $465
million in five-year loans for Hindustan Petroleum, according to
a person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified as details are private. Bharat Petroleum plans to
borrow about $400 million, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private.  Indian companies including  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and NTPC Ltd.
raised a combined $27.3 billion this year from overseas loans
and bond sales, up 17 percent from a year earlier, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Rupee debt issuance has declined to 1.23
trillion rupees from 1.68 trillion rupees a year earlier.  Widening Rate Gap  Yields on AAA-rated five-year rupee corporate bonds are
currently at 9.74 percent, 302 basis points more than average
dollar yields for Indian companies, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and HSBC Holdings Plc. The rate on similar-dated
company debt is 1.68 percent in the U.S., 5.87 percent in  China 
and 7.28 percent in  Korea . The difference in yields between
rupee government debt due in a decade and similar-dated U.S.
Treasuries widened 194 basis points this year to 655.  Yields on 10-year Indian  government bonds  have climbed 86
basis points this year, the most after  Vietnam  among  Asia ’s
local-currency debt markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yield on benchmark 7.8 percent notes due in April 2021
jumped 20 basis points this week to 8.78 percent, according to
the central bank’s trading system. India’s sovereign notes
returned 2.7 percent this year, while Indonesian debt gained
17.6 percent in the region’s best performance, according to an
index compiled by HSBC.  Dollar funding costs are rising for emerging-market
companies as  Europe ’s debt crisis prompts investors to avoid
assets perceived to be riskier. The average yield on U.S.
currency-denominated securities issued from India surged 156
basis points this year, heading for the biggest increase since
2008, to 6.72 percent, HSBC data show.  ‘Makes Things Difficult’  “The cost of borrowing in dollars has also been rising and
that makes things a little difficult for the refiners,” K.
Ravichandran, co-head of corporate ratings at ICRA Ltd., the
local affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service, said in an
interview yesterday.  The average cost for credit-default swaps insuring against
a default on the debt of seven Indian issuers has climbed 229
basis points this year to 428, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a nation or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The shares of Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum have
slid 9 percent and 30 percent in the past year as their debt
burden and  currency risk  increased. Indian Oil dropped 25
percent.  “The three refiners are in a very bad situation and the
rupee is increasing their pain,” Rina Sanghavi, a Kolkata-based
research analyst at SPA Securities Ltd., said in an interview
yesterday. “Their profit would continue to be under pressure.
They’re being forced to borrow more for their working capital
needs and this will increase their interest payments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  