-- 
What I Learned by Being a Migrant Sex Worker (Part 2): Parrenas

-- B y   R h a c e l   S a l a z a r   P a r r e n a s
-- 
2011-10-14T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/what-i-learned-by-being-a-migrant-sex-worker-part-2-parrenas.html
I spent nine months in  Tokyo  working
as a hostess in a working-class club in one of the city’s many
red-light districts, frequented by members of the yakuza, the
Japanese crime syndicates. This type of place, in a seedy
location, owned by a proprietor with a questionable background,
was often assumed to be a site of forced prostitution.  In 2005 and 2006, I resorted to this work as a way of
gaining access to the world of Filipina hostesses in Japan.
During my first three months in Tokyo, I had struggled to meet
hostesses willing to participate in my study of their
conditions. My visits to clubs as a customer had not provided
any solid leads. Attending church with fellow Filipinas had not
gained their trust. Even hostesses whom I befriended had always
declined my request for an interview. I had assumed that they
had experienced emotional distress from the stigma associated
with their occupation. I had come to  Japan  believing claims by
other academics that “hostess work” was a euphemism for
“prostitution.”  Unfamiliar World  After I began working as a hostess, every person I
approached agreed to talk to me. By the end of my study, I had
completed interviews with 56 Filipina hostesses: 45 females and
11 male-to-female transgendered individuals. After working just
one week in a hostess bar, I realized I had entered an
unfamiliar sexual world, where people are more open about their
sexuality, where both customers and hostesses seem to be ready
for extramarital affairs, and where men can sexually harass
women with no punishment.  This world has been condemned not only for its debauchery
and criminal elements but also for “crimes against humanity.”
Japanese hostess clubs -- specifically those that employ
Filipinas, Eastern Europeans, Colombians and Korean women --
have been labeled by the U.S. Department of State as hotbeds of
sexual trafficking. In these places, women are not just
endlessly harassed, but supposedly also held against their will,
forced into prostitution and made victims of sexual violence by
lecherous Japanese men.  What I discovered, in fact, was that these women come to
Japan voluntarily and gratefully, knowing what their jobs will
be. Very few engage in prostitution, and if they do, they do so
willingly. Instead, workers in hostess clubs are expected to
flirt with customers. Flirtation could occur up close at the
table or from a distance via the seductive performance of a song
or dance onstage. In explaining their profession, hostesses view
themselves as modern-day geisha.  Like Geisha  The hostesses I met catered to much-lower-earning men than
those who would typically engage with geisha. A middle-range
Philippine club in Tokyo charges no more than 5,000 yen ($65)
per hour. Still, like geisha, Filipina hostesses entertain
customers. While they might not play the stringed samisen or any
other musical instrument, they do sing and dance. More
significantly, like geisha, the hostesses would not engage in
the direct exchange of sex for money and tarnish their
reputation by making themselves easily available on a nightly
basis.  In Japan’s nightlife industry, hostess clubs occupy a
particular niche; men go there to flirt. In contrast, men go to
image clubs for sexual stimulation through role-playing; pink
salons for fellatio or masturbation; soap lands for a full-
service bath with the option of sex; and lingerie clubs or no-
panty bars for sexual excitement.  Objectifying Hostesses  In the clubs, men bond over their ability to objectify
hostesses with no admonishment. In the place where I worked,
customers usually commented on the appearance of the hostess
assigned to their table immediately after being introduced to
her, expressing either approval or disapproval, and in some
cases rejecting her, telling the club manager to replace her
with someone more attractive. Sometimes customers would request
a hostess with a specific physical feature, notably large
breasts.  I often heard customers describe me as “futote,” meaning
fat, and “kuroi,” meaning dark. I could not retort because
customers patronize hostess clubs not only to avoid rejection
but to experience male superiority. Hostesses can express only
positive comments about clients. As one of my co-workers
observed of our clients, “No one wants to listen to them. No one
tells them they are good-looking. No one admires them. That is
why they go to the club.” Hostesses try to generate sales by
bolstering the masculinity of their customers.  Precarious Status  Generally, sales determine a hostess’s treatment at the
club. Proprietors do not hesitate to fire those with lackluster
numbers. Entertainers who are fired are not necessarily sent
back to the  Philippines ; they are likely to be placed at another
club, which leaves them in a precarious, illegal immigration
status. Clubs have no qualms about berating hostesses for poor
sales performance.  Hostesses generate sales by securing a “shimei,” a
customer’s request for their company inside the club, and a
“dohan,” a paid date outside the establishment. Influenced by
conservative moral strictures of feminine respectability, most
shun paid sex. Yet even if hostesses hold no moral qualms
against prostitution, sex for money would not necessarily
guarantee them more sales, because sex could repel as much as
attract customers. Giving in would eliminate the thrill of the
chase.  Challenging Requirement  Hostesses consider the “dohan” one of the most
challenging job requirements. It technically requires that a
hostess spend some time with a customer outside the club,
whether it is a few hours or no more than five seconds for those
who literally do nothing but escort the client into the club.
The purchase of a “dohan” guarantees at least one hour with
the hostess inside the establishment. In female hostess clubs, a
“dohan” costs anywhere from 7,000 yen to 15,000 yen, plus a
minimum purchase of 10,000 yen of food inside the club.  Most hostesses do not think a “dohan” harms them; they
told me it was unlikely to mean coercive sex, though it might
involve voluntary prostitution. One woman said she once played
tug of war with a customer trying to get her inside a love
hotel. At the same time, hostesses on a “dohan” are sometimes
envied, because they are often taken to a Filipino restaurant.  False Assumptions  Yet the U.S. State Department cites the “dohan” as an
indication that Filipina hostesses are sexually trafficked in
Japan. Such false assumptions led to a U.S.  policy  that prompted
Japan, in 2006, to reduce the number of visas for Filipina
hostesses by 90 percent. Anti-trafficking and anti-prostitution
crusaders counted this a triumph. But no trafficking and very
little prostitution was stopped, and 81,000 Filipinas lost their
livelihoods.  Unsubstantiated claims of the forced prostitution of
Filipina hostesses are morally charged, and divert attention
from the need for regulation and protection of sex workers.  For Filipina hostesses, the goal should be job improvement,
not job elimination. What’s needed are laws to prevent abusive
behavior by middleman brokers. Club owners should be required to
pay hostesses directly, rather than brokers. And labor standards
should be enacted to ensure that the hostesses have regular days
off and an eight-hour-per-evening work limit.  Hostesses don’t need to be rescued. They need the
empowerment that comes from being independent labor migrants.
Only then can they remain gainfully employed, free of migrant
brokers, and have full control of their own lives.  (Rhacel Salazar Parrenas is a professor of sociology at the
University of  Southern California . This is the second in a two-
part excerpt from her new book “Illicit Flirtations: Labor,
Migration, and Sex Trafficking in Tokyo” to be published Oct. 15
by Stanford University Press. See  Part 1 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 parrenas@usc.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  