-- 
What Do You Call a Jobs Bill That Begets No Jobs?: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-10-14T00:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/what-do-you-call-a-jobs-bill-minus-the-jobs-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
When President  Barack Obama 
“pivoted” to jobs a few months back (from what, the White
House didn’t say), he said he was going to take his plan to
rebuild the U.S. economy directly to the American people.  It’s a good thing, too, because Congress isn’t interested.
Obama’s $447 billion  American Jobs Act of 2011  was never going
to see the light of day in the Republican-controlled House. The
Senate gave it the thumbs-down this week, voting 50-49 to block
the bill, well shy of the 60 votes needed to end a filibuster.
Even some of the Democrats who voted to bring the bill to the
floor said they would have voted no on the bill itself.  That doesn’t mean it’s dead. Obama has vowed to continue
pushing his jobs package, with its temporary tax cuts and hiring
incentives for small business, extended  unemployment benefits 
and money for public works projects. The Senate now plans to
take up selected provisions of the bill.  We can only hope they pick and choose wisely. Some
measures, such as the “bridge to work” program, seem
reasonable. People receiving unemployment benefits could spend
up to eight weeks as unpaid trainees working for eligible
employers, learning new skills and enhancing their job
prospects.  But the bill includes a lot of short-term incentives that
wouldn’t encourage hiring, anti-discrimination protections for
unemployed workers that wouldn’t get them rehired, trade
restrictions that would raise the cost of infrastructure
projects, and a decade of new taxes to pay for all the new
spending.  Significant Shortcomings  As for the president’s contention that his bill is “fully
paid for,” with the spending front-loaded and the tax increases
deferred until after 2013, it sure sounds like another case of
government betting on the come.  What do you call a jobs bill that professes to create jobs
when in fact it wouldn’t have much of a real-world effect? Here
are some adjectives that come to mind.  1. Naive  It’s naive to think that small business would take
advantage of a one-time $4,000 tax credit to hire an employee at
a salary of, say, $30,000 a year, not including training or
benefits, said Bill Rys, tax counsel for the  National Federation
of Independent Business , which represents small and independent
businesses.  What’s more, businesses would assume the risk up front and
receive the benefit (the tax credit) a year later.  Like many of the tax incentives enacted over the past few
years, those proposed in the jobs bill are set on such short
time frames as to negate their effect, Rys said.  2. Misinformed  The president proposed  spending  $80 billion to put tens of
thousands of residential construction workers, casualties of the
housing bust, back to work rebuilding crumbling roads, bridges
and schools. But that’s unlikely, according to NFIB chief
economist Bill Dunkelberg.  “The skill sets aren’t well matched; government programs
generally require union workers, so most small construction
firms won’t qualify; and home builders don’t have the equipment
for roads and bridges,” Dunkelberg said.  Aside from that, Mrs. Lincoln, great idea.  3. Short-sighted  Many Democrats, including Obama, define stimulus as
“putting money in the pockets of those who will spend it.”
How, then, does the president justify taking money out of those
same pockets?  Section 4 of the jobs bill, titled “Buy American,” would
do just that. It specifies that government funds would be
available only to infrastructure projects that use manufactured
goods (iron and steel, for example) produced in the U.S. It
doesn’t specify that such a provision would raise the cost of
those projects.  Every legislative proviso has exceptions. In the case of
“Buy American,” the rules wouldn’t apply if complying was
“not in the public interest” (who decides?); if there was an
insufficient amount of American-produced iron and steel
available (who’s counting?); or if it would “increase the cost
of the project by more than 25 percent” (23 percent is OK?).
One can only imagine the time and opportunity cost for small
business to stay abreast of the relevant provisions.  4. Targeted  Obama wants to protect the unemployed from discrimination
in the workplace. A noble goal, to be sure, but his bill would
have the opposite effect by making it illegal to use a
candidate’s employment status as a qualification for work.  How would the crafters of the jobs bill expect a reasonable
businessman to behave when confronted with the prospect of a
discrimination suit for failing to hire an unemployed applicant?
He wouldn’t even grant that candidate an interview, according to
Kenneth Langone, the founder of Home Depot Inc.  Look at the bright side: This provision is certain to
provide enough billable hours for law firms to justify hiring
new lawyers.  5. Insane  Obama has vowed to forge ahead with his jobs plan,
fulfilling that well-known definition of insanity: doing the
same thing over and over and expecting a different result. In
February 2009, Congress enacted the $825 billion American
Reinvestment and Recovery Act. Since then, the  U.S. economy  has
lost an additional 1.5 million workers.  The Obama administration can argue that the stimulus
“created or saved” 3.5 million jobs, and that the economy
would have been in worse shape without it, but those assertions
can’t be tested or proved. Only in model-land can
econometricians pinpoint outcomes to the nearest 10th of a
percentage point.  If the stimulus had been successful, Obama wouldn’t be
hawking version 2.0, with many of the same short-term incentives
that didn’t fool those it was designed to help.  That means we have to rely on Congress, not a reliable
source of salvation, to nix the anti-job measures in the jobs-
wanting bill.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 