-- 
Wolseley Hired Outside Lease-Breaker to Cut Rental Expenses

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-10-14T15:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/wolseley-hired-outside-lease-breaker-to-cut-rent-by-47-million.html
Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the world’s largest
supplier of heating and plumbing products, will save about 30
million pounds ($47 million) through an outsourcing deal that
brought an end to most rental agreements on 163 surplus
properties.  Legacy Portfolio  said it received 47 million pounds in June
2010 to help Wolseley get out of leases for the buildings,
mostly warehouse outlets. Legacy has since terminated 120 leases
after settling with the landlords and found tenants at some
other properties to replace Wolseley, according to a statement
today from the companies.  The payment to Legacy covers all the future rent that
Wolseley owes for the surplus properties, so the Zug,
Switzerland-based company doesn’t have to make further
provisions for them in its accounts. The deal is the U.K.’s
largest lease liability transfer to date, Cushman & Wakefield
Inc. said. It means Wolseley will pay only 61 percent of the 77
million pounds originally that was due until all the leases
expired.  “This transaction has allowed us to focus on our core
operational objectives and ensured that the needs of the branch
network are fully supported,” said Andrew Pickett, Wolseley’s
U.K. real estate director, in the statement.  Slimming Down  The deal is part of Wolseley Chief Executive Officer Ian Meakins’s plan to reduce the company’s size, eliminate debt and
cut costs. Pretax profit for the 12 months through July was 391
million pounds, compared with a 328 million-pound loss a year
earlier, the company reported earlier this month.  Meakins sold peripheral businesses and cut the branch
network of Wolseley’s brands. That left the company with 177
properties in the U.K. that it no longer needed, 14 of which it
owned. It chose Legacy after a tender that included eight other
companies.  Legacy, owned by its managers and private individuals,
makes its money by keeping as much as possible of the lump sum
it receives after disposing of the surplus leases through sister
company FraserCRE.  “There can be no greater comfort that the risk has been
removed completely than a surrender,” Legacy Chairman Alexander Anton said in the statement. “Our success in doing so in 75
percent of the properties is all down to our structure and
execution capabilities.”  Legacy declined to comment on the profit it expects to make
on the Wolseley deal.  Wolseley advanced 16 pence in  London  trading to 1,697 pence
at 4:07 p.m. The stock has fallen 17 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 4.83 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 