-- 
Xi’s Politburo May Take Shape as China Communist Leaders Jockey for Power

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-14T04:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/xi-s-politburo-may-take-shape-as-china-s-communist-party-jockeys-for-power.html
China ’s ruling Communist Party
begins an annual conclave in Beijing tomorrow, with top
officials seeking to shape the core leadership that will run
what may become the world’s biggest economy in the next decade.  The party’s leaders are jockeying to mold the membership of
the nine-person Politburo Standing Committee that will rule
collectively under the leadership of Vice President  Xi Jinping ,
who is expected to be named party head late next year, said
Huang Jing, a professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public
Policy at the  National University  of  Singapore .  “This is a time when the next generation of China’s
leaders needs to be exposed,” Huang said. “Who will get more
pictures, more photo opportunities, whose talk or speech will be
reported -- all this can be read as confirmation.”  Potential candidates range from an English-speaking former
Harvard University scholar to a North Korean-trained economist.
Their outlook will have increasing importance as  China’s economy ,
the biggest contributor to global growth, is buffeted by
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis. While the  International Monetary
Fund  and Standard Chartered Plc. estimate China’s economy may
surpass the U.S. in size during their tenure, there are rising
concerns growth will slow.  President  Hu Jintao  is due to step down from his role as
General Secretary of the 80-million member Communist Party at a
congress late next year and retire from the presidency in March
2013 after a decade in power. Growth has averaged 10.9 percent a
year since Hu took office in 2003 and China has overtaken  Japan 
to become the world’s second-biggest economy.  Cementing Hu’s Legacy  The four-day meeting of the 370-odd full members and
alternates of the party’s  Central Committee  that begins tomorrow
will help cement his legacy and help winnow down the lists for
the next Politburo Standing Committee, says Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an
adjunct professor of Chinese history at the Chinese University
of  Hong Kong . Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  is in line to replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier.  Last year’s plenum elevated Xi to vice chairman of the
party’s Central Military Commission, a post Hu held before
assuming the top leadership positions beginning in 2002. Huang
said he expects Xi to play an even more prominent role in this
year’s event, such as making a major address. The plenum, which
normally issues a report at its close, should also affirm
policies set by Hu, including a push to emphasize virtue among
party cadres and a campaign against corruption, Huang said.  Growth Forecast  Fifty-nine percent of respondents in the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders said
economic growth in China may decline to less than 5 percent
annually by 2016. Growth was 9.5 percent in the second quarter.
China’s exports rose the least in seven months in September,
prompting the customs bureau to warn of “severe” challenges as
the global economic outlook dims.  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last
month that his top concern remained “high inflation.” The PBOC
has increased  interest rates  five times and boosted banks’
reserve requirements nine times over the past year to rein in
prices and curb speculation in the  property market .  Consumer prices exceeded 6 percent for a fourth month,
rising 6.1 percent in September from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today. Producer prices rose
6.5 percent last month, a separate report showed.  Aspirants  Huang said to look for the prominence given at the plenum
to standing committee aspirants such as Vice Premier Wang Qishan
and Party Organization Department head Li Yuanchao, who attended
a leadership course at  Harvard University . Bo Xilai, the party
boss of southwestern Chongqing Municipality and a former
Commerce Minister who led an effort to reintroduce revolutionary
songs and slogans, is also a figure to watch, Huang said. All
are members of the wider, 25-person Politburo.  Only two members of the current standing committee, Xi and
Li Keqiang, are expected to remain on after the Party Congress,
Cheng Li, a senior fellow at Washington’s Brookings Institution,
wrote in a July 6  note  for Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd.  Brookings’ Li said there are 14 candidates for what will
likely be nine spots on the standing committee. Xi and Li
Keqiang, as well as Wang Qishan, Li Yuanchao, Vice Premier Zhang Dejiang and propaganda department head Liu Yunshan are likely to
be elevated, Cheng Li said in the note.  Lam said former General Secretary  Jiang Zemin , 85, who made
an appearance at an event in Beijing on Oct. 9, may also be
pushing for Shanghai party boss Yu Zhengsheng to join the
Politburo Standing Committee in addition to Bo and Wang. Hu and
his allies are “scheming to keep Bo out” of the standing
committee, Lam said.  “This is a lot of shadow boxing, back-stabbing and
puppeteering,” Lam said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  