-- 
Yankee Stadium Car Lots Said to Become Affordable-Home Sites

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-10-14T21:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/yankee-stadium-car-lots-said-to-become-affordable-housing-sites.html
Two Yankee Stadium parking lots,
whose poor performance threatens bonds backed by their revenue
with default, are slated to become sites for affordable housing
and retail, a person familiar with the plan said.  The Bronx Parking Development Co., which issued the bonds,
approved terms to lease the sites to two development firms to
build between 550 and 600 units of apartments, plus about 45,000
square feet (4,180 square meters) of neighborhood retail, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the plan
isn’t complete.  Income from parking has been short of projections even
though the  New York Yankees  were second behind the  Philadelphia
Phillies  this year in Major League Baseball attendance, with
3.65 million fans, according to the ESPN  website . The facilities
face competition from public transportation such as the New York
City subway and Metro-North Railroad, as well as other parking
at a mall near the stadium.  “We are pleased to be assisting BPDC move forward with an
alternative use to the underutilized parking lots,” said Kyle
Sklerov, a spokesman for the city’s Economic Development Corp.
“The redevelopment of these sites -- with affordable housing
and neighborhood retail -- will bring much-needed benefits to
the surrounding community.”  About $238 million of tax-exempt debt was sold in 2007 to
build three garages, renovate two others and refurbish six
parking lots near the 50,287-seat stadium, which opened in 2009.
The garages generated 28 percent less revenue than assumed,
according to a May 25 report to bondholders.  Hedge Fund Interest  Hedge funds  specializing in distressed debt were buying
municipal bonds backed by stadium parking facilities, including
Monarch Alternative Capital LP and Davidson Kempner Capital
Management LLC, two people familiar with the transactions said
in June.  The housing plans were reported in New York Daily News
columnist Juan Gonzalez’s  column  today.  Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz has requested
expressions of interest from developers to build a 200-room
hotel on the site of one of the garages, said John DeSio, a Diaz
spokesman. Responses are due Nov. 15, he said.  “Bondholders have shown interest in working with us on
this,” DeSio said, referring to the hotel proposal.  A call to Steven Polivy, an attorney representing the
parking company, weren’t immediately returned.  The two firms negotiating to build the apartments are Joy
Construction and Jackson Development, the person familiar with
the plan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  