-- 
China’s Yuan Advances This Week as Inflation Remains Above 6%

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-14T09:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-14/yuan-heads-for-weekly-advance-as-inflation-remains-above-6-.html
China ’s yuan rose for a second week
after a government report showed inflation exceeded 6 percent
for a fourth month.  The statistics bureau said today consumer prices climbed
6.1 percent in September from a year earlier, compared with the
6.2 percent rise in August. The currency dropped 0.4 percent
yesterday after a report showed China’s overseas sales grew at
the weakest pace since February, while the  U.S. Senate  passed
legislation letting companies seek duties to compensate for an
undervalued yuan.  “Tackling inflation remains China’s top priority and
that’s positive for the yuan,” said Daniel Chan, chief
economist at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . “The government
will continue with its gradual appreciation approach to ease
import prices, while it’s watching closely the impact of a
global slowdown on the exporting industries.”  The yuan gained 0.12 percent this week and 0.05 percent
today to 6.3785 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The People Bank’s of China
lowered the daily  reference rate  0.04 percent to 6.3762 per
dollar today, The yuan is allowed to fluctuate 0.5 percent on
either side of the fixing.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.26
percent today to 6.4430, limiting this week’s loss to 0.3
percent. It’s at a 1 percent discount to the onshore spot rate.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.13 percent to
6.4030. The contracts dropped 0.45 percent this week.  Exports Decline  Overseas sales rose 17.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with 24.5 percent growth in August and the
20.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, according to the customs bureau yesterday.  The government will introduce more policies to boost
economic growth as exports slump,  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-based
chairman of global markets for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. The yuan will
appreciate a further 2 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this year
and 5 percent next year, she said.  China’s foreign ministry warned U.S. lawmakers on Oct. 12
that the proposed bill allowing penalties against countries that
undervalue their currencies would damage bilateral trade and
risks undermining the global recovery. The legislation will now
move to the Republican-controlled  House of Representatives .  -- Editors: Sandy Hendry, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  