-- A Boom in Bond Exchange-Traded Funds
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-04-17T20:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/a-boom-in-bond-exchange-traded-funds.html
     Imagine having to choose among 1,450 different cars --
some wildly different, others subtly so. Checking them out
would be fun, for the first hour or so. After two hours, it
becomes a bore and after three, a royal pain in the
neck. That's the way some financial advisers feel about all
the options in the exchange-traded fund world today -- all
1,450 or so of them.  There's no relief in sight for those feeling
overwhelmed, as a wave of new fixed-income ETFs reaches
investors. Until recently, bond ETF pickings were pretty
slim, but fund giants such as BlackRock are busy slicing and
dicing fixed-income securities into tightly targeted
offerings. Since 2009, the number of bond ETFs has risen from
52 to 191, and more wait in the wings.  “There’s a point where you suffer from analysis
paralysis,” says Matt Terrien, a senior portfolio manager at
Evanston Advisors in Schaumburg, Ill. “If I take my kids to
the ice cream store and there’s 127 flavors, I spend a half an
hour with them trying to figure out which one we want.”  Here's a sampling of the products being rolled out to
allow investors to better diversify their exposure to bonds of
certain industries, maturities and credit quality. While the
offerings may help both fine-tune portfolios and spread
risks, a crush of new financial offerings in the same area can
be a contrarian indicator, so tread carefully.  Zeroing in  This February, BlackRock announced the first three sector
bond ETFs -- IShares Utilities Sector Bond, IShares
Industrials Sector Bond and IShares Financials Sector Bond.
The three sectors make up almost all of the Barclays Capital
U.S. Credit Bond Index, which tracks high-quality investment
grade (debt rated BBB or better) corporate bonds. The
industrial sector is a catchall that includes everything from
telecom to technology and health care.  "There's been some concern by investors about the
financial sector and corporate bonds issued by financial
firms," says Matthew Tucker, head of the IShares fixed-income
department. "Those investors can now buy the industrial
IShares and the utilities IShares and create a diversified
corporate bond portfolio without any financial exposure.” All
three have yields of around 3 percent and expenses of 0.30
percent.  Keeping it short  Fears of inflation and rising interest rates are also a
concern. Bond prices and interest rates have an inverse
relationship -- and with rates close to zero, the only place
to go is up. In response to such jitters, the fund industry
has come out with several short-to-intermediate-term-maturity
bond ETFs in the popular high-yield category.  Those products include the SPDR Barclays Capital Short
Term High Yield Bond ETF and the PIMCO 0-5 Year High Yield
Corporate Bond Index ETF. The PIMCO fund appeals to financial
planner Theodore Feight, of Creative Financial Design.
Feight, who has many retired clients, has been investing as
much as 7 percent of client portfolios in the ETF. With an
average bond maturity of 2.45 years, it's much less sensitive
to rising rates than a long-term Treasury bond. Moreover, the
ETF’s 4.93 percent yield exceeds the 30-year Treasury’s 3.35
percent.  "My clients need some bond income," says Feight.
"However, I have told them that at the first sign of
inflation, we may be selling any bonds we have.”  For investors really worried about inflation, the
FlexShares bond ETFs track shorter-term inflation-protected
securities (TIPS). “We approach every portfolio from a risk
perspective first,” says Michael McClary, chief investment
officer of ValMark Advisers, an institutional asset manager of
$2 billion. Risk for McClary, in fixed-income, is a
portfolio's "duration." Duration is a wonky term that
signifies how sensitive a bond's value is to moves in interest
rates. If a bond fund's duration is 1.5 years, it means the
fund will decrease about 1.5% in value if interest rates rise
1%, and it will increase 1.5% if rates fall by the same
amount.  McClary is moving a third of his clients' TIPS positions
into the FlexShares ETFs, which have durations ranging from
three years to five years. He's keeping some exposure to the
IShares Barclays TIPS Bond ETF, which tracks bonds of all
maturities. “With that position, the difference is it can move
on you pretty quickly because it’s more rate-sensitive," he
says. "With the target-duration ETF, we pretty much know where
it’s going to be.”  Climbing the ladder  Some investors want to control exactly when their bonds
will mature. Precision is necessary for those who build
"laddered" portfolios of bonds that mature at different
dates, when the investor will need capital for such purposes
as college tuition.  Since June 2010, Guggenheim Investments has launched a
slew of BulletShares corporate bond ETFs with specific
maturity dates. The three offered this March will mature in
2018, 2019 and 2020, and they invest in a diversified basket
of high-quality corporate bonds. When the bonds
mature, shareholders’ capital is returned.  The ETFs are helpful because most investors don’t have
enough money to build a diversified laddered portfolio. “When
I put together bond ladders, I generally have to stick to one
or two bonds in any one maturity unless they have a
significant amount of money,” says Peter Regan, a financial
planner with CEP Financial in Houston. “So I find that I
always have to stick with very high credit qualities to avoid
defaults."  With ETFs such as the BulletShares, "you can buy a basket
of bonds with a lower credit quality -- like A -- and because
they hold hundreds of bonds, you don’t have to worry so much
if one defaults," says Regan. "You get a little extra yield
because the credit quality for the ETF portfolio is A, instead
of AAA for the bonds you would’ve purchased on your own.”  One worry: The ETFs tend be concentrated in industries
raising capital in the debt markets at the same time. So, for
instance, the Guggenheim BulletShares 2015 Corporate Bond ETF
has a 60 percent weighting in financials because banks have
been raising a lot of money in recent years.  Credit check  Although the economy seems to have improved, many
investors are still skittish about the credit quality of their
bond portfolio. To cater to this concern in February, 
BlackRock launched the IShares Aaa - A Rated Corporate Bond
ETF. (Van Eck is taking a different tack, offering a Market
Vectors Fallen Angel Bond ETF that focuses on securities that
were initially rated investment-grade but were downgraded to
junk status.)  A more interesting credit play is the Powershares
Fundamental Investment Grade Corporate Bond ETF that came out
last September. The index to this ETF was designed by Research
Affiliates and its founder, Rob Arnott. The index accords the
heaviest weights to bonds of issuers with the greatest
financial strength -- those with the highest cash
flow, dividends, sales and book value.  That strategy differs from most bond ETFs, which follow
market-cap-weighted indexes that invest the most in those
issuers with the greatest amount of outstanding debt. That can
result in an index heavily weighted in the most overleveraged
companies.  Floating Rates  For those nervous about both credit quality and interest
rates, there are two new floating-rate bond ETFs -- SPDR
Barclays Cap Investment Grade Floating Rate ETF and IShares
Floating Rate Note. These bonds don’t pay fixed interest rates
but have yields that reset periodically, so if rates are
rising, the bonds’ payouts rise with them.  The ETFs are unusual in that they buy high-quality bonds
instead of junk-rated bank loans with floating rates. The
latter are a common investment available in some 40 bank-loan
mutual funds, paying higher yields but assuming more credit
risk. So for true worrywarts, these ETFs could be preferable.
Yields for them are low, though, at 1.3 percent. As with
everything in investing, it’s tough to have your cake and eat
it, too.
 