-- Abbas Says in Letter to Netanyahu Israel Undermining Authority
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-04-17T17:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/abbas-says-in-letter-to-netanyahu-israel-undermining-authority.html
     April 17 (Bloomberg) --The chief Palestinian negotiator
delivered a letter to Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  calling
on  Israel  to end settlement building and blaming it for
undermining the  Palestinian Authority ’s powers.  Netanyahu said in a statement after the meeting in
 Jerusalem  with Saeb Erakat that the two sides remained dedicated
to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict and that he would
respond to the letter within two weeks.  Erakat said before the meeting that Prime Minister Salam Fayyad would head the Palestinian delegation, making it the
highest-level Israeli-Palestinian encounter in 19 months. Fayyad
didn’t make the trip, which had been arranged to deliver the
letter from Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Abbas wrote the letter as Palestinian efforts to pursue
full recognition at the  United Nations  have stalled and the
Authority faces a growing budget crunch that the  World Bank  says
is jeopardizing efforts to build the institutions of a state.
Peace talks have been suspended since September 2010, when
Netanyahu declined to extend a 10-month freeze on construction
in West Bank settlements.  “The Palestinians will wait for the Israeli response and
also will wait for the Americans to come up with any ideas to
help push forward the  peace process ,” said Khalil Shaheen, a
political analyst at Bethlehem-based Badil, the Resource Center
for Palestinian Residency & Refugee Rights.  The Palestinian Authority is expected to have a 2012
deficit of about $1.1 billion, the World Bank said in a March 15
report. The shortfall is a result of a decline in donor funds,
slowing economic growth and Israeli restrictions that hinder
development and trade, the bank said.  Security Restrictions  The Israeli government has said that security restrictions
on movement in the  West Bank  have been eased in recent years,
including the removal of dozens of road blocks and checkpoints.  The letter expresses Palestinian frustration after two
decades of negotiations, according to an Arabic text sent by
Erakat’s office.  “Twenty years ago, we concluded with Israel an agreement
under international auspices which was intended to take the
Palestinian people from occupation to independence,” the letter
says. “Now, as a result of actions taken by successive Israeli
governments, the Palestinian National Authority no longer has
any authority, and no meaningful jurisdiction in the political,
economic, social, territorial and security spheres.”  Netanyahu’s office said in its statement that the “two
sides hope that this exchange of letters will help in finding a
path to advance peace.”  Public Opinion  “Everyone is skeptical of the prospects of getting
anywhere but nobody wants to be seen as the one responsible for
the failure,”  Mark Heller , senior research fellow at  Tel Aviv 
University’s Institute for National Security Studies, said in a
telephone interview. “So, there is a lot of going through the
motions and cultivation of world public opinion.”  Mohammad Shtayyeh, a longtime Palestinian negotiator, said
the letter is aimed at sending a message that peace efforts have
failed and Israel is to blame. Israeli negotiators say the
breakdown is due to the Palestinian refusal to hold talks
without conditions such as the proposed settlement freeze.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  