-- Acree Says Buy Chipmakers, Prefers AMD to Intel
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-17T17:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/acree-says-buy-chipmakers-prefers-amd-to-intel.html
Semiconductor stocks  are more
attractive than ever as the companies boost their dividends, and
investors should buy Advanced Micro Devices Inc. over  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , according to Williams Financial Group Inc.’s Cody Acree.  “Most of the chip companies let the manufacturing burden
go to the Taiwanese or to other companies, so they’ve become
design houses with sales tools and they have very little fixed
costs,” Acree, a Dallas-based analyst at Williams, said today
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom
Keene. “They’re big cash generators and they’re deploying that
back into big dividends.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Semiconductors & Semiconductor
Equipment Index jumped 13 percent this year through yesterday,
the  sixth-best increase  out of 24 groups in the  S&P 500 . The
chipmaker gauge has returned 4.5 percentage points more than the
broader measure including dividends. The semiconductor group’s
current  dividend yield  is 2.13 percent, up from 1.1 percent in
October 2007.  Acree said the lower  price-earnings multiple  of  AMD (AMD) , based
in Sunnyvale,  California , makes it more attractive than Intel,
which trades at 11.5 times profit in the past year. AMD is 27
percent cheaper at 8.4 times earnings. Intel, the world’s
largest chipmaker, reached its highest level in seven years this
month, while AMD, the second-largest, is the best-performing
stock in the semiconductor gauge this year.  Acree has a hold rating on  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel and considers AMD a buy. AMD doesn’t pay a dividend, while
Intel has declared 21 cent per-share dividends for the last four
quarters.  Intel is “fairly range-bound,” Acree said. “AMD is
gaining share in the space and to some extent that will be at
Intel’s giving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  