-- Afghan Attacks Had Political Rather Than Military Targets
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-17T00:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/afghan-attacks-had-political-rather-than-military-targets.html
The militants who waged weekend
attacks on the Afghan capital, Kabul, and three other cities
wielded small arms and rocket-propelled grenades to fire what
may have been primarily political ammunition.  The assault, which U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
yesterday was organized by the Pakistan-based Haqqani network,
kept Afghan security forces at bay for more than 17 hours and
required NATO helicopters to end the standoff. Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  called it an “intelligence failure for us and
especially NATO.”  Other officials cautioned that it is premature to conclude
that the Haqqani group was responsible, noting that the Taliban
announced the attacks almost as soon as they began. A finding
that Haqqani was behind the attacks could further complicate
troubled U.S.-Pakistani relations because U.S. intelligence
officials think the group has links to Pakistan’s Inter-Services
Intelligence directorate and has been largely shielded from
American drone attacks.  The insurgents’ aim wasn’t to take and hold territory; it
was to erode both confidence in Karzai’s government and already
waning U.S. and European public and political support for the
Afghan war, said U.S. and European military experts and
officials.  The attacks signal to Afghan citizens that, when the U.S.
and its allies exit as planned at the end of 2014, the Taliban
will be back, said Kurt Volker, a former U.S. ambassador to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  ‘Sitting On the Fence’  “That makes the NATO job harder today, keeps the local
population sitting on the fence and indicates that all the
progress we have achieved in  Afghanistan  risks coming undone if
we stick to politically driven time lines,” Volker said in an
e-mail.  The purpose of this attack “may well have been for the
insurgents to remind the U.S., NATO, the Afghans and, indeed,
their own supporters that they’re still in business,” said
former British Army Brigadier Ben Barry, a senior fellow at the
London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.
“Just as NATO has been pursuing a strategy of fight and
negotiate, it may be that the insurgents are doing the same
thing.”  Afghan forces and NATO troops killed 36 guerrillas to end
the wave of attacks yesterday that struck Kabul and three
provincial capitals in eastern Afghanistan starting the previous
day.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the
attacks and urged stronger security measures.  NATO Summit  “We need to strengthen the capacity of counter-terrorism
efforts and of Afghan national security,” Ban said yesterday in
Brussels. “These issues will be discussed in detail at the
forthcoming NATO summit in  Chicago  in May.”  Speaking to reporters at the Pentagon after the Kabul
assault was over, Panetta sought to downplay the attacks’
significance.  “There were no tactical gains here,” Panetta said.
“These are isolated attacks that are done for symbolic
purposes, and they have not regained any territory.”  The counterattack “was very much an Afghan show,” with
the U.S. and  France  providing helicopter support, said U.S. Army
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
speaking alongside Panetta.  “What does it mean? It means we’re still in a fight,”
Dempsey said. “We’ve been talking quite openly about the fact
that we’ve got three more fighting seasons” in which to build
the Afghan security forces and “diminish the capability” of
the Taliban, he said, referring to the plan for removing most
coalition forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  All-Time Low  The American public and members of Congress are
increasingly less inclined to provide that much time, though.  Public support in the U.S. fell to an all-time low of 30
percent saying the war in Afghanistan has been worth fighting,
according to a recent  Washington  Post-ABC News poll. Among
Republican respondents, 55 percent said it hasn’t been worth the
costs, the first time a majority of Republicans gave that
response. The poll was taken April 5-8, and the full sample had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Congressional supporters of the Afghan war are concerned
that more high-profile attacks that catch the American public’s
attention will further weaken support, according to a House
Republican aide and a congressional staffer, both of whom spoke
on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  Patience is Eroding  Combined with periodic criticism of the U.S. by Karzai and
U.S. agreements with him that seem to trade away American
military tools, such as night raids by special operations
forces, patience in Congress already has eroded considerably,
the congressional staffer said.  The trend highlights the need for President  Barack Obama  to
articulate a road map for progress and success in Afghanistan as
Congress starts debating funding and war policy for the next
fiscal year, the House Republican aide said.  Such attacks are staged “for what we might call
psychological operations,” said  Seth Jones , a senior political
scientist at the RAND Corporation who goes to Afghanistan
regularly for research and has advised the U.S. military.  “If you look at the situation on the ground in
Afghanistan, it’s definitely a mixed picture,” Jones said,
adding that he has seen coalition and Afghan forces intercept
attempted Taliban attacks.  Still, the Taliban continue to control territory in the
east, the west and the north of Afghanistan and even parts of
the south, Jones said.  Testing the Afghans  This year’s fighting season will test the Afghan army and
police, said retired U.S. Army General Jack Keane, a member of
the advisory Defense Policy Board. The exit of 23,000 U.S.
troops this year will remove 40 percent of the force from
Kandahar province in the country’s south and two-thirds of the
American Marines in neighboring Helmand province, he said.  “We’re turning military operations over to the Afghans
with U.S. and NATO in a support role,” Keane said in an
interview yesterday. “We will find out if the Afghans can
handle it.”  Kabul probably will recover quickly from the latest spate
of attacks, Keane said. “We do not have 100,000-plus forces in
Afghanistan” to control episodic attacks in Kabul,” he said.  The more urgent and long-term threat is the havens across
the border in  Pakistan  where militants hole up, Keane said.  The sanctuaries in Pakistan are “the most serious threat
to the future security of Afghanistan,” Keane said.  “We should begin to target them much as we do al-Qaeda,”
he said. “We cannot leave those sanctuaries with the kind of
vibrancy they currently have when we pull most of our forces out
by 2014. That puts Afghanistan at much too much risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  