-- Taiwan Dollar Strengthens, Bonds Decline on Inflation Concern
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-04-17T08:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/taiwan-dollar-strengthens-bonds-decline-on-inflation-concern.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rose on speculation
the central bank will allow greater currency appreciation to
tame consumer-price increases.  Government bonds  dropped.  Taiwan’s central bank may allow faster rises in the
overnight rate and the local dollar, the Commercial Times
reported today, citing an unidentified monetary authority
official. Taiwan Power Co., the island’s only electricity
retailer, said on April 12 it will increase prices for the first
time in more than three years after posting losses on rising
fuel costs. The  overnight interbank lending rate  hit 0.487
percent yesterday, the highest level since January 2009.  “The central bank is acting to tackle the inflation
problem and bond yields are reflecting people’s worries on
consumer prices,” said Stanford Chen, a Taipei-based fixed-
income manager at KGI Securities Co. “The overnight rate should
continue to tread higher.”  Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to NT$29.542 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings traders
use to price options, climbed 10 basis points to 4 percent.  Consumer prices rose 1.21 percent in March from a year
earlier, after a 0.23 percent increase the previous month,
government data show.  The yield on the government’s 1 percent securities due
January 2017 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.05 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The
overnight  money-market  rate was little changed at 0.483 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  