-- Aldar Receives 4 Billion Dirhams Revolving Credit From NBAD
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-04-17T07:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/aldar-receives-4-billion-dirhams-revolving-credit-from-nbad-1-.html
     April 17 (Bloomberg) -- Aldar Properties PJSC, the Abu
Dhabi property developer exploring a merger with  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH) , signed a 4 billion-dirham ($1.09 billion) revolving
credit facility with  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC .  The three-year facility will allow Aldar to “optimally
manage its working capital and liquidity requirements over the
next three years,” Aldar said in an e-mailed statement today.  The new funding demonstrates “smooth access to financing
markets in support of our standalone business plan,” Greg
Fewer, Aldar’s chief financial officer said in the statement.
“Our financial profile is strong as a result of the
comprehensive restructuring undertaken in 2011.”  Aldar, which is building thousands of homes and offices in
Abu Dhabi, received 36 billion dirhams in government support
last year and the company sold assets including a Ferrari theme
park to the state. Aldar struggled to pay debt after the global
credit crisis caused banks to curtail mortgage lending, leading
to more than 50 percent drop in property prices since 2008.  Aldar and Sorouh,  Abu Dhabi ’s biggest developers, said
March 11 they had set up a team to study a possible merger with
the “blessing” of Abu Dhabi’s government, which owns stakes in
both. The team will present its recommendations to the two
companies within the next three months, it said then.  Aldar reported Feb. 13 a better-than-expected full-year
profit of 642.5 million dirhams as the company sold more land
and properties. It had a loss of 12.7 billion dirhams in 2010.  The shares were unchanged at 1.12 dirhams at 11:34 a.m. in
the emirate today. They have risen 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  