-- Alibaba Hires Ex-U.S. Official to Aid Washington Lobbying
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-17T06:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/alibaba-hires-ex-u-s-official-to-aid-washington-lobbying.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. hired
former U.S. official James Mendenhall as  China ’s biggest e-
commerce company steps up an appeal to  Washington  to remove its
Taobao site from a list of “notorious markets” for piracy.  Mendenhall will represent Alibaba in talks with the U.S.
government and industry groups over intellectual property rights
protection, John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at the
Chinese  Internet company , said in an e-mail today. Mendenhall is
a counsel at the Washington DC office of Sidley Austin LLP,
according to the law firm’s website.  Taobao, China’s biggest shopping website, was among more
than 30 online and physical markets worldwide identified in a
U.S. Trade Representative Office report in December for helping
the illegal sale of pirated and counterfeit goods. The hiring of
Mendenhall, a general counsel for the USTR under the George W. Bush administration, came after Alibaba contracted Washington
lobbying firm Duberstein Group Inc. last year.  Mendenhall and Duberstein are helping in Alibaba’s talks
with U.S. industry groups, including the  Recording Industry
Association of America  and the  Motion Picture Association  of
America, Spelich said.  “We are having good discussions,” Spelich said. “It’s an
exchange: here’s what we have done, here’s what we are working
on, and let’s get some feedback about the kind of thing you are
interested in seeing.”  E-Commerce Units  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the biggest U.S. portal, is the largest
shareholder in closely held Alibaba Group, based in Hangzhou,
east China, with a stake of about 40 percent. Alibaba runs e-
commerce units including Taobao, the Alibaba.com site for
business owners, and the Juhuasuan coupons site.  “We have been talking to their counsel about steps that
Taobao could take to reduce its role as a hub for the
distribution of infringing content,” Cara Duckworth Weiblinger,
a spokeswoman at the Recording Industry Association in
Washington, said by e-mail. “We are hopeful that Taobao will
soon take actions that will be effective and deterrent.”  The Motion Picture Association had recent talks with
Alibaba, Washington-based spokesman Howard Gantman said, also by
e-mail.  Taobao employs about 200 people in its Information Safety
department, which aims to stop sales of infringing products,
Spelich wrote in a Feb. 10 letter to the USTR. Offending
merchandize will be removed from the site, and vendors may be
banned, according to the letter. Taobao had removed 63 million
infringing product listings by the end of last year, it said.  In 2011, Taobao signed intellectual property protection
agreements with luggage maker  Samsonite International SA (1910) , and
luxury-leather goods maker Coach Inc., Alibaba said.  Tmall.com, ETao  Spelich said Alibaba plans to make further submissions to
the U.S. government later this year, after its exchanges with
industry groups.  In June 2011, Alibaba reorganized Taobao into three
divisions. The online shopping unit now comprises Taobao
Marketplace, which lets sellers list products for free;
Tmall.com, where fees are charged, and ETao, an online-shopping
oriented search-engine.  Alibaba targets to increase the value of transactions on
Taobao to 1 trillion yuan ($159 billion) this year, founder Jack Ma said in September. In 2010, Taobao had about 400 billion yuan
of transactions, Alibaba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  