-- Allianz CEO Backs Hartford Plan as Paulson Presses McGee
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-17T20:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/allianz-ceo-backs-hartford-plan-as-paulson-presses-mcgee-2-.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer and the No. 3  shareholder  of  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. (HIG) , endorsed the U.S. company’s plan to scale back its
business.  “We are very supportive of the actions the management team
is taking to position the company for long-term success and
deliver greater value to shareholders,” Allianz Chief Executive
Officer Michael Diekmann said of Hartford today in a statement
from the U.S. firm.  Hartford CEO Liam McGee is shrinking the firm as he fends
off calls from his biggest shareholder, billionaire hedge-fund
manager  John Paulson , to break the company in two. Munich-based
Allianz, which invested in Hartford during the 2008 financial
crisis, is a “continuing shareholder” of the U.S. company,
Diekmann said.  McGee completed the repurchase of $2.43 billion of
subordinated debentures and warrants from Allianz, according to
the statement today from Hartford, which is based in the
Connecticut city of the same name.  McGee failed to satisfy Paulson last month with his plan to
scale back annuities and seek buyers for Hartford’s individual
life, Woodbury Financial Services and retirement-plan
operations. Paulson, who made billions by betting against the
U.S. housing market in 2007, is pushing Hartford to split the
life insurance business from the property-casualty operation.
His Paulson & Co. owns more than 8 percent of Hartford.  Warrants  Hartford turned to Allianz in October 2008, agreeing to pay
10 percent on $1.75 billion of debt as  capital markets  froze.
The German insurer also bought warrants, which gave Allianz the
option to buy 69.3 million shares for $25.23 each. Hartford said
repurchasing the warrants reduced the amount remaining on its
share buyback program to $106 million.  McGee’s company advanced 2.2 percent to $20.54 in  New York .
Paulson needs Hartford to reach about $24.71 a share to recoup
his investment, filings to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg in February show.  Allianz owns about 5 percent of Hartford.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  