-- Ally’s Residential Capital Misses Debt Interest Payment
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-17T17:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/ally-s-residential-capital-unit-misses-debt-interest-payment.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , whose home-
mortgage business has been the subject of bankruptcy
speculation, said the unit didn’t make a scheduled interest
payment today on about $473 million of debt.  Residential Capital LLC missed the semi-annual payment on
6.5 percent notes due in 2013, according to a regulatory filing.
The firm has 30 days before a default occurs, according to the
filing. The missed payment is about $20 million.  ResCap was ranked among the largest originators of so-
called subprime and Alt-A mortgages until record  defaults  led to
losses. People with knowledge of the matter have said Detroit-
based Ally may put ResCap into bankruptcy, and the parent
company included a discussion of potential fallout from such a
decision in a prospectus for its initial public offering.  “This means they may be seeing the light at the end of the
tunnel,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate-credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “A resolution to ResCap
is very likely to happen over the next month. If it does,
there’s no point covering this payment because they’ll meet all
their obligations in the bankruptcy filing.”  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is searching for
ways to repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion that left the
Treasury Department with a 74 percent Ally stake. Carpenter, who
once predicted that the IPO could value Ally at $30 billion,
later said the sale won’t happen until there’s progress on
resolving the  mortgage unit .  Junk Rating  ResCap’s $2.12 billion of 9.625 percent notes due in May
2015 rose 1.5 cents to 86.5 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. ResCap has a junk grade from the three
large rating companies.  Ally extended the maturity of $2.1 billion in secured
financing for ResCap last week, until May 14. This extension was
shorter than past adjustments, prompting analysts at  Fitch
Ratings  to suggest the company was signaling bankruptcy plans.  “The short-term maturity extension could signal a
potential resolution of Ally’s ownership of ResCap in the near
future, possibly including a bankruptcy filing,” Fitch analysts
led by Mohak Rao wrote in the April 13 report. That view is not
supported by any “specific knowledge,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  