-- Appeals Court Upholds NLRB on Union-Material Distribution
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-04-17T18:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/appeals-court-upholds-nlrb-on-union-material-distribution-1-.html
A federal appeals court in
 Washington  upheld a  National Labor Relations Board  ruling
barring a property owner from preventing employees of on-site
contractors from distributing union-related handbills on its
property.  The case involved a suit filed by  New York-New York Hotel
and Casino of Las Vegas  questioning whether a property owner may
bar a contractor’s employees from passing out handbills,
according to the opinion.  “A property owner generally may bar non-employees from
doing so,” said a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the District of Columbia Circuit in an opinion
released today.  The judges said they had earlier addressed the question,
ruled that the NLRB must decide, and granted the board’s
application to enforce its order.  “The board concluded that a property owner generally may
not bar employees of an on-site contractor from distributing
union-related handbills on the property,” the judges wrote.  NLRB spokesman Tony Wagner in Washington had no immediate
comment on the ruling. The casino’s lawyer, Gary C. Moss of  Las
Vegas , didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  In another ruling, the NLRB in August ordered employers for
the first time to display notices in “conspicuous places” in
the workplace informing workers about their rights to form a
union and bargain on contracts.  Ruling Review  A federal judge in  South Carolina  this month said the NLRB
“exceeded its authority” in the ruling. Implementation is now
on hold pending an appeal.  In a separate case, a U.S. appellate court in Washington
today granted a request by the  National Association of
Manufacturers  and other groups to temporarily block enforcement
of the NLRB’s workplace poster rule while the groups seek review
of a lower court judge’s March 2 ruling that left the
requirement in place.  The case is New York-New York LLC v.  National Labor
Relations Board , 11-1098, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  