-- Apple Gains After Analysts Renew Optimism: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-04-17T20:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/apple-gains-amid-iphone-demand-predictions-san-francisco-mover.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares climbed 5.1
percent, snapping a five-day decline, amid fresh optimism that
the iPhone and iPad will top sales projections when the company
delivers quarterly results next week.  The  shares  rose to $609.70, marking the  biggest gain  since
Jan. 25. Yesterday the stock had its largest decline in six
months on speculation that wireless carriers may cut subsidies
for the iPhone. Some  analysts  also pinned yesterday’s drop to
traders taking their cues from so-called technical indicators.  Apple’s financial results, scheduled for release on April
24, will show that consumers are snapping up the iPhone in  China 
and other countries where the newest version of the device was
recently introduced, according to Abhey Lamba, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. He expects the stock to get a boost
when Apple exceeds analysts’ predictions for profit and sales.  “They have strong momentum with iPhones and strong
momentum in tablets,” Lamba said in an interview. “We will see
strong numbers.”  Apple was part of a broader rally, with U.S. stocks rising
the most in a month. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.6
percent, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 1.5
percent. The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 1.8 percent.  Lamba isn’t the only analyst predicting better-than-
anticipated financial results at Apple.  Matthew Hoffman , an
analyst with Cowen & Co., raised his estimate for iPhone sales
in the March quarter to 32 million from 27 million.  Lowball Estimate?  “That number may well be 4 million to 6 million light of
the actual iPhones sold during the quarter,” Hoffman said in a
report today.  The quarterly results also will be buoyed by the release of
the new iPad, which sports a high-definition screen and faster
processor. Lamba said Apple sold as many as 13 million iPads in
the quarter, above the 11 million predicted by other analysts.
Strong sales of the tablets will continue until at least the
 holiday shopping season , when rivals may introduce more
competitive devices, he said.  Apple also may be developing a smaller iPad that could be
sold at a lower price than the current models, which start at
$499, according to a report by Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc.  Shares of Apple, the world’s most valuable company, have
risen 51 percent this year.  “It had a healthy run,” Lamba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  