-- Apple Gets Poor Grades From Greenpeace on Its Cloud Cleanliness
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-04-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/apple-gets-poor-grades-from-greenpeace-on-its-cloud-cleanliness.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  received low marks from
 Greenpeace International  for the energy use of its iCloud online
service, which the environmental organization says doesn’t rely
enough on clean sources of electricity.  The Cupertino, California-based company earned no better
than a D in the four categories analyzed by a Greenpeace report
released today called “How Clean is Your Cloud?”  Of the 14 companies investigated, only  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
Twitter Inc. got a worse overall grade for categories that
included companies’ public disclosure of data and willingness to
spell out ways to improve their energy plans. Greenpeace also
listed a clean energy index that ranks the companies by the
amount of renewable energy they use as a percentage of their
overall consumption, Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Blog.
Apple was the sixth lowest on that list.  The main charge is that Apple and many other large
information-technology providers aren’t trying hard enough to
use clean, renewable sources of energy in their data centers,
which deliver software and computer power to users over the so-
called cloud.  “Many IT companies are simply choosing to attach their
modern information factories to some of the dirtiest sources of
electricity, supplied by some of the dirtiest utilities on the
planet,” Greenpeace said in the report. “These utilities,
unlike the IT companies, are not known for their innovation.”  North Carolina  Apple, for example, put its main data center in Maiden,
North Carolina, and gets much of its electricity through coal-
fired plants owned by  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  A new facility in Oregon
also will probably be mostly coal-powered, according to
Greenpeace, which estimates that Apple gets about 55 percent of
its electricity via coal. That’s a higher percentage than any of
the other companies.  Gary Cook, a Greenpeace senior IT policy analyst who served
as the lead author of the report, said Apple should use its cash
and influence to buy cleaner energy, which would pressure Duke
to do so as well.  “To do a clean iCloud, they need to demand better options
from Duke,” he said.  In response to the report, Apple issued a strong statement
that raises questions about the quality of Greenpeace’s
analysis. The company revealed that its  North Carolina  data
center will consume a maximum of 20 megawatts -- far less than
the 100 megawatts that Greenpeace estimated.  The company also provided an update on its plans that belie
Greenpeace’s characterization of Apple as a laggard on the data
center issue.  ‘On Track’  Apple said it is “on track to supply more than 60 percent
of that power on-site from renewable sources, including a solar
farm and fuel cell installation, which will each be the largest
of their kind in the country. We believe this industry leading
project will make Maiden the greenest data center ever built,
and it will be joined next year by our new facility in  Oregon 
running on 100 percent renewable energy.”  In its study, Greenpeace estimated that the solar farm and
fuel cell would satisfy only 10 percent of the energy required.
Despite Apple’s plans for the future, the group gave the company
a D for not using its huge cash reserves to buy cleaner forms of
energy.  Thomas Williams , a Duke Energy spokesman, said that 46
percent of the company’s generating capacity in the Carolinas is
coal-fired, compared with the U.S. average of 41 percent.  “We take strong exception to Greenpeace’s contention that
our Carolina power is ‘dirty,’ since it’s consistent with the
nation’s mix of coal,” Williams said in an e-mail. “What coal
we do have is getting cleaner, and the majority of our power
comes from emissions-free nuclear.”  ‘Earned Some Credit’  Apple’s low marks are the latest sign of a re-escalation of
criticism from Greenpeace, which had tempered its attacks late
last decade after Apple began disclosing its success in
eliminating use of harmful chemicals product manufacturing.  In 2009, the late  Steve Jobs  said he thought the company
had made big strides to win over the nonprofit.  “I thought they were being very unfair with us at the
beginning, and that they were using us to get visibility,” Jobs
had said. “But we never disagreed with them about the
fundamental goal. I’d like to think we’ve earned some credit.”  While the latest report showed that Apple still isn’t in
Greenpeace’s good graces, other companies received low scores.  Amazon got an F for transparency because it provides little
detail about the energy used to dole out its Amazon Web Services
cloud-computing offerings. The company doesn’t contribute
information to an industry group called the Carbon Disclosure
Project. In addition, it got an F for its use of renewable
energy sources.  ‘Out of Step’  “AWS does not appear to have made any purchases of
investments in renewable electricity for its facilities,”
Greenpeace’s Cook said in the report. “AWS is currently falling
out of step with other major cloud companies who are putting in
place a long-term business strategy that accounts for impacts
the company will face due to  climate change .”  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon, said
the company told Greenpeace weeks ago that the group’s
information was inaccurate, though Amazon declined to release
any numbers. He said that having “hundreds of thousands of
companies” rely on Amazon’s data centers rather than try to run
their own is bound to be more energy-efficient.  “The cloud enables a combined smaller carbon footprint
that significantly reduces overall consumption,” Herdener said.  While Cook agreed that cloud computing is a good approach,
he said some clouds are cleaner than others.  Unlike Apple and Amazon, Twitter didn’t dispute the
findings. “The Greenpeace report raises important
considerations around  energy efficiency ,” the company said.
“We continue to strive for greater energy efficiency as we
build our infrastructure.”  Better Scores  The report gave better grades to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Google has set up a quasi-utility called
Google Energy that has inked long-term contracts to buy  wind
energy  from NextEra Energy Inc. in Oklahoma and  Iowa . Greenpeace
said Google’s facilities use half the energy of the typical data
center.  The group also credits Google for pledging to get 35
percent of its energy from renewable sources and for “its
involvement in the lobbying debate to advance clean energy
policies in the  United States .”  Meanwhile, Yahoo located a new data center in upstate  New
York , where it draws heavily on hydro-power from the New York
Power Authority.  Facebook’s new data center in  Sweden  can be run entirely on
renewable energy, and the company has promised to do the same
for its entire business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  