-- Apple, Samsung Ordered Into Patent Settlement Conference
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-18T03:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/apple-samsung-ordered-into-patent-settlement-conference.html
The chief executive officers of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. were ordered to attend a
settlement conference in their patent dispute before a federal
court in  San Jose ,  California .  Both companies told the court they are willing to
participate in the settlement conference, U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh in San Jose wrote in yesterday’s order. The CEO and
general counsel of each company will appear, according to the
filing. Samsung confirmed in an e-mailed statement today that
the companies have agreed to participate and said the meeting
will take place within 90 days.  Apple claims that Samsung’s 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab
10.1 tablet computer, among other products, infringe its
patents. In December, Koh ruled against Apple’s request to block
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung from selling that phone and
tablet in the U.S. That order followed an Australian court
ruling lifting an injunction on the tablet there.  Samsung, which was the world’s largest seller of
smartphones last year, and Cupertino, California-based Apple
have filed at least 30 lawsuits against each other on four
continents since April.  Though the companies said in a joint April 16 filing they
are willing to participate in the conference with Magistrate
Judge Joseph C. Spero, both sides said they are continuing to
narrow the case for a scheduled Aug. 25 trial.  Expert Challenges  Both companies said they intend to challenge expert
testimony, with Samsung arguing that Apple’s experts submitted
testimony falling short of evidentiary standards.  One Apple expert explained how the company’s product design
“allows people a feeling of symbiosis with their electronic
tools” and includes anecdotes about his vacation in  Spain ,
according to the filing.  Such testimony is “not ‘expert’ in any sense,” Samsung
said in the filing. “Several other reports also suffer from
irrelevance and methodology flaws,” the company said.  Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based Samsung spokesman, declined to
comment beyond today’s statement.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
return a call or e-mail seeking comment on the settlement
conference and Samsung’s criticism of the experts.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-
01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  