-- Argentine Opposition Blasts YPF Takeover as Senate Starts Debate
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-17T17:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/argentine-opposition-blasts-ypf-takeover-as-senate-starts-debate.html
Argentine opposition leaders warned
that President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s takeover of  YPF
SA (YPFD)  would damage  South America ’s second-biggest economy as the
Senate began debate on the company’s nationalization.  Buenos Aires Mayor  Mauricio Macri , a Fernandez adversary,
asked his supporters in Congress to oppose the move authorizing
the government to take control of 51 percent of YPF’s shares. La
Nacion, one of the country’s biggest newspapers and a critic of
Fernandez, said the surprise takeover announcement yesterday was
an “admission of failure,” while former Energy Secretary
Emilio Apud said it would worsen the country’s energy crisis.  “The YPF takeover goes against the interests of the
Argentine people,” Macri told reporters in Buenos Aires. “I
call on all lawmakers to think once more about what they are
doing and to think about the nation and the people.”  Blocked from international credit markets and facing
quickening inflation and a slowing economy, Fernandez turned to
the same tool she used while confronting a similar situation in
2008, when she nationalized the $24 billion pension fund
industry.  Spain  today vowed to retaliate and  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  
demanded $10.5 billion compensation for the seizure.  “What happened yesterday to a Spanish company, somebody
might think could happen tomorrow to any other investment,”
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said during the  World Economic
Forum  on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta,  Mexico .  Changing Direction  Fernandez is reversing the position of her late husband and
predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , who as governor of Santa Cruz
province in 1992 supported legislation for the government to
sell most of YPF, at the time a state-owned company.  “We have a governing party that every 10 years changes
direction,” said Jorge Giacobbe, who heads pollster Jorge
Giacobbe & Asociados SA. “In other countries, the party that
privatizes is from the right and those that nationalize are from
left. This is the only country where the same party does both.
These are the same people who voted for the privatization.”  Kirchner, Fernandez said yesterday, actually dreamed of
retaking YPF before his death from a heart attack in October
2010.  Fernandez sent Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof, who were named to run YPF
yesterday, to address Senate committees today to help ensure
passage of the bill. Fernandez’s Peronist party, named for
founder Juan Domingo Peron, and its allies control both houses
of Congress. The bill will be debated by the Senate next week.  ‘Strategic Resource’  “It’s one thing to think that oil is a good that should be
extracted and sold and it’s another thing to think of it as a
strategic resource,” Kicillof said in his opening statements.  YPF tumbled as much as 11 percent to 103 pesos after
trading, which was halted yesterday, resumed in  Buenos Aires 
today. Shares were down 6.9 percent to 108 pesos at 1:25 p.m.
local time. The company’s American depositary receipts have not
resumed trading in  New York .  Argentina’s economic growth, among the fastest in Latin
America for the past decade, will slow to 3 percent from 8.9
percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation, estimated by
economists at 23 percent in March, is the fastest among G-20
nations and lags behind Venezuela’s 24 percent as the quickest
in South America.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon said yesterday
Fernandez’s decision was “regrettable.”  “No one in their right mind would invest in a country that
expropriates investments,” Calderon said in Nuevo Vallarta.
“This is absolutely a not very responsible measure.”  In the first half of 2011, foreign direct investment in
Argentina dropped 30 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
decline among the region’s major economies, according to the
 United Nations ’ Economic Commission for  Latin America  and the
Caribbean.  Through June 2011, Argentina received $2.4 billion in
foreign investment, compared with  Brazil ’s $44.1 billion,
Mexico’s $10.6 billion and Colombia’s $7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  