-- Argentina Seizes 51% of Oil Producer YPF to Stem Imports
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-17T16:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/argentina-seizes-51-of-oil-producer-ypf-to-stem-imports.html
Argentina’s seizure of  YPF SA (YPFD) 
threatens to take the country further away from its goal of
energy self-sufficiency as investors weigh the increased risk of
expropriation in South America’s second-biggest economy.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  named Planning
Minister Julio De Vido to head the  oil company  with immediate
effect and is sending a bill to Congress to take a 51 percent
stake after oil imports doubled. Argentina, which wants to
produce enough crude to match consumption, risks becoming
“unviable” as a country because of the surge in imports,
Fernandez said yesterday.  The seizure of the stake from Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA (REP) 
comes after more than two months of government pressure on YPF
because of slumping production. The country could double output
within a decade after the discovery of shale  oil fields  in the
south that will cost $25 billion a year to develop and which
will require YPF to find partners to help share costs.  “I don’t see any upside, especially because this happened
at a time when there was growing interest in the potential of
unconventional resources,”  Daniel Kerner , an analyst at
political risk research firm Eurasia Group, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “This is going to make it very hard to
attract the investment because you not only changed the rules of
the game but took over the assets of the main company.”  Repsol plunged as much as 9 percent in  Madrid , the biggest
drop in more than three years, and closed at 16.42 euros, down
6.1 percent. YPF fell as much as 11 percent to 103 pesos in
 Buenos Aires .  Repsol Chief Executive Officer  Antonio Brufau  said
 Argentina  aimed to take over YPF cheaply. The expropriation is a
way to cover up the social and economic crisis Argentina is
suffering, he said at a press conference in Madrid today.  Falling Reserves  “If Argentina thinks their resources won’t decline, they
are wrong,” Brufau told journalists. “They will.”  The country’s oil reserves fell about 18 percent between
1998 and 2010, according to the Argentine Oil and Gas Institute.
Price caps on oil exports also made investments less attractive.  Repsol is responsible for about 54 percent of the country’s
decline in reserves and production since buying YPF in 1998,
according to a copy of the bill. The company had a “predatory
attitude” toward Argentina that warranted the takeover, it
said.  “It’s very difficult to reverse the situation when the
problem has been going on for years,” Adrian Mayoral, an
analyst and trader at Buenos Aires-based brokerage Mayoral
Bursatil, said in a telephone interview yesterday from the
Argentine capital. “The government doesn’t have $20 billion
every year it can dedicate to exploration and production.”  ‘Illegal’ Seizure  Repsol, in a regulatory filing, said the seizure is
“clearly” illegal and it may seek protection under U.S. and
international law.  The cost to insure against an Argentine default surged 42
basis points to 952 yesterday, the biggest jump in the world,
according to data provider CMA, after Fernandez announced the
government would take control of YPF.  The cost of insuring Repsol’s bonds against default soared
27 percent to the highest since January 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Its credit-default swaps rose as much as 85
basis points to 397 basis points, the biggest one-day jump since
Oct. 22, 2008, and retreated to 369 basis points, up 19 percent.  YPF lost eight potential investors in  South America ’s
biggest shale deposits after government measures made oil
investments less attractive, a person familiar with the talks
said in February. Companies from the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe 
abandoned negotiations after the government withdrew financial
incentives for producers and forced companies to repatriate
export revenue, according to the person.  Vaca Muerta  The company said earlier that month that the 30,000 square
kilometer Vaca Muerta formation in southern Argentina holds at
least 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to an
external audit that surveyed about 8,000 square kilometers of
the area. YPF has about 13 billion barrels in that area, the
company said. Developing the entire 23 billion barrels will cost
about $25 billion per year for a decade, the company said.  “The attraction of international capital to Argentina as a
source of financing the enormous economic resources that this
project will require in coming years is a mandatory condition
for a project of such magnitude,” YPF said last week.  The boom in shale oil and gas production in recent years
has placed the U.S. to the closest it has been in almost two
decades to achieving energy self-sufficiency. Global energy
producers from  Total SA (FP)  to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are investing in
shale formations impervious to traditional drilling methods.  Spain to Retaliate  “Argentina’s shooting itself in the foot with such an
aggressive action,”  Jason Kenney , an analyst at  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  in Edinburgh, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The takeover is “a hostile decision against Repsol and
therefore against  Spain  and the Spanish government and the
government will act in consequence,” Spanish Industry Minister
Jose Manuel Soria told reporters yesterday in Madrid, adding
that the country is working on “clear and decisive measures.”  Argentine provinces had revoked licenses on YPF oil fields
over the past two months, helping drive down the company’s
American depositary receipts 43 percent this year. Compensation
for the seizure will be determined by the Argentine National
Appraisal Tribunal, according to Fernandez.  “The $64,000 question as far as Repsol investors are
concerned is what price the government might pay for the
stake,” Neill Morton, an oil industry analyst at Berenberg Bank
in  London , said in a telephone interview. “The fear for Repsol
investors is the view that the government hasn’t got the money,
so they will lowball them.”  Seizures  The nationalization of YPF comes after Fernandez seized
about $24 billion from private pension funds, nationalized
Aerolineas Argentinas SA and fined economists who question
official inflation reports. This year, she tightened foreign-
exchange controls and limited company dividends in a bid to stem
capital flight.  “If this policy of asset-stripping, of no production, of
no exploration, were to continue we would turn into an unviable
country and not for lack of resources,” Fernandez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  