-- Arizona Voter Registration Mandate Rejected by Appeals Court
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-17T22:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/arizona-voter-registration-mandate-rejected-by-appeals-court-1-.html
A federal appeals court rejected a
provision of  Arizona  law compelling voters to prove citizenship
to register by mail while upholding a requirement that they must
show identification at polling places.  The decision today, by an 11-judge panel of the San
Francisco-based appeals court, strikes down a portion of
Arizona’s Proposition 200, a 2004 voter-approved initiative,
that applied to residents who use a mailed form to register to
vote in federal elections.  “Today’s ruling vindicates all the U.S. citizens who were
improperly rejected for voter registration in Arizona,”  Nina
Perales, a lawyer who argued the case for the  Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund , a Latino civil rights
organization, said in an e-mailed statement. “Arizona may no
longer flaunt federal law in voter registration, particularly in
a manner that discriminates against newly naturalized
citizens.”  The provision, which requires county officials to reject
any registration application that doesn’t also prove
citizenship, conflicts with the intent of the National Voter
Registration Act, a federal law aiming to increase voter
registration, the appeals panel ruled.  Today’s decision upholds a ruling last year by a three-
judge panel of the same court. Arizona officials sought
reconsideration of the 2011 October decision.  ID Requirement  Today’s ruling also affirmed the previous panel’s ruling
upholding a provision requiring voters to show identification at
polls. The law was challenged by  voting rights  and Hispanic
advocacy groups.  Arizona Governor Janice K. Brewer is “pleased that the
court upheld Arizona’s ID at the polls requirement,” Matthew
Benson, a spokesman for the Republican governor, said in a phone
interview.  “Unfortunately, the court’s action today prevents the
state of  Arizona from evenly applying its proof of citizenship
requirement for all individuals registering to vote,” Benson
said. “This opens the door to potential participation in
Arizona elections by non-citizens.”  The case is Gonzalez v. Arizona, 08-17115,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  