-- Mark Iwry: Bringing Annuities to 401(k)s
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-04-17T22:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/mark-iwry-bringing-annuities-to-401-k-s.html
     Over the past generation, the U.S. retirement system has
moved away from offering traditional pensions -- and their
promise of a steady stream of income for life—and toward
investment accounts that Americans must manage on their own.
Now the tide may be turning back.  A leading proponent of such change is J. Mark
Iwry, senior adviser to the Secretary of the Treasury and
deputy assistant secretary for retirement and health policy.
The federal government is proposing new regulations to make it
much easier for annuities and other forms of steady income to
be included in 401(k) retirement plans and individual
retirement accounts (IRAs).  Bloomberg’s Ben Steverman asked Iwry why the changes are
needed and how they might affect Americans saving for
retirement. Edited excerpts of their conversation follow.  Q: How prepared are Americans for retirement?  A: Too many of us are far from where we need to be. This
is something Americans are struggling with. Social Security
provides the crucial bedrock foundation for financial security
in retirement. But it’s not intended to do the whole job.  Women have a particularly tough challenge in providing
for themselves in retirement. On average, women live longer
than men and have a greater chance of living into their 90s.
Yet women have less retirement savings -- largely because they
spend fewer years earning wages on a full-time basis in the
workplace -- and less retirement income than men. That’s part
of the motivation for [this] project: Lifetime income
solutions are likely to be particularly helpful for women.  Q: You’ve introduced proposals to make it easier to offer
annuities and other income products in retirement plans. What
problems do these address?  A: Helping manage longevity risk. Let’s say you’ve
reached retirement age. You’ve got your pot of money
accumulated in a 401(k) or IRA. For many people, figuring out
how to manage that pot of money is an unprecedented challenge.
What’s a prudent withdrawal rate, and how do I use it to
replace my former paycheck?  You start with the fundamental uncertainty about what
lifespan to plan for. At age 65, a man has about an even
chance of living to age 84 and a woman has about an even
chance of living to age 86. For a married couple, there’s a
good chance that at least one of them will live into their
90s.  Given uncertain investment returns and the possibility of
outliving your life expectancy, many financial planners
explain it’s not prudent to withdraw more than about 4 percent
of one’s savings every year. (That assumes you make no
adjustments over time in response to changing circumstances.)
A typical reaction is, “Gosh, I’ve got a quarter of a million
dollars in my account. That feels like a lot of money. But 4
percent of $250,000 is only $10,000 a year to add to Social
Security. That’s not enough. So what do I do?”  Q: How are you trying to change the current retirement
system to solve that dilemma?  A: One solution is to provide for a predictable lifetime
stream of income, such as an annuity provided under a
retirement plan or IRA. By pooling those who live shorter and
longer than average, everybody can essentially put away what’s
necessary to reach the average life expectancy, and those who
live longer than average will be protected. The longevity risk
pooling means that an annuity might provide an annual income
of more like 6 percent or 7 percent, rather than 4
percent, depending on interest rates and the terms of the
annuity.  We’re trying to make it easier for people to choose
lifetime income if they want to; make it easier for the
financial services community to offer these options; and make
it easier for employers to incorporate retirement income
options into their plans, whether 401(k)s or defined benefit
pensions.  Q: And longevity insurance is one option that you’re
expecting plans to offer?  A: A longevity annuity or longevity insurance is a stream
of income that is deferred -- the beginning of that income is
postponed -- until an advanced age, such as 80 or 85. So this
annuity doesn’t start until about the time you’d reach your
life expectancy. It’s based on the theory that people have the
hardest time planning for the management of their savings for
years beyond their life expectancy -- the “tail risk” of
outliving their assets.  IRAs and 401(k)s, which hold $8 trillion to $9 trillion
in assets, are, as a practical matter, precluded from offering
longevity insurance by the required minimum distribution
rules. We’ve proposed to amend those rules to accommodate the
offering of longevity annuities as an option.  Q: So if this goes according to plan, our readers are
going to see more chances to buy annuities through their
401(k)s.  A: That’s right; the range of choice in those plans
should expand. We’re also focused on defined benefit pension
plans, which often offer the choice of an annuity -- which
will last your whole life -- or a lump sum. If framed as an
all-or-nothing choice, too often people pick the lump sum.
We’re trying to encourage plans to get away from an
all-or-nothing “choice architecture.”  Q: Annuities can be very complex products. Won’t these
changes make retirement decisions even more complicated?  A: Actually, we hope this initiative will make it simpler
and easier for people to understand, evaluate, and choose
lifetime income options. It can be a lot easier for
individuals to navigate the system when their plan -- the
employer -- has arranged for retirement income options.
Greater involvement by plan sponsors may mean more bargaining
power and professional assistance for employees.  Simplifying the process, encouraging more options, more
transparency, and better disclosure should ultimately make it
easier for people to understand their choices and bring costs
down.
 