-- Marks & Spencer Sales Miss Estimates on Stock Shortages
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-17T08:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/marks-spencer-sales-miss-estimates-on-stock-shortages.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc, (MKS)  the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, reported revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates after running short of inventory in some of
its best-selling women’s fashion ranges.  Sales of general merchandise at U.K. stores open at least a
year fell 2.8 percent in the 13 weeks ended March 31, London-
based Marks & Spencer said today in a statement, worse than the
previous quarter’s 1.8 percent decline. The average  estimate  of
10 analysts was for an unchanged performance.  The retailer could have sold three times more than the
100,000 items of knitwear purchased by customers and nearly
twice as many footwear “pumps,” Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said on a call with journalists. Growth in food sales
also slowed in the quarter, while international revenue
declined, hurt by weakening economies in Ireland and  Greece .  “This is not a good update,” Caroline Gulliver, an
analyst at Execution Noble in  London , said in an e-mail. The
“self-inflicted issues” were disappointing, she said. Gulliver
has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Marks & Spencer  fell  as much as 3.9 percent in London
trading and was down 2.8 percent at 357.5 pence as of 9:18 a.m.,
paring  this year’s gain  to 15 percent.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the
U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company, declined as much as 4.9
percent after also reporting revenue that missed estimates.  Marks & Spencer’s inventory shortages are being addressed,
Bolland said on the call. “It’s good learning, we need to be
more encouraged to buy deeper into best-selling lines.”  New Concepts  The retailer also said today that tests of new concepts
such as in-store delicatessens and more distinct branding for
ranges such as the Limited Collection and Per Una will be
introduced across the company at a cost of 500 million pounds
($794 million), 100 million pounds less than previous guidance,
as it becomes more efficient at refitting stores.  Upgrading a Simply Food outlet can be completed in as
little as a week, Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart said.  The retailer has refitted 70 stores with new interiors and
signage, and will complete the rest by mid-2013, Bolland said.
Customer feedback had been positive, he said, though he declined
to comment on the sales improvement at the trial outlets.  “The short-term trading outlook continues to be
challenging,” the CEO said in the statement. Still, the company
is confident of reporting full-year profit “in line” with its
expectations after eeking out cost savings.  Food Sales  Same-store sales at the upscale food division rose 1
percent in the fourth quarter, the company said, worse than the
prior quarter’s 3 percent gain. About 46 percent of the
retailer’s  sales  are derived from food.  International revenue declined 2 percent, leaving group
sales 0.8 percent ahead of the same period a year earlier.  In the U.K., customers are “stable positive,” Bolland
said. Shoppers are planning their purchases and saving for the
summer, for which they have “a little optimism,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  