-- Asian Stocks Drop on China’s Foreign Investment, Spain
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-04-17T10:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/asia-stocks-swing-between-gain-loss-on-u-s-data-europe.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second day
as foreign direct investment into China dropped for a fifth
month, and Spanish borrowing costs climbed to the highest level
this year before a debt auction today.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  retreated 2 percent in  Hong
Kong  even as investment slipped at about half the rate forecast
by economists.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that depends on
 Europe  for about 80 percent of its sales, retreated 1.2 percent.
Asian suppliers of Apple Inc. fell amid concern demand for the
company’s electronics will slow. Social-network gaming operator
 Gree Inc. (3632)  rose 9.1 percent in  Tokyo  after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said its domestic revenue growth is accelerating.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.4 percent to 123.68
as of 7 p.m. in Tokyo, its lowest since April 11. About five
stocks fell for every three that rose.  “It’s difficult to see if there will be acceleration in
 China ’s growth at this point,” said  Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-
based chief investment officer at Samsung Asset Management Co.,
which manages $100 billion. With uncertainties about Europe’s
debt crisis and U.S. economic growth, investors are taking a
wait-and-see approach, she said. “We won’t see a major upturn
or downturn unless we see some external catalyst from the U.S.
or Europe.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge, which includes  companies  from some
 emerging markets , advanced 9.1 percent this year through
yesterday as central banks moved toward additional easing and
the U.S. recovery showed signs of strength.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index dropped 1.9 percent as Apple suppliers slumped.  China Investment Falls  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.2 percent, while
China’s Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.9 percent. Foreign
direct investment in the mainland fell 6.1 percent in March to
$11.76 billion from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce
said today in Beijing, after a 0.9 percent decline the previous
month and a 32.9 percent jump in March last year. Economists had
predicted a 14 percent drop, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Investment growth is likely to slow as foreign investors
are less upbeat on the outlook for China’s economy,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist with Credit Agricole CIB,
said before the figures were released.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.3 percent after
central bank members lowered their assessment of economic growth,
according to the minutes released today from an April 3 meeting.
Slower inflation would increase prospects for the first
 interest-rate  cut this year, the minutes said.  South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 0.4 percent, falling for
a fifth day in six. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo urged
major central banks to plan an orderly withdrawal of excess
liquidity and said further easing may hurt emerging economies
and the global economic recovery.  India Cuts Rates  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 1.3 percent after the
nation unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate by half a
percentage point, seeking to bolster economic growth with the
first reduction since 2009.  Stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index are valued at 12.6
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.6 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  gained 0.2 percent today after the
gauge slipped less than 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday. Most
U.S. shares rose after a report showed retail sales gained 0.8
percent in March, exceeding economists’ projections.  Spanish Debt  After most Asian markets closed, Spain sold 3.18 billion
euros ($4.2 billion) of bills, compared with a maximum target of
3 billion euros. Yields on Spain’s 10-year notes reached a four-
month high after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the country
must cut its deficit to maintain access to financing. The cost
of insuring the nation’s debt against default advanced to a
record, while Portuguese 10-year rates rose for an 11th day.
Spain will also auctions debt due on April 19.  China Construction Bank slid 2 percent to HK$5.99 in Hong
Kong.  Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank (3618)  Co., a lender in the
southwestern Chinese city, slumped 6.6 percent to HK$3.55,
falling for a second day after the China Business Journal
reported that the local government has started investigating the
city’s construction projects, without citing anyone.  Esprit retreated 1.2 percent to HK$15.94 in Hong Kong. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest lender by market value, dropped
as much as 1 percent before rising 0.2 percent to HK$67.10.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , a Taiwanese assembler of
electronics for Apple, slid 3.9 percent to NT$110 in Taipei
after the U.S. company’s shares fell yesterday amid speculation
that demand for the iPad may wane and that mobile carriers will
cut subsidies for the iPhone. TPK Holding Co., a touch-screen
maker, retreated 6.5 percent to NT$425.50.  Gree Advances  Among stocks that rose, Gree jumped 9.1 percent to 2,187
yen in Tokyo, the  biggest gain  in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP) 
DeNA Co., a social-network operator, rose 4.7 percent to 2,519
yen.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said there are no signs
Japanese authorities are moving toward stricter controls on
online charges. The bank raised Gree’s target price to 4,620 yen
from 4,040 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  