-- Asian Currencies: Yuan, Peso Advance on U.S. Recovery Signs
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-04-17T08:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/asian-currencies-yuan-peso-advance-on-u-s-recovery-signs.html
China ’s yuan, Taiwan’s dollar and
the Philippine peso led gains among Asian currencies after
stronger economic data out of the U.S. countered concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will hurt global growth.  The yuan gained the most in three weeks as the central bank
strengthened its  reference rate  today, a day after widening the
currency’s trading band. U.S. retail sales rose 0.8 percent in
March from the previous month, more than double the increase
estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey, government data
showed yesterday.  India ’s rupee advanced as the central bank cut
borrowing costs more than forecast to spur economic growth.  “The U.S. data boosted  market sentiment  as some people
hope that China’s exports could get a helping hand from a
stronger  U.S. economy ,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based
economist at CCB International Securities Ltd.  The yuan rallied 0.29 percent to 6.2966 per dollar as of
3:55 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 42.65, Taiwan’s dollar
rose 0.2 percent to 29.506 and the rupee gained 0.2 percent to
51.564.  U.S. retail sales increased 0.8 percent in March, beating
the median estimate for a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg
survey. A separate report showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded in April at the slowest pace in five months. The
People’s Bank of China widened the yuan band to 1 percent from
0.5 percent yesterday, the first time since May 2007.  Remittances Growth  The rupee advanced from near a three-month low as the
 Reserve Bank  of India cut the repurchase rate by 50 basis
points to 8 percent today. The median forecast of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a reduction to 8.25 percent.  The peso approached a two-week high after a central bank
report showed  remittances  grew 5.8 percent from a year earlier
to $1.59 billion in February, compared with a 5.4 percent
advance in January. Exports increased 14.6 percent in February,
the most in 10 months, data showed last week.  “We remain quite positive on the peso,” said Goh Puay Yeong, a Singapore-based strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“Part of the reason is that the recovery in Philippine exports
and remittances continues to be pretty robust.”  Taiwan ’s dollar rose the most in two weeks on speculation
the central bank will tolerate appreciation to help damp
inflation as Taiwan Power Co. prepares to raise electricity
tariffs to compensate for higher fuel costs. Policy makers may
allow faster rises in the overnight rate and the local dollar,
the Commercial Times reported today, citing an unidentified
monetary official.  South Korea ’s won closed 0.2 percent weaker at 1,140.56 and
Malaysia’s ringgit was steady at 3.0655. Indonesia’s rupiah
pared a decline to trade little changed at 9,178. Thailand’s
baht and Vietnam’s dong were also little changed at 30.80 and
20,825, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  