-- Taste for South Africa’s Rooibos Tea Attracts Starbucks
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-04-17T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/taste-for-south-africa-s-rooibos-tea-attracts-starbucks.html
Business is brisk these days for
the 600 or so growers of rooibos, a caffeine-free herbal tea
unique to South Africa’s Western Cape province whose clients
include  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   Production of the crop more than tripled to 14,000 metric
tons the past decade as farmers expanded rooibos plantings to
meet demand from companies including the world’s largest coffee
shop operator and  Nestle SA (NESN) , the biggest food company.  Tea consumption is increasing as health-conscious consumers
spurn sugary and caffeinated beverages. Rooibos, like green tea,
contains antioxidants that boost the immune system, calcium and
fluoride. The drink constitutes about 10 percent of the herbal
tea market and 1 percent of a global tea market that has an
estimated value of $23 billion, according to the South African
Rooibos Council.  “Five years ago, rooibos was really quite a niche
product,” said Paul Jefferies, a London-based herbal tea buyer
for  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) ’s Tetley, which sells about 300
tons of the tea a year under its Red Bush label. Thanks to “a
very strong marketing campaign, sales have been on a steep
upward curve.”  Starbucks offers vanilla rooibos “herbal infusion” while
Nestle sells rooibos-flavored yogurt.  Hain Celestial Group Inc. (HAIN) 
introduced its African Orange Mango Rooibos tea to the U.S.
seven years ago.  Specialty Teas  Specialty teas including rooibos account for about 9
percent of the $2.1 billion U.S. tea industry. The U.K. saw a
300 percent increase in rooibos sales from 2003 to 2007.
 Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) ’s Twinings tea division said
rooibos now makes up 2.6 percent of its sales, with  Unilever
NV (UNA) ’s Lipton unit also ranking among the top sellers.  “The demand for rooibos tea has increased rapidly during
the last few years,” Carl-Olof Skeppstedt, creative director at
London-based tea consultancy Tatler & Brown Ltd., said in an e-
mail. “Taste, health benefits and the lack of caffeine are some
of the main reasons for the increase.”  The biggest export markets for rooibos, which counts Nobel
Peace Prize-laureate Desmond Tutu among its fans, include
 Germany , the Netherlands, U.K. and the U.S., according to the
South African Rooibos Council.  Traditional Rooibos Uses  Rooibos, Afrikaans for red bush, was first popularized
outside of South Africa during World War II when Allied nations
had trouble obtaining tea from Asian countries.  Needle-like leaves from the 6-foot (almost 2-meter) shrub,
native to an area northwest of Cape Town that includes the
Cedarberg mountains, have been used in traditional medicine for
generations to treat allergies, digestive issues and colic.
Rooibos extract is used as well in soap and cosmetics. That’s
resulted in the product going more mainstream, found from Paris
street markets to London grocers.  About 5,000 people work at rooibos farms and processing
plants, one of the biggest employers in  South Africa ’s semi-
desert Suid Bokkeveld region, where the jobless rate can exceed
80 percent.  Changing weather patterns may pose a threat to the
industry’s success. Government-commissioned research shows
temperatures in South Africa may rise as much as 3 percent and
rainfall may drop as much as 10 percent by mid-century, with the
rooibos-growing area considered among the most vulnerable.  Hardy Plant  “If as they predict temperatures would go up 1 or 2
degrees, rainfall were to go down a bit, we’d be in trouble,”
Martin Berg, managing director of Rooibos Ltd., which operates
the country’s biggest processing factory, said in an interview.  Willie Nel, 45, who grows rooibos near Clanwilliam, about
230 kilometers (145 miles) north of  Cape Town , is banking on the
hardiness of the plant to keep his 3,550-hectare (8,770-acre)
farm and the 60 workers it employs going. The crop is endemic to
a region where summer heat can hit 48 degrees Celsius (118
degrees Fahrenheit).  “There is no other production plant you can grow here,”
Nel said, gesturing at hundreds of rooibos bushes that stretch
across the sandy fields he has farmed for 25 years.  “We are dealing with an indigenous plant that’s adapted to
harsh conditions,” Guy Midgley, head of the South African
National Biodiversity Institute’s climate and bio-adaptation
unit, said by phone from Cape Town. “The risk will definitely
rise in the longer term but that’s two decades out.”  Nel said he has yet to notice a change in weather patterns
that pose a threat to his livelihood and expects to continue
farming rooibos until he retires.  “Maybe my sons will feel the impact,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  