-- Audi Said Set to Buy Motorbike-Maker Ducati for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-17T12:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/audi-said-poised-to-buy-motorcycle-maker-ducati-for-1-1-billion.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi is poised to
purchase Italian motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA from
owner Investindustrial SpA for about 860 million euros ($1.1
billion) including debt, a person familiar with the matter said.  Audi has reached an agreement with Investindustrial to buy
the Bologna, Italy-based maker of luxury motorbikes, with VW’s
supervisory board set to approve the deal tomorrow, said the
person, who declined to be identified discussing the private
negotiations. Audi and Investindustrial declined to comment.  The deal, minus debt, would value Ducati at about seven
times last year’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization. Ducati’s total liabilities are less than 200
million euros, buyout firm Investindustrial said last month.  Volkswagen Chairman  Ferdinand Piech , who turned 75 today,
has long coveted the brand, publicly expressing interest in
buying Ducati in April 2008 before eventually losing out to
Investindustrial. The purchase will make Ducati the 11th brand
in VW’s portfolio, alongside super-car marques Lamborghini and
Bugatti and heavy-duty truck manufacturers Scania AB and  MAN SE. (MAN)   “Ducati is one of the finest machines you can buy but
strategically it’s insignificant for Volkswagen,” said
Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst with IHS
Automotive. “Its revenue is more than Lamborghini’s and
Bugatti’s combined, but to the automotive operations, it’s a
mere accessory.”  BMW Competition  Ducati would complement Audi’s luxury-car lineup with
products such as the $28,000 Superbike 1199  Panigale S Tricolore 
and expand the brand’s competition with  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , which makes BMW and Husqvarna motorcycles. Ducati, which
last year sold about 42,000 motor bikes, had revenue for 2011 of
480 million euros.  For Volkswagen, the deal would mean an entry into the
motorcycle business and gaining another asset in  Italy  after
buying super-car brand Lamborghini and Italdesign Giugiaro SpA.
Piech has also expressed interest in the past in  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Alfa
Romeo brand.  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) ,  India ’s biggest motorcycle maker, had
also expressed interest in Ducati after Milan-based
Investindustrial made it known in February that it planned to
sell the company.  Daimler AG (DAI) , which makes Mercedes-Benz cars,
reiterated today that it’s not interested in acquiring Ducati.  Ducati, which was founded in 1926, sells the Superbike,
Monster, Streetfighter, Hypermotard, Multistrada and the new
Diavel models in 65 countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at   creiter2@bloomberg.net . 