-- Austrian Central Bank Says Nationalizations Are Clean Up
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-04-17T15:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/austrian-central-bank-says-nationalizations-are-clean-up.html
Austria’s nationalization of three
lenders rescued from the brink of collapse is helping repair the
country’s overcrowded banking structure, the central bank’s
chief bank supervisor said.  “The nationalization is a regulatory cleanup of the
structure,”  Andreas Ittner , the central bank’s director
responsible for bank supervision, told reporters in Vienna
today, citing the nationalized banks’ efforts to sell and wind
down assets. “Something is happening there -- a massive
reduction is in progress.”  Austria agreed to partially nationalize  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  in February, more than three years after taking
over Volksbanken’s Kommunalkredit unit in the wake of Lehman
Brothers Holding Inc.’s collapse in 2008 and two years after the
bailout of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG in 2009. Ittner
and his fellow regulators at the FMA watchdog have told all
three banks to reduce assets and repair balance sheets.  The Alpine republic has more banks, branches and bank
employees per capita than most euro-area countries, leading to
more competition, higher costs and lower margins in the domestic
business, according to the central bank. The last major merger
between two Austrian banks was Bawag PSK Bank AG’s purchase of
postal savings bank PSK, which was completed 2005. Most of the
country’s big banks have more profitable operations in eastern
 Europe , which bolster modest earnings at home.  Three Options  There were three options for Volksbanken, which posted a
959 million-euro ($1.2 billion) loss last year, Ittner said. An
insolvency would have cost creditors, other banks and the
government as much as 40 billion euros, he said. A sale to a
foreign investor wasn’t possible in the current market. Austria
partially nationalizing Volksbanken was the only way, he said.  Municipal lender Kommunalkredit, which spun off a “bad
bank” to warehouse assets that are risky and unrelated to the
main business, has sold or wound down 9.4 billion euros of
assets since it was nationalized. Hypo Alpe’s assets shrunk by
8.2 billion euros since the end of 2008. Volksbanken sold its
real estate unit and most of its eastern European business
before it was nationalized, under pressure from regulators,
Ittner said.  Austria is working to pass an insolvency law this year and
may not be able to wait for the European Union to come up with a
plan, Ittner said. The central bank and the FMA have demanded
lawmakers give them options to intervene in bank management at
an earlier stage. They can only do so now when a potential
insolvency puts depositors and creditors at risk, he said.  Austria’s banking industry is among the biggest threats to
its top debt grade, Fitch Ratings Ltd. reiterated in a separate
statement today, affirming the country’s AAA rating.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the rating by one level to AA+ in January.  Ittner also said the situation in  Spain  was of no
particular concern for Austrian banks. The country’s lenders
have holdings of about 3 billion euros in Spain and less than 1
billion euros in  Portugal , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  