-- Austin, Atlanta Give ‘Middleweight’ U.S. Cities Global Punch
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-17T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/austin-atlanta-give-middleweight-u-s-cities-global-punch.html
Mid-size U.S. cities such as Austin,
 Texas , and Atlanta will join New York and  Los Angeles  to drive
more than 10 percent of the world’s growth from now to 2025,
 McKinsey Global Institute  said in a report.  Home to almost 70 percent of the U.S. population, so-called
middleweight cities generated more than 70 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic product, about 20 percentage points more
than Western Europe’s 183 cities of similar size, according to
McKinsey, the international consulting firm.  “The extent to which the middleweight cities contribute to
the strength of U.S. economic clout was surprising,” Jaana
Remes, a senior fellow of the institute who helped write the
report, said in an interview. “It’s really these cities and
their high per-capita income that drive U.S. economic strength.”  The findings, released today, reinforce the need for policy
makers to adopt strategies to attract skilled workers and deal
with unemployment and an aging population, the authors said. It
called on cities to cooperate with other urban centers and build
alliances to share ideas and reduce costs.  “Consolidating and sharing services among cities and
between cities and counties can free up badly needed funds,”
the report stated. Sharing costs of such functions as finance,
public safety, administration, education and social programs
could produce savings of $300 billion to $600 billion a year,
the authors said.  L.A. Rising  New York ’s economic output is on course to remain second to
 Tokyo  through the first quarter of the 21st century, and Los
Angeles is poised to rise from sixth to become the fourth-
largest city by gross domestic product, the institute said.  Even as New York and Los Angeles “grow strongly,” the
mid-size cities will outpace them, the study said. It predicted
New York and Los Angeles would post 2.1 percent growth rates to
2025, while the top 30 middleweights would average 2.6 percent,
topping the U.S. rate of 2.5 percent.  Beijing and  Shanghai  will overtake Chicago, the third-
largest U.S. city, in GDP during the next 15 years, McKinsey
said. The report predicted that Miami would fall out of the top
30, measured by economic impact, within 15 years.  U.S. metro areas of more than 10 million, such as New York
and Los Angeles, and 257 urban centers of at least 150,000 --
such as  Chicago , Dallas-Fort Worth, Philadelphia,  Boston ,  San
Francisco  and  Detroit  -- accounted for 85 percent of U.S. GDP in
2010. In Western Europe it was 65 percent, and in China 78
percent, the institute found.  Austin, Raleigh  Of the so-called middleweights, Austin and Raleigh, North
Carolina, have outperformed the rest of the U.S. in achieving
above-average population gains and per-capita economic growth,
benefiting from collaborations with local universities, the
report said.  Dallas , Atlanta and Salt Lake City beat the national
average in attracting new residents as affordable places to
live, even though their per-capita growth was below average, the
report said.  Paris and London account for 9 percent of Western Europe’s
total GDP, compared with the 13 percent contributed by New York
and Los Angeles, the report found.  “The higher share of U.S. urbanites -- and the fact that
they command a larger per-capita premium over U.S. smaller towns
and rural areas than do their European counterparts -- explains
three-quarters of the per capita gap between the two
economies,” the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net . 