-- Auto Output Threatened by Resin Shortage After Explosion
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-04-17T20:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/auto-output-threatened-by-resin-shortage-after-explosion.html
A year after  Japan ’s tsunami sent
global automakers and suppliers into triage mode, another
disaster is sending the industry into a search aimed at
salvaging this year’s car production.  Executives from the world’s largest automakers met today at
a summit near  Detroit  to find alternative sources of resin used
to make brake- and fuel-system components. The officials are
searching for options after a March 31 explosion at chemical
maker Evonik Industries AG halved the global source of an
ingredient used to make the resin, called PA-12.  At stake is whether automakers can keep assembling cars and
trucks after another breakdown in supply chains that are
stretched taut around the world to minimize investment and parts
inventory. Lost output of parts such as Renesas Electronics
Corp.’s semiconductors and paint pigments made by Merck KGaA
after Japan’s March 2011 tsunami resulted in disruptions that
cost production and sales for automakers around the world.  “This is the risk you have to take to become more
efficient, to gain some scale, to go just-in-time,”  Itay Michaeli , an analyst for Citigroup in  New York , said yesterday
in a phone interview. “What we have to hope for is that, after
last year’s situation, the auto companies followed through on
what they told us they would do, which was to build more
comprehensive Plan Bs in contingency situations like this.”  Warning Letter  TI Automotive Ltd. warned its customers in an April 12
letter of severe shortages interrupting production “in the next
few weeks.” The Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company  supplies 
brake and fuel lines, as well as fuel tanks and pumps, to all
major automakers, including  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Toyota Motor Corp. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , according to its  website .  About 200 executives from automakers and suppliers attended
today’s summit, said Frank Buscemi, a spokesman for TI
Automotive. Alternative materials were discussed and officials
have planned “a number” of follow-up meetings in the next few
weeks, he said, without being more specific.  “Indications are that near-term production disruptions are
likely,”  Rod Lache , an analyst for Deutsche Bank AG in New
York, wrote today in a research note. “Disruptions will likely
start in  Europe ” because U.S. and Asian purchasers of PA-12
“likely have several weeks of supply en route.”  TI Automotive and other suppliers recognized the tight
supply of Cyclododecatriene, also called CDT, and PA-12 two or
three years before last month’s blast at Evonik’s factory, said
Neil De Koker, president of the Original Equipment Suppliers
Association. While Evonik plans to add capacity in  Asia , a new
factory won’t be ready until the end of 2014.  ‘Critical Product’  “When an accident happens and it gets discovered this is a
critical product that could affect shutting down assembly lines,
people tend to get together very quickly,” De Koker said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  While automakers and their suppliers have reacted quickly,
it may be difficult for the industry to find a solution in time
to avoid losing production because of the nature of the parts
that use CDT and PA-12, De Koker said.  “Brake lines and fuel lines are safety products, so you
don’t make changes overnight,” he said. “You have to do them
very carefully with the right testing to prove out the
product.”  Evonik has begun repairs at its factory in Marl,  Germany ,
Ruben Thiel, a spokesman for the Essen, Germany-based company,
said in an e-mail. “Every conceivable effort” is being made to
rebuild the plant “before winter,” he said.  Other makers of PA-12 are  France ’s  Arkema SA (AKE) ,  Switzerland ’s
 Ems-Chemie Holding AG (EMSN)  and Japan’s Ube Industries Ltd., Thiel
said.  ‘Strong’ Demand  Rising production of commercial trucks, which also require
parts made with the resin, had stretched supplies even before
the explosion, said Aurelien Paumier, director of Arkema’s
technical polymers business unit for  North America . Shipments of
Class 8 trucks, the backbone of interstate hauling, may rise 12
percent this year in North America to more than 285,000, said
industry consultant FTR Associates. That follows gains of 65
percent and 29 percent the past two years.  “Demand was very strong,” Paumier said yesterday in a
phone interview. “The chain was already tense.”  Parts suppliers typically have about two weeks supply of
the resin on hand, he said. Shortages of PA-12 probably will
last about six to nine months, Paumier said. Arkema customers
are testing alternative polymers, made from castor oil, he said.  Supply Chains  The automotive industry runs “very efficient supply
chains,” said John Hoffecker, managing director of AlixPartners
LLP. The shortage of resins one year after limited supply of
chips and paint pigments following last year’s tsunami reflects
the tradeoffs automakers face: Carry extra sources of parts at
higher costs, or go with fewer and risk disruptions.  “The minute you say you’d always like a backup for
everything, that means the cost of the product goes from $1 to
$1.20 or $1.50,” Hoffecker said yesterday in a phone interview.
“People aren’t willing to pay to have empty capacity there just
in case because there’s a cost to it.”  Ube Industries, Asia’s largest producer of the PA-12 resin
used in cars, and  DuPont Co. (DD) , a maker of similar polymers, said
order inquiries increased after the Evonik factory explosion.  DuPont has been working with customers “to get a good
sense of range of the magnitude of the issue and if we have
alternative materials that might help,” Carole Davies, a
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Resin Alternatives  “We’re pretty sure that in some cases we do have
alternatives that can help alleviate the potential for
shortages,” Davies said. “There won’t be one solution for
everything.”  DuPont, which doesn’t make or use PA-12, supplies  Fiat SpA (F) 
with fuel lines made from a biodiesel form of its specialty
polymers, which can replace some versions of PA-12.  Last year, ripples from the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan, and flooding in  Thailand  disrupted auto production and
cut supplies of Merck’s paint pigments to Ford and other
automakers.  Toyota (7203)  and other automakers aided Renesas, which makes
chips that run dashboard meters and navigation and audio
systems, by sending workers to repair its facilities near the
disaster zones most affected by last year’s earthquake.  Production Plans  No automaker has announced canceled production yet as a
result of the resin shortage, and officials have said they are
monitoring their supply chains. GM has a global work team of
purchasing and engineering executives looking for alternatives
and is participating in today’s summit, Kelly Cusinato, a
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  It will take years and “lots more” investments by
automakers and suppliers to protect themselves in the event of
future disasters, OESA’s De Koker said. An automaker like GM can
order more than 160,000 different parts a day, he said.  “Protecting yourself by having significant inventories of
materials in case some kind of catastrophe happens has to be
weighed against what consumers are willing to pay and what your
competitors do,” he said. “If one automaker takes its chances
and keeps the price of its vehicles below their competitors,
those competitors have to decide whether to risk shutdown or
demand all that backup capability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  