-- Avastin Fails to Help Older Lung-Cancer Patients in Study
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-04-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/avastin-fails-to-help-older-lung-cancer-patients-in-study.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin failed
to significantly extend the lives of older lung-cancer patients
in a government-funded study, raising questions about whether
the treatment should be given to U.S. Medicare enrollees.  Patients aged 65 and older who received Avastin in addition
to a standard chemotherapy regimen had a median overall survival
of 9.7 months, according to the study to be published tomorrow
in the Journal of the  American Medical Association . While that
was longer than the 8.9 months and 8 months for two groups of
patients receiving chemotherapy only, the finding wasn’t
statistically significant, said the researchers from the  Dana-
Farber Cancer Institute  in  Boston .  Avastin, a $5.8 billion-a-year product also known as
bevacizumab, won U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for
non-small cell  lung cancer  in 2006, after a study found the
therapy improved survival by a median of two months. That
research showed no benefit among patients aged 65 and older, who
are covered by Medicare, the government health-insurance program
for the elderly and disabled. At least two-thirds of patients
with lung cancer qualify for Medicare, which has covered Avastin
for that use since FDA approval, the authors said.  “Clinicians should exercise caution in making treatment
recommendations and should use bevacizumab judiciously for their
older patients,” the researchers wrote. About 22 percent of
patients diagnosed with the disease in 2007 were given Avastin
as part of their first-line chemotherapy, suggesting the
product’s adoption “was by no means universal,” they said.  Recommended Option  Guidelines from  National Comprehensive Cancer Network  and
the  European Society of Medical Oncology  recommend Avastin plus
chemotherapy as a treatment option for lung cancer, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in an e-mailed statement.  Avastin “was the first to help people live longer than one
year” in a large study, Roche said.  The Dana-Farber researchers examined data from 4,168
Medicare enrollees who were diagnosed with advanced  non-squamous
non-small cell lung cancer  between 2002 and 2007. The patients
were divided into three groups: those who received Avastin as
part of their treatment, those who had chemotherapy alone
between 2006 and 2007, and those treated with chemotherapy alone
in 2002-2005, before Avastin won U.S. approval for lung cancer.  One-Year Survival  Patients in the Avastin group had a 39.6 percent
probability of surviving one year, compared with 40.1 percent
getting chemotherapy from 2006-2007 and 35.6 percent for those
treated earlier than 2006, the study found. More recent data
might yield different results, the researchers said.  Only 318 of the 4,168 records used in the study were from
people who received Avastin, Roche said. That imbalance skews
the results to favor longer survival times for patients who
didn’t get Avastin, the company said.  The government should consider requiring drugmakers to
include a significant number of elderly patients in studies of
treatments intended to be used against tumors that appear mainly
in older people, the study’s authors said.  Roche agreed that older patients usually aren’t well
represented in studies. The company said it collects information
on the use of medicines after approval through large
 observational studies . In one such study of 1,970 lung-cancer
patients who took Avastin, the median survival was 13.6 months,
Roche said. About one-third of the participants were age 70 or
older, and the median survival for that group was 12.6 months,
the company said.  Blocking Growth  Avastin, developed by Roche’s Genentech unit, works by
blocking blood-vessel growth and choking off the supply of
nutrients that tumors need to thrive. The therapy had 1.39
billion francs ($1.5 billion) in first-quarter sales, Roche said
last week.  The FDA in November revoked approval of Avastin as a
treatment for metastatic  breast cancer , saying the drug didn’t
extend lives and triggered side effects including high-blood
pressure and bleeding when used for the disease.  The  U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality  and the
 National Cancer Institute  funded the Dana-Farber study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  