-- Lawmakers Urge U.K. to Count Rising CO2 Emissions in Imports
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-04-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/lawmakers-urge-u-k-to-count-rising-co2-emissions-in-imports.html
The U.K. must account for rising
greenhouse-gas emissions linked to imports over the past two
decades as pollution falls, according to a panel of lawmakers.  Volumes of gases including carbon dioxide released from
products consumed in the U.K. rose about 12 percent from 1990 to
2009 while discharges from activities within the nation’s
borders fell about 28 percent in that period, according to a
report published today by the Energy and  Climate Change 
Committee, a group of cross-party lawmakers headed by  Tim Yeo .  Britain “runs the risk of designing energy and climate
change policies that produce perverse unintended consequences,”
Yeo said in a statement accompanying the report on the
committee’s website. “The U.K. can scarcely lecture countries
like China for failing to sign up to binding emissions cuts when
much of their pollution is produced making products for us.”  The U.K. is the only country in the world to set itself a
legally binding target to slash emissions by 2050 of carbon
dioxide, a gas blamed for helping trigger climate change. The
nation plans to replace fossil-fuel power stations with nuclear
and wind sources and switch to electricity for heating and
transport to cut emissions 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050.  The government shouldn’t only rely on measuring emissions
in Britain and should factor in gases released during the
manufacture of goods consumed in the U.K., according to the 148-
page report. Domestic releases dropped during the period largely
because of a switch to more natural gas from coal in power
generation and as manufacturing industries shifted to countries
including India and  China .  Recognizing emissions produced outside the country may help
in creating a global deal to tackle climate change, according
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  