-- Tax Breaks for U.S. Retirement Should Be Simpler, Camp Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-17T17:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/tax-incentives-for-u-s-retirement-should-be-simpler-camp-says.html
U.S. tax incentives for retirement
savings should be simpler and encourage more participation by
low- and middle-income taxpayers, said  Dave Camp , chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee.  Camp, the top Republican tax writer, said today that he
hasn’t drawn conclusions about what Congress should do on
retirement savings as it overhauls the  tax code  by lowering
rates and curtailing tax breaks.  Camp also said he supported the idea of requiring automatic
enrollment in individual retirement accounts. President  Barack Obama  and Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat,
support making employers who don’t offer retirement plans enroll
their workers in IRAs.  “I basically, in general, like the concept,” Camp, a
 Michigan  Republican, told reporters after a hearing on
retirement tax policy. “I think it’s got a lot of merit.”  Camp and  House Republicans  have called for lowering tax
rates and reducing breaks, prompting supporters of tax
incentives for retirement, housing, charity and other items to
defend their place in the code. Republicans are searching for
ways to raise $4.6 trillion over 10 years to meet revenue
targets and turn the six-bracket system with a top rate of 35
percent into a two-bracket structure with rates of 10 and 25
percent.  Simplifying the System  The hearing on retirement savings, which coincided with the
annual tax-filing deadline, focused on ways to strengthen and
simplify the current system rather than raise revenue.  U.S. households can use tax-deferred and tax-advantaged
accounts such as tax-deferred retirement accounts, employer-
sponsored 401(k) plans and a “saver’s” tax credit for lower-
income workers.  Congress should be careful about upsetting today’s
retirement system for the sake of lower rates, said
Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat on the
committee.  “It’s reckless to simply say we’re going to get down to a
certain figure without saying how you’re going to get there,”
Levin said after the hearing.  Retirement savings tax incentives are costing the
government more than $130 billion in revenue this year, making
them among the most expensive U.S. tax breaks, according to the
Joint Committee on Taxation.  Benefits Advocacy Group  Tapping those savings for revenue may be counterproductive,
said Randy Hardock, a partner at Davis & Harman LLP in
 Washington  who testified on behalf of the American Benefits
Council, a group that advocates for employer-sponsored plans.  That’s because short-term revenue gains for the government
would come from reductions in savings, which generate more
taxable income. The flip side, he said, is that the government
would receive less revenue in future years when tax-deferred
money comes out of retirement accounts.  Because of that dynamic, Camp cautioned against focusing on
the estimates of revenue from curtailing or eliminating
retirement incentives.  “It’s almost like a one-dimensional look at things,” Camp
said.  Several panelists at the hearing said they support the
automatic IRA proposal, which wouldn’t require employers to
match contributions.  “Savings change behavior,” said David John, senior
research fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , which supports
smaller government. “It brings people closer to the community.
It makes them more future-oriented.”  The Neal bill is H.R. 4049.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  