-- Tax-Lien Antitrust Probe Wins Seventh New Jersey Guilty Plea
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-17T17:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/tax-lien-antitrust-probe-wins-seventh-new-jersey-guilty-plea-1-.html
A former executive of a  New York- 
based tax-lien company became the seventh person to plead guilty
and cooperate in a federal antitrust probe of rigged auctions of
municipal tax liens in New Jersey.  Stephen Hruby, 51, admitted in federal court in  Newark , New
Jersey, that he helped eliminate competition from 2002 to 2009
by submitting collusive bids at tax lien auctions throughout the
state, the  Justice Department  said today in a statement. Hruby
conspired with others not to bid against one another at
auctions.  “The antitrust division will not tolerate illegal conduct
that harms distressed homeowners,” Sharis A. Pozen, acting
assistant attorney general, said in the statement. The division
will pursue “anticompetitive bid rigging schemes at municipal
tax lien auctions in  New Jersey  and elsewhere.”  Hruby, of Hainesport, New Jersey, faces as many as 10 years
in prison, although he is likely to get less time if prosecutors
are satisfied with his cooperation. Hruby’s attorney, Paul
Summit, declined to comment on the plea.  $100 Million  New Jersey municipalities seeking revenue sell about
$100 million a year in local tax debt on commercial and
residential property, according to Vincent Belluscio, executive
director of the Tax Collectors and Treasurers Association of New
Jersey.  Firms that buy liens at auction pay the tax liability in
full and seek to collect from the property owner. They may earn
as much as 30 percent on their investment, according to
Belluscio. Beyond interest of as much as 18 percent on back
taxes, the firms may add penalties of 12 percent, he said.  Bidders on the liens are supposed to compete fairly for the
right to buy them and collect taxes on property. Buyers, who
seek the return of their principal investment and interest,
begin bidding at 18 percent interest and reduce that rate with
each bid. A lien sold at an 18 percent interest rate suggests
there was no competition for the lien, he said.  Since August, six others have pleaded guilty in the New
Jersey probe, including several lawyers. At least three people
have admitted guilt in auctions in  Maryland .  M.D. Sass  Hruby was once affiliated with a unit of M.D. Sass
Investors Services Inc., a closely held manager of more than
$5 billion that purchases tax liens in New Jersey and other
states. M.D. Sass has not been accused of wrongdoing.  Hruby bought at least 10 Washington liens in 2007 in
conjunction with a Sass entity called Sass Muni V DTR, according
to records of the Office of Tax and Revenue for the  District of
Columbia .  The New Jersey tax lien auctions being probed by U.S.
prosecutors include one on March 5, 2007, in Newfield, according
to a copy of a Justice Department subpoena. Among the seven
bidders at that auction were a representative of M.D. Sass and
three others who later pleaded guilty to antitrust charges.  From 1998 to 2009, investors bought tens of thousands of
New Jersey tax liens, according to court records. Crusader
Servicing Corp. and Royal Tax Lien Services -- just two of more
than a dozen companies buying liens in New Jersey in those years
-- said in a civil court filing last month that they purchased a
combined 28,767 liens in that time.  Crusader and Royal Tax Lien are co-owned by Royal Bank
America, which operates branches in New Jersey and  Pennsylvania ,
and by attorney  Robert Stein . Stein has pleaded guilty in the
U.S. probe. Crusader and Royal Tax liens are “subjects” of the
investigation, according to a 2010 regulatory filing by Royal
Bank’s parent,  Royal Bancshares of Pennsylvania Inc. (RBPAA)   The case is U.S. v. Hruby, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  