-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-17T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The profile for global economic growth has improved since
the Bank released its January Monetary Policy Report (MPR).
 Europe  is expected to emerge slowly from recession in the second
half of 2012, although the risks around this outlook remain high.
The profile for U.S. growth is slightly stronger, reflecting the
balance of somewhat improved labour markets, financial conditions
and confidence on the one hand, and emerging fiscal consolidation
and ongoing household deleveraging on the other.  Economic
activity in emerging-market economies is expected to moderate to
a still-robust pace over the projection horizon, supported by an
easing of macroeconomic policies.  Improved global economic
prospects, supply disruptions and geopolitical risks have kept
commodity prices elevated.  In particular, the international
price of oil has risen further and is now considerably higher
than that received by Canadian producers.  If sustained, these
oil price developments could dampen the improvement in economic
momentum.  Overall, economic momentum in  Canada  is slightly firmer than
the Bank had expected in January. The external headwinds facing
Canada have abated somewhat, with the U.S. recovery more
resilient and financial conditions more supportive than
previously anticipated.  As a result, business and household
confidence are improving faster than forecast in January. The
Bank projects that private domestic demand will account for
almost all of Canada’s economic growth over the projection
horizon.  Household spending is expected to remain high relative
to GDP as households add to their debt burden, which remains the
biggest domestic risk.  Business investment is projected to
remain robust, reflecting solid balance sheets, very favourable
credit conditions, continuing strong terms of trade and
heightened competitive pressures.  The contribution of government
spending to growth is expected to be quite modest over the
projection horizon, in line with recent federal and provincial
budgets. The recovery in net exports is likely to remain weak in
light of modest external demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, including the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar.  The Bank projects that the economy will grow by 2.4 per cent
in both 2012 and 2013 before moderating to 2.2 per cent in 2014.
The degree of economic slack has been somewhat smaller than the
Bank had anticipated in January, and the economy is now expected
to return to full capacity in the first half of 2013.  As a result of this reduced slack and higher gasoline
prices, the profile for inflation is expected to be somewhat
firmer than anticipated in January.  After moderating this
quarter, total CPI inflation is expected, along with  core
inflation , to be around 2 per cent over the balance of the
projection horizon as the economy reaches its production
potential, the growth of labour compensation remains moderate,
and inflation expectations stay well-anchored.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. In
light of the reduced slack in the economy and firmer underlying
inflation, some modest withdrawal of the present considerable
monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate, consistent with
achieving the 2 per cent inflation target over the medium term.
The timing and degree of any such withdrawal will be weighed
carefully against domestic and global economic developments.  Information note: A full update of the Bank’s outlook for
the economy and inflation, including risks to the projection,
will be published in the MPR on 18 April 2012. The next scheduled
date for announcing the overnight rate target is 5 June 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  