-- Barclays, Standard Chartered Back London Bid for Yuan Hub
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-04-18T05:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/barclays-standard-chartered-back-london-bid-for-yuan-hub-status.html
London is seeking to become a hub
for yuan trade and investment in an initiative backed by Bank of
China Ltd.,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   Institutions in the U.K. capital currently have more than
109 billion yuan ($17 billion) of customer and interbank
deposits in the Chinese currency and that is “growing
strongly,” according to a policy paper by research firm Bourse
Consult released today.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pushed the case
for London to become an offshore center for yuan trade as closer
financial ties with the world’s second-largest economy may help
buffer Britain’s economy against the sovereign-debt crisis in
 Europe . China doubled the yuan’s trading band and allowed banks
to hold dollar short positions this week, steps seen as paving
the way for a convertible currency.  “ London  is making a push to become the second offshore
yuan market,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “This is likely to occur
wherever local markets need the offshore yuan business to boost
their status. At the same time it will offer China a platform to
expand the international use of the currency, preferably in time
zones other than its own.”  HSBC’s Dim Sum  The U.K. Treasury and Hong Kong Monetary Authority agreed
in January to provide help with  a forum for banks  to look at
clearing and settlement systems, market liquidity and the
development of new yuan products. The first meeting will be held
in  Hong Kong  next month.  Authorities in Hong Kong, designated as the major offshore
yuan trading hub by China, plan to lengthen yuan payments
trading by five hours by June, allowing London-based
institutions the opportunity to participate.  London may also see the first yuan bonds sold by a 
European bank listed on its exchange soon. HSBC, Europe’s biggest 
bank by market value, is planning to sell three-year so-called Dim 
Sum bonds listed in the city, according to a person familiar with 
the matter.  “London is perfectly positioned to act as the western
hub,” for the yuan, said Stuart Fraser, who heads the London
initiative’s steering committee and is policy chairman of the
City of London Corporation, the financial district’s government
body. “London has many natural advantages, including time zone,
a trusted legal system, a respected regulatory framework, deep
pools of liquidity and a strong track record of innovation.”  Yuan Push  China is encouraging global use of the yuan and allowing
more overseas investors to access its local  capital markets  as
Premier Wen Jiabao seeks to shift the focus of economic growth
to domestic demand and away from slowing export industries.  The  People’s Bank of China  broadened the trading band
against the dollar to 1 percent from its daily  reference rate ,
effective April 16, after having held the limit at 0.5 percent
since May 2007. The China Securities Regulatory Commission
raised quotas for global funds pumping foreign currency into
China’s stocks and bonds to $80 billion from $30 billion this
month.  Asia ’s largest economy will probably expand 8.4 percent
this year, from 9.2 in 2011, according to economists’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with predictions of 0.6
percent growth in the U.K. and 2.3 percent for the U.S.  Yuan-denominated deposits  in Hong Kong declined to the
lowest level since June on increases in remittances to  China  and
as expectations of currency appreciation weakened. Dim Sum bond
sales in Hong Kong more than doubled this year to 53.3 billion
yuan from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  