-- Batali Hosts Anti-Hunger Gala With Bankers He Criticized
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/batali-hosts-anti-hunger-gala-with-bankers-he-criticized.html
Tonight marks the eighth time that
chef/entrepreneur  Mario Batali  has co-hosted the annual  Food
Bank for New York City  gala.  It will be, however, the first since last November, when
Batali appeared on a  Time  magazine panel and compared bankers
with Hitler and Stalin for having toppled “the way money is
distributed and taken it into their own hands.”  Not surprisingly, many of Batali’s best customers took
umbrage, some calling for a boycott of Batali bastions Del Posto
and Babbo. (He later apologized for drawing the comparison.)  Bank of America Corp . opted not to hold a grudge and to aid
hunger relief instead by paying the costs of the annual dinner,
which is co-chaired by Batali and his wife, Susan Cahn.  Support from the bank, patrons and the Food Bank’s board
(of which Batali has been a member since 2003) help cover the
nonprofit’s $30 million budget this year. Other board members
include Carla A. Harris, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director;
General Atlantic LLC Managing Director Peter L. Bloom; and
Arthur J. Stainman, senior managing director at the investment
management firm of First Manhattan Co.  “The financial sector support for the Food Bank has been
fantastic, and we really need more of it,” Lisa Jakobsberg, the
group’s vice president of marketing and business partnerships,
said by phone.  Social Highlight  The nonprofit’s Can Do Awards Dinner has blossomed over the
years into a New York social calendar highlight, attracting Wall
Street philanthropists and boldface names to its guest list.  Thanks to the Bank of America gift, all the money raised
tonight will support the Food Bank’s operations. The event is
the first gala under the leadership of Margarette Purvis,
succeeding president and CEO Lucy Cabrera, who served the
nonprofit for 23 years.  The party also moves downtown from Chelsea Piers to the
Greek Revival-inspired Cipriani  Wall Street  to give the event a
touch of elegance, Jakobsberg said.  Attendees will rub shoulders during the cocktail hour with
Batali, Bravo “Top Chef” head judge  Tom Colicchio , chef Anne
Burrell, the co-host of the Food Network’s “Worst Cooks in
America” and  Jon Stewart , the event’s honorary chair. After
dinner, patrons will sip cocktails and wine and listen to the
 rock band   Bush , playing gratis.  River Fund  The evening’s honorees include pasta maker Barilla America
Inc., which has supported the Food Bank’s operations; the
Richmond Hill, New York-based  River Fund New York  which works
with the nonprofit to feed and counsel the hungry; and New York
State Senator Liz Krueger.  The Food Bank gala guest list began amassing star power
over the past decade when Cahn married Batali, a Food Network
star.  The couple, whose restaurant and  gourmet food  empire now
reap millions annually in revenue, began nudging celebrity chefs
and famous friends like former REM front man Michael Stipe,
Gwynneth Paltrow and her husband and  Coldplay ’s  Chris Martin , to
come to the event.  Longtime supporter Stanley Tucci got fellow actors  Kevin Bacon  and his wife, Kyra Sedgwick to come to this year’s party.
NBC “Late Night” host  Jimmy Fallon  and his wife also signed on
as benefit committee chairs.  “Some people who come say, ‘I love  Mario Batali , and I
want to see what this is all about,’” Jakobsberg said. “It’s
one of the many ways that we want to engage people with the
hunger issue. This helps us put a face on hunger.”  The Food Bank for  New York City ’s “Can Do Awards Dinner”
is tonight at Cipriani, 55 Wall Street, at 6 p.m.
Tickets:  http://www.foodbanknyc.org/events/can-do-awards-dinner .  Today’s Muse highlights include an  interview  with E.O.
Wilson and a  review  of “White House Burning.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 