-- Bayern Beats Real to Move Closer to Home Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-17T22:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bayern-munich-tops-real-madrid-2-1-to-open-champions-league-semi.html
Mario Gomez  scored in the 90th
minute to give  Bayern Munich  the advantage over Real Madrid as
the German club chases a place in the  Champions League  soccer
final in its home stadium.  Bayern won 2-1 last night at Munich’s Allianz Arena, which
will stage the May 19 championship match, in the first game of
the semifinal. Franck Ribery also scored for Bayern, while Mesut Ozil got the goal for the Spanish league leader.  “We delivered the things I asked of my team,” Bayern
coach Jupp Heynckes, who led Real to the 1998 Champions League
title, said on UEFA’s website. “We showed passion, desire and
were hungry for success, which is exactly what you need in the
semifinals.”  Real, which has won  Europe ’s top club competition a record
nine times, hosts the return match on April 25. The winner over
the two games will play defending champion Barcelona or Chelsea,
who begin their semifinal tonight in London.  “I’m optimistic we can return here to play in the final,”
Real manager  Jose Mourinho  said on UEFA’s website. “It’s not
like we have to make a historical comeback.”  Gomez’s goal handed Real its first loss in 11 games in this
season’s Champions League. It also continued four-time champion
Bayern’s home domination of Madrid in the competition, with nine
wins and one tie in 10 games. At Real’s Bernabeu stadium, Bayern
has won twice and drawn once in nine European Cup games.  ‘Have to Take Chances’  “Real are capable of scoring lots of goals and it’s a pity
we conceded,” Ribery said on UEFA’s website. “We’ll have some
chances in the return leg and we have to make the most of
them.”  Bayern goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  tipped an early chance by
Real’s Karim Benzema over the crossbar for a corner kick.  Ribery, who had a claim for a penalty kick turned down by
referee  Howard Webb , gave Bayern the lead in the 17th minute
when he pounced on a loose ball after a corner kick and fired a
first-time shot past Iker Casillas.  Real’s Cristiano Ronaldo then missed with two efforts and
Bayern’s Bastian Schweinsteiger shot wide. Also before halftime,
Neuer punched away Benzema’s header and Casillas knocked Gomez’s
shot over the bar.  Real tied the game eight minutes after the break. Ronaldo
got behind the Bayern defense before being stopped by Bayern
keeper Neuer.  Madrid  regained possession from the rebound and
Benzema sent a low ball across goal to Ronaldo, who cut it back
for Ozil to tap past Neuer.  Three chances fell to Gomez before he scored. He shot over
the bar from close range in the 71st minute after  Sergio Ramos 
failed to deal with a free kick and missed with two headers.  His goal was his 12th goal in the Champions League, two
less than leader Lionel Messi of Barcelona, and took his tally
for the season to 40.  “The winning goal is what Mario Gomez is all about,”
Heynckes added. “He needs crosses, he anticipates them very
well and he was just in the right place for that goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 