-- Bayern Munich Gets Leg Up as Murdoch Boosts German League
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-18T09:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bayern-munich-gets-leg-up-as-murdoch-money-boosts-german-league.html
When  Bayern Munich  lost the 2010
 Champions League  final against  Inter Milan , it was a victory of
largesse over careful German financial planning.  Bayern, which had turned a profit every year for a decade,
was beaten by an opponent that had accumulated losses of about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) as it bought soccer’s biggest names
such as  Wesley Sneijder  and  Diego Milito . Bayern President Uli Hoeness still holds a grudge.  “I would not be happy if I win a Champions League like
that,” Hoeness, a former  World Cup  winner who increased
Bayern’s annual sales to about 320 million euros ($420 million)
from 6 million euros since swapping the playing field for the
boardroom in 1979, said in a January interview. “If I win a
Champions League, I want to be in profit.”  As  Bayern Munich  came closer to another Champions League
final with a 2-1 win over Real Madrid yesterday, Hoeness’s
desire for clubs’ success to be tied to profitability received a
boost as well. The German league signed a deal to increase
revenue from local TV rights by 52 percent to a record 2.5
billion euros for the four years through 2017.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  won all major rights packages as it
seeks to replicate the success of another unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.,  British Sky Broadcasting Corp. (BSY) , which
became the biggest U.K. pay-TV operator with the English Premier
League broadcasting rights.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  “For Sky Deutschland, it’s a double-edged sword as the
price they paid is very high, but on the other hand they had to
fire from all barrels because this is their killer app,” said
 Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst at  Silvia Quandt Research  in
 Frankfurt . “For the clubs, it’s the dream scenario.”  Sky Deutschland, 49.9 percent-owned by News Corp., retained
the license to show live pay-TV matches via cable and satellite.
It acquired additional rights to show the games on mobile
devices and on Internet-based TV, snatching them from previous
holder  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  Publisher  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  won some
rights to show highlights on the Web.  Unterfoehring-based Sky Deutschland said it will pay 485.7
million euros per season. The company’s shares, which jumped as
much as 27 percent yesterday before the announcement, erased
some of the gains after the league disclosed the auction prices,
 closing  7 percent higher at 2.15 euros on the Frankfurt
exchange. Today, the stock fell 10 percent to 1.93 euros at
11:22 a.m. local time, valuing the company at 1.5 billion euros.  Profit Target  Sky Deutschland needs to attract viewers as it targets an
operating profit next year. Subscribers rose to 3 million by the
end of the fourth quarter from 2.65 million a year earlier.
BSkyB, in which  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns 39 percent, has more than 10
million subscribers and in January said first-half  earnings 
before interest, taxes and one-time items increased 16 percent
to 601 million pounds ($958 million).  Last July, as a phone-hacking scandal engulfed Murdoch’s
U.K. publishing business, News Corp. dropped a 7.8 billion-pound
bid to buy all of BSkyB, which has become one of its most
profitable businesses. In February, Sky Deutschland announced
plans to raise 300 million euros to invest in growth and said
the move is “fully backstopped” by News Corp.  Yesterday’s deal will help German football clubs become
more competitive internationally as “it’s a great result for
the Bundesliga, it’s a big jump,” said  Phil Lines , the former
head of the Premier League’s international media division.  It also gives them a boost in  Europe ’s top club
competitions where new regulations forcing clubs to spend only
what they earn under so-called financial fair play regulation
will come into force from 2014.  German Failure  The English Premier League generates more money from TV
rights than its nearest competitors, the Bundesliga and  Spain ’s
La Liga, making it the highest grossing domestic soccer league
in the world. The Premier League’s current three-year U.K.
contracts with BSkyB and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN are valued at
1.78 billion pounds and finish at the end of the 2012-13 season.  A German team has won the Champions League, Europe’s top
pan-continental soccer competition, only once in the last 14
years, in 2001, when Bayern beat Spain’s Valencia 5-4 on penalty
kicks after the game finished in a tie. The country’s top soccer
clubs say it’s difficult to compete as rivals in England and
Spain have higher television revenue and are not forced to
operate profitably.  Bayern Munich yesterday won against Real Madrid at its home
stadium in the first match of the teams’ two-game Champions
League semifinal this year.  England Lure  While the superstars of La Liga, including Barcelona’s
 Lionel Messi  and  Madrid ’s Cristiano Ronaldo, are among the
world’s best paid players, Spanish clubs are facing a spending
shortfall as broadcasters struggle to turn the clubs’ success
into a profitable business. Spain’s biggest commercial TV
stations have said that when the rights to broadcast next
season’s top weekly games come up for sale in June, they plan to
bid only if prices fall by half.  German rules demand clubs to have stable finances, operate
costly youth academies and be controlled by members, blocking a
sale of a majority to an investor. In contrast, in the English
Premier League some clubs are bankrolled by Russian oligarchs
and Middle East oil sheiks.  Roman Abramovich  and Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan have spent almost $1 billion each to add
players at Chelsea and Manchester City.  Despite its strict rules, the Bundesliga has been able to
retain national talents like Bayern’s Bastian Schweinsteiger and
Dortmund’s Mario Goetze, and attracted European stars such as
Dutch striker  Klaas-Jan Huntelaar .  The German league still faces an uphill struggle to catch
up with revenues from international rights. The Premier League
gets an additional 1.4 billion pounds from overseas sales over a
three-year period. That compares with about 215 million euros
for the Bundesliga starting this year.  Fruitful for Freiburg  Still, smaller clubs such as SC Freiburg in southwest
 Germany  say all German teams will benefit from yesterday’s deal
as the league distributes the money more evenly compared with
other countries. In Spain, Real Madrid and  FC Barcelona  have
their own television deals.  “It’s really important, especially for us as a small club,
since the broadcasting rights make up a significant share of our
budget,” said  Rudi Raschke , SC Freiburg’s head of public
relations. Debt-free SC Freiburg, which generates half of its
36.7 million-euro budget from media rights, was surprised that
Sky Deutschland decided to pay so much, he said.  “We initially weren’t sure whether we’d be able to even
increase the price,” he said. “So this is really good news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  