-- BayernInvest Says Assets Continued to Increase in First Quarter
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-04-17T10:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bayerninvest-says-assets-continued-to-increase-in-first-quarter.html
BayernInvest, the asset manager
owned by  Bayerische Landesbank , said assets under management
continued to grow in the first quarter after an increase of 9.6
percent last year helped by special funds inflows.  Assets under management rose to about 38 billion euros ($50
billion) by the end of March from 36.3 billion euros at the end
of last year with the institutional special funds business being
a “substantial driver,” the Munich-based company said in a
 statement  today.  “Our growth is continuing at a constant pace, helped by a
favorable market development,” BayernInvest managing director
Reinhard Moll told journalists in Munich today. “Margins in the
asset management market are declining, so this has to be
compensated by a certain growth in volume.”  BayernInvest, which is fully owned by BayernLB,  Germany ’s
second-biggest state-owned bank, has increased its assets under
management from 24 billion euros in 2007 and employs about 150
people in Munich. BayernLB needed 10 billion euros of capital
amid the global financial crisis from the German State of
Bavaria. Following the bailout, the  European Commission , the
European Union’s executive arm in Brussels, is examining
BayernLB’s restructuring measures.  BayernInvest, which focuses on institutional asset
management and competes with units of lenders such as Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg, DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale and Bankhaus
Metzler, isn’t part of BayernLB’s restructuring talks with the
EU Commission, Moll said. The company’s profit rose 5.4 percent
to 5.4 million euros last year as the cost-income ratio remained
stable at 79.8 percent.  The company plans to increase its assets under management
by about 3 billion euros this year, management board member
Oliver Schlick said. “We are seeing above average growth from
institutional clients such as insurers, pension funds and
corporates,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  