-- Better IMF Outlook Boosts Equities After Slump: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-17T21:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/better-imf-outlook-boosts-equities-after-slump-china-overnight.html
Chinese  equities  traded in the U.S.
rose for the first time in three days, defying stock declines in
 Shanghai  and  Hong Kong , after the  International Monetary Fund 
boosted its forecast for global economic growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.2 percent yesterday to
102.80. The Shanghai Composite Index and  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  declined for a second day, after data showing
foreign investment in  China  slipped for a fifth month.  New
Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc. jumped the most in a
month while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led gains in solar companies. China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. traded at its widest premium over Hong
Kong in two weeks.  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year and 4.1
percent in 2013, up from January projections of 3.3 percent and
4 percent, as the euro region stabilizes and the U.S. outlook
improves, the IMF said yesterday. The Washington-based lender
maintained a forecast of 8.2 percent growth for China, where
policy makers last month cut their 2012 own target to 7.5
percent, the lowest level since 2004. China is the world’s
largest exporter.  “The implication here is that the global economy is doing
better and therefore export numbers out of China will be
better,” Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in emerging
market assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am Bellevue AG
in Zurich, said by phone yesterday. A better global outlook is
“positive for China’s economic growth and for Chinese
equities,” she said.  New Oriental  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.9 percent to 2,334.99
yesterday, trimming its increase this year to 6.2 percent, and
the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong dropped 0.5 percent to 10,794.60, narrowing
this year’s gains to 8.6 percent.  The Bloomberg gauge for U.S.-traded Chinese stocks has
slipped 0.2 percent since March 5, when the government cut
economic growth target for this year. The measure has advanced
14 percent this year.  New Oriental, China’s largest private education service
provider, surged 3.6 percent to $27.87, the biggest increase
since March 15.  Revenue at the Beijing-based company will rise as much as
38 percent in the March-May quarter from a year earlier to
$189.6 million, New Oriental said in a statement yesterday. That
compared with a $178.9 million median estimate of eight analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 32 percent to $174.5 million in the three months
ended Feb. 29, or the third quarter of 2012 according to the
company’s fiscal calendar, New Oriental said.  FDI Falls  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 1.2 percent to $37.52
after a two-day decline. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained
1.5 percent to 1,390.78 after the IMF said the  U.S. economy  will
expand 2.1 percent this year, raising its forecast from 1.8
percent in January.  Foreign direct investment in China fell 6.1 percent in
March, the fifth monthly drop, from last year to $11.76 billion,
the Ministry of Commerce said yesterday in Beijing.  Asia ’s largest economy may cut banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios this month, Liu Li-Gang, the Hong Kong-based chief
Greater China economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  The central bank has lowered the requirements twice since
November to boost credit as the economy slows and kept  interest
rates  on hold since July.  Trina Solar  Trina Solar , China’s third-largest solar maker, jumped the
most in four weeks, climbing 7.3 percent to $6.87. The maker of
solar panels was raised to buy from hold at Auriga USA LLC
yesterday.  Trina, based in Changzhou of China’s Jiangsu province, will
return to profitability in the fourth quarter as the company
benefits from efforts to reduce costs, Hari Chandra Polavarapu,
an analyst at Auriga USA in New York, said in a phone interview.
Trina will also benefit as solar makers cut production and are
either merged or acquired over the next year, he added.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest
manufacturer of solar panels, advanced 3.3 percent to $2.80,
after soaring as much as 9.2 percent earlier. Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co., based in Baoding in China’s northern Hebei
province, rose 5.4 percent to $3.48. LDK Solar Co. added 3.1
percent to $3.30.  Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest thin-
film panel maker, said it will cut 30 percent of its workforce,
about 2,000 jobs, and close factories in Germany and Malaysia in
response to a deteriorating European market. First Solar jumped
10 percent to $22.96 in New York.  China Unicom Premium  China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest carrier which
first offered the iPhone with a service contract, advanced 2.3
percent to $17.17, the highest close in three weeks.  The American depositary receipts, each representing 10
common shares in China Unicom, traded 0.6 percent  above  its Hong
Kong stock, which added 1.1 percent to HK$13.24 yesterday, the
equivalent of $1.71 per share. The premium was the biggest since
April 2.  The Chinese yuan strengthened 0.2 percent, the most since
March 22, to 6.3015 per dollar in Shanghai, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The central bank widened
the yuan’s trading band versus the dollar to 1 percent on either
side of the so-called fixing rate from 0.5 percent, effective
April 16.  Sino-Forest  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree plantation company
that’s fending off fraud allegations, said yesterday in a
statement that Chairman Emeritus Allen Chan resigned from the
company he co-founded.  A report released to the public on June 2 by short seller
Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC alleged that Sino-Forest had
overstated its timber assets in China. The report led to a 74
percent drop in Sino-Forest’s share price in Toronto before the
Ontario Securities Commission suspended trading in August amid
investigations by the Toronto-based market watchdog and Canadian
police. Sino-Forest has denied Block’s allegations.  The company also said yesterday it fired three vice
presidents, Alfred Hung, George Ho and Simon Yeung, and released
Albert Ip, a former executive who had been acting as a
consultant. Chief Financial Officer David Horsley also resigned
and remains an employee to help the company restructure,
according to Sino-Forest’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  