-- BHP Iron Ore Output Advances 14%, Meeting Expectations
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-04-18T08:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bhp-iron-ore-output-advances-14-meeting-expectations.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, said third-quarter  iron ore  production
rose 14 percent as it expands its mines and port in  Australia ,
while warning that strikes severely depleted coal stocks.  Output of the steelmaking raw material, its biggest earning
unit, was 37.9 million metric tons in the three months to March
31, compared with 33.2 million tons a year earlier, the
Melbourne-based company said today in a statement. That compares
with the median estimate of 37.3 million tons from four analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , which yesterday reported quarterly
iron ore output that missed expectations, are expanding
production of the raw material to keep pace with Chinese demand.
Steel production in  China , the biggest producer, hit a record
last month as new plants raised output amid higher prices, the
National Bureau of Statistics said.  “Iron ore is obviously positive just through the sheer
drive to develop that particular commodity,” said  David Lennox ,
resource analyst at Fat Prophets. “Their key iron ore division
especially is running flat out.”  BHP rose 2.8 percent to A$35.10 at the close of trading in
Sydney, the most since Jan. 4. London-based Rio, the second-
largest iron ore exporter behind  Vale SA (VALE3) , reported yesterday a
lower-than-expected 9 percent gain in output to 45.6 million
tons.  Vale (VALE5) ’s quarterly output dropped 2.2 percent because of
adverse weather to 70 million tons, the Rio de Janeiro-based
company said yesterday.  Steel Demand  China’s steel demand will remain positive until at least
2025 and production will rise to about 1.1 billion tons by 2025
from about 700 million tons currently, BHP said last month. The
company is doubling iron ore capacity by 2020 and in January
received initial approval for an expansion of its export harbor
in  Western Australia .  The Outer Harbor Project may cost $22 billion, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts Paul McTaggart and James Redfern, who
rate BHP “outperform,” said in an April 12 report.  The economy in China, the world’s biggest metals consumer,
expanded 8.1 percent during the first quarter, missing forecasts
as exports and demand cooled.  “China had an abnormally soft first quarter,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said April 16. “New loans issued for March
and the first quarter are running 20 percent ahead of last year.
That liquidity is going to find its way through to higher
activity.”  Petroleum, Gas  Output of petroleum products, the company’s second-biggest
earner in the six months to Dec. 31, rose 58 percent compared
with last year to 56.5 million barrels of oil equivalent
following the acquisition of almost $20 billion of U.S. shale
gas assets. BHP, Australia’s largest oil and gas producer,
boosted output of petroleum liquids from its onshore acreage in
the U.S. by 35 percent on the December quarter after natural  gas
prices  slumped to the lowest in a decade.  Production of coking coal, used in steelmaking, rose 10
percent to 7.3 million tons, even as strikes and wet weather
affected the business. That compares with a median forecast of
7.8 million tons from four estimates.  Coal Strikes  “The extent to which industrial action will continue to
affect production, sales and unit costs is difficult to predict,
however with inventories now severely depleted, the impact on
future quarters may be significant,” BHP said in the statement.
BHP declared force majeure, a legal clause used when suppliers
can’t meet obligations because of circumstances beyond their
control, on April 2.  More than 3,000 workers at seven mines belonging to the BHP
Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, the world’s biggest exporter of
the fuel, intensified  strike action  since February in a dispute
over pay and conditions that has lasted since June. BHP shut
Norwich Park, the smallest mine, last week saying the operation
had been unprofitable for months because of rising costs and
lower coal prices.  Copper output rose 3 percent to 281,400 tons, nickel gained
26 percent to 41,700 tons while zinc fell 26 percent, the
company said. Thermal coal production declined 2 percent to 17.2
million tons.  BHP has 14 “buy” and 5 “hold” analyst recommendations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  