-- Big City Faces College Town in Wisconsin Recall Primary
-- B y   T i m o t h y   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-17T18:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/big-city-faces-college-town-in-wisconsin-recall-primary.html
Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker 
said the choice facing his state when voters decide June 5
whether to remove him from office is between “union bosses or
the taxpayer.”  Speaking to business executives in Springfield,  Illinois ,
Walker said that the ouster election, prompted by his
restrictions on unions that represent public employees, will
send a message about controlling government costs.  “Let this be our call to action,” Walker said today in a
30-minute speech to about 300 attendees at an Illinois State
Chamber of Commerce meeting. Outside, more than 2,000 union
members chanted “What’s disgusting? Union busting.”  Walker’s visit to Springfield, the state capital, is part
of the first-term Republican’s defense of actions that have
prompted conservative groups to rally around him and organized
labor to hound him. He was also scheduled to deliver a speech
later in the day in suburban  Detroit .  The Wisconsin recall will be the climax of more than 14
months of turmoil triggered when Walker, 44, pushed restrictions
on collective bargaining through the Legislature. Two senators
who supported the change were recalled in August and more than
900,000 signatures were gathered to force Walker’s recall vote.  Illinois Senate President John Cullerton, a Chicago
Democrat, welcomed Walker and thanked him for creating “so much
chaos in Wisconsin that he made Illinois look normal.”  Inflatable Rodents Deployed  Union members massed outside the downtown hotel where
Walker spoke, carrying giant inflatable rats and a 12-foot
likeness of the governor inscribed with “Don’t Badger Us!” The
scene was a reflection of months of protests in Wisconsin and
later in  Indiana , where the Legislature in January made it the
nation’s 22nd right-to-work state.  The past year of fights show a political tide is turning,
said Doug Whitley, president of the Illinois State Chamber of
Commerce.  “The reason why there’s an audience outside is because
collective-bargaining union leaders understand that with
Wisconsin’s action and right-to-work in Indiana, that there is a
new environment and a new flavor north of the  Ohio River ,”
Whitley said, referring to the union heartland of the Midwest.
“Consequently, more of the public employee unions feel
threatened.”  Mike Bew, a 47-year-old corrections worker protesting
outside, said Walker is taking care of corporate friends at the
expense of working people.  “He’s given money to big political contributors and
companies and then they want to break everyone else,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  