-- Billables Rate, Archer & Greiner: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-19T03:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/billables-rate-archer-greiner-shearman-business-of-law.html
The rich are getting richer and the
less-rich are getting almost nowhere, among lawyers that is.  A report by analytics and advisory firms  TyMetrix Inc.  and
the  Corporate Executive Board Co. (EXBD)  found that over the past three
years of sluggish economy, billing rates for big firms and the
highest-paid partners climbed faster than the rate of inflation.  Average hourly rates for firms with 501 to 1,000 attorneys
increased 13 percent compared with a 4 percent rise at firms
with 1 to 50 lawyers. For partners who billed $800 or more an
hour, the rate grew almost three times faster in the three years
ending in 2011 than rates for partners who billed less than $300
an hour. The rates for the highest billing associates, those at
$500 or more an hour, grew almost five times as fast as those
billing less than $200 an hour.  The report was based on $7.6 billion in law firm billings
from 2007 through 2011 by more than 4,000 firms, including about
80,000 partners and associates.  Craig Raeburn, managing director of TyMetrix Legal
Analytics, said in a statement that the report was meant to help
law firms and clients “fill a growing information gap so they
can continue to make fact-based decisions regarding how to
staff, budget and the control the costs of legal matters.”  The report also found that firms’ rates differed according
to practice area. Intellectual property and commercial contracts
practices had the highest variations in hourly rates with 23.1
percent and 18.7 percent respectively during 2011. Regulatory
and finance/securities/banking had the lowest percentage
difference in rates, at about 11 percent, also during 2011.  N.J. Firms With Ties to Christie Benefit From State Contracts  New Jersey lawyers with ties to Governor  Chris Christie 
have seen an increase in state-contracted work since he became
the state’s chief executive, the Star-Ledger reported yesterday.
Those with ties to Christie’s predecessor,  Jon Corzine , have
posted a decline in revenue from state business, the newspaper
said.  Among the firms benefiting under Christie are Archer &
Greiner PC, with $1.1 million in new work. Richard Mroz, a
former policy adviser to Christie’s election team, works there.
Wolff & Samson PC added more than $1.9 million in state billings
in the first two years of the Christie administration. David Samson, a founding member of the firm, led the transition team
for the governor, according to the newspaper. Among the other
firms adding state business are Lum, Drasco & Positan LLC,
McElroy, Deutsch, Mulvaney & Carpenter LLP and  Dughi, Hewit &
Domalewski PC .  Wayne Positan, a partner at Lum, Drasco who served on
Christie’s transition team, said the amount of work fluctuates
from year to year, according to the paper.  Officials at the state Division of Law, which hires private
law firms for the state, told the paper that it doesn’t give out
legal work is based on political connections, but through a
committee that reviews the background, experience and expertise
of a firm.  Hires  Alibaba Hires Ex-U.S. Official to Aid Washington Lobbying  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. hired former U.S. official James Mendenhall as  China ’s biggest e-commerce company steps up an
appeal to Washington to remove its Taobao site from a list of
“notorious markets” for piracy.  Mendenhall will represent Alibaba in talks with the U.S.
government and industry groups over intellectual property rights
protection, John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at the
Chinese  Internet company , said in an e-mail today. Mendenhall is
a counsel at the Washington office of Sidley Austin LLP,
according to the law firm’s website.  Taobao, China’s biggest shopping website, was among more
than 30 online and physical markets worldwide identified in a
U.S. Trade Representative Office report in December for helping
the illegal sale of pirated and counterfeit goods. The hiring of
Mendenhall, a general counsel for the USTR under the George W. Bush administration, came after Alibaba contracted Washington
lobbying firm Duberstein Group Inc. last year.  Mendenhall and Duberstein are helping in Alibaba’s talks
with U.S. industry groups, including the  Recording Industry
Association of America  and the  Motion Picture Association  of
America, Spelich said.  “We are having good discussions,” Spelich said. “It’s an
exchange: here’s what we have done, here’s what we are working
on, and let’s get some feedback about the kind of thing you are
interested in seeing.”  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the biggest U.S. portal, is the largest
shareholder in closely held Alibaba Group, based in Hangzhou,
east China, with a stake of about 40 percent. Alibaba runs e-
commerce units including Taobao, the Alibaba.com site for
business owners, and the Juhuasuan coupons site.  “We have been talking to their counsel about steps that
Taobao could take to reduce its role as a hub for the
distribution of infringing content,” Cara Duckworth Weiblinger,
a spokeswoman at the Recording Industry Association in
 Washington , said by e-mail. “We are hopeful that Taobao will
soon take actions that will be effective and deterrent.”  For more, click here.  Moves  Dewey Loses More Partners to McDermott and Dechert  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP has lost two more partners. London
private equity lawyers Mark Davis and Russell Van Praagh will be
joining McDermott Will & Emery LLP, according to an article in
The Lawyer yesterday.  McDermott Will & Emery declined to confirm the report while
a Dewey spokesman said the lawyers had left. The firm
reorganized its chairman’s office to include the heads of its
most-profitable practice groups last month. In a statement two
weeks ago, the firm said it expects departures of lawyers “who
didn’t feel they fit in with the new structure.”  The Wall Street Journal reported late yesterday that a
five-person U.K./Middle East team from Dewey & LeBoeuf’s  capital
markets  and emerging markets practice group is moving to Dechert
LLP. They include London partners, Camille Abousleiman and
Louise Roman Bernstein, and Chris P. Sioufi and Gavin B. Watson,
the managing partners of the firm’s  United Arab Emirates 
offices. The paper also reported that Los Angles partner  David
Smith , a corporate lawyer, moved to Stradling Yocca Carlson &
Rauth PC.  That brings the total number of departing London lawyers to
11 this year. The firm has lost 57 partners in 2012, according
to the Wall Street Journal.  Shearman Capital Market’s Head Schiavone Jumps to O’Melveny  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  added Michael J. Schiavone, former
head of Shearman & Sterling LLP’s Capital Markets-Americas
Group, as a transactions partner in  New York .  He will co-head the capital markets practice group along
with O’Melveny partner C. Brophy Christensen. Schiavone’s
practice focuses on bank-side capital markets representations,
primarily representing underwriters in top-tier transactions.  O’Melveny & Myers LLP has 800 lawyers in 15 offices
worldwide.  Shearman named Antonia Stolper head of its Capital Markets-
Americas Group and she is the head of the Latin America affinity
group. She has been with the firm 21 years.  Fannie Mae Counsel Smolen Joins Insurance Firm Gilbert  Miriam Smolen, associate general counsel at  Fannie Mae , is
joining Gilbert LLP as a partner. Smolen, a former assistant
U.S. attorney for 14 years in the  District of Columbia , will
specialize in strategic risk management and complex insurance
coverage litigation, with particular emphasis on directors &
officers liability, professional services liability, and
financial services, housing, and corporate compliance issues.  Smolen served in Fannie Mae’s office of general counsel
focusing on complex commercial and securities litigation,
government and in-house independent investigations, anti-fraud
and corporate compliance, and electronic discovery. She has
significant expertise in the area of  mortgage fraud  and
enterprise anti-fraud practices.  Gilbert, based in Washington, and with an office in Austin,
 Texas , focuses on insurance recovery and strategic risk and
litigation management.  Jackson Lewis Adds Partner, Expanding Memphis Office  Jackson Lewis LLP announced that J. Gregory Grisham has
joined the firm’s Memphis office as a partner. Grisham, formerly
at  Leitner, Williams, Dooley & Napolitan PLLC , has more than 20
years of experience in the labor and employment field, the firm
said in a statement. He is the fourth attorney to join Jackson
Lewis’s Memphis office since December, bringing the office’s
total to nine after opening in 2008.  Grisham defends employers in discrimination, harassment,
retaliation wrongful discharge and whistle-blower claims. He
also advises and defends employers in wage & hour matters and
lawsuits, unfair labor practice and union representation
proceedings before the NLRB. In addition, Grisham represents
employers in the enforcement of post-employment restrictive
covenants such as non-compete, non-solicitation and non-
disclosure agreements as well as handling housing discrimination
claims for business owners under the Fair Housing Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  