-- Billionaire Eskenazis Risk Default As Argentina Takes YPF
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-04-18T17:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/billionaire-eskenazis-confront-repsol-debt-after-ypf-seizure-1-.html
Argentina’s billionaire Eskenazi
family risks default on more than $2 billion of debt after the
government seized control of oil company  YPF SA (YPF)  and said
dividends would probably be reinvested in the company.  The family’s Petersen Group, which has 25 percent of YPF,
owes Spanish partner Repsol  YPF SA (YPFD)  1.45 billion euros ($1.9
billion) after it bought a stake in YPF, the Madrid-based
company said April 16. The Eskenazis counted on YPF dividend
payments of as much as 90 percent of profit to repay Repsol and
about $680 million of loans with banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Petersen didn’t respond to telephone and email requests for
comment. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman in  New
York , declined to comment.  “Should the Argentine government cut the dividend at YPF
(which is the most likely scenario), the Petersen Group would
default on its loans,” Exane BNP Paribas analysts Alexandre Marie and Charles Riou said in a note to clients yesterday. “A
dividend payout of less than 90 percent triggers a default.”  YPF’s 2011 profit will not be used to pay dividends this
year and will probably be re-invested, Deputy Economy Minister
Axel Kicillof said yesterday in a congressional hearing.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  ousted Sebastian Eskenazi as the head of Buenos Aires-based YPF April 16,
appointing Planning Minister Julio de Vido to run the company
and announcing plans to seize a 51 percent stake in YPF from
Repsol. The expropriation follows the takeovers of airline
Aerolineas Argentinas SA and a $24 billion pension fund by
Kirchner since she took office in 2007.  ‘In the Same Boat’  “Those that aren’t expropriated are more nailed than those
who were,”  Antonio Brufau , chief executive officer of Repsol,
said yesterday at a news conference in Madrid, referring to
Fernandez’s decision not to target the Petersen stake. “We’re
all in the same boat. The Eskenazis are enormously worried.”  “Petersen had used YPF dividends to pay interest on the
loans,” Borja Monforte, an analyst with  Fitch Ratings , said in
a telephone interview yesterday from Barcelona,  Spain . “With
the government taking control, it seems unlikely that Petersen
will be able to use those dividends to pay back the Repsol
debt.”  The family, which made its fortune in banking and
construction, bought 15 percent of YPF from Repsol in 2008 in a
deal backed by then-president Nestor Kirchner, the late husband
of Fernandez. The acquisition was financed with a syndicated
 bank loan  and a seller’s note from Repsol. The Eskenazis bought
an additional 10 percent of YPF in 2011 with two similar loans.  The four loans covered the full value of the acquisitions.  Collateral  Petersen’s 25 percent stake in YPF is pledged as collateral
to the loans, Exane’s Marie and Riou said in their note. The
stake would be divided between the debt holders if Petersen
defaults, leaving 22 percent of YPF to the lending banks and 3
percent to Repsol, according to the report.  Petersen’s main stakeholders are Enrique Eskenazi and his
sons Sebastian and Matias, who all helped manage YPF. The Group
also owns four closely held banks in  Argentina .  YPF’s market value more than halved to $7.7 billion from a
high this year of about $16.2 billion on Jan. 23, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Eskenazis stake plunged to a
value of about $1.92 billion, based on yesterday’s close.  Bank of America  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its 52-week target price
for YPF’s American depositary receipts to $7.15 from $33 and
reduced its rating to underperform from neutral after news of
the takeover. Trading of the ADRs have been halted since April
16 in New York when they were trading at $19.50.  Spain vowed to retaliate against Argentine exporters and
energy supplies as Repsol demanded $10.5 billion in compensation
and vowed to use all legal means to win full payment.  Repsol declined 6.1 percent to 15.40 euros at 5:40 p.m. in
 Madrid , after dropping as much as 9 percent yesterday.  Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Repsol, declined to comment.  “People are not only taking out the market value of YPF
but they’re also assuming they don’t get that repaid from
Petersen,”  Andrea Williams , who manages the 1 billion-pound
($1.6 billion) European equities fund at Royal London Asset
Management and owns Repsol, said yesterday by telephone.  The seizure of the stake comes after more than two months
of government pressure on YPF because of slumping production.
The country could double output within a decade after the
discovery of shale  oil fields  in the south that will cost $25
billion a year to develop and that will require YPF to find
partners to help share costs.  Cash For Exploration  The government’s requests for YPF to increase investments
included asking in March that the company use its cash to invest
in exploration and production instead of paying semi-annual
dividends.  The government’s representative on the board, Roberto Baratta, voted against paying dividends in 2011 and this year.
Instead of paying dividends, YPF’s board proposed issuing new
shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  