-- Billionaires Make Killing Amid China Murder Tale
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-04-17T21:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/billionaires-make-killing-amid-china-murder-tale.html
It’s the rare scandal that involves
murder, corruption,  Harvard University  and comparisons to
Jacqueline Kennedy. The Bo Xilai kerfuffle now mesmerizing China
offers all this and perhaps more: It could forever change an
entire political system.  Until March 15, Bo was the top official in the southwestern
megacity of Chongqing and a political rock star. The 62-year-old
was poised to join the Politburo Standing Committee, the nine-
member group that exercises supreme power in China. Then, poof,
his political fortunes vanished amid charges of “serious
discipline violations” and a variety of racy rumors.  The most explosive involve Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, and her
ties to a murdered British business associate last November.
It’s quite a stunning turn of events for a couple once dubbed
the Jack and Jackie Kennedy of  China . Gu, along with her
Harvard-student  son , had a dispute over economic interests with
Briton Neil Heywood, Xinhua News Agency reported.  The scandal is creating a  bull market  in Beijing whispers.
The conventional wisdom: Behind the scenes there was a concerted
effort to halt Bo’s meteoric rise based on the “Chongqing
model” -- a top-down push for social equality, with a strong
role for government and huge infrastructure projects. Many saw
Bo’s strategy, which employed songs and slogans from the era of
 Mao Zedong , as nurturing a cult of personality. The day before
Bo’s ouster, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that China risked a return
of the Cultural Revolution -- when millions were persecuted by
Mao’s Red Guards -- unless the country continued to pursue
political change.  Real Story  We’re missing the true story here, though. It’s really more
evidence that China’s political system is trapped in the past,
while its economy races ahead. This dangerous mismatch is often
dismissed by pundits and  investors , and yet Bo’s ambitious rise
and fall, as well as the opacity surrounding it, embodies much
of what’s wrong in the fastest-growing major economy.  China is iPad central, with state-of-the-art factories,
modern office towers of mirrored glass, six-lane highways, high-
speed rail, expanding WiFi networks and state wealth that’s the
envy of Washington and  Tokyo . China’s nouveau riche are so
vital to Prada SpA,  Louis Vuitton  and Mercedes-Benz that they
have been called the “Middle Blingdom.”  Yet China’s political system dates to the days of Mao and
 Josef Stalin . As democracy takes root from  Egypt  to Myanmar,
China is still mired in closed-door deliberations, backroom
deals and purges. This murky world is bumping up against a
burgeoning Internet culture that makes it impossible to contain
and control the news.  It turns out that China isn’t as governable as it might
seem. Wen makes hopeful comments about moving toward democracy,
but China is still in the grip of its history -- both recent and
ancient. To avoid repeating mistakes, a nation’s people must
know what that record entails. Remember that a picture of Mao
still towers over  Tiananmen Square , the site of events the
Chinese can’t even talk about.  China bulls cite the five-year plans Beijing puts forth.
This year’s power shift will bring great expectations that the
next one will reform the  economy  so that it relies less on
investment and exports and more on consumption. Laying out a
grand scheme doesn’t immediately make its tenets fact --
especially now.  Political risk can’t be ruled out as the focus turns to
greed. How could Bo, with his modest government salary and a
wife he claims doesn’t work, live so well and afford to send his
son to a string of pricey schools in the U.K. and U.S.?  All this light shining on high-level misconduct might pose
a threat to the Communist Party’s legitimacy by drawing renewed
attention to the yawning gap between the elite and the poor.  Stop the Transfers  To continue to thrive, China must stop transferring vast
amounts of income from households to the state. That means more
power for consumers, and less for China’s ultra-rich. The
question is, as China tries to reform, will the nation’s 1
percent fight it? And when we talk about this select group,
we’re really referring to the political leadership.  In 2011, the richest 70 members of China’s legislature were
worth more than the annual gross domestic product of Slovakia.
The $90 billion concentrated among them is both emblematic of
how China’s model is failing the masses and why Communist Party
bigwigs will stonewall any change that crimps their income.  Because the extremely wealthy are often politicians, China
may have a truly difficult time retooling its economy and
narrowing the rich-poor divide. The hurdles to reform increase
the odds of a hard landing in China that breeds social unrest.  We can marvel over Bo’s downfall. We can go on about how
China’s leadership refuses to countenance rising political stars
who challenge its clubby world. We can engage in whodunit
fantasies about the wife and the dead businessman. But more than
anything, this tale shows how an antiquated political system
imperils a nation’s future.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today's highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes 
and Obama's  oil-speculation plan ;  Peter Orszag  on saving money
through health-care reform;  Margaret Carlson  on  Ann Romney's
choices ; Clive Crook on  economic fairness ;  Roger Lowenstein  on
 dodging Dodd-Frank ; Ana Palacio on  Spain's outdated labor laws .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Singapore at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  