-- BNP Joins SocGen in Profit Search as Rules Squeeze Growth
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-04-18T09:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bnp-joins-socgen-in-profit-search-as-new-rules-squeeze-growth.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) , France’s biggest banks, are struggling to boost profit as
efforts to shrink operations by as much as 300 billion euros
($394 billion) cap growth.  The banks are coming off a period when Europe’s debt crisis
forced them to write off 4 billion euros in Greek borrowings and
endure a crippling liquidity crunch. And although they, like
their regional counterparts, benefitted from the  European
Central Bank ’s 1 trillion euros in loans, asset cuts to meet new
regulation and the return of the debt crisis are hurting profit.  “It’s a transformational year,” said Jean-Pierre Lambert,
a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. “The
liquidity problem is sorted, and this benefited French banks.
Now, questions remain about profitability and their capacity to
adapt to new capital rules.”  Although one-time gains from asset disposals, as with BNP
Paribas’s sale of a stake in property company Klepierre SA, may
bolster results, profit from operations may not pick up this
year as the banks strive to meet Basel III rules. Revenue from
corporate- and investment-banking operations, which accounted
for most of the earnings decline last year, may shrink again.  “They’re fixing their house and that’s going to restrain
2012 earnings, but it should also restore potential for 2013 and
2014,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage 8 billion euros
at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille and owns shares in the two
banks. “We are very far from last fall’s extreme fears.”  Profit Drivers  Relief over the end of the liquidity crunch boosted the
shares of the Paris-based banks in the first quarter. BNP
Paribas rose 17 percent after sliding 36 percent last year.
 Societe Generale  jumped 28 percent after a 57 percent 2011 drop.  They have since tumbled on concern Socialist candidate
 Francois Hollande , who calls finance his “biggest adversary,”
may win in the French presidential elections next month and as
the specter of a debt crisis in Spain has roiled markets.  BNP Paribas shares have dropped 14 percent since the end of
the first quarter and traded 0.8 percent lower at 30.75 euros as
of 10:50 a.m. in Paris. Societe Generale shares, which have
slipped 17 percent since March 31, were down 1.7 percent at
18.26 euros.  “If the asset reductions are fruitful and once the least
profitable assets are cut, there’s no reason why BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale wouldn’t develop their leading franchises in
fixed-income and equity derivatives,” Forneris said.  Bond Sales  Basel III will push European banks toward a U.S.-style
“disintermediated” financing in debt markets for corporate
clients rather than traditional loans. BNP Paribas and Societe
Generale plan to use their positions in this market to boost
growth at their corporate- and investment-banking units.  “We are one of the leading firms in terms of euro bond
issuances, regularly in the top two, top three for corporate
clients, and we’ve had a very good start in 2012,” Societe
Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said at a Morgan
Stanley Conference in  London  on March 28.  The bank may also look to emerging markets insurance, which
creates “value without using scarce resources in terms of
liquidity and capital,” Oudea said.  Societe Generale is the second-largest life insurer in the
 Czech Republic , No. 3 in  Morocco  and has doubled its business in
 Russia  in the last two years, he said.  At the same conference, BNP Paribas CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafe said his bank, in addition to boosting bond financing
and making an emerging markets push, will look to leverage its
global network to develop banking and cash-management services.  Capped Returns  Still, BNP Paribas, whose return on equity fell below 10
percent last year for only the second time since its creation in
1999, may see that profitability measure at 9.4 percent this
year and 9.3 percent in 2013, according to the average of
estimates from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Societe Generale’s ROE may fall to 5.7 percent this year
from 6 percent in 2011 and 9.8 percent in 2010 before rising to
7.2 percent next year, the survey showed.  Societe Generale, which will report first-quarter results
on May 3, had a 39 percent drop in profit last year to 2.4
billion euros. In 2011, BNP Paribas, which unveils results for
the first three months of this year on May 4, posted a 23
percent decline in net income to 6 billion euros. Julia Boyce
and Nathalie Boschat, spokeswomen for BNP Paribas and Societe
Generale respectively, declined to comment on profit estimates.  Beating Retreat  The average ROE in the global investment-banking industry
may fall to 6.8 percent in 2013 from 13.6 percent previously
following regulatory changes including Basel III capital rules
and the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, JPMorgan Cazenove analysts led by
 Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a March 13 report.  Europe  “is undergoing by far the biggest changes within
the global investment-banking industry” with the continent’s
lenders cutting about 2 trillion euros of assets, they said.  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, about halfway through
cuts of as much as 85 billion euros in risk-weighted assets at
their corporate- and-investment banking, or CIB, divisions, are
racing with European rivals to scale back balance sheets.  BNP Paribas is targeting a Basel III core Tier 1 ratio of 9
percent by early next year and Societe Generale aims to reach a
ratio “well above” that by 2013. The two banks are globally
cutting about 3,000 CIB jobs.  Societe Generale disposed of 13.1 billion euros of
subprime-era assets last year. Oudea oversaw the sale of 6
billion euros of corporate loans with losses below 3 percent.
The bank abandoned its 2011 dividend.  ‘Deep Changes’  “We are confronted by deep changes,” Oudea said in a BFM
TV interview last week. “The change in the economic
environment, the change in rules that are considerable and we
tend to forget that Basel III marks a profound change in the
banking model, in the nature of the business.”  BNP Paribas is selling energy, commodities as well as
project-and-leveraged finance assets. In February, it sold $9.5
billion in North American energy assets to Wells Fargo & Co. It
sold a 28.7 percent stake in French property company Klepierre
for 1.5 billion euros last month.  The two banks also retreated from dollar-linked operations
such as aircraft financing as U.S. funding evaporated. Their CIB
units cut dollar funding by $112 billion in the second half.  Late last year, BNP Paribas ceded its spot as Europe’s
largest bank by assets to  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG after
topping the list in 2010 with the purchase of Fortis’s assets.
It shrank its balance sheet last year by 1.7 percent to 1.97
trillion euros, the smallest since the financial crisis in 2007.  Economic Outlook  The bank, which forecast 1.2 billion euros in one-time
losses and costs as it shrinks its CIB unit, has about 860
million euros to go.  Also weighing on profit is the worsening economic outlook
in Europe.  France , the euro-area’s second-largest economy, has
slowed;  Italy  and Spain, the third- and fourth-largest economies
in the euro area, are in their second recession since 2009. BNP
Paribas gets about 9 percent of its total sales from Italy.  “You can’t shelter profits when economic conditions
deteriorate,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based banking
analyst at AlphaValue. “French banks can’t reduce lending in
core markets. But recession risks make even more acute the need
for rapid asset cuts in corporate and investment banking.”  Europe’s debt worries, which abated after  Greece ’s second
rescue this year and were calmed by ECB funding to banks, are
resurfacing. Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to 6 percent on
April 11, near levels that drove Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
into bailouts. Italian yields, which fell more than 2 percentage
points between Prime Minister Mario Monti’s appointment in
November and early March, have risen on contagion concern.  Strict Discipline  French banks held $620 billion in private and public debt
in Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and  Spain  at the end of
December, the world’s highest such holdings by foreign lenders,
according to the Bank for International Settlements.  At home, French sovereign debt stands at more than 85
percent of gross domestic product. Hollande, who’s leading in
the polls against President  Nicolas Sarkozy , has said he may
raise the minimum wage, pull back the  retirement age  to 60 from
62 for some people and add 60,000 teachers at public schools,
raising concern he will increase borrowings.  “We’re in a world of capital and liquidity shortages; you
need the strictest discipline putting scarce resources to
work,” said Jean-Marc Moriani, founder of advisory firm JM
Conseil and former head of Natixis SA’s investment-banking unit.
“Investor bets can’t reflect profits as long as sovereign
uncertainties keep weighing without distinction on European
banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  