-- BOE Says Carney Not Approached as Canada Rebuffs Report
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n ,   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-04-18T16:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/boe-court-says-no-carney-approach-made-as-canada-refutes-report.html
The  Bank of England ’s court said it
has not contacted anyone to succeed Governor  Mervyn King  as the
Canadian central bank rebuffed a report that  Mark Carney  has
been asked about the role.  “The appointment of a new governor to replace Sir Mervyn King when he retires in summer 2013 is a matter for the
government, not the court of the Bank of  England ,” said David
Lees, Chair of Court at the U.K. central bank. “The court has
not approached anyone in connection with this appointment.”  Earlier, the Financial Times said that Carney was
informally approached by a member of the court, which governs
the central bank’s affairs, about taking over from King. Carney
heads  Canada ’s central bank. A U.K. Treasury official said he
was surprised by the FT report and that the government hasn’t
asked the court to scout for successors.  Carney, who is also chairman of the Financial Stability
Board, said today he hasn’t been contacted about leaving the
Bank of Canada to work at the U.K. central bank. When asked if
it was accurate to say there had been no contact or
communication about such a move, he said, “Yes, that’s
accurate.”  “I’m totally focused on my two responsibilities as
governor of the bank and as chairman of the FSB and I can assure
you they add up to more than every waking hour of the day,” he
told a press conference in Ottawa.  Successor Search  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering
looking outside the Bank of England for a successor to King when
his term expires in June next year, which would be the first
such move in 30 years, two people with knowledge of the matter
said in February. A Treasury spokesman said today that the
process for succeeding King, 64, will be announced in due course
and that the best person for the job will be appointed.  Widening the pool of candidates beyond central bank
insiders follows strains with the Treasury dating back to 2007
that center on how King responded to the financial crisis.  Odds offered by Dublin-based bookmaker Paddy Power on
Carney becoming the next Bank of England Governor narrowed to
10-1 after the FT report from 25-1 previously. It means a
successful 1-pound ($1.60) wager would return a 10-pound profit.  The FT said today that it is a “working assumption” in
the Treasury that if Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker 
isn’t given the job he will leave the central bank. Fellow
Deputy Governor Charlie Bean has told colleagues that, in such
an event, he would stay on at the central bank to help with the
transition after his own term expires, the FT said.  Term Proposal  King is scheduled to leave the bank after serving the
maximum two  five-year terms  allowed. The next governor may be
limited to a single eight-year term under legislation proposed
by the government.  The Bank of England’s court of non-executive directors
oversees the Bank of England’s affairs and is separate from the
interest rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee.  The governor is appointed by the queen following a
recommendation by the government. Osborne and officials at the
Treasury aim to make an announcement later this year, a person
familiar with the matter said in February.  Carney, 47, was appointed Governor of the  Bank of Canada  in
February 2008 for a seven-year term. He was also named head of
the FSB, the Basel, Switzerland-based body overseeing efforts to
write new rules for international finance, by leaders of the
Group of 20 nations last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  