-- Bombardier Sees Service Sales Doubling to $3 Billion by 2019
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-17T14:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bombardier-sees-service-sales-doubling-to-3-billion-by-2019-1-.html
Bombardier Inc.’s (BBD/B)  aircraft
maintenance and spare-parts unit may double revenue to $3
billion annually in the next five to seven years as the
planemaker expands in  emerging markets  such as  Russia  and  China .  Annual sales in the business now total $1.2 billion to $1.5
billion, said Eric Martel, president of the unit. Montreal-based
Bombardier, the world’s largest maker of business jets and
third-biggest maker of commercial aircraft, had overall revenue
of $18.3 billion last year.  Bombardier and rivals such as  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and  General
Dynamics Corp.’s (GD)  Gulfstream unit are vying to capture a growing
share of an expanding market for aircraft and parts.
Bombardier’s most recent forecast calls for 24,000 business jets
and 13,100 commercial aircraft of 149 seats or less to be
delivered by 2030. Bombardier plans to deliver about 180
business jets this year and 55 commercial planes.  “The installed base is increasing, there are more
airplanes to be served, and there are markets today where we
don’t capture our share,” Martel said in an interview at a
Bombardier maintenance and operations conference in Montreal
yesterday. “That’s why we think we can double our business
globally in terms of service in the next five to seven years.”  Product Support Survey  Bombardier is expanding its service division -- which was
created in 2008 and now employs about 5,000 people at
maintenance sites, parts depots and  call centers  -- to address
shortcomings in product support. The business also includes
sales of  amphibious aircraft , which totaled four last year, and
pilot training operations. Bombardier trains about 6,000 to
7,000 pilots and mechanics annually, Martel said.  Bombardier has consistently trailed rivals such as
Gulfstream and  Textron Inc.’s (TXT)  Cessna for service over the last
few years -- though the gap is narrowing. The highest ranking by
a Bombardier business jet in an Aviation International News
 survey  of product support last year was sixth place. Ratings for
Bombardier’s Challenger and Global models increased from their
2010 levels, Aviation International said.  “Service was a bit of a challenge for us a couple of years
ago,” Martel said. “We were not pleased with some of the
survey results, the perception that people had of our company.
Today we have caught up on a lot of things. We are really
getting there.”  ‘Ways to Go’  Bombardier said in February it would open a service center
in Singapore next year, its 10th such wholly owned facility
globally and its first in  Asia . The company also has more than
50 authorized service facilities in cities such as Doha, Qatar.  Regional service offices may also be opened in Russia,
China and  Africa  in the next few years, Martel said. Bombardier
will consider joint ownership with local investors, he said.  “We’ve seen year-over-year improvement in their customer-
service scores, but it takes time to change customer
perceptions,” said Chris Murray, an aerospace analyst at PI
Financial Corp. in Toronto. “They still have a ways to go but
the trend is positive.”  To ensure customers have faster access to parts, Bombardier
has increased the amount of inventory it carries to about $1.5
billion, a 13 percent gain from 12 to 15 months ago, Martel
said.  “We have built an infrastructure so that we can say yes
all the time,” he said.  Round the Clock  Bombardier now offers round-the-clock assistance to jet
owners who need immediate repairs by assigning staff to
unscheduled maintenance operations at all times, Martel said.
Unscheduled repairs represent about 40 percent of all
maintenance work, he said.  “You invest in a business jet to get to where you need to
be fast, so if the plane is not working, it’s critical,” said
PI Financial’s Murray. “Any sort of delay in the maintenance
would impact the manufacturer’s reputation.”  More than 6,700 planes built by Bombardier are in service
globally, including about 4,000 business jets and about 2,700
commercial aircraft such as the  Q400  turboprop.  Of Bombardier’s 4,000 business jets, about 60 percent are
based in  North America , Martel said. As recently as 2000,
Bombardier sold about 80 percent of the planes within North
America, he said.  Aerospace accounted for $8.6 billion, or 47 percent, of
Bombardier’s  revenue  in the fiscal year ended Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  