-- Brazilian Real Drops to Three-Month Low After Dollar Purchases
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-17T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/brazil-real-rises-as-spain-s-bill-sale-buoys-demand-for-risk.html
Brazil ’s real fell to its lowest
level since January after the central bank bought dollars in the
 spot market  to protect exporters from a strong local currency.  The real erased an earlier gain as the central bank
purchased greenbacks at two auctions today. President  Dilma
Rousseff  has vowed to protect manufacturers from the “monetary
tsunami” created by developed nations that had driven up the
real. Interest-rate futures dropped on bets policy makers may
make further cuts in borrowing costs after this week’s meeting.  “As the central banks keeps buying dollars every day, the
market becomes more cautious about betting on a stronger real,”
Italo Abucater, head of foreign-exchange trading at Icap do
Brasil Ctvm, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
real was stronger at the opening, with more optimism in the
global markets, but then the central bank intervened and
reversed the trend.”  The real slid 0.7 percent to 1.8611 per  U.S. dollar  today
in Sao Paulo after touching 1.8613, the weakest level since Jan.
3. The real has gained 0.3 percent this year.  Brazil’s currency has been weaker than 1.80 versus the
dollar since mid-March, when the government expanded financial
taxes to discourage capital inflows and protect exporters.  The real appreciated earlier today along with most of the
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Spain 
placed more than the 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) maximum
target in a bill sale, easing sovereign-debt concern and
encouraging demand for higher-yielding assets.  Interest-Rate Futures  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 9.1 percent. Traders speculated the central bank may
indicate there is more room to reduce borrowing costs after it
cuts the benchmark Selic rate at its two-day monetary policy
meeting beginning today.  “Investors are increasing bets that the central bank may
leave the door open for the next Copom meetings,” Marcelo Fonseca, an economist at M. Safra & Co. DTVM SA in  Sao Paulo ,
said in a telephone interview. “The chances are slim, but the
market is thinking that maybe they’re not that low.”  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre
Tombini will reduce the Selic rate by 75 basis points this week
to 9 percent, according to rate futures yields.  Policy makers have lowered the benchmark by 275 basis
points since August to 9.75 percent. In the minutes of its March
6-7 meeting, the central bank said there’s a “high
probability” that the Selic rate will fall to just above its
record low 8.75 percent and stay there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  