-- Brazil’s Unpredictable Central Banker Tombini Confounds Critics
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-04-17T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/brazil-s-unpredictable-central-banker-tombini-confounds-critics.html
No central banker in the world’s
top 10 economies has surprised analysts as frequently as
 Brazil ’s Alexandre Tombini.  Since taking office 15 months ago, Tombini set interest
rates lower than economists expected in three out of 10 policy
meetings, including an August reduction that all 62 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg failed to anticipate.  Russia ’s central
bank, the second most unpredictable, defied economists in three
out of 14 rate decisions in the same period.  So far, Tombini has been vindicated. Inflation in Brazil,
at 5.24 percent in March, is easing at a pace faster than
analysts forecast. While investors have speculated that Tombini
may be yielding to political pressure to lower rates, his gloomy
assessment of the world economy and risk-taking may prove
correct, according to Citigroup Inc.’s Dirk Willer. Tombini will
 cut  the benchmark rate by three-quarters of a point to 9 percent
tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg survey of 55 analysts.  “The central bank took a gamble and got it right,”
Willer, head of Latin American local markets strategy at
Citigroup, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “It’s
still open to debate whether the bank should take gambles in the
first place.”  Tombini, a University of Illinois-trained economist, has
used speeches to reiterate his commitment to inflation
targeting, a system he helped introduce in Brazil in 1999 as
head of the bank’s research department. In public statements,
policy makers said they began cutting rates before economists
expected because they accurately forecast in August that a
global slowdown caused by the European debt crisis would ease
inflationary pressures.  “The central bank isn’t in the business of surprising
markets,” Tombini, 48, said in an interview last month, after
the bank accelerated the pace of monetary easing and took the
benchmark Selic rate to 9.75 percent. “Its business is keeping
inflation under control.”  Pombini  Tombini’s decision to cut Brazil’s rates in August, then
the highest within the Group of 20 richest nations, set the pace
for other central bankers.  Europe , the U.S.,  Indonesia , Russia
and  Australia  all followed Brazil in a round of global monetary
easing that included rate reductions and fixed-income asset
purchases. The  Federal Reserve  said it plans to keep interest
rates near zero until late 2014.  All the same, back in Brazil Tombini’s moves earned him the
nickname “Pombini,” a play on the Portuguese word for dove,
the widely used symbol to describe central bankers with
optimistic views of inflation.  Brazil’s inflation is the sixth highest within the G-20 and
has been above the nation’s 4.5 percent target for 19 months.
Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in 2011, the upper limit of a
tolerance range around the inflation goal.  ‘Bold’  As Tombini anticipated, price pressures have eased as a
result of weaker global and domestic demand. Consumer prices in
March rose at  half the pace  of the previous month, lowering the
annual inflation rate by 2.07 percentage points from a six-year-
high of 7.31 percent in September. The slowdown had been
predicted by Tombini in an Aug. 10 speech, when he said the
inflation rate would drop two percentage points by April.  Before Tombini’s surprise cut in August, a weekly central
bank  survey  of economists who cover Brazil showed they expected
economic growth of 3.8 percent in 2011. Instead, Brazil
contracted in the third quarter and wound up growing 2.7 percent
in the year, the second-worst rate since 2003 and less than
 Germany ’s 3 percent.  “The central bank may have been bold, but it wasn’t a bet,
that was its outlook,” Luiz Fernando Figueiredo, former central
bank board member and co-founder of Maua Investimento LTDA, said
in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “People are now coming
around to its view, even if begrudgingly.”  Communication Glitches  While Tombini’s predictions are proving accurate, his
vision wasn’t clear to most economists and traders. He first
surprised analysts last April with a decision to slow the pace
of interest-rate increases to a quarter point after raising
rates by half a point in the two previous meetings.  Then came the landmark rate cut in August. Coming after
inflation accelerated in each of the previous 11 months, the
move fueled speculation of political meddling. A day before the
surprise decision President  Dilma Rousseff  vowed to take Brazil
on a “new pathway” of lower borrowing costs “starting now.”  Political pressure has made it harder to predict the
central bank’s moves, Citigroup’s Willer said.  Now, Tombini, a father of two from the southern state of
 Rio Grande  do Sul, is trying to better telegraph his next moves
in official bank statements.  Learning Curve  A first attempt came in the  minutes  of the Jan. 17-18
meeting, when policy makers said there was a high probability 
rates would fall below 10 percent. Still, only three out of 62 
analysts accurately anticipated Tombini would accelerate the 
pace of cuts at the next meeting in March after four consecutive 
half-point reductions.  In the minutes of the March 6-7 meeting, policy makers were
more explicit, saying there was a “high probability” the Selic
rate would “stabilize” at a level slightly above the
historical low of 8.75 percent. That prompted traders to bet on
rate cuts to 9 percent, which economists expect this week.  Tombini’s surprises are more related to the markets getting
used to a new central banker’s style rather than poor
communication, said Sergio Werlang, who served as central bank
director between March 1999 and October 2000.  No More Meirelles  “The central bank’s communication has been adequate,”
Werlang, who now serves as vice-president for finance and risk
at Itau Unibanco Holding SA, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Policy watchers were used to a central bank
presided by  Henrique Meirelles ,” he said, referring to the
bank’s longest-serving president and Tombini’s predecessor.  “With the change in command, the communication style also
changes,” said Werlang, who was Tombini’s direct supervisor at
the central bank. “My reading is that policy watchers are
getting better at understanding the central bank’s minutes.”  Many challenges lie ahead for Tombini. While economists
began to lower their inflation forecasts for this year, they
still predict Tombini will  miss  the 4.5 inflation target in both
2012 and 2013, according to a bank survey published April 16.  Marcelo Salomon, co-head of Latin America economics at
Barclays Plc, said he’s concerned inflation will pick up with
the extra stimulus being pumped into the economy through
subsidized lending, tax breaks and a surge in public spending as
Brazil prepares to host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics.  “It’s too early to say that inflation is going to get
close to 4.5 percent by year’s end,” Salomon said in an April 9
telephone interview from New York. “Going into 2013, we still
believe there’s a lot of stimulus that’s going to be driving
growth up.”  ‘Visionary’  Traders forecast the central bank will have to reverse part
of the most recent rate cuts and raise  interest rates  early next
year to keep inflation under control. Tombini will have to raise
the Selic rate to 10.5 percent by December 2013, local interest-
rate futures trading shows.  “At the moment, Tombini is looking more like a
visionary,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim
CTVM Ltda in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The
central bank’s outlook was right, but I think it wasn’t
successful in communicating its strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  