-- Breivik to Seek Sanity Ruling After Defying Oslo Court
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-04-17T12:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/breivik-to-seek-sanity-ruling-after-defying-oslo-court.html
Anders Behring Breivik defended the
killing of 77 people in July last year as necessary to stop the
spread of a “cultural Marxist dictatorship” and warned of
further attacks in  Europe .  “I have done the most sophisticated and spectacular
political act committed in Europe since World War II,” the Oslo
native told a closed courtroom in the Norwegian capital today.
“This won’t be the last time this happens in Europe.”  The 33-year-old killed 69 people -- some as young as 14 --
at a Labor Party youth camp on Utoeya island and detonated a car
bomb by the prime minister’s office, taking eight lives. He has
been indicted on two terror charges as well as murder and if
deemed sane by the court may be sentenced to detention for at
least 21 years.  Norwegians have been “deceived and betrayed by liberals
and multiculturalists,” while “communist doctrines” have
taken over in many countries, Breivik said. “Violent revolution
is the only way to solve this.”  At the opening of the 10-week trial yesterday, Breivik
refused to admit guilt for the July 22 attacks and declined to
accept the authority of the court even as he confessed to the
murders, arguing they were in self defense.  “He accepts he committed these acts which were horrendous
but which he believes were necessary to prevent war in Europe,”
his attorney, Geir Lippestad, said. His victims are “traitors”
to  Norway , Breivik has said.  ‘Save Your People’  “I tried to save your people but the majority do not
believe they need to be saved,” he said today. “I would have
done it again,” Breivik said earlier.  Breivik yesterday raised his right arm in a salute to the
court after having his handcuffs removed, and then sat
motionless as prosecutor Inga Bejer Engh read the details of
each of his victims. He later cried as prosecutors played a 12
minute video he had produced against multiculturalism.  “I was thinking about my country and ethnic group, they
are dying,” he said, appearing annoyed by questioning from
prosecutor Engh. “That’s why I felt sad. That’s why I cried.”  An initial psychiatric evaluation last year found Breivik
to be suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, meaning he would
face compulsory treatment rather than prison. The decision was
criticized by victims and caused the Oslo court to order a new
assessment in January.  ‘Not Scared’  The second evaluation was released last week and found him
not to be clinically psychotic and therefore accountable for his
actions. Neither evaluation is binding for the court. If found
sane by the judges, Breivik faces a maximum sentence of 21 years
and the possibility of five-year extensions as long as he’s
deemed a danger to society.  “I am not scared by the prospect of being imprisoned,”
said Breivik, who earlier asked to be acquitted, claiming
international law and human rights gave him the authority to
“protect the Norwegian people.”  The start of Breivik’s testimony today was delayed for half
an hour as the Oslo court deliberated whether to dismiss jury
member Thomas Indreboe after he admitted to posting comments on
Facebook calling for Breivik’s execution. Indreboe has been
replaced by Anne Elisabeth Wisloeff, Judge Wenche Elizabeth Arntzen said.  The trial is being broadcast to 17 court houses nationwide
to allow about 2,000 aggrieved relatives and friends of the
victims to follow the proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed at   areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  