-- Buffett Has Stage 1 Prostate Cancer, Not Life Threatening
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-18T13:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/buffett-has-stage-1-prostate-cancer-says-not-life-threatening.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chairman
 Warren Buffett  has been diagnosed with stage 1 prostate cancer
that is “not remotely life threatening,” the billionaire
investor said in a letter to investors.  Buffett, 81, will begin a two-month treatment of daily
radiation in July, he said. The regimen will restrict his travel
during the period and not otherwise change his daily routine,
said Buffett, who is also chief executive officer of the Omaha,
Nebraska-based company.  “I feel great -- as if I were in my normal excellent
health -- and my energy level is 100 percent,” Buffett said in
the letter yesterday. “I will let shareholders know immediately
should my health situation change. Eventually, of course, it
will; but I believe that day is a long way off.”  The diagnosis is the least severe of four stages of the
cancer, which affects 1 in 8 men over the age of 70. The five-
year survival rate for local prostate cancer, such as Buffett’s,
is close to 100 percent, according to the American Cancer
Society.  “It’s a slowly progressive disease,” said  Sean Collins , a
radiation oncologist at Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer
Center in  Washington , who has no personal knowledge of Buffett’s
condition. “If someone had a short  life expectancy  you wouldn’t
treat them at all. With a 10-year  life expectancy , radiation
treatment is a rational decision.”  Buffett has been preparing for an eventual transition for
more than a decade, and told shareholders in his most recent
annual letter that the board has a candidate for CEO, without
naming the executive. Vice Chairman Charles Munger is 88.  ‘Primary Concerns’  Class B shares slipped 0.9 percent to $80.06 at 9:51 a.m.
in  New York . Uncertainty over management transition weighs on
Berkshire’s  credit grade ,  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service said in March.  “We expect modest weakness in the shares,” said  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., in a note to
investors yesterday. “Succession-related uncertainty remains
one of the primary concerns underlying our  hold rating , but we
don’t think today’s news makes these concerns significantly more
imminent.”  The diagnosis should pressure Buffett to publicly identify
his successor, said Beth Saunders, Americas chairman for FTI
Consulting strategic communications in Chicago, who has advised
companies including Coca-Cola Co. and Dow Chemical Co.  ‘Higher Threshold’  “He has a higher threshold because of his  importance  to the
company,” Saunders said in an interview. “I think he’s failed
to meet it so far.”  The CEO received the diagnosis April 11 and had a magnetic
resonance imaging test yesterday that showed no incidence of
cancer elsewhere in his body, he said. The annual shareholders’
meeting, scheduled for May 5, will proceed according to plan,
CNBC reported, citing an interview with Buffett.  Buffett “is out in the open, and I like that,” said
 Thomas Russo , a partner at Berkshire investor Gardner Russo &
Gardner. He said the disclosure was better than was given by
Apple Inc. co-founder  Steve Jobs , who was diagnosed with
pancreatic cancer in 2003 and died in October at 56.  Jobs, who helped rebuild Apple from industry also-ran to
the world’s most valuable company, was forced to take three
leaves of absence because of health issues. Steve Dowling, an
Apple spokesman, declined to comment.  AIG’s Benmosche  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche , 67, has led the bailed-out insurer while
battling cancer since 2010. The New York-based company said in
October of that year that he began an “aggressive round of
chemotherapy,” without specifying the type of cancer. Benmosche
has said that he intends to stay on the job past this year.  Buffett said in 2000, after having colon surgery, that his
roles would be divided upon his retirement. He has said his son
 Howard Buffett , a farmer and Berkshire director, would help
maintain the company’s identity as non-executive chairman.
Berkshire has hired former hedge fund managers Todd Combs and
Ted Weschler in the past two years to help oversee investments
and eventually run a portfolio that included more than $75
billion of  stock holdings  as of the end of 2011.  Keeping the name of the next CEO private puts Berkshire on
par with JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest U.S. bank, and
General Electric Co., Buffett has said.  They “probably don’t like the effect of having a crown
prince,” Buffett said in a Feb. 27 interview on CNBC, according
to a transcript on the station’s website.  Geico, IBM  Buffett oversees managers running more than 70 businesses
including the Geico car insurer and Burlington Northern Santa Fe
railroad. He also makes the firm’s biggest investments,
including the purchase of more than $10 billion in International
Business Machines Corp. stock in a bet disclosed by Berkshire in
November. Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a message
seeking comment.  About 241,740 new cases of prostate cancer will be
diagnosed in the U.S. this year and the disease will kill about
28,170 patients, the  American Cancer Society  estimated. The
disease is the second-deadliest cancer for men after  lung
cancer .  Among prostate-cancer survivors are  Rudy Giuliani , the
former New York City mayor, and Andy Grove, former CEO of the
world’s largest computer chipmaker,  Intel Corp .  Giuliani, now 67, announced in 2000 that he had prostate
cancer. The disease has since been successfully treated.
Giuliani’s diagnosis led him to end a U.S. Senate campaign
against  Hillary Clinton , the current secretary of state.  Grove was Intel’s CEO when he underwent radiation treatment
in 1995. Now 75, Grove remains active in public-policy matters
including immigration and  job creation .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  