-- Bundesbank Says Euro Nations Must Set Aside Growth Concerns
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-17T15:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/bundesbank-says-euro-area-nations-must-set-aside-growth-concerns.html
Germany ’s Bundesbank urged troubled
euro-area governments such as  Spain  to set aside short-term
growth concerns and press ahead with budget cuts to win back
investor confidence.  “Putting too much weight on short-term, demand-side risks
misjudges the root cause of the current crisis, namely a
profound loss of confidence in markets,” Bundesbank board
member Andreas Dombret said in a statement today. “Taking
consolidation plans too lightly might give some relief in the
short term, but it also undermines the credibility of medium-
term budget goals.”  Spanish unemployment is approaching 24 percent as the
economy, the fourth-largest in the 17-nation euro area,
contracts under the weight of the government’s austerity
measures. At the same time, Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs have
jumped more than 1 percentage point since March 2, when Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the country will miss a 2012 deficit
goal set by the European Union.  “In the Bundesbank’s view, the latest rise in risk premia
for some euro countries shows the ongoing fragility of the
situation,” Dombret said. “This increase should therefore be
an incentive to dispel latent doubts in the markets and create
confidence through decisive implementation of economic
obligations.”  ‘Balanced Approach’  Dombret cautioned against “calls for a further loosening
of monetary and fiscal policies,” saying a “balanced
approach” to the situation is required.  Turning to the German economy,  Europe ’s largest, Dombret
said it is in “remarkably good shape,” and growth should
gather pace as unemployment at a two-decade low fuels domestic
demand.  Dombret was briefing reporters ahead of the International
Monetary Fund’s meetings in  Washington  this week. He re-stated
the Bundesbank’s readiness to raise Germany’s contribution to
the IMF’s resources to 41.5 billion euros ($54.6 billion),
subject to conditions.  Dombret said members’ contributions should create a “fair
sharing of the burden,” and that funds should not go into a
special reserve for indebted euro-area nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  