-- Burberry ‘Vigilant’ as Fourth-Quarter Sales Trail Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-04-17T07:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/burberry-vigilant-as-fourth-quarter-sales-trail-estimates-1-.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, reported fiscal fourth-quarter sales
that trailed analysts’ estimates and said it remains vigilant as
growth slows in Europe.  Revenue from continuing operations rose 16 percent to 453
million pounds ($719 million) in the three months ended March
31, the London-based company said today in a statement. The
 average  of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
459.8 million pounds. The stock fell as much as 4.9 percent.  Burberry contrasts with  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC) , which said this month that demand is accelerating even as
economic growth slows in  China  and Europe’s debt crisis weighs
on  consumer spending . The trench coat maker’s quarterly revenue
gain was driven by the U.K.,  France  and  Greater China  and
follows a 21 percent increase in the last three months of 2011
on an underlying basis.  “We remain vigilant about the external environment,”
Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts said in the statement.
“Our global teams continue to focus on optimizing our core
brand, digital and cultural initiatives, while investing to
drive sustainable, profitable growth.”  Sales gained 15 percent excluding currency swings. Revenue
growth slowed in Europe due to a shift in the timing of
wholesale deliveries, while sales in the Americas were affected
by the closure of some third-party accounts, Burberry said.  New Stores  Burberry shares fell 4.2 percent to 1,519 pence at 8:32
a.m. in  London  trading, giving the company a market value of 6.6
billion pounds.  Retail sales rose 23 percent in the quarter. In Europe,
they were “modestly better” in the fourth quarter compared to
the third, Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said on a
call with reporters.  Wholesale revenue fell 2 percent and licensing revenue
dropped 1 percent, the company said. Wholesale revenue growth
matched Burberry’s forecast in the fiscal second half. Sales
rose the most in the Asia-Pacific region, the company said.  Burberry is “relatively well positioned in either a benign
economic outlook or under more testing economic conditions,”
Helen Brand, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London, wrote in
a report last month. She has an overweight recommendation on the
stock.  The company said it plans a 12 percent to 14 percent
increase in average selling space in the year ended March 31
2013, opening about 15 mainline stores, mostly in emerging
markets and cities with high tourist flows. It also expects mid-
single digit percentage growth in wholesale revenue for the
first half, while full-year licensing revenue should be
“broadly unchanged.”  Discussions continue between Burberry and Interparfums
regarding the potential establishment of a new operating model
for the fragrance and beauty business, Burberry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  