-- California May Credit Big Hydro Power to Green Energy Goal
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-04-17T22:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/california-may-credit-big-hydro-power-to-green-energy-goal-1-.html
California , the second-largest U.S.
hydroelectric producer, would count large water projects toward
its goal of having renewable resources supply a third of its
power under a  bill  approved by an Assembly committee.  The measure would remove a limitation that now counts only
smaller hydropower projects, capable of producing 30 megawatts
or less, to qualify toward California’s renewable portfolio
standard. The biggest U.S. state by population, which  consumed 
8.5 percent of the nation’s energy in 2009,  generated  13.2
percent of U.S. hydroelectric power, second only to Washington
State, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data.  California adopted a formal target for renewable energy
sources, such as solar and water, in 2002 and expanded it last
year to require investor-owned utilities to generate 33 percent
of their power from such sources by 2020.  Environmental advocates and state Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner, a Berkeley Democrat, said allowing the large
hydroelectric projects to count toward the renewable goal would
uproot the purpose of the rule. Skinner said utilities could
build giant hydroelectric facilities in neighboring states and
 Canada , then export the power back to California.  “We would primarily be subsidizing hydroelectric out of
state,” Skinner told the Assembly Committee on Utilities and
Commerce yesterday.  The Democrat-dominated committee approved the bill 8-1.  Sierra Club Opposes  Backers include the California Chamber of Commerce and the
Association of California Water Agencies, according to a bill
 analysis , while opponents include the  Sierra Club  and other
environmental groups.  Skinner said the bill would benefit  Vancouver , Canada-based
British Columbia Hydro & Power Authority, a utility owned by the
province. California sued a subsidiary of BC Hydro, Powerex
Corp., in 2005, accusing the company of inflating power costs to
California during the state’s 2001 energy crisis. Greg Alexis, a
BC Hydro spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
call requesting comment.  Assemblyman David Valadao, the Hanford Republican who
sponsored the legislation, received campaign contributions of
$7,800 in 2010 from  Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (PCG) , a unit of PG&E
Corp., California’s largest utility.  That amount tied it for second place among his largest
contributors, according to  data  compiled by the National
Institute for Money in State Politics. Valadao didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  San Francisco-based PG&E said 19.4 percent of its power in
2011 came from renewable sources. Lynsey Paulo, a spokeswoman,
said the company had no formal position on Valadao’s bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  