-- Calpers May Phase in Higher Employer Costs Over 2 Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-17T17:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/calpers-may-phase-in-higher-employer-costs-over-2-years.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  should let the state and local governments
phase in higher rates they must pay toward pensions over two
years, a management committee said today.  The  recommendation , which goes to the governing board of
the largest U.S. public pension for approval tomorrow, would cut
in half an increase in the percentage of payroll that employers
must pay into the fund next year. The increase stems from a
lower assumed rate of return on investments adopted in March.  The $234 billion fund’s board agreed at a meeting in
Sacramento to reduce its forecast for return on assets to 7.5
percent from 7.75 percent. The rate is used to calculate how
much money the plan, known as Calpers, will have and how much it
will need to cover promised benefits, as well as the size of
contributions from employers.  Board members said at the time that they would seek to
phase in the higher costs over two years, to ease the burden on
cash-strapped local governments.  Under the phase-in, the state and school districts next
year would pay 0.61 percentage point to 1.16 percentage points
of payroll more than currently. The rate for local governments
will increase by between 0.63 percentage point and 1 percentage
point. Calpers covers school employees such as bus drivers,
cafeteria workers and secretaries.  A one-time increase would mean the employer rate would
climb by as much as 2.37 percentage points next year for some
state agencies, such as the Highway Patrol. Some local
governments would face an increase of 1.94 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  