-- Canada Plans to Speed Up Environmental Project Reviews
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-04-17T19:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/canada-plans-to-speed-up-environmental-project-reviews.html
Canada  will speed up and simplify
environmental reviews for major energy and mining projects, the
federal government said today, expanding on plans first
announced in the government’s March 29 budget.  Details released by Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver
show there will be hard deadlines on the approvals process, a
consolidation of the agencies that conduct environmental reviews
to three from 40, and provincial agencies will study smaller
projects in a bid to reduce duplication.  “It will help prevent the long delays in reviewing major
economic projects that kill potential jobs and stall economic
growth,” Oliver said in Toronto. “The bill will be tabled
fairly soon.”  Canada is betting  oil companies  such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) 
and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  will boost the world’s 10th-largest economy
out of a sluggish recovery. The measures will seek to expedite
the environmental review of Enbridge’s Northern Gateway
pipeline, which would move crude from Alberta’s oil sands to the
West Coast where it can be shipped to  Asia , capitalizing on
demand for natural resources.  Under the proposed rules, the maximum time frame would be
limited to two years for a major environmental review panel, 18
months for National Energy Board hearings and 12 months for
standard environmental assessments, Oliver said.  The government would decide within 45 days if a federal
review is required, Oliver said.  Northern Gateway  Since winning a parliamentary majority in last year’s
elections, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative
government has pledged to support economic growth by developing
the country’s resource wealth and encouraging business
investment.  The government began hearings in January on Northern
Gateway, which has become a flash point between
environmentalists and Harper’s government. Regulators have
received more than 4,000 requests by individuals to testify at
public hearings.  Environmental and aboriginal groups say the project will
increase the risk of an  oil spill  off the coast of British
Columbia. The regulatory panel has said it plans to complete the
review by the end of 2013. The government’s proposal won’t
cancel reviews that have started, Oliver said.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)   plans to expand its Trans
Mountain pipeline from  Alberta  to  Vancouver  and file its
application to Canadian regulators “late next year,” Ian Anderson, who heads the company’s Canadian division, said in an
interview on BNN television.  ‘Good Public Policy’  “What they’re doing in Ottawa is they’re making some very
good public policy decisions around how major projects are
defined, how the scope of the reviews are to occur and create
predictable, efficient time lines for everybody,” he said.  The federal government’s plan narrows the focus of its main
environmental assessment agency so it can accelerate reviews of
major industrial projects. The Canadian Environmental Assessment
Agency examines projects that receive funding from or require
the approval of the federal government, including oil and gas
pipelines.  “These changes make it clear that powerful oil interests
are running the show with the federal government bending over
backward to do their bidding,” Gillian McEachern, deputy
campaign director of Environmental Defence, a Toronto-based
advocacy group, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Sloppy Environmental Protection’  “Canadians will get weaker, less-informed decision-making,
sloppy environmental protection by resource developers, and an
increased likelihood of environmental impacts,” Simon Dyer,
policy director at the Pembina Institute in Calgary, said by e-
mail.  Reducing the agency’s workload would eliminate redundancies
created by overlapping reviews also done by Canada’s provinces,
according to the government document.  Provinces will have the final say in smaller projects after
demonstrating they are capable of conducting a “comprehensive,
scientific, objective environmental review,” Oliver said. “We
don’t second guess their conclusion,” he said.  The federal government and the provinces agreed last year
to pursue the goal of “one-project, one-review” for
environmental assessments and regulatory reviews.  Major Projects  Canada expects 500 new major projects valued at about C$500
billion ($506 billion) to qualify for federal review over the
next decade, Oliver said. Any pipeline longer than 40 kilometers
(25 miles) will qualify as a major project.  Oliver also said the government would spend more than C$35
million on marine safety, including requirements for double
hulled tankers, and C$13.5 million on more pipeline inspections
over two years.  The proposed legislation will introduce fines of C$100,000
to C$400,000 against companies that violate environmental review
decisions, and as much as $100,000 for breaking nuclear safety
and energy board laws, according to the document. Also, the
federal environment ministry can order an assessment for any
project subject to federal jurisdiction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  