-- Canadian Dollar Strengthens as BOC Says It May Boost Rate
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-17T21:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/canadian-dollar-extends-gains-as-boc-says-may-boost-rates.html
Canada ’s dollar rallied and
government bonds fell after Bank of Canada policy makers said
higher borrowing costs “may become appropriate” because
economic growth and inflation will be faster than it forecast.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened the
most since November after the central bank said kept its main
 interest rate  at 1 percent, extending the longest pause since
the 1950s, as predicted by all 25 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The yield on the September 2012 bankers’ acceptances,
futures contracts that serve as a barometer of short-term rate
projections, rose to the highest since August.  “We’re still constructive on Canada relative to a lot of
the other G-10 currencies, primarily because domestic demand
looks to be a pretty solid growth engine for the country,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “ Europe  is still not
solved, but things are better than they were back in January
this year. We think that bodes well for the loonie.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.9 percent to 99.02
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It rose the most
since Nov. 30 and reached the strongest level since March 20.
One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0099.  The currency depreciated to C$1.0053 on April 11, the
weakest since Jan. 31.  Canada Forecast  RBS’s Kim predicted the Canadian dollar will strengthen to
96 cents against the greenback and C$1.23 versus the euro by the
end of June. It rose 1 percent to C$1.2999 today.  The loonie strengthened earlier after  Spain  sold more than
its maximum target at a bill auction, reducing European
sovereign-debt-crisis concern and boosting demand for riskier
assets.  Shorter-term  government bonds  fell, pushing benchmark two-
year yields as much as 14 basis points higher, the most on an
intraday basis since Aug. 5, to 1.37 percent. The price of the
0.75 percent note due in May 2014 dropped 19 cents to C$98.85.  The yield on the September 2012 bankers’ acceptances,
futures contracts, known as Bax, rose to 1.44 percent, from 1.12
at the end of last year, indicating traders are increasing
expectations for policy makers to raise rates.  “The Bank of Canada has signaled some rate hikes may be
forthcoming,” said  David Love , a trader of interest-rate
derivatives in  Montreal  at Le Groupe Jitney Inc., a brokerage,
in an e-mail, referring to the futures contracts. “Bax are now
pricing a hike across the curve,” he said, meaning that each
Bax contract now shows some chance of a rate rise.  Borrowing Measure  The probability of higher borrowing costs by the central
bank’s Dec. 4 meeting rose to better than half after today’s
announcement, compared with about 24 percent on March 30,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  Canada’s dollar rose the most in two months on a closing
basis on April 2 after  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  said
in a speech that inflation had been higher and the Canadian
economy had been “somewhat stronger and the degree of slack
somewhat smaller than the bank had expected.”  Carney will hold a press conference at 11:15 a.m. tomorrow
in Ottawa after releasing a detailed quarterly economic
 forecast .  The central bank’s announcement said the economy will reach
full output in the first half of next year, sooner than a
January forecast for the third quarter of 2013, while predicting
that Europe will emerge from recession later this year and that
the U.S. recovery will be stronger than policy makers expected.  Faster Growth  “Expectations for rate hikes are creeping forward a little
bit into late 2012, early 2013,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit, in a telephone interview from Toronto. “There’s a bit of
a hawkish bias to these headlines.”  The bank raised its growth estimate for this year to 2.4
percent from 2 percent, and lowered the 2013 forecast to 2.4
percent from 2.8 percent. It also gave its first prediction for
2014 growth, at 2.2 percent.  “In light of the reduced slack in the economy and firmer
underlying inflation, some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate,”
policy makers led by Carney said in a statement from Ottawa
today. “The timing and degree of any such withdrawal will be
weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments.”  The Canadian dollar has strengthened 1.2 percent this year
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  is down
2.2 percent.  Demand for Spanish 12-month bills was 2.9 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.14 times last month, Bank of Spain data
today showed. The bid-to-cover for the longer maturity notes was
3.77, compared with 2.93 on March 20. The  yield  on the 10-year
bond slid 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 5.92
percent, after rising yesterday to 6.16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  