-- Canada Plans to Speed Up Environmental Reviews on Projects
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-04-17T14:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/canada-plans-to-speed-up-environmental-reviews-on-projects.html
Canada will speed up and simplify
environmental reviews for major economic projects such as mining
and energy, the federal government announced today.  The plan, released by Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver, sets hard deadlines on the process, consolidates the
agencies that conduct environmental reviews to three from 40,
and allows provincial agencies to study smaller projects in a
bid to reduce duplication.  “It will help prevent the long delays in reviewing major
economic projects that kill potential jobs and stall economic
growth,” Oliver said in Toronto.  Canada is betting  oil companies  such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) 
and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  will boost the world’s 10th-largest economy out
of a sluggish recovery. The measures will seek to expedite the
environmental review of Enbridge’s Northern Gateway pipeline,
which would move crude from  Alberta ’s oil sands to  Asia ,
capitalizing on demand for natural resources.  Since winning a parliamentary majority in last year’s
elections, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative
government has pledged to take steps to support  economic growth ,
in part by developing the country’s resource wealth and
encouraging business investment.  The government began hearings in January on Enbridge’s
proposed Northern Gateway pipeline, which has become a
flashpoint between environmentalists and Harper’s government.
Regulators have received more than 4,000 requests by individuals
to testify at public hearings.  Oil Spills  Environmental and aboriginal groups say the project will
increase the risk of an oil spill off the coast of British
Columbia. The regulatory panel has said it plans to complete the
review by the end of 2013.  The federal government’s plan narrows the focus of its main
environmental assessment agency so it can accelerate reviews of
major industrial projects. The Canadian Environmental Assessment
Agency examines projects that receive funding from or require
the approval of the federal government, including oil and gas
pipelines.  Reducing the  agency ’s workload would eliminate redundancies
created by overlapping reviews also done by  Canada ’s provinces,
according to the document.  The federal government and the provinces agreed last year
to pursue the so-called goal of “one-project, one-review” for
environmental assessments and regulatory reviews.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  