-- Canadian Stocks Rally on Oil Gain, Higher IMF Forecast
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-04-17T20:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/canadian-stocks-rally-on-oil-gain-higher-imf-forecast.html
Canadian stocks  rallied following a
two-day drop as energy producers advanced after the
 International Monetary Fund  and the Bank of Canada said economic
growth will be faster than they had previously forecast.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
rose 2 percent. Uranium producer  Denison Mines Corp. (DML)  jumped 17
percent after agreeing to sell its U.S. mining assets.  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC) , North America’s third-largest insurer, rose 2.6
percent. Planemaker  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  advanced 3.3 percent after
saying its maintenance and spare-parts unit may double revenue
in the next five to seven years.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  increased 99.35
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,136.94 in Toronto.  “The Canadian numbers came out from the Bank of Canada,
and they indicate that we’ll see a little inflation, that the
economy is a little stronger,” Irwin Michael, a portfolio
manager at ABC Funds in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
Michael’s firm oversees C$1 billion ($1 billion). “It picked up
the Canadian dollar. People are maybe a tad too negative and it
doesn’t take too much to move things along.”  The S&P/TSX had its seventh straight weekly decline in the
five days ending April 13, its longest losing streak since 2008,
as weaker-than-forecast U.S. jobs numbers and reports of slowing
growth in  China  raised concern that demand may slip for Canadian
commodities. The U.S. is the world’s biggest consumer of oil,
while China is the number one user of copper.  Growth Forecasts  The IMF raised its global growth forecast for the first
time in a year, estimating a 3.5 percent expansion in 2012,
compared with its January projection of 3.3 percent. It
estimated the U.S. will grow 2.1 percent this year.  The Canadian central bank kept its main interest rate
unchanged at 1 percent for a 13th time, while saying higher
borrowing costs “may become appropriate” because economic
growth and inflation will be faster than it forecast.  Energy companies rose after oil climbed in New York as
Spain raised more than its maximum target at a debt auction,
easing concern that Europe’s credit crisis will spread and slow
economic growth. Spain sold 3.18 billion euros of bills.  Suncor Energy Inc. climbed 2 percent to C$31.43.  Canadian
Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  increased 2.3 percent to C$32.65.
 Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , Canada’s second-largest energy company,
gained 2 percent to C$45.11.  Manulife, TD Bank  Financial stocks in the S&P/TSX increased for a second day
on the IMF forecast. Manulife Financial Corp. gained 2.6 percent
to C$13.28.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the country’s second-largest
lender, rose 1 percent to C$83.56.  Bombardier Inc. advanced 3.3 percent to C$4.12 after saying
it plans to double revenue for its maintenance and spare-parts
unit to $3 billion annually by expanding into emerging markets
such as Russia and China.  Denison Mines, the operator of three U.S. uranium mines,
surged 17 percent to C$1.65 after Energy Fuels Inc. agreed to
acquire the assets for about C$111 million ($112 million) in
stock.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , a mining company controlled by Moscow-
based ARMZ Uranium Holding, climbed 13 percent to C$3 after
being rated overweight in new coverage by JPMorgan. The rating
means that the firm expects the stock to outperform the average
total return of the stocks in the analyst’s coverage universe
over the next six to 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  