-- Canadian Solar, SkyPower in $187 Million Solar Farm Deal
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-04-17T18:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/canadian-solar-in-185-million-solar-project-deal-with-skypower.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , a producer of
solar cells and panels, formed a joint venture with the
renewable-energy project developer SkyPower Ltd. that will
provide an outlet for its products in  North America  and emerging
markets.  Under the agreement, Canadian Solar will pay C$185 million
($187 million) for majority stakes in 16 projects that SkyPower
is planning in Ontario, and the two companies will each own half
of a venture that will develop solar farms in other countries,
according to a statement today.  By taking a more active role in developing energy projects,
Canadian Solar will have more control over sales of its panels,
a strategy that  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and other rivals have used for
years, according to  Jesse Pichel , an analyst with Jefferies
Group Inc. in  New York .  “We have seen several upstream solar companies move
downstream to projects,” Pichel wrote in a note to investors
today. “By going downstream, Canadian Solar is chasing richer
profit pools.”  The projects Canadian Solar is buying into in Ontario have
total capacity of 190 megawatts to 200 megawatts and will sell
their power to the Ontario Power Authority under 20-year
contracts. They are expected to go into operation in 2014 and
will generate more than C$800 million in revenue for the the
company, according to the statement.  Feed-In Tariff  Fifteen of those contracts were issued under the province’s
 feed-in tariff  program, which offers premium rates for
electricity generated from renewable sources.  Canadian Solar, based in Kitchener, Ontario, manufactures
solar cells in  China  and has a plant in the province that
assembles them into panels, meeting the feed-in tariff program’s
domestic-content requirement.  The development joint venture will focus on solar farms in
emerging markets and may generate revenue within three years,
according to the statement.  SkyPower, based in Toronto, will also get warrants to
purchase as much as 9.9 percent of Canadian Solar’s outstanding
shares for $5 each.  “Deals like Canadian Solar and SkyPower are likely to
happen again in Ontario due to the feed-in tariff,” said
 Anthony Kim , an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New
York. “Manufacturers in Ontario will certainly want to
guarantee demand for their modules if they invest in the region
and set up a plant in the province.”  Revenue Target  The agreement will help Canadian Solar meet a goal of
getting 40 percent of its revenue from solar  power plants  in
2013, Chief Executive Officer Shawn Qu said in the statement.  LDK Solar Co. Ltd., a Chinese maker of solar panels,
acquired 70 percent of the California energy developer  Solar
Power Inc. (SOPW)  in January 2011.  Other solar manufacturers including
 SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  and First Solar use development units to initiate
power projects that will use their products.  Sharp Corp., Japan’s largest solar company, purchased San
Francisco-based Recurrent Energy in November 2010 for $305
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  