-- Canada Keeps 1% Rate, Says Increases May Be Appropriate
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-17T16:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/canada-keeps-rate-at-1-saying-increase-may-become-appropriate.html
The Bank of  Canada  said today
higher borrowing costs “may become appropriate,” leading
investors to increase bets that policy makers will raise their
benchmark rate from 1 percent later this year.  Economic growth and inflation will be faster than earlier
forecast, the bank said today in a decision to keep its key rate
unchanged for a 13th meeting. The announcement also said the
economy will reach full output in the first half of next year,
sooner than a January forecast for the third quarter of 2013,
while  Europe  will emerge from recession later this year and the
U.S. recovery will be stronger than expected.  “In light of the reduced slack in the economy and firmer
underlying inflation, some modest withdrawal of the present
considerable monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate,”
policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney , 47, said in a
statement from Ottawa today. “The timing and degree of any such
withdrawal will be weighed carefully against domestic and global
economic developments.”  The  Bank of Canada  may be poised to repeat its moves from
2010, when it led Group of Seven nations in raising rates as the
economy emerged faster from a global recession. Trading based on
overnight index swaps suggests a greater than 50 percent chance
of an increase by October, and Canada’s dollar and bond yields
jumped today.  Rates ‘Going Higher’  “This is a very firmly hawkish report,” said Ian Pollick,
senior fixed-income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto. “Rates are going higher.”  The Canadian dollar extended gains after the decision,
strengthening 1.2 percent to 98.74 Canadian cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:15 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0128. Two-year government  bond yields  jumped 11 basis points
to 1.34 percent. The yield reached as high 1.37 percent, the
highest since August.  There is about a 55 percent chance of a rate increase by
the Oct. 23 decision according to Bloomberg calculations based
on overnight index swaps trading, versus a 45 percent chance of
no move.  Economists at Bank of Montreal advanced their forecast for
an increase to January 2013 from the third quarter of next year,
the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers say they plan to keep
 interest rates  low “through late 2014” while the  European
Central Bank  cut rates in December and the  Bank of England  this
month maintained an asset-purchase program at 325 billion pounds
($518 billion).  Growth Estimates  Canada’s central bank today raised its growth estimate for
this year to 2.4 percent from 2 percent, and lowered the 2013
forecast to 2.4 percent from 2.8 percent. It also gave its first
prediction for 2014 growth, at 2.2 percent.  “We view this communique as an important and large step
towards further normalizing the overnight rate,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s
TD Securities unit. An increase could come as early as
September, he said in a note to clients, adding a move later in
the year is more likely.  Inflation will be “somewhat firmer than anticipated in
January,” the bank said today, citing “reduced slack and
higher gasoline prices.” Consumer price gains will be “around
2 percent” through 2014 after moderating this quarter, the bank
said.  Inflation, which was 2.6 percent in February, has exceeded
the bank’s 2 percent goal for 15 straight months.  Reports this month have shown 82,300 new jobs were created
and an annualized pace of housing starts of 215,600 units in
March, both the fastest since 2008.  Factories Struggle  The recovery has been marked by stronger growth for
companies linked to consumers and commodities, while factories
continue to struggle.  Paper company  Cascades Inc. (CAS)  said April 12 it’s closing an
unprofitable containerboard mill in Trenton, Ontario, with 130
workers. Vancouver-based Boston Pizza Royalties Income Fund
raised its monthly distribution by 6.5 percent to 9.8 cents last
month, citing “strong same store sales growth momentum.” It
was the second increase in a year and the 15th since 2002.  Policy makers flagged that higher  oil prices  could slow
economic momentum, noting that Canadian producers are receiving
less for their output than the international price. In 2005, the
central  bank said  higher oil prices tend to boost Canadian
growth over time as higher investment outweighs the impact on
consumers and other businesses.  Currency Strength  The bank also reiterated today the Canadian dollar’s
“persistent strength” is a drag on exports while high consumer
debt burdens are “the biggest domestic risk.” Carney has
warned consumers over the last year about record debt loads that
may be unaffordable when borrowing costs climb.  “They know that if they raise rates too quickly domestic
demand could struggle, and the housing market instead of having
a soft landing could have a hard landing,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National Bank Financial in
 Montreal . “We are still thinking that they are going to act in
2013.”  Today’s statement was the bank’s first since July that
mentioned the possibility of higher borrowing costs. Last year,
the  bank said  that “some of the considerable monetary policy
stimulus currently in place will be withdrawn.” That language
was removed in the September announcement.  Improving Confidence  Improving business and consumer confidence will help make
private spending the main driver of economic growth as recent
government budgets suggest public spending will contribute
little to the expansion, the bank said today.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s fiscal plan last month said
Canada would eliminate its deficit by 2015 in part by firing
government workers, while most provincial governments are also
paring shortfalls.  “Economic momentum in Canada is slightly firmer than the
Bank had expected in January,” the bank said in its statement.
“The external headwinds facing Canada have abated somewhat,
with the U.S. recovery more resilient and financial conditions
more supportive than previously anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  