-- Carlyle Top Executives Hit the Road to Pitch Shares to Investors
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-04-17T19:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/carlyle-top-executives-hit-the-road-to-pitch-shares-to-investors.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s founders are set
to travel from Montreal to Milan in a 14-day world tour to pitch
potential investors on the firm’s initial public offering in
early May.  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and David Rubenstein are
each leading teams of Carlyle’s top executives beginning today,
according to a copy of the roadshow schedule obtained by
Bloomberg News. Adena Friedman, the firm’s chief financial
officer, and Glenn Youngkin, the chief operating officer, will
also be on the road trying to convince investors they have built
a diversified asset manager.  “By many measures, we are the largest and most diversified
alternative asset manager in the world with 1,300 professionals
in 33 offices on six continents,” D’Aniello said in a video of
its pre-IPO marketing presentation posted on RetailRoadShow.com.
“We live and invest in both developed and developing markets
and, in both, local market presence really matters.”  Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest buyout firm by assets
under management, is seeking to raise as much as $762.5 million,
offering 30.5 million shares at $23 to $25 each, according to a
regulatory filing. At the top end of the range, the firm would
be valued at as much as $7.6 billion, compared with about $16.5
billion for  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest private-equity
firm, and $9.8 billion for  KKR & Co. (KKR)   Over the weekend, the teams will stop in the  Middle East 
for meetings in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Kuwait. Other stops on the
roadshow will include Beijing, Paris and Stockholm.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Washington-based
Carlyle, declined to comment on the roadshow. Carlyle is
scheduled to price its IPO on May 2, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  