-- Carney Likely to Hold Canada Rates Amid Global Risks
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-17T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/carney-likely-to-hold-canada-rates-amid-global-risks.html
The  Bank of Canada  is unanimously
forecast to keep its key interest rate unchanged for a 13th time
today, with economic risks from  Europe  still outweighing signs
of faster  consumer spending  at home.  Governor  Mark Carney  will keep the  target rate  on overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it’s been
since September 2010, according to all 25 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. The decision will be announced at 9 a.m. in
Ottawa.  Spanish government bond yields have reached the highest
this year even after European leaders have devoted $1 trillion
of emergency funding to the debt crisis. The turmoil may
overshadow signs of growth in the world’s 10th largest economy,
which is seeing the fastest pace of homebuilding and job growth
since 2008 and a  currency trading  near parity with the U.S., its
largest trading partner.  “The economy still isn’t strong enough” for a quick
increase in  interest rates , said Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.
“The Bank of Canada wants to avoid a significant spike in the
Canadian dollar derailing the recovery.”  While economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict first-
quarter economic growth at a 2.1 percent annualized pace, faster
than the central bank’s 1.8 percent forecast from January, they
also predicted growth of 2.3 percent in the last three months of
this year, lower than the central bank’s 2.6 percent outlook.  Strength Unsustainable  Reports this month showing 82,300  new jobs  and annualized
housing starts of 215,600 units for March won’t be sustained,
according to economists at Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto-
Dominion Bank.  “The Bank of Canada will seek to quarantine its recent
optimism in the numbers,” said  Jimmy Jean , a strategist in the
fixed-income group at Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal .  Within Canada, the recovery is still marked by stronger
growth for companies linked to consumers or exports of
commodities, while manufacturing continues to struggle.  Paper company  Cascades Inc. (CAS)  said April 12 it’s closing an
unprofitable containerboard mill in Trenton, Ontario, with 130
workers. Vancouver-based Boston Pizza Royalties Income Fund
raised its monthly distribution by 6.5 percent to 9.8 cents on
March 8, citing “strong same store sales growth momentum.” It
was the second increase in a year and the 15th since 2002.  Bond investors are predicting about a 19 percent chance the
central bank will raise rates by its September meeting,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index
swaps trading. The same calculations show a 2 percent chance of
a move today.  Global Economic Concerns  Policy makers “have mentioned in the past the global
economy remains quite weak,” said Randy LeClair, portfolio
manager at Manulife Asset Management, which oversees about $16
billion. He predicted the bank won’t raise rates this year, in a
telephone interview last week.  Carney today may also reiterate his March statement that
 household debt  is “the biggest domestic risk.” He repeated
that comment in his April 2 speech.  The central bank’s main goal is to keep annual  inflation  at
a 2 percent target. Consumer prices, which rose 2.6 percent in
February on higher costs for electricity and meat, have exceeded
the bank’s goal for 15 straight months.  Inflation will probably recede from here as the economic
recovery remains modest and budget cuts in  Canada  and abroad
pare demand, said Enenajor at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce.  “We are still in a situation where the economy needs low
and stimulative rates,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  