-- Cephalon, Wiley, Google, Datawind: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/cephalon-wiley-google-datawind-intellectual-property-1-.html
Cephalon Inc. (TEVA)  won an appeals court
ruling that could help it block generic versions of the muscle-
relaxant Amrix.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said yesterday that a trial judge erred in
invalidating two patents on the medicine.  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and  Par
Pharmaceutical Cos. (PRX) , which won a patent challenge at the lower
court, can seek victory on other grounds, including allegations
of patent misuse and antitrust violations.  In dispute are patents 7,387,793 and 7,544,372.  Cephalon, bought by Petah Tikva, Israel-based Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. last year, and partner Eurand NV
sought to block low-cost versions of the medicine from entering
the market until the patents expire in 2023 and 2025. They cover
a dosage form of a skeletal muscle relaxant and a method of
relieving muscle spasms.  Mylan began selling generic Amrix in May 2011 after winning
the ruling that the patents covered obvious variations of
earlier known research. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson ordered
Mylan to hold off selling the drug until the appeals court
ruling. The Federal Circuit said that sales ban will remain in
effect until Robinson gets the case back.  Amrix generated $109 million in U.S. sales in 2010, before
the generic versions entered the market.  The case is Eurand Inc. v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
2011-1399 and 2011-1409, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington. The lower court case is Cyclobenzaprine
Hydrochloride Patent Litigation, 09-2118, U.S. District Court,
District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  J&J Must Pay $40 Million to Boston Scientific, Judge Rules  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit owes Boston Scientific Corp. more
than $40 million in damages for intentionally infringing patent
5,922,021 for coronary stents, a federal judge ruled.  Boston Scientific won about $20 million from Cordis Corp.
in a May 2011 jury trial in Wilmington, Delaware. U.S. District
Judge Sue Robinson said in an opinion March 13 that Boston
Scientific deserved twice that much. Cordis filed an appeal of
the ruling April 10 with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, according to court records.  “Cordis was aware of and investigated” the patent,
Robinson wrote in her decision. “Doubling the jury’s award” is
“reasonable under the circumstances.”  Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Massachusetts, sued
Cordis in Minnesota in 2009. The case was transferred to
Delaware the following year.  Sandy Pound, a Cordis spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment on the ruling. Steven
Campanini, a spokesman for Boston Scientific, said the company
couldn’t comment immediately.  The case is  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  v. Cordis Corp.,
10CV315, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Discounted ‘Gray Market’ Goods Draw U.S. Supreme Court Review  The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to consider whether discount
retailers violate copyright laws by selling tens of billions of
dollars in “gray market” products after buying them overseas
at a reduced price.  The case promises to be one of the top business and
consumer cases in the court term that starts in October,
affecting sales on EBay and at stores including Costco and Wal-
Mart. It will pit supporters of the gray market -- retailers,
distributors and consumer advocates -- against publishers and
manufacturers that say their U.S. sales are being illegally
undercut.  Gray market products are genuine goods sold by U.S.
retailers outside official distribution channels to exploit the
lower prices manufacturers sometimes charge for their products
overseas.  It “represents a multibillion-dollar benefit to American
consumers,” according to a brief urging Supreme Court review
filed by the Retail Industry Leaders Association, whose members
include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)   EBay Inc. (EBAY)  filed a separate brief asking the court to take
the case.  The justices said yesterday they will hear an appeal from
Supap Kirtsaeng, who was ordered by a jury to pay publisher  John
Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  $600,000 for violating the company’s
copyrights when he imported foreign-edition textbooks from his
native Thailand and sold them in the U.S. for a profit.  The case poses a question that deadlocked the court 4-4 in
a 2010 clash between Costco and  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ’s Omega unit
over discounted watches.  The legal dispute concerns the first-sale doctrine, which
says a copyright holder can profit only from the original sale
of a product. In 1998, the Supreme Court unanimously said the
doctrine applies to U.S.-made products sold overseas, meaning
purchasers can bring those goods back into the U.S. through
unauthorized channels even if the copyright holder objects.  Wiley urged the Supreme Court to reject the appeal without
a hearing. The publisher said its case is different from the
movie example because its foreign-edition textbooks weren’t
authorized for sale in the U.S.  The case is Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, 11-697.  Google Gets German Trademark Rights for G-mail, Ends Battle  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most-used Internet search
engine, acquired the German rights to the name “G-mail,”
according to a filing at the nation’s trademark office.  Google, which owns trademark rights to Gmail in more than
60 nations, has been fighting with German businessman Daniel
Giersch, who won the rights to “G-mail” in 2000. Giersch
prevented Google from registering “Gmail” with the European
Union’s trademark office in 2008. The dispute led to a series of
court cases after the Mountain View, California-based company
started its e-mail service using the name “Gmail” in 2004.  Giersch didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.
Google spokesman Stefan Keuchel confirmed in an e-mail that the
German disputes have been ended.  The trademark transfer was reported by the CIO website
yesterday.  BAT Takes Plain Cigarette Packs Fight to Australia’s Top Court  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  took its fight with the
Australian government to court yesterday in a bid to end a ban
on logos and trademarks on cigarette packs.  BAT,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette maker, was joined by  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM) , the largest publicly traded tobacco
manufacturer, and Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, maker of Gauloises
Blondes, in a challenge to the Australian ban on logos. The
tobacco companies claim the government is seizing their
intellectual property, worth billions of dollars, without due
compensation.  The Australian ban, the first of its kind in the world, is
being watched by governments around the globe. A High Court
ruling upholding the law, which is due to go into effect Dec. 1,
might prompt other countries to follow suit, further eroding the
value of the tobacco companies’ brands.  The European Commission began public consultations on
revisions to the European Union’s Tobacco Products Directive in
September 2010, with one of the measures considered being plain
or generic packaging.  A November 2010 report in New Zealand recommended the
implementation of plain packaging and harmonizing the
requirement with  Australia .  “Plain packaging is inevitable,” Minister of Health Tony
Ryall told the New Zealand Medical Association in June.  The anti-tobacco lobby faces resistance in the U.S., where
cigarette manufacturers also have the protection of the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which covers the right to
freedom of expression from government interference.  A federal judge in Washington ruled on Feb. 29 that the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s requirement for graphic
warning labels on cigarette packs violated the tobacco
companies’ free-speech rights. A U.S. Court of Appeals in
Cincinnati ruled 2-1 in a separate case that tobacco companies
can be forced to put graphic warning labels on packages without
violating their constitutional rights.  Under the plain packaging law, cigarettes will have to be
sold in dark brown packages, with no company logos and the same
font for all brands, with graphic health warnings and contact
number for advice on how to quit on the back of the package.IP
Report Update  BAT makes Dunhill, Pall Mall and Australia’s best-selling
cigarette brand, Winfield.  Philip Morris  is the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes.  Philip Morris is also pursuing the case in international
arbitration. The Australian proposal violates a treaty with  Hong
Kong  and may cause billions of dollars in damages, the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes said.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v. the
Commonwealth of Australia, S389/2011, High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Oracle Tells Jury Google Stole Technology to Make Android  An  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  lawyer told a federal jury that Google Inc.
stole its copyrights to make Android software.  “This case is about Google’s use of somebody else’s
property without permission,” Oracle attorney Michael Jacobs
told jurors in  San Francisco  during opening arguments in a trial
that began yesterday.  Oracle alleges in its lawsuit that Google used Java
programming language without a license to develop Android, the
mobile-phone operating software. The two-month trial will
feature testimony from the companies’ chief executive officers,
Larry Ellison and Larry Page, as well as damage experts
appointed by both sides and the presiding judge.  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, is seeking
$1 billion in damages and an injunction to block Google from
distributing Android, now running on more than 150 million
devices, unless it takes a license.  The first phase of the trial will deal with allegations of
copyright infringement.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , denies
infringing Oracle’s patents, saying the Oracle-owned technology
it’s accused of taking, called application programming
interfaces, or APIs, isn’t covered by copyright, and that its
use of parts of the Java platform was fair and legal.  Settlement talks held April 2 and in September failed to
resolve the lawsuit.  Developed by Sun Microsystems in the mid-1990s, Java lets
developers write programs that work across different operating
systems and on a variety of computers. It formed a key building
block of the World Wide Web and is widely used in business
applications. Oracle, based in Redwood City, California,
acquired Sun in 2010.  Google rejected an offer by Sun to pay $100 million in
royalties to use Java to develop Android, Van Nest said at a
hearing last year in the case  Google relies on Android, the most popular U.S. smartphone
operating system, to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the mobile-phone
market and lessen its dependence on traditional Web-search
advertising.  Oracle also alleged that Google infringed the two Java
patents in the case that a court-appointed expert estimated are
worth $2.8 million in damages.  In its original lawsuit filed in 2010, Oracle claimed
Google was infringing seven patents. U.S. District Judge William
Alsup, who presides over the case, ruled that damage estimates
should start at $100 million, the 2006 offer from Sun.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  National Library of Ireland Plans to Publish Joyce’s Work Online  The  National Library of Ireland  is seeking to beat a  James
Joyce  scholar in the publication of many of the writings of the
late author, whose works entered the public domain this year,
the  BBC reported .  Danis Rose  is publishing Joyce works in editions priced
from 75 to 250 Euros ($99 to $328), according to the  BBC . His
actions are permitted under European Union copyright law, which
states that the first to publish previously unpublished work
entering the public domain gets rights equivalent to a 25-year
copyright, the BBC reported.  Rose said in a statement that his publication was part of
efforts to prevent others from tying up the content and denying
it to scholars and even the National Library itself.  The National Library has consulted with the copyright
committee of the Irish department of Enterprise, Jobs and
Innovation, which, according to the BBC, is believed to have
given the library “greater confidence” in its position on the
Joyce copyrights and efforts to publish the content online.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Datawind Accused Contract Manufacturer of Misappropriating IP  Datawind Ltd., maker of the  world’s cheapest tablet device ,
accused its contract manufacturer of misappropriating
intellectual property related to the device and agreeing to
develop the next generation of the product with another company,
 according to  the Hindustan Times.  London-based Datawind claimed that despite having signed a
non-disclosure agreement, contract manufacturer Quad Electronics
revealed Datawind IP to IIT-Rajasthan, the newspaper reported.  Neither Quad nor IIT-Rajasthan responded to the Hindustan
Times’ requests for comment.  Datawind told Hindustan Times that it will sue Quad
Electronics for violating the confidentiality agreement if the
parties can’t come to agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 