-- CFTC Sued by Fund Industry to Overturn Registration Rule
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-04-17T21:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/cftc-sued-over-commodity-pool-operators-rule-for-advisers-1-.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission was sued by two business groups seeking to overturn a
rule requiring mutual funds with commodities investments to
register with the agency.  The CFTC didn’t properly assess the costs and benefits when
it imposed the regulation in a 4-1 vote in February, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the  Investment Company Institute  argue
in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in  Washington . The
measure is unnecessary, they said, because mutual funds are
already overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The rule, “if allowed to stand, will impose enormous costs
and burdens,” ICI President Paul Schott Stevens said in a call
with reporters. “Ultimately those costs will come out of
shareholders’ pockets,” said Stevens, whose Washington-based
trade group lobbies on behalf of mutual funds,  The case is one of several brought by the financial
industry as it pushes back against tighter regulations passed in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis. CFTC commissioners who
approved the registration requirement said it would increase
investor protections and eliminate a decade-old loophole that
let funds investing in futures and swaps tied to commodities
evade their oversight.  Investment companies have “increased significantly” their
use of commodity futures, swaps and options since the agency
determined in 2003 that they didn’t need to register as
“commodity pool operators,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , a
Democrat, said when the rule was passed.  ‘Into the Light’  “It is critical to bring the pools that have been in the
dark since 2003 back into the light,” Gensler said.  Republican Commissioner Jill Sommers, who voted against the
rule, said the agency’s justification for the requirement was
“sorely lacking” and that its cost-benefit analysis might not
survive a court challenge.  Under the rule, funds would have to file reports with the
CFTC about their use of leverage, exposure to risk from
counterparties and other investment trading data.  A “substantial number of funds” would be subject to the
regulation and the rest would be forced to pay more as they
monitored trading to avoid running afoul of the rule, according
to Stevens, who said ICI and the chamber hadn’t put a figure on
how much registration would increase industry costs.  Mutual funds use commodity futures and other derivatives to
hedge risk, for portfolio diversification or as part of a
strategy for seeking higher returns, Stevens said.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, said the agency was
reviewing the lawsuit.  ‘Mindless Yearning’  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , who co-wrote the Dodd-
Frank regulation overhaul in 2010, called the lawsuit
“outrageous” and said he was “very disappointed” in the ICI.  “It’s just incredible to me,” Frank, a Massachusetts
Democrat, said in an interview today. “It’s just mindless
yearning for the old ways.”  Republican lawmakers, most of whom opposed Dodd-Frank, said
the lawsuit underscores the need for regulators to weigh
carefully a policy’s costs against its benefits as they craft
the biggest revision of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.  “Economic analysis holds the CFTC accountable to the
American people that it will not impose harm on the economy
through poorly vetted or unnecessary regulations,” said
Representative  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican who is
chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. “Today’s
announcement should serve as a note of caution to the commission
as it proceeds with final rules.”  Eugene Scalia  The chamber and the ICI retained Eugene Scalia , the son of
Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  and a partner at Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, to argue the case. In recent years, Scalia
has won four cases challenging regulations imposed by the SEC
and is also suing the CFTC over a rule limiting speculation in
the  commodities markets .  “It is elementary that we should not impose new regulatory
costs on American investors without first determining that it is
necessary to do so,” Scalia said today.  The case is Investment Company Institute v. U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, 1:12-cv-00612, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  