-- Chile Probably Will Hold 5% Rate as Growth Pressures Inflation
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-04-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/chile-probably-will-hold-5-rate-as-growth-pressures-inflation.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third straight
month today after raising its forecasts for inflation and
economic growth in the world’s top copper producer.  Policy makers, led by central bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will keep the overnight rate at 5 percent, according to
18 of 19 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . One economist forecast a
quarter-point increase to 5.25 percent. The bank will announce
its decision after 6:00 p.m. local time.  The bank raised its inflation and growth forecasts this
month after price increases surpassed the upper limit of the
bank’s target range in December, January and February and growth
exceeded analyst forecasts twice in the past three months.
Scotiabank Chile economist Benjamin Sierra said the higher
forecasts and “hawkish” tone taken by policy makers at the
March meeting make a second rate cut in 2012 unlikely.  “These guys have no intention of moving the rate from
where it is,” Sierra said by telephone from Santiago. “It
would be madness to think of reducing the rate now.”  Economists polled monthly by the central bank have changed
their outlook from a February forecast for a rate reduction in
the next 11 months to an April estimate for increases over the
same time frame. One-year  interest rate  swaps, which reflect
traders’ view of borrowing costs, climbed to 5.24 percent
yesterday from 4.68 percent on Feb. 14.  The bank targets inflation of 3 percent with a 1 percentage
point margin of error over a two-year horizon.  Changing Stance  Policy makers at last month’s meeting only considered
keeping rates unchanged after debating a quarter-point reduction
in February, minutes of the meeting show.  “All the board members expressed their concern about the
inflation outlook,” policy makers said, according to the
minutes published on the bank’s website March 30. “However,
they also agreed that the risks from the external scenario
remained significant.”  The central bank on April 3 raised its 2012 inflation
forecast to 3.5 percent from the 2.7 percent estimate made in
December. Inflation in March eased to 3.8 percent, less than
analysts had forecast, from 4.4 percent the month before.  Policy makers on April 3 also raised estimates for gross
domestic product growth this year to a range of 4 percent to 5
percent from the previous forecast for a 3.75 percent to 4.75
percent.  Economic growth, measured by the bank’s Imacec index that
acts as a proxy for GDP, surged 6.9 percent in December from the
previous year, 5.5 percent in January and 6.1 percent in
February.  Regional Strength  The Andean nation’s expansion is set to exceed global
growth, which is forecast by the central bank at 3.3 percent
this year. GDP growth among Chile’s trading partners will be 3.8
percent, the bank forecasts.  Chile’s economic surge is part of a regional trend, with
 Peru ’s economy expected to grow 5 percent this year, according
to a Bloomberg survey of analysts, and  Colombia ’s government
forecasting an expansion of more than 5 percent.  Latin American central banks have taken a mixed approach to
weakening global growth, with  Brazil  cutting rates,  Mexico 
keeping them on hold and Colombia raising twice in the year to
date. Chile has the third-highest borrowing costs of major rate-
setting economies in the region after Brazil and Colombia.  Policy makers in  Latin America  should take steps to sustain
liquidity if global financial instability resumes rather than
cutting borrowing costs to boost demand, according to the
International Monetary Fund’s top official for the region.  “Economies have enough stamina to grow at about potential
growth without idle capacity,” Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of
the fund’s Western Hemisphere department, said in an April 12
interview. “Central banks should be very careful not to over-
stimulate the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 