-- China May Become Top Corn Importer by 2014, Displacing Japan
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-04-17T03:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-may-become-top-corn-importer-by-2014-displacing-japan.html
China  may displace  Japan  as the
world’s largest corn importer as early as 2014, as demand for
meat and feed grains expands along with its middle class, the
 U.S. Grains Council  said.  “It could be a matter of two to three years,” Thomas Dorr,
president of the council, said in an interview. “China has more
than 4 million tons booked and delivered already.” Japan bought
15.3 million metric tons last year, according to the country’s
agriculture ministry.  Imports by China, the second-biggest consumer after the
U.S., are forecast to more than quadruple to 4 million tons in
the 2011-2012 from a year earlier, according to an April 10
report from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Inbound
shipments may grow to a record 5.5 million tons in the year
starting Oct. 1, Dorr said. Rising demand could support futures,
which have lost 4.8 percent this year on the prospect of record
U.S. output.  “To curb inflation in food products, the Chinese
government may allow further increases in corn imports,” said
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at commodity broker Fujitomi Co. in
Tokyo. “Expanding demand may limit losses in prices, although
China alone cannot absorb all the expanding output globally.”  Corn for July delivery traded at $6.1525 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade at 12:09 p.m. Tokyo time. Futures fell to
$6.11 yesterday, the lowest level for a most-active contract
since March 30, on speculation favorable weather will bolster
crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest grower and exporter.  Price Pressure  “I don’t anticipate the corn market is going to go
significantly higher relative to what we experienced over the
last couple of years,” Dorr said in  Tokyo  yesterday. “If the
weather is good, and we planted 95 million acres, the corn price
is going to be pressured.”  Futures traded as high as $7.93 a bushel last year, nearing
a record $7.9925 reached in 2008, as demand growth led by
emerging markets and ethanol production outpaced production,
depleting stockpiles. Higher prices made traditional importers
such as Japan and  South Korea  seek cheaper alternatives from the
 Black Sea region  and Africa.  “Our biggest concern is a competition,” Dorr said. Grain
at $6 to $7 “has stimulated interests in producing corn in
places that we hadn’t thought about before.”  Japan may cut its reliance on U.S. shipments to the lowest
level ever after buying a record volume from Ukraine and  Brazil ,
according to Nobuyuki Chino, president of Continental Rice Corp.
in Tokyo. Japan’s imports from the Black Sea area including
Ukraine may jump to 1.8 million tons this year from about 55,000
tons in 2011, while buying from Brazil surged 46 percent last
year, he said in an interview last month.  Nippon Meat Packers  Imports by Japan, which dropped 5.5 percent in 2011, are
unlikely to shrink further if food producers such as  Nippon Meat
Packers Inc. (2282)  and  Meiji Holdings Co. (2269)  “capitalize on the market
opportunities of China’s demand for food,” Dorr said.  Shipments last year declined to the lowest level since 1986
as a record earthquake and tsunami in March destroyed feed
plants, and radiation from a crippled nuclear plant in Fukushima
tainted beef. Imports reached a peak of 17 million tons in 2003.  Growth in  Asia  and other emerging economies means about 1
billion people will join the middle class by 2020, boosting
demand for meat and dairy products as well as feed grains, Dorr
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  