-- Hong Kong’s Joseph Lau Denies Macau Bribery Allegations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-18T02:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/chinese-estates-stock-suspended-as-macau-trial-report-names-lau.html
Billionaire Joseph Lau, who
controls  Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd. (127) , denied allegations of
bribery made in the corruption trial of Ao Man-long, Macau’s
former secretary of transportation and public works.  Neither the company nor Lau, who is chairman and chief
executive officer, made any unlawful payment to Ao, Chinese
Estates said in a  Hong Kong  stock exchange filing yesterday.
Lau will attend court as a witness only, is not a co-
defendant and has not been charged in Macau or Hong Kong. The
company’s shares, which resumed trading, fell 0.2 percent to
HK$10.78 as of 10:41 a.m. local time in Hong Kong.  The developer suspended trading yesterday after the
Standard newspaper reported that Lau and Steven Lo, chairman
of the South China Football Club, were named in Ao’s third
trial. Ao, sentenced to 28 years in 2009, faces six
corruption and three money-laundering charges in the latest
proceedings, the newspaper said. The newspaper didn’t specify
any allegations or charges against Lau and Lo.  Chinese Estates spokeswoman Alison Yeung declined to
comment earlier yesterday pending the release of the
statement.  Moon Ocean  The company said in the statement that unit Moon Ocean
Ltd. owns the leasehold for several plots of land next to
Macau International Airport. The company said it acquired a
70.01 percent stake in Moon Ocean in December 2005 and the
remaining 29.99 percent from another party in March 2011.  The developer’s stock has lost 14 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent gain by the  Hang Seng Index .  Both Lau and Lo are members of the 1,193-member Election
Committee that voted for Hong Kong’s next chief executive
last month, the  South China Morning Post  reported yesterday.  Lau’s holdings in public companies, including Chinese
Estates, are worth $2.6 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. His wealth is estimated at about $6.5 billion
by Forbes as of March.  Lau, who also has a personal collection of art and wine,
paid HK$129.5 million ($16.7 million) for two pairs of imperial
crane statues  at a Christie’s International auction in Hong Kong
in December 2010. In November 2006, he paid $17.4 million for
“Mao,” one of  Andy Warhol ’s portraits of the late Chinese
leader  Mao Zedong , a record at the time.  Chinese Estates bought part of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s London headquarters for about 280 million pounds ($446
million), the broker that advised on the sale said in January
last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  