-- China’s Falling Surplus Masks Domestic Imbalance, IMF Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-18T02:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-s-falling-trade-surplus-masks-domestic-imbalance-imf-says.html
China ’s achievement of greater
balance in trade flows is masking a deepening imbalance in the
domestic economy, according to International Monetary Fund staff.  “Evidence increasingly points to a rising domestic
imbalance as growth becomes increasingly dependent on very high
levels of investment,” IMF staff wrote in a  working paper . The
institution yesterday cut its estimate for China’s current-
account surplus, the broadest measure of trade, to 4 percent to
4.5 percent of gross domestic product over the “medium term,”
from around 7.5 percent estimated in a July report.  The revised forecast, released ahead of IMF,  World Bank  and
Group of 20 meetings in  Washington  this week, may bolster
China’s defense against calls for a stronger yuan to address
lopsided trade flows. At the same time, the IMF staff said China
must boost consumption or risk creating instability that would
have consequences for the global economy.  “Despite the fact that China’s medium-term current account
is likely to stay below its pre-crisis range, it is too early to
conclude that this signals an end to global imbalances or that
‘rebalancing’ has been truly achieved in China,” the staff
wrote in the paper.  The report, titled “An End To China’s Imbalances?,” was
written by five staff members including Nigel Chalk, the fund’s
Washington-based China mission chief, and released yesterday
with the IMF’s World Economic Outlook. The staff’s views
shouldn’t be reported as representing those of the institution,
the IMF said.  Yuan Move  The paper was prepared before China’s move on April 14 to
double the yuan’s daily trading band against the  U.S. dollar , an
adjustment the People’s Bank of China said aimed to meet
“market demands,” promote price discovery and enhance the
currency’s two-way flexibility.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 14 the currency may be
near an “equilibrium” and People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said two days earlier that the market is playing a
bigger role in determining the nation’s exchange rate.  China’s current-account surplus surged to 10.1 percent of
gross domestic product in 2007 as the nation’s  trade surplus 
widened. The excess dropped to 2.8 percent last year, a reversal
that was “sharper and more persistent than expected,” the IMF
staff said.  China’s policy makers have pledged to rebalance the economy
away from investment and exports to consumption.  The government has changed policies in areas including
building a social safety net, expanding public housing, scaling
back subsidies and making energy and other commodity prices more
market based, the IMF staff said.  Wages have climbed and the
currency has appreciated.  Even so, “there is little evidence so far that they have
created a turnaround in national savings behavior either at the
corporate or household level,” the analysts said. Many policies
will have “long lags” before their impact is “clearly seen”
and their effect on  household income  and consumption will become
“steadily more discernible,” the staff said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  