-- China’s Foreign Direct Investment Declines a Fifth Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-17T04:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-s-foreign-direct-investment-declines-for-fifth-month-1-.html
Foreign direct investment in  China 
dropped for a fifth straight month in March on a slowing economy,
limited prospects for gains in the yuan and renewed concerns
that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  Inbound  investment  fell 6.1 percent from a year earlier to
$11.76 billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said today in Beijing,
after a 0.9 percent drop the previous month. That’s the longest
run of declines since the global financial crisis.  China’s economy expanded the least in almost three years in
the first quarter and a widening of the yuan’s trading band this
week signals that the government may tolerate more two-way moves
in the currency against the dollar. The outlook for investment
is still “grim” as  Europe ’s crisis persists and competition
increases from other  developing countries  vying for foreign
money, ministry spokesman Shen Danyang said today.  “This highlights the declining attractiveness of the
country for foreign businesses amid a stronger currency and
higher labor costs,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB. “Declining direct
investment will further reduce China’s external surplus and
lower appreciation pressure on the yuan.”  Stocks in China and Hong Kong dropped. The Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.2 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time
break as the decline in foreign investment underscored concerns
Europe’s debt crisis is hurting the economy. The  Hang Seng Index 
declined 0.6 percent at the noon break.  Quarterly Decline  The yuan rose 0.17 percent today to 6.3045 per dollar after
the central bank set the daily  reference rate  stronger. The
currency had its first quarterly decline since December 2009 in
the first three months of 2012.  Foreign investment in the first quarter fell 2.8 percent
from a year earlier to $29.48 billion, the ministry said, after
a 29.4 percent increase in the same period a year earlier.
Investment in 2011 rose 9.7 percent to a record $116 billion.
Kowalczyk estimates an increase to $123 billion this year.  First-quarter FDI from the European Union slumped 31.2
percent from a year earlier to $1.4 billion, the ministry said
today. Investment from the U.S. rose 10.1 percent to $893
million.  Tap Demand  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the  first quarter 
from a year earlier, the government said last week. While that’s
the slowest pace in almost three years, the economy will still
grow in 2012 at more than double the pace for the world as a
whole and more than four times the pace of the U.S., according
to International Monetary Fund estimates in January.  Ford Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. said this month they
plan to expand to tap growing demand in China, the world’s
biggest auto market. The U.S. carmaker announced an investment
of about $600 million to increase capacity at one of its
passenger-car factories while the Japanese company said it will
add more models and may set up a research center.  Even as investment into China declines, the nation’s
outbound spending to build factories and buy assets is surging.
First-quarter non-financial outbound investment jumped 94.5
percent from a year earlier to $16.55 billion, the ministry said
today.  Some Chinese companies are investing overseas as rising
wages and other costs depress their profit margins in China,
ministry spokesman Shen said.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Regina Tan in Beijing and
Fion Li in  Hong Kong . Editors: Nerys Avery, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  