-- China’s Yuan Gains Most in a Month on U.S. Data, Stronger Fixing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-04-17T09:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-s-yuan-gains-most-in-a-month-on-u-s-data-stronger-fixing.html
The yuan gained the most in almost
a month after U.S. data signaled the world’s largest economy is
improving, bolstering the outlook for Chinese exports.  The currency rebounded from near the weakest level since
March 21 as the People’s Bank of  China  set the daily  reference 
rate 0.1 percent stronger at 6.2896 per dollar. The central bank
widened the yuan’s trading band to 1 percent on either side of
the fixing from 0.5 percent, effective yesterday. U.S. retail
sales increased 0.8 percent in March, official figures showed
yesterday, compared with the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 0.3 percent gain.  “Some people hope China’s exports could get a helping hand
from a stronger  U.S. economy ,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-
based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a unit of
China’s second-largest bank. “It’ll take some time to see the
real impact of a wider band on the  exchange rate  but surely we
are having more volatility.”  The yuan strengthened 0.21 percent, the most since March 22,
to close at 6.3015 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It fell to 6.3250 yesterday,
the weakest level since March 21. One-month implied volatility
for the yuan, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, dropped three basis points to 2.475 percent.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan climbed 0.11
percent to 6.2995 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards advanced 0.10 percent to 6.3445, a 0.7 percent discount
to the onshore spot rate.  Foreign Direct Investment  Foreign direct  investment  in China fell 6.1 percent from a
year earlier to $11.76 billion in March, dropping for a fifth
month, the Ministry of Commerce said today in Beijing. That
compared with a 0.9 percent decline the previous month and a
32.9 percent jump in March last year.  “This highlights the declining attractiveness of the
country for foreign businesses amid a stronger currency and
higher labor costs,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Declining direct investments will further reduce
China’s external surplus and lower appreciation pressure on the
yuan.”  China allowed banks to hold positions that profit from
declines in foreign currencies on a limited basis to
“facilitate the price-discovery” and spur growth in the market,
the State Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  