-- Pimco Says China to Avoid Aggressive Moves Amid Slowdown
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-04-17T08:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-to-slow-growth-avoid-aggressive-policy-pimco-says.html
China  will avoid aggressive policy
moves as growth slows and it attempts to address financial
excesses spurred by measures taken to combat the 2008 global
economic crisis, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest mutual fund.  “The story of this year is going to be the story of this
dance that they’re trying to do in the balance between the
economy and the financial sector,” Ramin Toloui, co-head of
Pimco’s global emerging markets portfolio management team, told
reporters today in Sydney. China’s policy makers “are really in
a very reactive mode.”  The slowdown in  China’s economy  prompted the People’s Bank
of China to reverse course in December, reducing the  reserve
requirement ratio  for banks for the first time since 2008 in a
bid to stimulate lending. The central bank had previously
implemented a series of increases to address concerns that the
earlier infusion of stimulus was creating asset bubbles and was
a potential source of financial instability.  Policy makers are likely to fine-tune their response with
“doses” of easing and tightening as data become available and
they assess the country’s economic pulse, Toloui said.  “Aside from some cuts in the reserve requirement ratio, we
do not expect to see aggressively expansionary policy to combat
the incremental economic slowdown that is unfolding right now in
China,” Toloui, who relocated to  Singapore  in January from
Pimco’s  California  headquarters, wrote in a  report  on the
company’s website today.  Slowing Growth  China’s annual  growth  rate slowed to 8.1 percent in the
first quarter from almost 12 percent two years ago. Pimco
predicts it will decline further in 2012, to between 7.5 and 8
percent. A Bloomberg survey of financial companies in which the
most recent projections are given the heaviest weightings
projects a growth rate of 8.3 percent.  The Chinese government this week announced that it would
widen the daily trading band for its currency for the first time
since May 2007. The move is a signal that the country intends to
be more flexible, according to Pimco.  Although the widening doesn’t give much of a clue as to the
trajectory of the yuan, Pimco expects the currency to appreciate
at a “more modest” pace of 1 percent to 3 percent over the
next 12 months.  “They’re experimenting with what kind of market dynamics
emerge from a more flexible foreign-exchange market, and then
they can make decisions going forward about how to continue the
process of liberalization,” Toloui said. “It’s kind of a novel
where the author doesn’t know exactly how he’s going to develop
all the characters and where the plot’s going to go.”  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach , California, is a unit of
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 