-- China’s Stocks Fall Most in a Week on Foreign Investment Slump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-17T05:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-s-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-before-fdi-report.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most in a week, as data showing
foreign direct investment sank for a fifth month underscored
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is hurting the economy.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led a gauge
of property developers to the biggest loss among industry groups
after the Xinhua News Agency reported  Shanghai  won’t loosen its
property curbs.  Tonghua Golden-Horse Pharmaceutical Industry Co. (000766) 
slipped after the drug regulator suspended sales of its
products. Sanan Optoelectronics Co. advanced 1.1 percent after
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said the light-emitting diode
industry will improve in the second quarter.  “Recent economic and industry data continue to point to a
weakening economy and corporate earnings growth is expected to
decelerate as well in the first quarter,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 10.61 points, or 0.4
percent, to 2,346.41 as of 1:33 p.m. local time, set for its
biggest drop since April 9. Stocks in the gauge are valued at
9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9
times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 0.7 percent to 2,555.29. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 1.5 percent at the
close in  New York  yesterday.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai index was at 18, near
a one-week low. About 8.6 billion shares changed hands
yesterday, 1.2 percent lower than the daily average this year.  Foreign Investment  The Ministry of Commerce said today in Beijing  inbound
investment  fell 6.1 percent in March from a year earlier to
$11.76 billion, after a 0.9 percent decline the previous month
and a 32.9 percent jump in March last year. Spending in  China  by
European Union companies slumped by a third in the first two
months of the year while U.S. investment rose less than 1
percent, according to ministry data.  “Investment growth is likely to slow as foreign investors
are less upbeat on the outlook for  China’s economy ,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist with Credit Agricole
CIB, said before the release.  Today’s stock losses pared the Shanghai Composite’s gains
this year to 7 percent amid speculation the government will take
measures to boost the economy. China cut the reserve-requirement
ratios for county-level banks, Xinhua News Agency reported on
April 13, while the People’s Bank of China expanded the range
the yuan is allowed to trade within against the dollar for the
first time since 2007.  China’s economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in almost three years, the statistics bureau
reported last week.  Property Curbs  A measure of developers in the Shanghai Composite fell 0.9
percent today, the most among the five industry groups. Vanke,
the nation’s biggest listed property developer, slid 2.1 percent
to 8.39 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest, lost 1.5
percent to 11.81 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) , the fourth biggest, fell
3.3 percent to 6.10 yuan.  Shanghai won’t soften controls or change existing policies
on the  property market , Xinhua reported yesterday, citing Mayor
 Han Zheng . China has toughened requirements for down payments
and mortgages, and imposed restrictions on the number of homes
each family is allowed to buy. The nation’s first-quarter home
sales fell 18 percent even as the government reiterated it will
maintain curbs on the property market.  Earnings Growth Slows  China will curb economic growth to address overinvestment
and bad loans that built up after policy makers used stimulus to
combat the 2008 crisis, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest mutual fund.  “Aside from some cuts in the reserve requirement ratio, we
do not expect to see aggressively expansionary policy to combat
the incremental economic slowdown that is unfolding right now in
China,” Ramin Toloui, the Singapore-based co-head of the global
emerging markets portfolio management team, wrote in a report on
the company’s website. China’s economic growth will slow to
about 7.5 to 8 percent this year, the  fund manager  said.  Seven hundred and ten companies in the Shanghai Composite
have released annual earnings. They posted profit growth of 14
percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by 2 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an
increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  Contaminated Capsules  Tonghua Golden-Horse dropped 1.4 percent to 4.91 yuan. The
State Food and Drug Administration has suspended sales of 13
drugs after media reported the capsules used to hold them
contained excessive levels of chromium, according to a statement
on its website. Tonghua Golden-Horse is among nine drugmakers
whose products have been suspended for inspection, it said.  Sanan Optoelectronics rose 1.1 percent to 11.65 yuan.
 Ledman Optoelectronic Co. (300162)  gained 2 percent to 15.70 yuan.
Shenzhen Refond Optoelectronics Co. added 1.5 percent to 15.35
yuan.  The LED industry offers “good investment opportunities”
as it will benefit from government subsidies and a pick-up in
the LED light market, Yu Bin, an analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities, wrote in a report today.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined for a second day,
dropping 0.9 percent to $37.08.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  