-- China’s Stocks Fall on Foreign Investment Slump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-17T07:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/china-s-stocks-fall-on-foreign-investment-slump.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most in more than two weeks, as data
showing foreign direct investment sank for a fifth month
underscored concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is hurting the economy.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led a gauge
of property developers to the biggest loss among industry groups
after the Xinhua News Agency reported  Shanghai  won’t loosen its
property curbs. Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd. slumped at least 1 percent on concern the worsening
European debt crisis will sap demand for commodities.  Tonghua
Golden-Horse Pharmaceutical Industry Co. (000766)  slid 3.4 percent after
the drug regulator suspended sales of its products.  “Recent economic and industry data continue to point to a
weakening economy and corporate earnings growth is expected to
decelerate as well in the first quarter,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 22.04 points, or 0.9
percent, to 2,334.99 at the close, its biggest drop since March
29. Stocks in the gauge are valued at 9.9 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 1.3 percent to 2,541.88. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 1.5 percent at the
close in  New York  yesterday. Thirty-day  volatility  in the
Shanghai index was at 18.1 today, near a one-week low. About 8.6
billion shares changed hands yesterday, 1.2 percent lower than
the daily average this year.  Foreign Investment  The Ministry of Commerce said today in Beijing  inbound
investment  fell 6.1 percent in March from a year earlier to
$11.76 billion, after a 0.9 percent decline the previous month
and a 32.9 percent jump in March last year. Spending in  China  by
European Union companies slumped by a third in the first two
months of the year while U.S. investment rose less than 1
percent, according to ministry data.  “Investment growth is likely to slow as foreign investors
are less upbeat on the outlook for  China’s economy ,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist with Credit Agricole
CIB, said before the release. China’s economy expanded 8.1
percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace in almost three
years, the statistics bureau said last week.  Today’s stock losses pared the Shanghai Composite’s gains
this year to 6.2 percent amid speculation the government will
take measures to boost the economy. China cut the reserve-
requirement ratios for county-level banks, Xinhua News Agency
reported on April 13, while the People’s Bank of China expanded
the range the yuan is allowed to trade within against the dollar
for the first time since 2007.  Property Curbs  A measure of developers in the Shanghai Composite fell 1.8
percent today, the most among the five industry groups. Vanke,
the nation’s biggest listed property developer, slid 2.3 percent
to 8.37 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest, lost 2.9
percent to 11.64 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) , the fourth biggest, fell
3.7 percent to 6.08 yuan.  Shanghai won’t soften controls or change existing policies
on the  property market , Xinhua reported yesterday, citing Mayor
 Han Zheng . China has toughened requirements for down payments
and mortgages, and imposed restrictions on the number of homes
each family is allowed to buy. The nation’s first-quarter home
sales fell 18 percent even as the government reiterated it will
maintain curbs on the property market.  Earnings Growth Slows  China will curb economic growth to address overinvestment
and bad loans that built up after policy makers used stimulus to
combat the 2008 crisis, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest mutual fund.  “Aside from some cuts in the reserve requirement ratio, we
do not expect to see aggressively expansionary policy to combat
the incremental economic slowdown that is unfolding right now in
China,” Ramin Toloui, the Singapore-based co-head of the global
emerging markets portfolio management team, wrote in a report on
the company’s website. China’s economic growth will slow to
about 7.5 to 8 percent this year, the  fund manager  said.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 1.5 percent to 24.45 yuan. Chalco, the listed unit of
nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal, sank 1 percent
to 6.76 yuan.  Yields on  Spain ’s 10-year notes reached a four-month high
as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the country must cut its
 budget deficit  to maintain access to financing. The cost of
insuring Spain’s securities against default advanced to a
record. Spain will sell 12-month and 18-month bills today.  Profit Slowdown  Seven hundred and ten companies in the Shanghai Composite
have released annual earnings. They posted profit growth of 14
percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by 2 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an
increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  Tonghua Golden-Horse dropped 3.4 percent to 4.81 yuan. The
State Food and Drug Administration has suspended sales of 13
drugs after media reported the capsules used to hold them
contained excessive levels of chromium, according to a statement
on its website. Tonghua Golden-Horse is among nine drugmakers
whose products have been suspended for inspection, it said.  Qinghai Gelatin Co. (000606) , a Chinese capsule maker, jumped by the
10 percent daily limit for a second day on speculation a
government crackdown on contaminated medicines will benefit
higher-quality suppliers.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  