-- Chongqing Rural Declines on Construction Probe: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-17T05:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/chongqing-rural-declines-on-construction-probe-hong-kong-mover.html
Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Co. (3618) 
shares fell, heading for a record two-day decline after a
newspaper reported that the local government has started
investigating the city’s construction projects.  The stock  dropped  as much as 8.2 percent in  Hong Kong ,
extending yesterday’s decrease to as much as 15.5 percent, the
most since the bank’s initial public offering in December 2010.
It fell 6.8 percent to HK$3.54 at the 12:00 p.m. break and was
the biggest decliner on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)   Some government-owned companies in Chongqing were asked by
the state-owned asset supervisor April 12 to report on their
current situation, the China Business Journal  reported  on April
14, without citing anyone. In late March, the Chongqing
government started to reassess the so-called Build Transfer
project invested by the southwestern  China  city’s eight largest
local-government financing vehicles and other state entities.  While it’s unclear how the probe will affect Chongqing
Rural’s corporate clients and shareholders from state-owned
enterprises, it may add to the bank’s non-performing loans,
Sophie Jiang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Religare Capital
Markets, wrote in a note. She reiterated a “sell”
recommendation with a 12-month target price at HK$2.51.  Sui Jun, a vice president of Chongqing Rural, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Bo Xilai Scandal  Bo Xilai, former party secretary of Chongqing, was
suspended from the Politburo on suspicion of being involved in
“serious discipline violations,” the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on April 10. His wife, Gu Kailai, was suspected
in the homicide of a British businessman, the  news agency  said.  “The Bo Xilai scandal casts a pall over everything in
Chongqing right now,” said James Antos, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “The few foreign
investors holding this counter are rushing to sell as a
result.”  Chongqing Bank was established in June 2008 after the
government merged rural cooperatives in the region. Based in
Chongqing, China’s most populous city, it had 62,000 corporate
and 17.5 million retail customers, according to the listing
prospectus.  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net 
Jacob Gu in Shanghai at 
 Jgu3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  