-- Citigroup Investors Reject Management Compensation Plan
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-04-18T01:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/citigroup-shareholders-reject-management-s-compensation-plan-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders
rejected its executive pay plan, a first among the six largest
U.S. banks, amid criticism it lets Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  collect millions of dollars in rewards too easily.  About 45 percent of the votes favored the plan, which
Citigroup had said will attract and retain top talent, according
to a preliminary tally at the New York-based firm’s annual
meeting in  Dallas  yesterday. While the vote isn’t binding,
outgoing Chairman  Richard Parsons  said changes will be made.  “That’s a serious matter,” Parsons said during his final
Citigroup shareholders’ meeting as chairman. The board will seek
a more quantitative, formula-based method for setting top
executives’ pay, he said in a subsequent interview. “We’re
going to have some more conversation with our shareholders, make
sure we understand their concerns and then fix it,” he said.  The rejection is a rarity for companies in the U.S., which
temporarily imposed pay curbs on financial firms as part of the
industry’s $700 billion taxpayer bailout in 2008. While new
rules require “say-on-pay” votes, only 41 firms in the Russell
3000 Index failed last year to win a majority for executive pay
plans, according to  Ted Allen , a spokesman for ISS Proxy
Advisory Services. Just three have been rejected this year, none
of them at banks, Allen said.  Capital Plan Rejected  The vote is another blow for Pandit, following last month’s
rejection by U.S. regulators of his capital plan that included
rewards for shareholders, possibly including a higher dividend.
Directors had awarded Pandit, 55, about $15 million in total
compensation for 2011 and also granted him a separate, multi-
year retention package that may be worth $40 million. Citigroup
shares slumped 44 percent last year.  “Many investors have mentioned to me that they feel the
incentive compensation at Citigroup is ludicrous, that there’s
an artificially low hurdle,” said Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA
in New York, who rates the bank’s shares “underperform.” “Are
you going to give the manager of the  New York Yankees  an
incentive bonus if he wins one-third of his games?”  Pandit’s proposed payout included a $5.33 million cash
bonus, more than the $3 million cash bonus that  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  directors awarded to CEO Lloyd Blankfein for 2011.
Morgan Stanley directors didn’t give one to CEO  James Gorman .  Parsons was a member of the board’s personnel and
compensation committee that decided on awards for Pandit and
other executives, according to a filing. The board didn’t award
Pandit too much money, he said.  Communication ‘Breakdown’  “No, I don’t think it’s really about that,” he said in an
interview as he walked through the Hilton Anatole hotel after
the meeting. “We think that there was a breakdown in terms of
communication in terms of how our shareholders understood it,
looked at it.”  Former Alcoa Inc. CEO Alain Belda led the committee before
he and Parsons retired from the board yesterday, an annual
filing shows. Other members included new Citigroup Chairman
 Michael O’Neill , William Thompson Jr. and Diana Taylor. Taylor
is the companion of  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  Citigroup accepted $45 billion from U.S. taxpayers to help
it survive the financial crisis. The firm has since repaid the
entire sum. Banks that took money from the Treasury Department’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008 and 2009 were required to
put a say-on-pay vote before shareholders, said  Eleanor Bloxham ,
CEO of the Value Alliance Co., a board advisory firm in
Westerville,  Ohio . The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010, requires
such votes for all companies, she said.  KeyCorp’s CEO  The only large bank to have a compensation plan rejected by
shareholders was Cleveland-based KeyCorp in 2010, she said.
According to KeyCorp’s 2011 shareholder letter, the company
subsequently reduced pay for then-CEO Henry L. Meyer III to $4.5
million from $5 million.  ISS and its competitor, Glass Lewis & Co., faulted Pandit’s
payouts and recommended that investors reject the bank’s
executive compensation plan for 2011. Pandit got more than
 Stuart Gulliver , CEO of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the London-based
lender that made more money than Citigroup in 2011 and posted a
smaller share drop.  “Pandit’s 2011 incentive pay and multiple retention awards
are substantially discretionary in nature or lack rigorous goals
to incentivize improvement in shareholder value,” analysts for
ISS, a unit of MSCI Inc., wrote in their report.  ‘Short Memories’  The vote also may affect payouts for other Citigroup
executives. Chief Operating Officer  John Havens  received about
$13 million for 2011, including a $5 million cash bonus. He
oversees the securities and banking division, which posted a 24
percent slump in revenue last year.  Manuel Medina-Mora, consumer-banking chief, received about
$11.4 million, including a $4.2 million cash bonus. Profit at
the consumer-banking unit jumped 33 percent to $6.2 billion in
2011, compared with the prior year.  “Bankers historically have very short memories and we
continue to see examples of banks fighting to get back to the
more traditional ways of banking pre-crisis, including outsized
compensation,” said  Todd Hagerman , an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. who has a “buy” rating on Citigroup shares. “It’s
simply amazing how many bankers fail to recognize the profound
structural changes taking place in the industry.”  Attendees  More than 150 people attended the annual meeting in
addition to the board members and senior executives. All other
management proposals passed with more than 80 percent of votes
cast, including the election of directors, according to
Citigroup Secretary Michael Helfer.  Parsons, 64, joined the Citigroup board in 1996 and helped
it become the world’s biggest bank, before it almost collapsed
in 2008. He became chairman in 2009 and presided over repayment
of the company’s U.S. bailout. His replacement, O’Neill, 65,
takes over in the wake of the Fed’s rejection of the bank’s
capital plan.  The Fed didn’t accept Citigroup’s proposal after finding it
would cause the company’s capital levels to fall below minimum
standards in a dire economic scenario. Pandit affirmed yesterday
that the lender may wait until it submits a 2013 plan to the Fed
before seeking approval to boost the 1-cent quarterly payout or
repurchase shares.  “Creating  shareholder value  and also making sure that’s
reflected in our book value is our No. 1 goal,” Pandit said
yesterday. Returning some of that value is a priority, he said,
whether it’s a dividend or a share buyback.  Parsons is leaving a board he described at the meeting as
the best of any financial firm. Shareholders should be “pleased
and grateful” for the directors they have, he said.  “We leave confident that the place is in pretty good shape
and in pretty good hands,” he said, as he left the hotel
through a rear exit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  