-- Coca-Cola Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates as U.S. Gains
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-04-17T20:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/coca-cola-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-u-s-gains.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, reported first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, helped by pricing increases and demand in
 North America .  Net income rose 7.9 percent to $2.05 billion, or 89 cents a
share, from $1.9 billion, or 82 cents, a year earlier, Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola said today in a statement. Analysts projected 87
cents, the average of 14  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has introduced smaller
package sizes to attract price-conscious consumers as part of an
effort to spur sales in North America, where the soft drink
industry is in a seven-year decline. Beverage sales volume for
the unit climbed 2 percent in the quarter, driven by demand for
Powerade energy drinks and Dasani water, contributing to a 5
percent gain globally.  “Coca-Cola’s volume growth was very strong this quarter
and despite commodity pressures and clear marketing
reinvestment, they delivered strong profitability,”  Ali Dibadj ,
a New York-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
today in an e-mail. Dibadj rates the shares outperform, the
equivalent of a buy.  Coca-Cola  rose  2.1 percent to $73.95 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 5.7 percent this year, while
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  is little changed.  Global Pricing  Revenue advanced 5.9 percent to $11.1 billion, according to
the statement. The company raised global pricing 3 percent in
the quarter, outpacing last year’s 1.5 increase.  The North America unit, Coca-Cola’s largest, accounted for
about 44 percent of global sales. The Pacific unit, the
company’s second-largest region, boosted volume sales 8 percent,
compared with 5 percent growth a year earlier. The division was
helped by a 3 percent jump in  Japan .  In emerging markets, India jumped 20 percent while Brazil
increased 4 percent, as both outpaced gains in the first quarter
a year earlier. China advanced 9 percent.  Gross margin narrowed to 61 percent from 62.5 percent a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  