-- Covered Bonds in Dollars Soar to Fill AAA Vacuum
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-17T15:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/covered-bonds-in-dollars-soar-to-fill-aaa-vacuum.html
Sales of covered bonds in dollars
are surging to a record as investors snap up the secured bank
notes amid a drop in supply of AAA rated alternatives,
benefiting lenders from Bank of  Nova Scotia  to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Bank of Nova Scotia and UBS have led $23.5 billion of the
mortgage-backed offerings this year, a 43 percent jump from the
same period in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors in the notes earned 2.04 percent in 2012, double the
gain in investment-grade debt from Treasuries to corporate
bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays Capital
indexes show.  Covered bonds are gaining traction in new markets as the
number of top-rated issues in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
AAA Rated Global Fixed-Income Index shrinks to 3,624 this month
from a high of 5,331 in December 2007. Canadian banks rushing to
get in before the country tightens its rules for issuing the
debt and  Australia ’s groundwork for its own market are also
spurring sales outside the traditional stronghold in  Europe .  “The momentum for dollar covered bonds is accelerating as
the investor base turns global, so the potential could be
huge,” said Armin Peter, the global head of covered bonds at
UBS in London. “You can now find about 100 institutional
clients in the U.S. looking at the product, which makes it
possible to reach issuance of $60 billion this year.”  Shrinking Spreads  The securities, known as pfandbriefe in  Germany , typically
get higher credit ratings than unsecured debt by requiring
borrowers set aside assets that can be sold to pay investors.  The extra yield investors demand to hold covered bonds in
dollars instead of  government securities  has fallen 66 basis
points this year to 104 basis points as of April 13, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. The spread was 99 basis points
on April 2, the narrowest since June 21.  “Banks worldwide are seeking new ways to access the
world’s largest investor community,” said T. Nicolas Steinbach,
a director in Blackrock Inc.’s fixed-income portfolio management
group in  New York .  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk declined for a second day, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreasing 3.3 basis points to a mid-price of 98.2 basis points
as of 11:51 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Rate Swap Spreads  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
 bond market  stress, declined 2 basis points to 28.09 basis
points as of 11:53 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s Cos. are
the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers
today, with 149 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:56 a.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The second-biggest
U.S. home-improvement retailer issued $2 billion of bonds
yesterday in five-, 10- and 30-year maturities in its biggest
single-day offering on record.  Covered Bond Sales  This year’s dollar covered bond sales represent about 11
percent of the $217 billion of global issuance of the debt. The
$3 trillion market for covered bonds is dominated by European
banks, for which the securities have been a source of funding
since 1769 when King Frederick the Great of Prussia needed to
rebuild the country after the Seven Years War.  Sales in euros slowed 44 percent this year to 70.6 billion
euros from a year earlier after the  European Central Bank 
provided banks with more than $1 trillion of cheap loans to
forestall a credit crunch. The extra liquidity eased pressure on
banks to issue covered bonds, sales of which reached a record in
2011 as investors shunned lenders’ unsecured debt.  Morgan Stanley analysts Leef Dierks and Jason Somerville in
 London  cut their forecast for euro-denominated covered bond
sales this year to about 100 billion euros from a November
estimate of 190 billion euros.  Triple-A Slowdown  Investor demand for covered bonds outside Europe has been
stoked by a slowdown in debt offerings by government-tied
issuers including  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which are
shrinking their balance sheets as part of their government
conservatorships.  The amount of unsecured debt outstanding from such issuers
was $2.3 trillion last year, down from a  record  $3.2 trillion in
2008, Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association data
show.  Covered bonds tend to offer investors higher yields than
agency debt because they aren’t linked to a government. UBS’s $2
billion covered bonds due 2017 yield 2.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 1.02 percent on
similar maturity bonds issued by Fannie Mae.  Covered bonds offer a “yield pickup to similar sovereign
agency debt, while having an investment backed by tangible
residential loans,” said Blackrock’s Steinbach, who manages $20
billion including covered and agency bonds.  Nova Scotia  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  raised $5.5 billion from dollar-
denominated covered bonds this year, more than any other issuer,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Toronto-based lender’s top-
rated 1.95 percent bonds due 2017 sold in January yield 69 basis
points more than U.S. Treasuries, down from a spread of 109 at
issue, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s $3 billion of AAA rated 1.5 percent
2017 covered bonds, the largest deal this year, pay a spread of
71, little changed from when they were sold in March.  Canadian banks accounted for $12.6 billion of covered bond
sales this year, more than half the total, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They’re rushing to sell the notes as the
government considers proposals to limit what collateral can be
used as a way of preventing a housing bubble.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  raised $2 billion from the
debt this year, making it the fourth-biggest issuer globally.
Australian lawmakers authorized the  debt market  in October to
give banks more ways to fund themselves.  Relatively Cheap  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, makes it
relatively cheap to issue in the greenback. The cost declined to
46 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate from minus
162.5 basis points on Nov. 30.  “There has been excellent swap opportunities from dollars
into local currencies at attractive funding levels for covered-
bond issuers,” said Ted Lord, head of European covered bonds at
Barclays in  Frankfurt .  Sales of covered bonds in dollars may increase to a record
$60 billion this year, according to UBS estimates, breaking last
year’s peak of $44 billion.  The  U.S. Senate  is considering a bill to create a covered
bond market in the country, though the chances of it being
passed are fading as the November presidential elections
approach, said  Tom Deutsch , the  executive director  at the
American Securitization Forum in New York. Without legislation,
investors may require higher yields that would deter issuers.  “Issuance of covered bonds can really jump if U.S.
legislation is passed,” said Steinbach. “This would also
increase demand as the bonds would be included in the most
commonly used indexes such as the Barclays U.S. Aggregate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  