-- Danone Revenue Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Water, Baby Food
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-04-17T07:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/danone-first-quarter-revenue-rises-on-water-baby-food-demand.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, reported first-quarter revenue growth that beat analysts’
estimates as it sold more bottled water in  Indonesia  and  China 
and baby food in  Asia  and the  Middle East .  Like-for-like sales, which exclude divestments and currency
changes, increased 6.9 percent, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement. The average of six analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was 6.5 percent. Total revenue rose to
5.12 billion euros ($6.7 billion) from 4.76 billion euros a year
earlier, surpassing the 5.05 billion-euro average  estimate  of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It’s a good start to the year and they’re on track for a
solid performance,” said  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Bank
NV in Amsterdam.  Danone is benefiting from increased consumption of bottled
water in  emerging markets , which generate about two-thirds of
its water sales. The maker of Activia and Actimel yogurts said
it expects  consumer spending  to remain “under pressure” this
year in western  Europe , with no “significant” improvement or
decline in the economic climate compared to the second half of
last year.  Danone shares rose as much as 2.8 percent to 53 euros in
Paris. The stock traded 2.4 percent higher at 9:15 a.m.  Forecast Stable  Danone reiterated its guidance for 2012, saying like-for-
like sales will probably rise 5 percent to 7 percent, while the
operating margin is expected to be stable, excluding certain
items, after widening 0.2 percentage point last year.  Sales of baby-food products, which include the Bledina
brand, increased 9 percent. Revenue from bottled water rose 16
percent with price increases contributing 8.7 percentage points
to the growth. The company said in February it aims to offset
higher costs partly through higher prices.  Danone’s water business continues to be led by emerging
markets, especially Indonesia and China, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a conference call with journalists.  Danone said raw-material price increases are expected to
remain “strong” in the first half and at a “mid-single-
digit” level for the year.  Danone and  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company,
have submitted preliminary bids of about $10 billion for Pfizer
Inc.’s infant-nutrition unit, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. Pfizer is in the process of exploring
options for the unit, which include a sale, spinoff or other
transaction.  Emerging Markets  The owner of the Evian and Volvic bottled-water brands gets
about half its sales from  emerging markets  after buying a
majority stake in Russia’s OAO Unimilk in 2010. The purchase
made it Russia’s biggest dairy producer.  First-quarter revenue from dairy products including Actimel
drinking yogurts rose 3.8 percent on a comparable basis, helped
by increased demand in  Latin America . The business generates
more than half of Danone’s revenue. The volume of dairy sales in
the  Russia  region has “stabilized” for the first time in a
year, while the company’s Oikos brand is increasing its share of
the Greek yogurt segment, according to Danone.  “They’re still talking about an acceleration in fresh
dairy in the U.S. and Russia, which will be taken positively by
the market,” Gulpers said.  Revenue from medical nutrition products increased 6.4
percent. Demand for products aimed at children and at people
with gastrointestinal allergies helped fuel the growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  