-- DBS Shares Gain on Optimism for Danamon Deal: Singapore Mover
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-04-18T04:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/dbs-made-offer-for-remaining-danamon-shares-to-be-transparent.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest lender, rose to a two-week high on optimism its
$7.2 billion bid for  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  will be completed
even as Indonesian authorities raise queries on its offer.  DBS, which announced its bid for Temasek Holdings Pte’s 67
percent stake in Danamon on April 2, said it also set the offer
price for the remaining stock to be “transparent.” Kontan
reported yesterday that the Indonesian regulator will seek an
explanation from DBS on why the offer for minority shareholders
was made before the Temasek deal closed.  Bank Indonesia  also said last week it will seek talks on
reciprocity with Singapore as a condition for the central bank’s
approval of DBS’s bid, asking for equal treatment for Indonesian
banks to operate in the neighboring city-state. Danamon shares
have traded at an average of 6,336 rupiah since the DBS bid,
lower than 7,000 rupiah price offered by the  Singapore  lender.  Danamon’s stock price “probably reflects the market’s
skepticism about the deal due to not so-positive signals from
the regulators,” Daiwa Capital Markets analysts Srikanth
Vadlamani and Boon Aun Phua said in a report yesterday. “While
we have been surprised by some of these comments, we believe
that the likelihood of the deal going through is much higher
than what is implied by Bank Danamon’s current share price.”  DBS climbed 0.7 percent to S$13.62 as of 11:42 a.m. in
Singapore trading, rising for a fifth day to the highest since
April 3. Danamon was unchanged at 6,250 rupiah.  Danamon Profit Gain  Danamon said yesterday its first-quarter profit rose 18
percent on higher demand for credit. Net income increased to 900
billion rupiah ($98 million) in the three months ended March 31
from 763 billion rupiah a year earlier. The bank is targeting
lending growth of 18 percent to 20 percent this year, Henry Ho,
President Director said at a press conference yesterday.  Nurhaida, head of  Indonesia ’s capital market supervisory
agency, said yesterday she has met with executives from DBS and
declined to comment on the Kontan report.  The Singapore lender said its offer for the remaining
Danamon stake, which will be paid in cash, is equal to the value
it placed on new shares issued to Temasek for its holding in the
Indonesian bank. Temasek is Singapore’s state-owned investment
company that’s also the biggest stakeholder of DBS.  DBS provided details of the offer for the remaining
shareholders “in an effort to be transparent,” Karen Ngui, a
DBS spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to queries
yesterday. The Indonesian agency is “aware that the mandatory
tender offer will only happen after the completion of the
transaction” for Temasek’s stake in Danamon, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gunsalus at   jgunsalus@bloomberg.net  