-- Derivatives Lobby Has U.S. Regulators on the Run
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-17T23:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/derivatives-lobby-has-u-s-regulators-on-the-run.html
The derivatives industry is
squeezing  Washington  like a python. Desperate to control the
tone and thrust of derivatives regulation, industry lobbyists
have been swarming over the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
and the  Securities and Exchange Commission , each of which is
writing derivatives rules as mandated by the Dodd-Frank reform
law.  In case their lobbying falls short, the industry -- largely
dealer banks and commodities firms -- has been pushing
legislation that would pre-empt the rulemaking process and tie
the agencies’ hands. So far, no fewer than 10 such derivatives
bills have been introduced in the House; two have passed and
several more have cleared committee.  Not satisfied with that, influential lawmakers have been
not so subtly warning regulators to go easy on derivatives. This
is incredibly intimidating: Congress controls the agencies’
budgets, and the increase in workload mandated by Dodd-Frank
leaves them woefully short on funds.  And should a derivatives rule unpalatable to the dealers
somehow survive this Beltway obstacle course, the agencies face
an explicit threat of a lawsuit. This has had a chilling effect.
As Bart Chilton, a CFTC commissioner, told me, regulators fear
there is “litigation lurking around every corner and down every
hallway.”  Power Play  The subtext of this power play is, of course, the 2008
financial crash, in which derivatives played an important role.
Look no further than American International Group Inc.’s
notorious mortgage-insurance contracts, which triggered the run
of financial bailouts. Or the synthetic collateralized debt
obligations that multiplied the market’s exposure to subprime
mortgages.  The intent of Dodd-Frank is to bring the derivatives
business out of the shadows -- first to get a handle on systemic
risk, second to create greater price transparency and narrower
margins in a business dominated by a handful of banks, and third
to protect the sort of customers who shouldn’t be playing with
matches. (The Jefferson County,  Alabama , adventure with
derivatives and exotic debt, purchased from JPMorgan Chase &
Co., last year ended in the largest municipal bankruptcy filing
in U.S. history.)  The industry has often said it supports the aims of Dodd-
Frank; it opposes only some details of the law and the rules
being crafted to implement it. The particulars are indeed
complicated, and no one understands them better than the banks.
The dealer lobby -- led by the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association , and joined by big customers and bank
lobbyists -- maintains that derivatives are already priced
competitively. The industry also says derivatives are safer than
they were a few years ago because more contracts are “cleared”
-- guaranteed by a centralized third party -- and because most
users post collateral. They argue that proposed rules will gum
up the system, increase trading costs and leave markets less
liquid.  The banks are opposed by a vociferous counter-lobby --
groups such as Americans for Financial Reform -- but not
surprisingly these have neither the financing nor the influence
of the banks. Dealers have engineered new legislation to amend
Dodd-Frank even before it leaves the delivery room. Pending
bills would curb the proposed new exchange-like arenas for
derivatives trading, grant regulatory exclusions on intra-
company swaps (when one affiliate of Goldman deals with
another), and shield from scrutiny the transactions of overseas
affiliates of U.S. firms. Also, the banks have been battling to
duck liability for the next Jefferson County.  Model of Deliberation  The proper place to hash out such differences is precisely
at the agency level. Neither the SEC nor the CFTC has been
arbitrary or closed to the industry view. In March, the CFTC met
with roughly 100 outside parties, holding numerous sessions with
banks, users and public-interest groups. Given that Dodd-Frank
was enacted in July 2010 and the rulemaking is still in process,
the agencies have been a model of deliberation.  It is hard to see why industry would attempt an end run
around the rulemaking -- save that it wants to protect one of
the most lucrative and highly concentrated sectors on Wall
Street. The House bills are so specific they are almost comical.
It is doubtful that members even understand what they are voting
on.  This legislative pre-emption recalls a similar interference
by Congress in 1999-2000, when  Arthur Levitt , then chairman of
the SEC, sought to enforce higher standards on corporate
auditors. Congress threatened to strip the agency of its power
to regulate audits; Levitt was forced to compromise. Less than a
year later, America was hit by a wave of corporate accounting
scandals, including that of Enron Corp.  The derivatives industry has its own history of regulatory
pre-emption. Derivatives were a wunderkind innovation, a less
cumbersome way to invest, speculate or hedge than traditional
instruments such as stocks and bonds. Their very ease promoted
use, like a pill that was easy to pop. You can use a derivative,
of course, to reduce risk or to enhance it. The emblematic
example is of the farmer selling wheat futures to lock in his
price ahead of the harvest. (Futures are derivatives that trade
on regulated exchanges.) Clearly, the farmer is hedging --
reducing risk. But traders might also be people with an opinion
about wheat prices -- that is, speculators.  In the 1980s, the number of derivatives blossomed,
especially the less regulated, off-exchange variety. So did
speculation. One much-praised product, the adjustable-rate
mortgage, was in fact a vehicle for turning stable home
financing into an instrument of risk for homebuyers.  Spectacular Failures  As derivatives markets grew, so did examples of spectacular
failures. Merton Miller, the Nobel laureate economist, said the
fiascoes were merely growing pains as users learned to “manage
risks.” But the failures kept occurring, most dramatically with
the 1998 meltdown of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management.
The then-CFTC chairman, Brooksley Born, proposed that Washington
consider regulation of off-exchange derivatives. She was shouted
down by the banking lobby, ably represented by  Robert Rubin ,
 Larry Summers  and, especially,  Alan Greenspan , who opined that
derivatives agreed to by self-interested profit seekers didn’t
need regulation. The market would self-regulate.  The Greenspan philosophy was codified in the Commodity
Futures Modernization Act of 2000, which cast the industry back
100 years. It forbade most regulation of swaps and, indeed,
exempted swaps from century-old bucket-shop laws enacted, in a
more sober spirit, to prevent storefront gambling. Since that
act, the notional value of derivatives has soared from $95
trillion to more than $700 trillion.  The laissez-faire assumption is that more liquidity -- that
is, more trading -- is always better. The view here is
different. Derivatives that transfer risk from, say, banks to
anonymous speculators also transfer credit decisions to
disparate, generally less-informed players. This also occurs
with bonds, but bonds are securities and regulated as such.
Credit-default swaps (contracts in which speculators wager on
defaults) have turned Wall Street into a giant betting parlor.  According to research by Thomas Philippon, a professor of
finance at New York University’s Stern School of Business, the
array of such new vehicles have not rendered financial markets
more efficient; they merely permitted the financial industry to
extract a higher share of the national income for “increases in
trading activities whose social value is difficult to assess.”  Another study, by law professor  Eric Posner  and economics
professor Glen Weyl, both at the University of  Chicago , found
that credit-default swaps didn’t contribute to social welfare
because they didn’t improve the markets’ ability to forecast
defaults. Such swaps were used mainly by speculators (few of the
people trading swaps on Greek defaults actually owned Greek
bonds). At least proponents of new futures contracts are
required to submit a brief for their “economic purpose”; the
authors propose a similar test for off-exchange derivatives.  Banks note that their customers are clamoring for
derivatives. But health-care consumers also clamor for drugs and
treatments, not all of which are useful. “The great question,”
says Wallace Turbeville, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
banker and now a senior fellow at Demos, a liberal think tank,
“is ‘Why do companies hedge the way they do?”’  Overschooled  It is one writer’s opinion, but a generation of corporate
treasurers has been overschooled in the notion of “managing
risk.” They adopted as gospel a mandate of hedging the near-
term movement of every conceivable financial asset. This serves
the banks that deal in derivatives, and it serves corporate
managers who have an interest in avoiding short-term
embarrassments. It doesn’t serve long-term shareholders. Hedging
is as overused as pills, and too easily crosses the line into
gambling.  A leitmotif of Dodd-Frank is defining when the  Wall Street 
banks act as agents or advisers for their customers, and when
they are principals trading on their own accounts. Since they
take the other side of customers’ derivatives trades, banks are
generally classified as principals, not responsible for
customers’ bad decisions.  However, Dodd-Frank directed the regulators to protect
certain less-sophisticated users, who also represent a public
interest, such as municipalities and pension funds. Banks
protested, and pension funds, with their misplaced enthusiasm
for financial exotica, said they didn’t need, or want,
“protection.”  The CFTC devised a tough, and sensible, proposal. When a
pension fund or municipality bought a generic derivative, its
dealer wouldn’t be liable. But if the bank tailored a customized
product specifically for that customer, then, according to the
proposed rule, the bank had a duty to sell a suitable
instrument, and to advise the client in its own best interest.
This hardly sounds burdensome. But the industry, fearing
potential liability, unleashed a torrent of protest. The CFTC
caved and revised the rule so that clients will be permitted to
waive their right to good advice.  Probably, the CFTC was intimidated because Congress has
granted it only $205 million (a flyspeck compared with the
resources of banks). That is one-third less than the agency says
it needs. Thus far, though, it has stood its ground on another
big issue, the rules governing “swap execution facilities” --
the electronic marketplaces for swaps. The aim is to corral
buyers and sellers in a more transparent setting. Dodd-Frank
mandates “a trading system or platform in which multiple
participants have the ability to execute swaps by accepting bids
or offers made by multiple participants…” The industry never
liked Dodd-Frank, and the House, of course, has changed
leadership.  Customer Intentions  One bill would amend Dodd-Frank by prohibiting the agencies
from requiring that multiple parties see bids and offers, or
that customers display their bids to multiple dealers. The
industry and, it must be said, many big users argue that
disseminating customer intentions could hurt their bargaining
position in the way a poker player loses his edge if other
players can see his cards. Costs will rise, liquidity will fall.  According to the ISDA, the requirement that quotes be
posted on a centralized screen “may limit competition” by
deterring users who are wary of such exposure. Maybe, but in
virtually every other market, openness results in better prices.
And when lawmakers forbid regulators from requiring that trading
venues “have a minimum number of participants receive a bid or
offer,” it sounds like a funny way to spur competition.
Turbeville, the former Goldman banker, says the industry-backed
bill would turn the new trading venues into “a glorified
telephone.”  Very likely, if industry isn’t satisfied, it will go to
court. Last year, in a long overdue move, the SEC approved a
rule making it easier for shareholders to nominate directors,
thus infusing a smidgeon of democracy into boardrooms. The
 Business Roundtable , which represents chief executives, sued,
claiming that the SEC had not properly studied the economic
impact. The conservative Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit
found against the SEC, even though it had supplied 60 pages of
analysis on the potential economic effect. The Harvard Law
Review observed that the court’s “exacting review could impose
a judicial blockade on complex financial rulemaking.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has made no secret of its
desire to bring similar suits. The CFTC is already in court over
one new rule to control speculation in futures trading; the
plaintiffs, including the ISDA, charge the regulator with
insufficient economic study. Now the regulators are editing
themselves: On April 18, the CFTC and the SEC voted to oversee
only those companies that conduct at least $8 billion in swaps a
year, a much higher threshold than proposed and one that will
let many a bank, hedge fund and energy company slip through
their grasp.  Derivatives regulation has too long gone undone. The
agencies should be permitted to do their job. Congress should
lay off the intimidation tactics, which in the past have
embarrassed Congress itself. Restricting the agencies (by
blocking regulation of overseas or affiliate deals, for
instance) poses the risk that regulators will see only one side
of the street, or attempt to deal piecemeal with what is clearly
a global industry. Not every rule is perfect and industry is
free to make its case to the agencies. End runs in Congress,
even more so in the courts, threaten to kill regulation by a
thousand cuts and a thousand delays.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is the author of “When Genius Failed:
The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management.” He is an
outside director with the Sequoia Fund. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes 
and Obama’s  oil-speculation plan ;  Peter Orszag  on saving money
through  health-care reform ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Ann Romney’s
choices ; Clive Crook on  economic fairness ; William Pesek on
 China’s power shift ; Ana Palacio on  Spain’s outdated labor laws .  To contact the author of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  