-- Di Matteo Pitches to Become Permanent Chelsea Coach: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-17T07:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/di-matteo-pitches-to-become-permanent-chelsea-coach-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Di Matteo Interview  Chelsea interim manager Roberto  Di Matteo  has made his
pitch to keep the job permanently in an interview with the
club’s technical director Michael Emenalo, the  Daily Express
reported .  Di Matteo has underlined his desire to stay on as manager
rather than drop back down to assistant or first-team coach, the
Express said.  Barcelona’s Pep Guardiola and Real Madrid’s  Jose Mourinho 
remain the top targets, with Di Matteo among the “Plan B”
candidates along with Laurent Blanc, Didier Deschamps, Joachim Low and Bert van Marwijk, the Express added.  Swansea to Spurs  Tottenham Hotspur is planning to move for Swansea manager
Brendan Rodgers if the Football Association makes an approach
for Harry Redknapp over the England job, the  Sun reported .  Spurs would ideally hire  Carlo Ancelotti  as Redknapp’s
replacement, although the Italian would have to be fired by
Paris Saint-Germain for that to happen, the newspaper said.
Rodgers has impressed Spurs officials with his style of play and
ability to achieve success on a limited budget, the Sun added.  Newcastle Eyes Vertonghen  Newcastle United manager  Alan Pardew  is considering a bid
for Ajax’s Jan Vertonghen after traveling to Amsterdam to watch
the center-back in case the Magpies qualify for the Champions
League, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Vertonghen, who is valued at 10 million pounds ($15.8
million), has said a move to Arsenal would interest him, the
Telegraph said.  Manchester United  and  Manchester City  also have
looked at the Belgian defender, whose priority is to sign for a
club in the  Champions League , the newspaper added.  Sunderland Swoop  Sunderland manager Martin O’Neill is planning a move for
Wolverhampton Wanderers striker  Steven Fletcher , who will leave
if Wolves are relegated from the Premier League at the end of
the season, the  Daily Mirror reported . The Scotland striker cost
7 million pounds from Burnley in 2010, the Mirror added.  Carroll Makeover  Andy Carroll, Liverpool’s 35 million pound-record signing,
said he’s put his partying lifestyle behind him and is confident
his winning goal in the F.A. Cup semifinal against Everton will
reignite his career, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “My past is my past,” Carroll, who has struggled with
fitness problems and a lack of form since joining the Reds, was
quoted as saying by the newspaper. “All I do now is sit in the
house with my girlfriend, chill out and watch movies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  