-- Dividend Investing: It's Not Just About Yield
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-04-18T14:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/dividend-investing-it-s-not-just-about-yield.html
     After more than a decade of has-been status, once-dowdy
dividend stocks are back in the limelight. Three
dividend-focused exchange-traded funds ranked among the top 10
ETFs with the strongest cash flows for 2011. Even the bond
king, Pimco’s Bill Gross, has been talking up dividend-payers
in investment missives.  You’ve probably heard the killer dividend pitch plenty of
late: “Hey, you can get a higher yield on quality blue chips
than on the 10-year Treasury.” In fact, classic
dividend-payers such as utilities and telecoms have yields
double the 1.99 percent payout on the Treasury note.  Getting all wide-eyed over a stock’s dividend
yield, however, misses the bigger picture. “What you are
getting paid today in a dividend is not what’s important,”
notes George Fraise, manager of the $3.1 billion Sustainable
Growth Advisers, sub-adviser for the John Hancock U.S. Global
Leaders fund. “The key to dividend investing is to focus on
companies that will be able to grow that dividend payout over
time.”  According to Ned Davis Research, over the past 40 years
stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index that increased their
dividend payout annually averaged a 9.4 percent annualized
return. Companies that paid a dividend but didn’t increase
that payout had an annualized return of about 7 percent. And a
T. Rowe Price study that sliced and diced 25 years of data on
the Russell 1000 into quintiles based on dividend yield and
dividend growth produced intriguing results. The
tongue-twisting takeaway: The study found that the
high-yielding stocks with the lowest dividend growth rates
underperformed high-yielding stocks with the highest dividend
growth by about 1 percentage point.  Some added icing on the cake: Dividend-growers often
deliver a smoother ride. A Mergent index of dividend growth
stocks was 20 percent less volatile than the S&P 500 over the
past 10 years. A growing dividend is also a valuable inflation
hedge compared with the fixed payout of a bond.  Follow the money  Focusing on dividend growth helps keep your stock
portfolio trained on high-quality firms. “Earnings are the raw
material that provide dividends, so if you can identify a firm
with a history of rising dividend payouts you’ve probably
found a well-run business with a competitive edge,” says Eric
Warasta of Cambridge Trust’s wealth management division, which
runs an equity-income strategy that drills down on dividend
growth.  A rising dividend can also be “a byproduct of a company
that has sustainable growth in free cash flow,” notes SGA’s
Fraise. That’s another good character trait. “Free cash flow
opens up the opportunity for a company to return money to
shareholders, and dividends are one way to return that money.”  Josh Peters, director of dividend investing at
Morningstar, believes a dividend growth rate in the mid- to
upper single digits is the sweet spot. “When you start seeing
much higher growth rates you have to start asking yourself if
you’ll continue to get what you’re seeing. You want to find a
good balance between current yield and growth potential.”  The team running the $9.6 billion Vanguard Dividend
Growth fund (1.9 percent yield; 0.31 percent expense ratio)
likes to home in on companies with a growth rate three
percentage points above the inflation rate, or about 6 percent
these days. That fund's 4 percent annualized gain over the
past five years is 4 percentage points ahead of the S&P 500.
The $10.1 billion Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF (2
percent yield; 0.18 percent expense ratio) tracks an index of
firms with at least a 10-year record of dividend growth. Its
3.2 percent annualized gain over the past five years is 2
percentage points better than the return for the S&P 500.  Parsing the payout  The other key dividend variable is what's known as the
payout ratio: the percentage of a firm’s earnings being forked
over to cover the payment. A high ratio can make it harder for
a firm to keep increasing its payout at a meaningful pace. For
example, utilities, with payout ratios that can often top 75
percent, already churn out most of their earnings to cover
dividends. Warasta says as a general rule a payout ratio below
50 percent gives a firm plenty of room to keep growing the
dividend.  Nuveen Investments found that in the 10 years through
2011, S&P 500 companies with the lowest payout ratios
delivered higher total returns than stocks with higher payout
ratios, regardless of their nominal yield. The $10 billion
IShares Dow Jones Select Dividend ETF (3.4 percent yield; 0.40
percent expense ratio) has about 30 percent invested in
utilities; by comparison, the S&P 500 Index has 4 percent
riding on the utility sector. For the past five years, the
utility-heavy ETF has an annualized loss of 1.5 percent, which
lags the S&P 500 Index by two percentage points.  The other Buffett rule  Warren Buffett has refused to pay a dividend to Berkshire
Hathaway shareholders on the premise that he can find better
uses for the cash. But make no mistake, he’s a fan of dividend
growth.  In Berkshire’s 2011 annual report, Buffett pointed out
that when he'd finished building BRK’s position in Coca-Cola
in 1995, the dividend payout to Berkshire that year was $88
million. He noted that he expected his 2011 dividend check
from the soft drink maker to be a tidy $376 million, and for
that to double in 10 years. “By the end of that period, I
wouldn’t be surprised to see our share of Coke’s annual
earnings [the dividends paid] exceed 100% of what we paid for
the business.”  That’s all about dividend growth. For the past five
years, Coca-Cola, whose stock yields 2.8 percent, has
increased its dividend payout at an 8.7 percent rate.
Moreover, Coke's 10 percent annualized return over that
stretch beat the S&P 500 by 9 percentage points. Not exactly
dowdy.
 