-- Drillers Say Costs Manageable From Pending Gas Emissions Rule
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-04-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/drillers-say-costs-manageable-from-pending-gas-emissions-rule.html
An Obama administration plan to cut
air pollution from natural-gas wells that was delayed after a
flurry of last-minute comments won’t slow the gas boom sweeping
the U.S., some drillers and industry analysts said.  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  say they
already use systems to capture methane and other fumes at wells,
the key requirement of a rule that may be issued as early as
today. Drilling hasn’t slowed in Colorado or Wyoming where
technology to capture emissions has been required by the state
since 2009 and 2010, Christine Tezak, senior policy analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in McLean, Virginia, wrote in a March 16
research  note .  The new standards follow President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to
“take every possible action” to see that gas drilling is done
without putting the public’s health at risk. The American
Petroleum Institute in  Washington , which represents more than
500 oil and gas companies, warned that without changes, the rule
will slow drilling and reduce U.S. gas production.  “What we do today with reduced emissions completions in
our wells doesn’t cost us any more than just venting the gas
into the atmosphere,” Mark Boling, president of Southwestern’s
V+ Development Division, said in an interview. API’s
“experience has not been our experience.”  A draft of the EPA rule proposed last year focuses on
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which millions of gallons
of chemically treated water are forced underground to break up
rock and free the gas. The method has opened up vast new shale-
gas deposits and helped push natural gas prices to the lowest
level in a decade.  Three Years  The rule would take effect about 60 days after it is
issued. The American Petroleum Institute says it will take up to
three years to manufacture equipment needed to comply and train
people to use it.  Benjamin Salisbury, a senior energy policy analyst at FBR
Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington,  Virginia , said he expects
the EPA to delay the effective date of the rule to prevent any
“short-term dislocations.”  “We have every reason to believe that the Obama
administration wants to ensure that they maintain a vibrant
natural gas industry,” Salisbury said in an interview.
“Assuming that EPA grants adequate phase-in time, then our read
is that this is something that should be manageable for the
industry.”  Potent Gases  Methane, a potent greenhouse gas, and volatile organic
compounds that contribute to ozone escape from wells when
drilling fluids come to the surface in the three to 10 days
after fracking, according to the EPA. The draft rule would
require a device at the well head to separate fluids, sand and
gases.  Captured methane, the main component of natural gas, can
then be sold, netting drillers $30 million a year after the
expense of using separators, according to the EPA. Wells in
areas with no pipelines to carry the gas would be exempt.  Industry groups such as the  American Petroleum Institute 
and  American’s Natural Gas Alliance  say the rule should also
exclude wells that emit low amounts of volatile organic
compounds.  “The proposal took too much of a one-size-fits-all
approach to regulating an industry that varies greatly in the
type, size and complexity of operations,” Howard Feldman,
research director at the American Petroleum Institute, said on
an April 12 conference call with reporters.  Prohibitive Costs  The rule would impose prohibitive costs on drillers,
Feldman said. As proposed, it would add $180,000 to the cost of
a well and increase expenses across the industry by $783 million
over four years.  Those costs combined with a lack of equipment needed to
comply will lead to a reduction in drilling of as many as 21,400
wells, or 52 percent, from the estimated production in the first
four years after the standards take effect, the industry group
said. Gas output would fall by 9 percent to 11 percent.  “The industry is already leading efforts to reduce
emissions,” Feldman said. “EPA can fix these rules so they
reduce emissions in a way still compatible with oil and natural
gas development.”  EPA says it will cost about $33,000 to use separators on
wells that can cost more than $7 million in the Marcellus Shale,
a formation that stretches from  New York  to  Tennessee . The
number of permits in  Colorado  more than doubled in the year
after emissions-capturing systems were required, Tezak wrote.  ‘Best Practice’  “Green completions may not be free but implementing them
as a best practice may be worth the incremental costs, even with
natural gas at decade-low prices,” Tezak wrote.  Last-minute lobbying by  energy industry  and environmental
groups led the EPA to request a two-week extension of a court-
ordered deadline to release the final rule. Emissions rules for
oil and gas wells initiated in 1985 and 1989 haven’t been
revised, according to Robin Cooley, an attorney with the
environmental group Earthjustice.  The expansion of fracking has raised concerns over possible
health impacts. Emissions from wells in sparsely populated areas
of  Wyoming  helped increase ozone levels and may prompt the
government to declare parts of the state as an ozone non-
attainment area, a label typically applied to urban regions such
as  Los Angeles .  Arkansas Shale  In the past five years, Houston-based Southwestern, the
biggest natural-gas producer in  Arkansas ’ Fayetteville Shale,
has cut the cost of capturing stray emissions to zero from
$20,000 a well, Boling said. Meanwhile, the company is capturing
an average of 16 million cubic feet of gas that would otherwise
have been released into the atmosphere or burned off.  Southwestern, which isn’t a member of the American Petroleum
Institute, uses the emissions technology at almost all its wells
in the Fayetteville and Marcellus shale. Even at $2 per million
Btus, “we’re making money,” Boling said.  Natural gas futures for May delivery rose 3.5 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $2.016 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Gas is down 35 percent this year.  Devon Energy, an API member based in  Oklahoma City , already
uses systems to capture emissions on more than 90 percent of its
wells, according to Bill Whitsitt, executive vice president.  “We are capturing value that would otherwise be lost,”
Chip Minty, a Devon spokesman, said in an interview. “It does
make good economic sense for us.”  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  uses the technology on “a high
percentage of our wells,” Jim Gipson, a spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Of wells drilled in 2011 by eight members of America’s
Natural Gas Alliance, 93 percent used systems to capture stray
gas, according to Sara Banaszak, chief economist with the
Washington-based group. Methane from about half of the remaining
wells was burned off instead of vented to the atmosphere, a
technique that reduces the impact on  climate change .  “This rule is a no brainer,” Cooley said in an interview.
“It’s got the public health benefit. The rule is very cost
effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  