-- Duke of Westminster’s Grosvenor Reports Record Earnings in 2011
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-04-17T08:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/duke-of-westminster-s-grosvenor-reports-record-earnings-in-2011.html
Grosvenor Group Ltd., the property
company owned by the Duke of Westminster’s family trusts, said
earnings before items rose to a record last year as it increased
rental income and cut expenses.  Pretax profit excluding changes in investment property
values and one-time items increased to 80.8 million pounds ($128
million), the highest since the London-based company began
reporting the measure of earnings in 1999. That compares with
64.2 million pounds a year earlier, Grosvenor said today on its
 website.  Shareholders’ funds, a measure of net asset value,
climbed 7.8 percent to 2.86 billion pounds.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Preston is reorganizing
Grosvenor to prepare the company for an eventual recovery in
global real estate markets. The group cut vacancies and costs to
lift net rental income, reorganized its  fund management  arm and
increased development projects in under-supplied markets, such
as central  London  luxury homes and San Francisco offices.  “We are now beginning to see the benefits of the extensive
reshaping of the group over the past few years,” Preston, 44,
said today in an e-mailed statement accompanying the company’s
annual report.  The value of real estate owned or managed by Grosvenor
appreciated by 15 percent to 12.5 billion pounds, lifted by the
company’s fund-management operations. Pretax profit fell to 315
million pounds from 394.8 million pounds a year earlier as
values rose at a slower pace.  Grosvenor’s Britain and Ireland division more than doubled
its profit to 16.4 million pounds, while earnings generated by
Sonae Sierra, the shopping center venture with  Portugal ’s Sonae
SGPS SA, rose 40 percent. The company also reported profit
growth of more than 60 percent at its North American and Asia-
Pacific divisions.  Fund Management Loss  Grosvenor Fund Management reported a 1.6 million-pound loss
after a 12.5 million-pound profit as fee income fell and an
expansion of the business increased costs. Funds under
management rose to 5 billion pounds from 3.8 billion pounds in
2010 as Grosvenor Fund Management raised four new funds.  Grosvenor plans to start raising money for four new funds
this year and is also considering a real estate securities fund,
Preston said in an interview.  The company has about 855 million pounds in cash and funds
available to invest. Acquisitions boosted the value of
development projects to 3.2 billion pounds from 2.1 billion
pounds. They include the Roppongi Arents residential development
in  Tokyo .  “This will fuel the development pipeline for the next
property cycle,” Preston said.  More Diverse  Preston said he is also looking to diversify Grosvenor into
new areas of real estate, such as warehouses and other
industrials uses, taking a private-equity investment approach by
forming a venture or buying a stake in a specialist company.  The Grosvenor family’s ancestral London  land holdings  are
in Mayfair and Belgravia, locations that are consistently among
the world’s most expensive for leasing an office or buying a
home. The income these holdings generated allowed Grosvenor to
diversify internationally after World War II and today 51
percent of its assets are located outside the U.K., including
apartment buildings in  Shanghai  to a store on Rodeo Drive in
 Beverly Hills .  The Duke of Westminster is Britain’s wealthiest individual.
He was ranked 78th in  Forbes Magazine’s  March list of the
world’s richest people, with a net worth $11 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 