-- The War on Women Takes a Turn for the Worse
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/the-war-on-women-takes-a-turn-for-the-worse.html
The war on women, waged mostly by
men, has given way to the war among women, waged by women on one
another.  The current battle, joined anew last week in the
presidential campaign, is over women’s identities as working or
stay-at-home mothers. As such, it represents a step backward. At
least the war on women deals with issues of public policy we
could theoretically agree on: Should employees or employers
decide whether the insurance policies we pay for will cover
contraception? Should the federal government continue to fund
 health services  for poor women such as those provided by  Planned
Parenthood ?  Unfortunately, the outbreak of the war among women has
drowned out any discussion about the issues raised by the war on
women. The mommy wars lend themselves to no solution, especially
when debated (if that’s the word for it) in a presidential
campaign.  The casus belli was Hilary Rosen, a Washington political
consultant and analyst on  CNN  but  not an  “Obama adviser,” as
 Mitt Romney ’s staff quickly labeled her. Rosen criticized Romney
for fobbing off women’s economic issues on his wife, Ann, who
was not qualified to comment. In trying to make the point, Rosen
forgot the decorum needed when treating such delicate issues and
 said that  the mother of five “has actually never worked a day
in her life.” Unlike  North Korea ’s rocket test, this missile
launched.  National Conversation  Before you could say Murphy Brown, the confrontation took
over the national conversation. President  Barack Obama ’s top
staff threw Rosen under the bus,  Michelle Obama   tsk-tsked , even
 Barbara Bush   waded in . The issue brought out  the worst  from the
head of the Catholic League: “Lesbian Dem Hilary Rosen tells
Ann Romney she never worked a day in her life. Unlike Rosen, who
had to adopt kids, Ann raised 5 of her own.”  On Friday, tire tracks on her sleeve, Rosen canceled her
appearance on Sunday’s “Meet the Press.”  As a professional crisis manager and a mother herself,
Rosen should know better than to dump on another mother: We do
that only in whispers at the playground. It takes so little to
stir up resentments. Scratch the tender skin of any mother,
working or not, and there lies guilt (Emma has no friends! Is it
something I did?) and anger (You have a lot of nerve telling me
how to be a parent!).  I’ve seen the war from many sides. There is the stay-at-
home mom who endures bored stares when the inevitable “And what
do you do?” question is posed. There is the mother who wonders
if the mother calling to arrange a play date really just wants a
fill-in for the nanny.  More deeply, there is the working mother who wonders if she
is meeting the emotional needs of family life. Does the rush of
closing a sale, or the company of adults, or simply a paycheck
make up for the enduring victories of motherhood, which mostly
occur behind closed doors with results not apparent for a decade
or more?  These questions were hardly asked, much less answered.
Instead, the Romneys took false umbrage, as Ann  tweeted  what
hard work it was raising her five boys. But they expressed their
real feelings over the weekend at a fundraiser,  according to
NBC . The candidate called Rosen’s gaffe “a gift” and his wife
seconded, saying it was “my early birthday present for someone
to be critical of me as a mother, and that was really a defining
moment, and I loved it.”  Limited Choices  The Romneys’ joy over Ann’s “choice” is not one Mitt
would give others. As governor of  Massachusetts , he said that
poor mothers should go to work, even with babies under 2 years
old, if they wanted to receive any benefits. His policy,  he
explained , allowed them to enjoy “the dignity of work” a job
confers.  If he weren’t desperate to close his  19-point  gender gap,
Romney wouldn’t expose his wife, who if poor would be jobless
and undignified, on issues he’s not clear on. He’s for equal pay
but  maybe not  for the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which
removes barriers for women to sue employers for wage
discrimination. Nor do Republicans love family leave, the
Violence Against Women Act, or federal funding to curb teenage
pregnancy, which has helped bring rates to an  all-time low . Let
Ann weigh in -- but first, let’s hear from Mitt.  You don’t need to be struggling to help those who are, as
FDR and JFK showed. But it helps to have some record of favoring
policies aimed at those less privileged then yourself.  Ann
Romney  worked at home, a luxury her husband denied other
mothers. While many working mothers are one blown gasket in the
old Ford away from being fired, Ann Romney has two Cadillacs
with their very own elevator.  It’s easy to see why Obama weighed in as  Switzerland ,
giving the standard boilerplate praising all mothers and adding
that public officials’ spouses should be off-limits. Despite  his
statement , Ann Romney is a semi-fair target, as is Michelle
Obama. They both involve themselves in debates of public
importance.  The archetype of the fair-game-for-comment spouse is
 Hillary Clinton , who became the wrong kind of working mother
when she remarked that she preferred lawyering to staying home
and baking cookies. From that moment on, every woman lucky
enough to have a baby and a byline held forth and offered advice
on how to (or how not to) squeeze a child, a marriage and a
high-powered career into a day that no legislation can stretch
beyond 24 hours. Hillary was criticized no matter what she did.  The war on women could end someday. The mommy wars are
endless. Look at what it took for Hillary to get out of the
cross hairs: the impeachment of her husband, which transformed
her into the Good Wife standing by her man. Then, when Hillary’s
nest emptied, her husband settled down, and she took to  wearing
dark glasses  and traveling the world kicking butt (and, in
 Colombia ,  kicking up  her heels).  Now she has morphed into the Good Working Mother whose job
just happens to be secretary of State. As such, she’s been
neutralized -- and may run for president again. That could be a
presidency to end all wars.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes 
and Obama’s  oil-speculation plan ;  Peter Orszag  on saving money
through  health-care reform ; Clive Crook on  economic fairness ;
William Pesek on  China’s power shift ;  Roger Lowenstein  on
 dodging Dodd-Frank ; Ana Palacio on  Spain’s outdated labor laws .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  