-- Funds Face ‘Honesty’ Rule in Expanded EU Law, Group Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-04-17T15:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/hedge-funds-face-honesty-rule-in-expanded-eu-law-group-says.html
The European Commission has added
rules on honesty, client-asset segregation and conflicts of
interest to measures to regulate  hedge funds , an industry group
said.  The commission, the European Union’s executive arm, has
added a provision saying fund managers must act with “honesty,
integrity and independence of mind to effectively assess and
challenge” senior management decisions, according to the
Alternative Investment Management Association.  Fund managers also face tougher rules on protecting client
assets, use of debt and conflicts of interest in rules that
differ from advice from the  European Securities and Markets
Authority  to the commission, AIMA said.  The draft rules are part of the commission’s work to
implement a hedge-fund law from 2011. The legislation, known as
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers directive, sets rules
on management and information disclosure for funds across the
27-nation region.  While “nobody is disputing the need and the obligation to
act honestly,” the underlying hedge-fund law already contains
measures that impose that obligation,  Andrew Baker , AIMA’s chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The concept of independence of mind and other similar
provisions appear to be copied from” other commission proposals
for regulating markets, Baker said. “This is a good
illustration of the types of changes which have been introduced
above and beyond ESMA advice without making the text any
clearer.”  The group warned earlier this month that the rules could
harm asset managers.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, responded by saying he won’t be “intimidated” by what
he described as “rearguard lobbying.”  Chantal Hughes, Barnier’s spokeswoman, declined to comment
further today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  