-- Edwards Judge Dismisses More Potential Jurors in Campaign Trial
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-04-17T22:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/edwards-judge-dismisses-more-potential-jurors-in-campaign-trial.html
The federal judge presiding over
former Democratic presidential candidate  John Edwards ’s trial on
campaign finance charges dismissed an additional seven potential
jurors on the second day of jury selection.  Most of those excused had work-related or family hardships,
U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles in Greensboro, North
Carolina, said today. Eagles began interviewing 48 prospective
jurors today in groups of 12. The jurors are part of a 128-
person pool left over from the initial round of jury selections
last week. The process of picking a jury is expected to run
through April 19, Eagles said.  Edwards, 58, a former U.S. senator from North Carolina, is
charged with violating campaign finance rules and using almost
$1 million in contributions to hide an affair. He has denied the
charges. Each of the six counts he faces carries a maximum
sentence of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.  Opening statements in the case are scheduled to begin April
23. Prosecutors allege Edwards solicited and funneled money from
two wealthy donors, through a former aide, to hide his
relationship with filmmaker Rielle Hunter. The money allegedly
paid for flights, accommodations and medical and living expenses
for Hunter, who was pregnant with Edwards’s child.  Edwards, subject of a two-year investigation, has
repeatedly denied the charges, saying he never thought he was
breaking the law. His lawyers contend the government is
improperly applying election laws governing contributions.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  