-- Egypt Bars President Race by Mubarak Ally, Salafi Cleric
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/egypt-bars-president-race-by-mubarak-ally-salafi-cleric.html
Egypt ’s election commission turned
down appeals by 10 presidential candidates, including  Hosni Mubarak ’s former intelligence chief, the Muslim Brotherhood’s
leading hopeful and a Salafi cleric in a move that strips the
May 23 race of some of its most controversial figures.  The decision, announced yesterday and reported by the
state-run Middle East  News Agency , reaffirms an earlier ruling
by the commission that outraged Islamists whose only apparent
consolation was that  Omar Suleiman , who served as Mubarak’s vice
president in the ousted regime’s final days, was also knocked
out of the race.  The disqualifications leave the field mostly comprised of
moderate Islamists and secularists.  Disqualifying the candidates creates “a group of Egyptians
who are disenfranchised, and who feel that they don’t have a
voice in the outcome,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said in a recent telephone
interview. “That’s not a good precedent to set going into the
country’s first democratic elections.”  The commission’s ruling comes at a time when Egyptians are
worried about the country’s transition to civilian rule –-
concerns heightened over the weekend when Egypt’s military ruler
said a new constitution needs to be completed by the June 30
transfer of power deadline. Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi’s comments were read by some Egyptians as indicating
that the presidential election could be delayed if the charter
is not drafted in time.  Brotherhood Candidate  Among the most prominent names to be disqualified
permanently from next month’s vote were also the Brotherhood’s
former second-in-command Khairat el-Shater, a millionaire
businessman who served as the group’s chief planner, and Hazem
Abou Ismail, a Salafi lawyer-turned-cleric.  Following his disqualification, el-Shater endorsed Mohamed
Mursi, head of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party,
according to a statement on the Brotherhood’s website.  Abou Ismail had been disqualified because the commission
said it had evidence his mother held dual U.S.-Egyptian
citizenship, a claim he repeatedly denied. Abou Ismail began an
open protest by the commission’s headquarters, MENA reported.  Suleiman and Abou Ismail were among the three top
contenders for the post, according to a poll conducted by Al
Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies and published
April 16. Suleiman led with 31.7 percent, followed by former
Arab League Secretary General  Amre Moussa  with 22.3 percent,
according to the survey. Abou Ismail was in third with 21.4
percent.  Suleiman’s elimination removes a figure that the
Brotherhood and others had seen as an attempt to recreate the
ousted regime and an effort by the ruling military to ensure
that their interests remain untouched in any new government,
particularly one where the Islamists dominate parliament.  The military has denied any such ambitions and insists it
is not backing any candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net  