-- Mellanox Premium Swells on Record Revenue View: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-18T14:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/mellanox-premium-swells-on-record-revenue-view-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  climbed
in New York, widening the premium over its  Tel Aviv  shares by
the most among U.S.-traded Israeli companies, on speculation the
technology developer will report record first-quarter revenue.  Mellanox jumped 4.4 percent to an all-time high of $43.45
yesterday in New York, boosting the premium over its Israeli
stock to 96 cents. The advance bolstered gains in the  Bloomberg
Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded in
New York, which added 1.7 percent to 89.20 yesterday, the most
in three weeks. The shares rose 2.8 percent to 163.9 shekels, or
the equivalent of $43.56, in Tel Aviv.  Internet Gold-Golden
Lines Ltd.’s (IGLD)  Israeli shares surged 8.2 percent on prospects the
company’s fixed-line phone provider unit will benefit from
government reform of the sector.  A maker of technology used to transfer and store data
quickly, Yokneam Elit, Israel-based Mellanox will say sales in
the first three months of 2012 jumped 48 percent to $81.6
million, according to the median of 10 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. With  customers  including International
Business Machines Corp. and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , Mellanox is benefiting
from rising demand for data servers, according to  Pacific Crest 
Securities Inc. and Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “There’s room for upside” because of the growth potential
for Mellanox,  Kevin Cassidy , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus who
recommends buying the shares, said by phone from Washington,
D.C. yesterday. “You don’t want to wait very long when you
download a movie from iTunes or whatever network you have, so
you need faster networks. That’s what Mellanox does.”  Internet Traffic  Global Internet traffic jumped eightfold over the past five
years, and will rise fourfold by the end of 2015, according to
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Mellanox is the best performer on Tel Aviv’s benchmark  TA-
25 Index (TA-25)  over the past year. The TA-25 slipped 0.3 percent to
1,142.80 in Tel Aviv today.  The shares of the Israeli technology company were raised to
outperform from sector perform at Pacific Crest yesterday,
meaning Mellanox’s stock will gain more than its peers.  The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  climbed 1.8 percent yesterday,
its biggest advance in a month, as the  International Monetary
Fund  raised its forecast for U.S. and global growth.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Big Data  Oracle Corp., the largest maker of database software,
reported a 62-cent adjusted profit per share that beat the 56-
cent average analyst prediction on March 20.  The Redwood City, California-based company owns a 9.6
percent  stake  in Mellanox and its Exadata database appliance
uses Mellanox’s technology. Exadata sales doubled last quarter,
Oracle said.  The area of so-called big data, where specialists mine and
make sense of the constantly-expanding information available via
the Internet, is expanding with more companies hiring for these
positions, the Progressive Policy Institute in  Washington  said
at the beginning of the month.  To handle the data, companies are turning to ever-faster
servers, Stifel’s Cassidy said. That drives demand for
Mellanox’s fast connectors.  “It doesn’t do you any good to have a high-speed server
that’s on a slow network,” he said.  Internet Gold Surges  Internet Gold, the holding company that owns phone company
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp., climbed to $6.18 in New
York yesterday. The shares advanced to 24.49 shekels, or the
equivalent of $6.51, in Tel Aviv today.  Bezeq rallied the most in 17 years in Tel Aviv yesterday
speculation new government policy will allow Israel’s largest
fixed-line phone company to integrate its units and cut costs.
The shares rose 0.5 percent to 6.30 shekels, or the equivalent
of $1.67, in Israel today.  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH)  fell 0.9 percent to 21.21 shekels, or
the equivalent of $5.64, in Tel Aviv today. The shares in New
York gained 4.9 percent to $5.74 yesterday.  The Nes Ziona, Israel-based drug developer tests on a drug
treatment to treat obesity and type II diabetes showed positive
pre-clinical results, according to a statement yesterday.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, rose 0.5 percent to 398.1 shekels, or the
equivalent of $105.78, after climbing 1.9 percent to $106.54 in
New York yesterday.  “There is much to like about Perrigo,”  David Steinberg ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an e-mailed report on
April 15. “It is the dominant player in its primary market with
no significant competitor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  