-- Oracle’s Ellison Weighed Java, RIM Before Suing Google
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/ellison-testifies-oracle-explored-dropped-making-java-phone-1-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  testified that he considered making a
smartphone with its Java programming language before suing
Google Inc. for using parts of Java in its Android software.  “We explored that idea and decided it would be a bad
idea,” Ellison said yesterday under questioning by Google
lawyer Robert Van Nest.  Five months before filing a patent and copyright lawsuit
against the search engine company in March 2010, Ellison met at
his San Francisco-area home with Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  to
discuss a joint smartphone project that would use Oracle’s
version of Java on Android, by then running on millions of
devices, Ellison, 67, told federal court jurors yesterday.  A year earlier, Ellison had looked at buying BlackBerry
maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  or phone-maker Palm Inc.
Ultimately, Oracle didn’t pursue  acquisition  as a means to
develop a Java smartphone and didn’t reach a deal with Schmidt,
Ellison said. Oracle sued Google and is now seeking
$1 billion in damages over claims its use of Java software
requires it to pay licensing fees.  Van Nest told the jury before Ellison took the stand that
Oracle, because it was unable to make a Java phone, sued Google
to cash in on its success with Android. Google doesn’t need a
license to use parts of Java, which is free, and it developed
Android mostly from scratch, he said.  “It’s not about them protecting intellectual property or
protecting the Java community,” Van Nest said of Oracle’s
claims. “They want to share in Android’s success without having
done a thing to bring that about.”  ‘Open Source’  Ellison, the first witness to testify in person at the
trial, said the idea of a Java phone percolated as Oracle
prepared to buy Java creator Sun Microsystems Inc. Extending
Java’s use in mobile technology was desirable, though not the
primary motivation for acquiring Sun, he said. While Java is an
“open source” computer language that is free, companies must
still take out a license to use aspects of the Java platform, he
said.  Talks with Google were aimed at making Android compatible
with Oracle’s version of Java, said Ellison, who founded Oracle
in 1977 and is now the world’s seventh-richest man according to
Bloomberg.  “Just because something is open source doesn’t mean you
can do whatever you want with it,” Ellison said.  $7.4 Billion Deal  Java, created by Sun Microsystems in the mid-1990s, lets
developers write programs that work across different operating
systems and on a variety of computers. A key building block of
the Internet, it’s widely used in business applications. The
software also runs on billions of mobile devices.  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, the  largest maker  of  database software ,
acquired Sun in 2010 for $7.4 billion.  Google relies on Android, the most popular U.S. smartphone
operating system, to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the mobile-phone
market and to cut its dependence on traditional Web-search
advertising. Google is the world’s largest Internet-search
company.  Oracle’s attorneys said they will call Google CEO  Larry Page  to testify today. Page may be questioned about internal
Google e-mails in which employees said the  Mountain View ,
California-based company should license Java.  In a videotape of Page’s deposition shown to the jury
yesterday, the Google co-founder was questioned by Oracle
attorney  David Boies  about a 2005 product strategy meeting
document written by senior executives. Those executives said in
the memo that Google needed a license for Java from Sun.  Page’s Disagreement  “That’s not consistent with my understanding of Java,”
Page said.  The document is “asserting that Google was required to
take some kind of license,” Boies said.  “I agree that’s written here but I don’t agree with the
statement,” Page said.  Oracle alleges Google infringed  copyrights  on 37 Java
application programming interfaces, or APIs, which are used for
building software applications. The arrangement and structure of
APIs Google used are original expressions that are
copyrightable, Oracle’s attorneys have said.  Oracle also alleges that Google infringed two Java patents
that a court-appointed expert estimated are worth $2.8 million
in damages.  The trial in  San Francisco  is expected to last eight weeks.
The first phase will deal with allegations of copyright
infringement. Phase two will address the patent claims. If
jurors find that Oracle’s intellectual property was infringed,
they will decide in a third phase whether the company is
entitled to damages.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  