-- Most Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on China Worries
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-17T22:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/emerging-stocks-fall-to-11-week-low-on-apple-china-investment.html
Most emerging-market stocks
declined as foreign direct investment into  China  slumped for a
fifth month, raising concern weaker growth in the world’s
second-largest economy may weigh on riskier assets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1020.08 at the close in New York, erasing an earlier drop of as
much as 0.7 percent, as 429 stocks declined and 341 gained.
 Preferred shares  of Samsung Electronics Co. led declines among
technology companies.  YPF SA (YPFD)  plunged 6.9 percent in  Buenos Aires 
as the exchange lifted a trading halt imposed yesterday after
the government said it would seize the  oil company .  Foreign direct investment into China fell 6.1 percent from
a year earlier to $11.76 billion. The country’s economy expanded
the least in almost three years in the first quarter. The gauge
pared losses after the  International Monetary Fund  increased its
outlook for global growth this year to 3.5 percent from 3.3
percent and boosted its forecast for U.S. expansion to 2.1
percent from 1.8 percent.  “We have seen a structural decline in the growth rate in
China,”  Clive McDonnell , head of emerging-market equity
strategy for Standard Chartered Plc., said in an interview with
 Tom Keene  on Bloomberg TV. For emerging-market assets, “the
optimism that was in place there during the first quarter has
ebbed.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has risen 11 percent this
year, compared with an 8.8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index
of developed nations. Shares in the developing nation gauge are
trading at 10.4 times estimated earnings, cheaper than the 12.5
multiple of the developed-nation counterpart.  ETF Gains  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 1.2 percent to $42.43 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options  Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 5 percent to 27.24.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  jumped 1.2 percent, ending a two-day
slide.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  gained 11 percent after
newspaper  Valor Economico  reported the government may cut the
payroll and aircraft fuel taxes to boost airline
competitiveness.  Localiza Rent a Car SA  gained 5 percent, the most in more
than a month, after saying first-quarter net income rose 14
percent, beating the average estimate of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  YPF Tumbles  YPF lost closed at the lowest in three years, leading the
benchmark  Merval index  to a third day of losses.  Argentina ’s
government sent a bill to Congress yesterday to seize 51 percent
of YPF from  Spain ’s Repsol YPF SA and took over management of
the company.  In  Poland , the  WIG 20 Index (WIG20)  advanced 0.9 percent, led by a
5.7 percent rise in  Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) , the country’s second-largest
oil refiner.  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 0.3 percent, the
first rise in three days.  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM)  gained the
most in a month after reporting a 27 percent increase in first-
quarter profit. It was the first of Turkey’s largest companies
to report earnings for the quarter.  Russia ’s Micex fell 0.4 percent, a second day of losses.
OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  shares slid 4.1 percent, their sharpest drop in two
weeks, after Russia’s Natural Resources Ministry said a unit
committed breaches serious enough to warrant canceling some
licenses.  China Investment  Foreign direct investment in China fell to $11.76 billion
in March, the nation’s  Ministry of Commerce  said today, after a
0.9 percent decline the previous month. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies in  Hong Kong  lost 0.5
percent.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  slid 2 percent in Hong
Kong.  Samsung’s preferred shares fell 3.9 percent.  South Korea ’s
Kospi index lost 0.4 percent.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 1.2 percent
after the nation’s central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate 
for the first time since 2009 by a larger-than-expected 0.5
percentage point to bolster economic growth.  State Bank of
India , the nation’s biggest lender, added 1.7 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 357, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  