-- Emerging-Market Drift From World Bank to Test Kim
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-17T04:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/emerging-market-drift-from-world-bank-set-to-test-incoming-kim.html
As Jim Yong Kim takes over as
president of the  World Bank , he will find himself at the helm of
a poverty-fighting organization where large, emerging-market
members no longer need it to finance much of their development.  Instead, it will be up to Kim to keep the bank relevant to
China,  Brazil  and other nations that have access to private
investors. With some countries even becoming rival lenders in
Africa and Latin America, one of Kim’s main challenges is to
keep them as clients and contributors, said  Nancy Birdsall ,
president of the Washington-based  Center for Global Development .  “It’s no longer a question of the bank doing things for
those countries,” said Birdsall, a former director of policy
research at the World Bank. “It’s a question of how those
countries will engage with the bank, not only as possible
borrowers but as participants for strengthening the capital base
of the bank, as participants in pushing for policy changes.”  Kim’s selection yesterday over candidates from Nigeria and
 Colombia  extends a U.S. monopoly on the top job just as the
share of emerging markets in the global economy increases. The
52-year-old physician said in a statement he “will seek a new
alignment of the World Bank Group with a rapidly changing
world,” fostering an institution that “amplifies the voices of
 developing countries .”  Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China, the so-called BRIC group
of major emerging markets, will account for 23 percent of the
world’s output in 2016, up from 19 percent in 2011, according to
a  report  by Grant Thornton International Ltd. The share of Group
of Seven countries, which includes the U.S., Germany and  Japan ,
will decline to 44 percent from 48 percent in the same time
frame, it said.  Diverging Interests  The two groups can have diverging interests, with the
richer nations putting more emphasis on environmental or social
safeguards, said Whitney Debevoise, a former U.S. executive
director at the World Bank.  “There’s a different perspective for example on coal-power
projects,” he said.  Kim, who was born in  Korea  and grew up in the U.S., said
his experience will help him bridge such differences at the
lender, which committed $57 billion last year on everything from
building roads to taking stakes in companies in emerging
economies. He takes office at the World Bank July 1.  In a statement to the board last week, he pledged to
“bring a global orientation to my leadership, helping to build
consensus to advance the mission of the World Bank.”  Retaining Borrowers  He needs to retain borrowers. Part of the bank’s income
comes from the difference between the interest the bank charges
customers and the interest it pays selling bonds on financial
markets.  Clients include  Turkey , which last month obtained a $600
million, 15-year loan to promote clean technology investments
and improve energy security. These arrangements are attractive
as they combine long-term financing at low  interest rates  with
the expertise of World Bank staff.  Still, they are dwarfed by private investment. Net
disbursements by the World Bank to middle-income governments
such as  China  were less than $8 billion in the year through June.
By contrast, net private inflows to emerging markets reached
$910 billion in 2011, according to  estimates  by the Washington-
based Institute of International Finance.  Borrowers can also be driven away by the safeguards and
bureaucracy of the bank, said Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who competed against Kim and is a former managing
director at the bank.  ‘Lost Interest’  “Middle-income countries are no longer prepared to wait,”
she said in  Washington  last week. At times the bank has “to
certify and recertify over and over again that something is
right and then you have to review it and it takes 10 months and
a year, and by then the country has lost interest,” she said.  That’s the case with Ghana, which signed a $1 billion
lending agreement with China Development Bank Corp. as part of
the biggest loan in the country’s history.  “China has emerged as a significant source of credit to
 Africa , traditionally our partners have been the World Bank and
the IMF,” Vice President John Dramani Mahama said in an
interview, referring to the  International Monetary Fund . “The
process for accessing World Bank and IMF credit has been
unfortunately quite tiresome and comes with a lot of strings.”  A plan under study by Brazil, Russia, India, China and
 South Africa  to create their own development bank may be a
reflection of that frustration, Center for Global Development’s
Birdsall said.  Brazil’s national development bank alone in 2011 made 139.7
billion reais ($75.6 billion) worth of loans.  China’s Lending  Already, China’s lending to Latin America in 2010 was more
than the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the
Export-Import Bank of the  United States  combined, according to
estimates in a  report  published by the Inter-American Dialogue,
a Washington-based, non-for-profit organization that seeks to
build cooperation between Western Hemisphere nations.  One of Kim’s challenges will be to encourage  emerging
markets  to contribute more to the World Bank and less through
bilateral loans, said Bessma Momani, a political science
professor at the University of Waterloo in  Canada .  Robert Zoellick, the current World Bank president, has made
it a point to have the bank keep close ties with large emerging
markets. He appointed Chinese academic Justin Lin as chief
economist in 2008 and the World Bank this year co-wrote a report
on  China’s economy  with Chinese state researchers.  Largest Trading Partner  China is Africa’s largest trading partner and has signed
agreements worth billions of dollars with governments on the
continent, seeking natural resources to feed its economic growth
in exchange for building roads and railways, and nurturing a
market for its products. Chinese finance operates under a set of
environmental guidelines that isn’t on a par with those of its
Western counterparts, according to the Inter-American Dialogue
report.  That makes for a delicate relationship between the two with
efforts from the bank to make China “a more responsible
lender,” said Debevoise, now a senior partner at Arnold &
Porter LLP.  The bank may get to the point where it says, “if you don’t
behave in Africa we’re not going to lend you anything more,’”
he said. “But China can just say ‘fine we don’t care.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 