-- Engro Fertilizer Earmarks $100 Million to Ensure Gas Supplies
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-04-17T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/engro-fertilizer-earmarks-100-million-to-ensure-gas-supplies.html
Engro Fertilizer Ltd.,  Pakistan ’s
biggest urea producer by capacity, is ready to invest as much as
$100 million to source alternative natural-gas supplies as the
country’s energy crisis cuts provision of the fuel.  “We are just waiting for government approval,” Chief
Executive Officer Khalid Mansoor said in an interview in
Karachi. “If there is a shortage at the Qadirpur field, we can
link up to other fields near it.”  Engro, which has spent $1.1 billion to build a fertilizer
plant as demand for crop nutrients expands in rural Pakistan, is
looking for new sources of gas as a shortfall curbs production.
Demand for the fuel in the country, where farming employs more
than 45 percent of the workforce, exceeds output by as much as
15 percent, according to the central bank.  Industries such as fertilizer production should be
prioritized for gas supply to boost incomes in rural areas, said
Asim Wahab Khan, an analyst at Foundation Securities Ltd. in
Karachi. Engro could tap gas from a field near Daharki in
southern Pakistan where it operates, Khan said, citing a
pipeline from the Latif deposit as the most feasible option.  Engro’s plant, the company’s single largest investment, can
produce as much as 1.3 million metric tons of fertilizer a year.  Parent company  Engro Corp. (ENGRO)  has dropped 33 percent in
Karachi trading in the past 12 months, and traded down 2.4
percent at 100.04 rupees yesterday.  “If the gas-supply issue is resolved, it will surely be in
a position to recover, but for the time being it’s in bad
shape,” said Farid Aliani, an analyst at BMA Capital
Management. “Due to advanced technology and the size of the
plant, Engro’s per-ton production cost is lower compared with
the competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  