-- Erste, Ciech, Jastrzebska, Tatry: Central Europe Equity Preview
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2012-04-17T06:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/erste-ciech-jastrzebska-tatry-central-europe-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies whose shares may undergo unusual price changes in
central European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after
company names. Share prices are from the last close.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  climbed less than 0.1 percent, the
Czech  PX Index (PX)  fell 1.2 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  rose 0.2
percent.  Ciech SA (CIE)  : Poland’s Treasury Ministry will
recommend Dariusz Krawczyk, former chief executive officer of
Synthos SA, to become CEO of the Polish chemicals producer,
Rzeczpospolita newspaper reported today, without saying where it
got the information. Ciech advanced 0.8 percent to 17.23 zloty.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  : The eastern Europe’s second-
biggest lender sees its results so far this year in line with
expectations, Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said in an
Internet chat hosted by the lender yesterday. Erste retreated
2.3 percent to 384 koruna.  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW)  : The European
Union’s biggest coking-coal producer is not considering a
takeover plan for Katowicki Holding Weglowy SA, the thermal coal
mining company that the government wants to sell, Dziennik
Gazeta Prawna reported today, citing Economy Minister  Waldemar
Pawlak . JSW gained 0.4 percent to 91.3 zloty.  Tatry Mountain Resorts AS (SKI6)  (SKI6 SK): Shareholders of the
Slovak ski resort operator will decide April 21 whether to
cross-list the company’s Bratislava-traded shares on the  Warsaw
Stock Exchange , possibly in the autumn, Parkiet newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information. The
shares were unchanged at 44 euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  