-- Let the IRS Do Your Taxes. Really
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/let-the-irs-do-your-taxes-really.html
In the 2008 presidential campaign,
candidate  Barack Obama  proposed a system by which the  Internal
Revenue Service  would supply taxpayers with forms “pre-filled”
with the relevant data, requiring them only to “verify, sign and
return” the digital documents via the Internet.  As tens of millions of Americans were reminded this week,
that vision of IRS simplicity and efficiency is no closer to
reality today than it was four years ago. It doesn’t have to be
that way.  In 2004, California’s Franchise Tax Board initiated a pilot
program called  ReadyReturn , which enables taxpayers with
relatively simple needs to do precisely what Obama proposed, but
on the state level. Relying on W-2 forms, the state fills out a
tax form and sends it to a participating taxpayer, who reviews
it and either signs off or requests changes. Taxpayers who are
due a refund and sign up for direct deposit receive it within
days of filing.  About 2 million  California  taxpayers who earn income only
from wages (and from just one employer) are eligible for
ReadyReturn, and an estimated 90,000 used it this year. The
program, which has grown more popular each year, entails
negligible costs; in fact, filing by ReadyReturn saves the state
money compared with traditional returns. (It also eliminates the
need for professional tax preparers, which has prompted Intuit,
maker of TurboTax software, to  spend heavily  on lobbying and
political campaigns in the state.)  In a 2006  paper  for the Hamilton Project,  Austan Goolsbee , a
 University of Chicago  economist who went on to serve as chairman
of President Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, estimated that
a similar “Simple Return” could save federal taxpayers more than
200 million hours and $2 billion a year in tax preparation costs.
He estimated that as many as 40 percent of taxpayers would be
eligible to file a “Simple Return.”  As we have  argued , the U.S. tax code is in dire need of the
kind of wholesale reform  envisioned  by the Simpson-Bowles
commission. For multiple reasons, most of them political, such
an overhaul will have to wait. Meanwhile, the IRS should move to
ease the tax preparation and filing burden borne by millions of
mostly middle- and low-income Americans whose taxes are a
relatively straightforward affair. (While it’s at it, the IRS
might want to send them “ tax-receipts ” that show the broad
categories of federal spending their payments supported and in
what proportions.)  If  Washington  can’t muster a better tax system, it can at
least produce a better way of complying with the current one.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on Obama’s  oil-speculation
plan ;  Peter Orszag  on saving money through  health-care reform ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Ann Romney’s choices ; Clive Crook on
 economic fairness ; William Pesek on  China’s power shift ;  Roger
Lowenstein  on  dodging Dodd-Frank ; Ana Palacio on  Spain’s
outdated labor laws .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 