-- EU Sees Repsol’s Leverage in Investment Pact, Weighs Own
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-04-17T15:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/eu-sees-repsol-s-leverage-in-investment-pact-weighs-own.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s first option for
countering the seizure of its subsidiary in  Argentina  lies in
the enforcement of an investment treaty between  Spain  and
Argentina, the European Commission said.  The commission, the European Union’s executive arm, ruled
out a  World Trade Organization  complaint and said Spain would
break European and international law by unilaterally imposing
trade curbs on Argentina.  European officials warned that the nationalization of  YPF
SA (YPFD) , majority-owned by Madrid-based Repsol, damages the business
climate in Argentina and disturbs the legal underpinnings of
other European companies’ operations there. They counted on the
international uproar to force Argentina to back down.  “I am seriously disappointed,” the commission’s
president,  Jose Barroso , told reporters in Brussels today. “We
expect the Argentine authorities to uphold their international
commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from
a bilateral agreement on investments with Spain.”  Barroso said he spoke yesterday with Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  about how to respond to Argentina’s move to strip
Repsol of control of YPF, Argentina’s largest crude producer.  EU officials will analyze “all the possible options which
are available,” said commission spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde- Hansen.  Policy Dialogue  In a symbolic protest, the EU canceled an April 19-20
policy dialogue with Argentina on economic and trade issues. The
meeting, the 10th in two decades, was to be chaired by Christian
Leffler, head of the Americas section in the EU foreign service.  Spain’s investment pact with Argentina may entitle Repsol
to seek independent arbitration to get the nationalization
overturned or obtain compensation from the Argentine government,
an EU official told reporters.  A preliminary analysis rules out a complaint to the WTO
because investment-protection pledges aren’t part of Argentina’s
commitments to the global trade body, the official said under
condition of anonymity. As part of the EU’s border-free single
market, Spain has no power to impose trade sanctions on its own,
he added.  Europe ’s leverage is limited by WTO rules and the lack of
an EU-Argentina trade accord, said  Cedric Dupont , professor of
international relations at the Graduate Institute in Geneva.  “The Europeans would probably have no ground to complain
against Argentina,” Dupont said. “They cannot go after them.”  The EU is also unlikely to speed the phase-out of trade
preferences that Argentina is scheduled to lose in 2014 because
it is no longer classified as a developing country, the European
official said.  While the trade privileges can also be scaled back for
human-rights abuses, there is no precedent for suspending them
due to a commercial dispute, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  