-- EU Should Mull Expanding CO2 Cap-and-Trade, Poland Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-17T11:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/eu-should-mull-expanding-co2-cap-and-trade-poland-says.html
The European Union should consider
expanding its emissions trading system to cover the region’s
transport industry and shouldn’t judge the effectiveness of the
program by a decline in carbon-permit prices,  Poland  said.  The 27-nation bloc needs to modify its cap-and-trade
program, the world’s largest, to make it “a landmark product”
for countries taking part in global climate talks, Poland said
in a confidential policy paper on the future of the EU emissions
trading system, or ETS, obtained by Bloomberg News.  “In order to stabilize and strengthen the system and keep
our leadership at climate negotiations by making it an appealing
option to our negotiating partners, we must work on enlarging
and refocusing its scope,” the Polish government said in the
paper.  The document, sent to other EU  member states  before an
informal  meeting  of environment ministers in  Denmark  later this
week, is Poland’s contribution to a debate about the ETS
scheduled for April 19. The talks will take place two weeks
after carbon prices fell to a record low on oversupply of
allowances amid a recession.  The ETS is the cornerstone of EU climate policy and imposes
emission curbs on more than 12,000 carbon-discharging facilities
owned by power producers and manufacturers. This year the system
expanded beyond the bloc’s borders for the first time since its
creation in 2005, covering flights from and to European airports
and triggering opposition from countries outside the region,
including the U.S.,  Russia ,
 China  and  India .  Greenhouse-Gas Reductions  “Considering tensions arising from enlarging ETS to
branches of transport touching players from third countries, it
is proposed to explore the whole EU transport-sector reduction
potential to balance the emphasis of greenhouse-gas reductions
between production and consumption,” according to Poland.  Emissions trading is a tool to effectively and efficiently
reduce CO2 emissions for all transport modes in the industry,
which is the biggest in terms of emissions not covered by the
ETS, the Polish government said in the paper, which proposes
options for the cap-and-trade system up to 2030.  “Considering that the power sector is included under the
system and the fact that we want to promote electric transport,
other means of transport should be ideally covered by the same
regime internalizing their CO2 costs,” according to Poland.  The government also said that the low price of emission
permits will recover when Europe comes out of economic
“turmoil” and the EU doesn’t need any “administrative
meddling” to boost the cost of carbon discharges.  Emission Permits  EU emission permits for December rose as much as 2.6
percent to 7.09 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  today. The contract has lost 60 percent in
the past year, falling to a record low of 5.99 euros on April 4
on concern that the ETS will be oversupplied for most of the
next trading period from 2013 to 2020.  Denmark, the holder of the bloc’s rotating presidency, said
earlier this month that a decline in emission costs casts “some
doubt” on the ability of the program to promote investment in
low-carbon technologies.  The reasons behind the decline in carbon prices include the
economic crisis, uncertainties over national support schemes for
renewable energy sources and failure by governments worldwide to
agree a global climate-protection deal, according to Poland.  “The future of the ETS is in doubt for a number of
reasons,” the Polish government said in the paper. “But it is
still  Europe ’s major tool for achieving CO2 reductions agreed
back in 2008. If we want to make it deliver truly global
results, we must change it so it factors in carbon leakage
and consumption-based emissions.”  Climate-Policy Framework  To restore investors’ confidence, the EU should overhaul
the system to create a “flexible climate-policy framework well
integrated with other environmental and economic policies,” the
government said. Adjustments can take place only after all tools
agreed to in 2008 and due to be introduced from 2013 are fully
implemented, including distributing free allowances for east
European power producers, it said.  In the future, the EU should consider switching to fuel-
based benchmarks as a basis for calculating the number of free
allowances for installations rather than relying on product-
based benchmarks, according to Poland. The country relies on
coal for about 90 percent of its electricity generation.  Europe also needs to provide additional assistance to
 carbon capture  and storage projects and put more effort in
encouraging non-EU countries to link their systems with the ETS,
for example through a bilateral emissions-offsetting mechanism,
the Polish government said in the paper.  Carbon-Reduction Targets  Another option put forward by Poland is to give member
states the possibility of using surplus United Nations emissions
rights, or Assigned Amount Units, for compliance in the ETS. The
government also reiterated that Europe should not unilaterally
move to more ambitious carbon-reduction targets.  “A potential trade-off between climate-change policies and
competitiveness continues to be a risk or some sectors,
especially in a perspective of full decarbonization, if Europe
was to act alone,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  