-- Stocks, Commodities Gain on Spanish Debt Auction, IMF
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-17T20:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/euro-weakens-ahead-of-spanish-debt-sales-oil-climbs.html
Stocks surged and Treasuries fell
as Spain sold more debt than targeted and the International
Monetary Fund raised economic forecasts, overshadowing declines
in U.S. housing starts and factory production. Commodities rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.6 percent to close
at 1,390.78 at 4 p.m. in  New York , its biggest gain in a month,
and the  Stoxx Europe (SXXP)  600 Index rallied 2 percent for its best
advance of 2012. Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds fell 18 basis
points to 5.89 percent and the Italian yield lost 12 basis
points. Ten-year Treasury yields increased two basis points to
2.00 percent. Canada’s currency strengthened against 15 of 16
major peers as policy makers said they may boost  interest rates .
Oil helped lead gains in commodities.  The IMF increased its outlook for global growth in 2012 to
3.5 percent from 3.3 percent and lifted its forecast for the
U.S. expansion to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent, easing concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will stifle the recovery. Spain sold
12-month and 18-month bills a day after yields on its 10-year
bonds reached the highest level this year. German’s ZEW survey
of investor confidence unexpectedly rose to a two-year high.  “It’s a collection of things that have ignited investors’
animal spirits again,” Mark Luschini, chief investment
strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
which manages about $54 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had the IMF upgrade of global activity, good news out of
Europe and decent earnings reports so far. That’s boosting
confidence.”  Apple Rebounds  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed for the first time in three days, with
energy and technology shares leading gains in all 10 of the main
industries. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  surged 194.13
points, or 1.5 percent, to 13,115.54.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rebounded 5.1
percent as brokerages including Stern Agee & Leach Inc. and
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. advised buying the shares after a
five-day, 8.8 percent tumble.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  rallied 2.1 percent
after profit topped estimates, helped by demand in  North
America .  International Business Machines Corp. rallied 2.3 percent
before releasing earnings after markets closed. Shares of the
world’s biggest computer-services provider erased most of the
gain in extended trading as first-quarter sales of $24.7 billion
missed the average analyst estimate of $24.8 billion. Earnings
of $2.78 a share, excluding some items, beat estimates by 4.9
percent and the company increased its full-year forecast.  Also after the close,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  predicted higher second-
quarter sales than some analysts had estimated as it ships new
personal-computer and server chips and shortages of hard drives
abate.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  retreated 0.7 percent after
posting revenue from trading bonds, currencies and commodities
that lagged behind Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Economic Data  Stocks rallied even after Federal Reserve data showed
production at factories dropped 0.2 percent in March, the first
decline in four months, as the industry cooled following the
strongest surge in three decades.  A gauge of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes increased 1.4
percent as MDC Holdings Inc. and PulteGroup Inc. led gains in
the group. Commerce Department data showed building permits
increased 4.5 percent in March, defying the median economist
estimate for a 0.7 percent decrease and overshadowing an
unexpected, 5.8 percent drop in housing starts.  The IMF also increased its forecast for global growth in
2013 to 4.1 percent, up from a previous projection of 4 percent.  It raised its 2013 U.S. growth forecast to 2.4 percent.  “You have an improving outlook across the globe because of
more positive sentiment,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee
more than $20 billion as chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “Although some of
the economic reports in the U.S. were disappointing, they are in
much better shape than they were last year. If you want the
glass half full, there’s certainly some potential there.”  European Shares  The Stoxx 600 extended its rebound from four straight weeks
of losses. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest lender, and
London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  rose more than 3.7 percent to help
lead banking shares to the biggest advance among 19 industries.
Afren Plc soared 6.3 percent after reporting a “significant”
oil discovery in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.  Repsol YPF SA, Spain’s largest oil company, dropped 6.1
percent after the Argentine government took control of one of
its units. Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
seized control of YPF, replacing Chief Executive Officer
Sebastian Eskenazi with Planning Minister Julio De Vido.  Euro, European Bonds  The euro weakened against 12 of 16 major peers, while
gaining 0.5 percent against the yen. The shared European
currency was little changed versus the dollar at $1.3131. The
pound strengthened against 12 of its 16 most-traded peers after
U.K. consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in March, the first
increase in six months and .  The yield premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
government debt instead of benchmark German bunds declined 22
basis points to 414 basis points, or 4.14 percentage points,
after yesterday reaching the highest level since November. Spain
sold 3.18 billion euros of bills, compared with a maximum target
of 3 billion euros.  Germany’s ZEW Center for European Economic Research’s  index
of investor and analyst expectations , which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, increased to 23.4
from 22.3 in March. Economists forecast a drop to 19, according
to the median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Japan said it will provide $60 billion to the  International
Monetary Fund ’s effort to expand its resources and shield the
global economy against any deepening of Europe’s debt crisis.
Finance Minister Jun Azumi made the commitment while speaking to
reporters in Tokyo today before semiannual meetings of the IMF
and  World Bank  in Washington April 20-22.  Canadian Dollar  Canada’s dollar rallied 0.9 percent to $1.0099 after Bank
of Canada policy makers said higher borrowing costs “may become
appropriate” because economic growth and inflation will be
faster than it forecast. The central bank kept its main interest
rate at 1 percent, extending the longest pause since the 1950s,
as predicted by all 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The S&P GSCI index of raw materials rose 0.5 percent,
halting a two-day drop, as cocoa, nickel and oil led an advance
in 17 of 24 commodities. Oil climbed 1.2 percent to $104.20 a
barrel, a two-week high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  was little changed as rallies of
more than 1 percent in benchmark gauges for Brazil, Israel
Hungary were tempered by declines in Asia. Taiwan’s TAIEX
dropped 1.9 percent.  China ’s inbound investment fell for a fifth
month, the government said. The Shanghai Composite Index fell
0.9 percent.  The  Sensex (SENSEX)  index of Indian shares rose 1.2 percent on a
higher-than-forecast benchmark interest rate cut. The  Reserve
Bank  of India cut the repurchase rate by 0.5 percentage points
to 8 percent, as predicted by three of 25 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  