-- Euro-Area March Inflation Rate Exceeds Estimate on Energy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-04-17T09:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/euro-area-march-inflation-rate-exceeds-estimate-on-energy-1-.html
European consumer  prices increased
at a faster pace than initially estimated in March, driven by
energy costs, complicating the  European Central Bank ’s task as
it tries to push the inflation rate below its 2 percent limit.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region held at 2.7 percent
for a fourth month, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s higher
than the estimate of 2.6 percent published on March 30.  The economy may struggle to gather strength as budget cuts
and rising energy prices erode  consumer spending  and company
investment. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  on
April 4  quashed  talk of an early exit from emergency stimulus
measures as  Spain  struggled to borrow in financial markets.
Policy makers left the benchmark rate at a record low 1 percent.  “Inflation remains relatively high on the back of one-off
factors,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at
London-based Newedge Group. “However, the ECB has clearly
signaled that policymakers are ready to act in a timely manner,
should pass-through effects start to put upside risks to medium
term inflation.”  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.3166 at 11:03 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent.  Energy Costs  Euro-region inflation may average about 2.4 percent this
year and 1.6 percent in 2013,  the ECB  said on March 8. The
Frankfurt-based central bank aims to keep annual gains in
consumer prices just below 2 percent.  Energy costs rose 8.5 percent after a 9.5 percent gain in
February, while transport gained 4.6 percent, according to
today’s report. The price of crude for May delivery was at
$103.41, up 48 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 10:38 a.m. Brussels time. Prices are 3.2
percent higher this year.  The euro-region’s core inflation rate, excluding volatile
costs such as energy, rose to 1.6 percent from 1.5 percent in
February, the statistics office said. In the month, consumer
prices gained 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  