-- Euro-Region Weakness Tests Maersk Competition Armistice: Freight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-17T22:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/euro-region-weakness-tests-maersk-competition-armistice-freight.html
Europe ’s container-shipping
operators need a pause in the slowdown afflicting the region to
bolster the truce they’ve called in their fight for customers.  Economic weakness caused by the debt crisis in Europe,
which accounts for more than a third of global trade, is putting
pressure on earnings at companies including A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, the world’s largest container line. Operators have shored
up margins by raising charges after a price war last year, and
Maersk plans to implement a further increase next month.  While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  says the
euro-area economy is showing signs of stabilization “at a low
level,” the ECB itself predicts a contraction in the region
this year. Analyst Rikard Vabo at Fearnley Fonds ASA in Oslo
suggested shipping lines will struggle to stave off the effects
of austerity and two years of debt-fueled turmoil.  “Maersk made a U-turn and started focusing more on the
profitability and rates again, which basically saved the
industry,” Vabo said in a phone interview. “For these rates to
stick and for operators to keep the utilization level required
on their ships, you will need to see an uptick on demand in the
U.S. and Europe, and the outlook for Europe isn’t very
encouraging.” He has a reduce recommendation on Maersk stock.  Europe’s freight traffic growth will slow in 2012,
according to maritime research group Hackett Associates LLC. Ben
Hackett, founder of the Alexandria, Virginia-based company,
forecasts northern European container volumes will rise about 4
percent this year, excluding shipments for other destinations,
empty containers and intra-European trade. That compares with
8.3 percent in 2011.  Austerity Impact  “It’s primarily a result of the austerity programs that
the various governments have put into place, which are slowing
government expenditure, cutting costs, and increasing
unemployment and a lack of  consumer confidence ,” Hackett said
in a phone interview.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area  shrank  0.3 percent
in the fourth quarter. A composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in services and manufacturing dropped to
49.1 in March from 49.3 a month earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said on April 4. Results below 50 indicate
contraction.  The ECB predicts an economic contraction of 0.1 percent for
this year as a whole, and officials are counting on low  interest
rates , emergency crisis measures and export demand from outside
the region to aid the recovery.  Trade Outlook  “The euro crisis is having a dampening effect on the
overall European trade picture and in the short term I don’t see
a pickup,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg
Bank in London and a former ECB official. “Domestic demand is
certainly weak for the euro zone countries facing tough
austerity programs. A massive import boom is very unlikely.”  The weakness of Europe’s economy and its debt turmoil is
also affecting the rest of the world, curbing global trade
growth to 3.7 percent this year from 5 percent in 2011, World
Trade Organization forecasts released April 12 show.  For companies operating the Asia-Europe route, the world’s
second-biggest trade lane, anemic economic expansion in a region
crucial to global trade threatens to weigh on earnings growth.
Last year, European Union merchandise exports totaled $6.6
trillion, or 37 percent of the global aggregate. Imports were
$6.9 trillion, or 38 percent, according to the WTO.  Price War  Weak economic growth threatens to hurt an industry already
licking its wounds from a drop in earnings.  Maersk ’s container
line, and competitors including  France ’s CMA CGM SA and Hamburg-
based Hapag-Lloyd AG all posted losses last year. A price war on
the world’s two largest container-shipping trade routes cost the
industry $11.4 billion over the previous 14 months, Copenhagen-
based  SeaIntel Maritime Analysis  estimated in a March report.  Maersk Line raised the rate it charges to carry a 20-foot
container on its route from  Asia  to North Europe and the
Mediterranean by $750 on March 1 and by $400 on April 1,
spokesman Hursh Joshi said in an e-mail response to questions.
Of those, about $1,000 has “stuck” and Maersk is seeking to
implement a further $400 boost on May 1, Joshi said.  “Only time can tell,” Joshi said when asked if Maersk is
confident that the rate increases, especially the future ones,
can be maintained. “We are confident that the rationale behind
the increases is understood by both the industry and customers”
and “we are simply talking about an industry return to
reasonable levels of profit,” he said.  Asia-to-Europe  Martina Fahnemann, a spokeswoman for Hapag-Lloyd, said no
one was available at the company to comment. A spokesperson for
CMA CGM declined to comment.  Maersk and its rivals have sought to return to profit by
curbing a surplus of ships, sharing vessels, reducing speeds to
save on fuel costs and raising rates. Maersk has a record 19.4
percent market share on Asia-to-Europe trade as a proportion of
the route’s total volume capacity, Chief Executive Officer Soren Skou said on March 5.  The company has 101 vessels with a total annual capacity of
2.45 million 20-foot containers on the lane and Maersk’s
container unit last year generated 39 percent of its volume from
the Asia-to-Europe route. There were 490 ships and 52 services
operating on the route in the fourth quarter, according to data
from London-based  Clarkson Plc. (CKN)   “As a consequence of what’s going on in Europe, then
clearly exports from Asia to Europe are a weak spot,” said Mark McVicar, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in London who
has a neutral recommendation on Maersk’s stock. “What the lines
have done so far this year will be enough to bring them back
close to profitability, if not actually to profit. They’re
dealing with a difficult supply-demand situation.”  Share Rise  Maersk’s tactics have bolstered the  shares , which have
climbed 7.4 percent this year, compared to a 7.3 percent gain in
the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The Lloyd’s List Bloomberg Container Index
of the 50 biggest such companies has risen 11 percent this year.  Any further rate increases by Maersk will add to measures
that have already helped prompt more than a tripling in the
average cost of carrying a 20-foot container to Europe from
 China  to $1,744 yesterday from a trough of $490 on Dec. 9,
according to Clarkson data. That was the lowest since Clarkson
began keeping the data in June 2010.  Container lines need to earn at least $1,100 per box on a
vessel with a capacity of 8,000 20-foot containers on the Asia
to Europe route and about $100-$200 lower for larger vessels,
according to data released in March from  Alphaliner , a Paris-
based maritime consultant.  ‘Challenging’ Outlook  Price increases may bolster shipping lines in the short
term, though a persistent oversupply of shipping capacity and
weak demand in Europe may curb earnings growth and the threat of
a renewed price war remains, said Vabo at Fearnley Fonds.  “The sector will see more positive news with new rate
increases being implemented,” he said. “But we believe the
fundamentals look challenging if you look six to 12 months
ahead.”  Weighing on that outlook is a renewed eruption of the debt
crisis after a lull created by the ECB’s offering of three-year
loans. Spanish bond yields climbed to the highest in more than
four months this week as investors speculated the country may
need to become the fourth nation of the region after  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to require a bailout.  “There is no doubt that Europe is back in a recession,”
said Hackett. “Demand remains insipid” and “the pressure
remains acute for the carriers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  