-- Ex-Cantor Traders Fighting FSA’s Market-Manipulation Fine
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-04-17T13:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/ex-cantor-traders-fighting-fsa-s-market-manipulation-fine.html
Two former traders at  Cantor
Fitzgerald  LP’s London unit are challenging disciplinary
penalties over four-year-old trades that the U.K. finance
regulator said were designed to inflate a customer’s pay.  The Financial Services Authority’s case focuses on
transactions on Dec. 31, 2007 and Jan. 31, 2008, by Cantor
Fitzgerald Europe traders including Cheickh Tidiane Diallo and
Patrick Sejean, according to papers filed by the regulator for a
trial today in London. They were trading on the instructions of
Stefan Chaligne, an equity-fund investment manager.  Chaligne “instructed CFE to buy stock with the goal of
raising the price” of a company in which the fund already held
shares, the FSA said in the court papers. The trades were done
“on those particular dates,” because they were the days on
which performance fees for Chaligne were decided, based on the
fund’s value, according to the regulator.  “This is quite serious and blatant market abuse on two
occasions,” a lawyer for the regulator,  Andrew Mitchell , said
at a hearing today.  Chaligne, a 50-year old French citizen who lives in
Switzerland, is challenging a 1.17 million-pound ($1.87 million)
penalty and ban from working in the U.K. finance industry. He
testified today that while he didn’t know at the time that he
was committing market abuse, he now accepts that he did. FSA
says Chaligne made 266,924 pounds from the trades.  Stocks, ADR Receipts  He traded in eight stocks and American Depositary Receipts
on European and North American stock exchanges in 2007 at a
value of around 5 million pounds, giving “clear instructions”
to Diallo and Sejean “that the aim of his trading was to make
the prices of all the stocks as high as possible on the close,”
the regulator said. In early 2008, Chaligne traded two stocks on
European exchanges with the intent to move the price of the
stock, according to the FSA.  Sejean said that, while he accepts a penalty is
appropriate, his 550,000-pound fine should be cut to below
10,000 pounds because of financial hardship. The FSA said today
Sejean, who lives and works in  Switzerland , has assets worth
about 58,000 pounds.  Diallo, who was only involved in the 2007 trades, maintains
a ban is too severe, the FSA said. An internal appeals panel at
the FSA ruled that a 100,000-pound fine was appropriate, but
that it shouldn’t be imposed because it would cause him
financial hardship.  Diallo worked for Cantor Fitzgerald from 2006 until April
16, 2011, in a customer trading role, according to the FSA
register. Sejean worked for the firm from 2002 until March 16,
2011. He was a trader on the French sales desk of the firm. He
now works for Makor Capital Markets in Geneva, according to the
regulator.  Sejean and Diallo, who are representing themselves without
lawyers, will present arguments later in the case. The trial is
scheduled to last six days.  Richard Oldworth, a spokesman for Cantor Fitzgerald,
declined to comment. Both Sejean and Diallo initially lied to
Cantor Fitzgerald and the FSA, according to the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  