-- Ex-Im Bank Chief Contests Delta Complaints on Aircraft Financing
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-17T15:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/ex-im-bank-chief-contests-delta-complaints-on-aircraft-financing.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s complaint
that U.S. Export-Import Bank financing for foreign competitors
has cost American jobs is flawed, bank Chairman  Fred Hochberg 
said.  “There’s no validity to their argument,” Hochberg,
president of the Washington-based bank, said today at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast.  Congress must reauthorize the bank, whose charter expires
on May 31. Opponents including Senator Jim DeMint, a South
Carolina Republican and founder of the Senate Tea Party caucus,
say the bank meddles in markets, putting U.S. airlines at a
disadvantage. President  Barack Obama ’s administration is seeking
to renew the bank for four years with a $140 billion lending
limit, a $40 billion increase.  U.S. airlines led by Atlanta-based Delta in November filed
a lawsuit against the Export-Import Bank, alleging that the
lender’s financing may undercut domestic carriers.  “The Ex-Im Bank routinely fails to evaluate the negative
impact that its commitments have on domestic industries and
domestic employment,” according to the filing by the  Air
Transport Association , a Washington-based industry group now
known as Airlines for America. The case is pending in U.S.
District Court of the  District of Columbia .  Delta is seeking to “end the damaging practices of export
financing on wide-body aircraft sales in both the U.S. and
 Europe , in order to level the playing field without doing harm
to Boeing,” Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, said.  Losses ‘Unsubstantiated’  Delta’s claim that jobs have been lost is
“unsubstantiated,” Hochberg said. Bank lending supported
85,000 U.S. aerospace jobs in 2011, according to Hochberg.  The bank performs an economic-impact analysis of each of
transactions to determine the effect on U.S. industries,
Hochberg said.  Banstetter said airline economist Daniel Kasper of Compass
Lexecon in a study found that Ex-Im financing on wide-body
aircraft to foreign airlines caused a 4.1 percent drop in
international-flight capacity, and a loss of 4,100 to 7,500 U.S.
carrier jobs.  International competitors use Export-Import financing to
buy wide-body planes from  Boeing Co. (BA)  at below-market  interest
rates , the airlines said in their lawsuit. Ex-Im financing last
year supported about $11 billion in commercial aircraft sales
for Chicago-based Boeing, according to a bank fact sheet. The
bank’s total financing in 2011 was $32.7 billion.  If foreign airlines are unable to buy Boeing aircraft, they
will purchase equipment from its European competitor, Airbus
SAS, Hochberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  