-- Ex-IMI Executives Plead Guilty in U.S. to Foreign Bribery
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-17T20:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/ex-imi-executives-plead-guilty-in-u-s-to-foreign-bribery-1-.html
Two former executives of  IMI Plc (IMI) ’s
 California  unit pleaded guilty to paying bribes to foreign
government officials after the unit admitted to bribing
officials at state-owned companies in  China ,  Malaysia  and the
United Arab Emirates.  Stuart Carson, 73, the former president of Control
Components Inc., and his wife, Hong “Rose” Carson, 48, the
company’s director of sales for China and Taiwan, pleaded guilty
at a hearing yesterday in federal court in Santa Ana,
California.  Stuart Carson faces as long as 10 months in prison and Rose
Carson faces three years of probation that may include six
months home confinement, according to a U.S. Justice Department
statement today. They were among six former Control Components
executives charged in April 2009, one of whom pleaded guilty
last year.  Nicola Hanna, a lawyer for Stuart Carson, and Kimberly
Dunne, a lawyer representing Rose Carson, didn’t immediately
return calls to their offices for comment on the guilty pleas.  Control Components, a Rancho Santa Margarita-based maker of
control valves used in nuclear, oil and gas power plants,
pleaded guilty in 2009 to violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and the Travel Act. The company was ordered to pay
an $18.2 million fine as part of the plea agreement.  Control Components and IMI, based in Birmingham,  England ,
cooperated with the investigation.  The company made about $6.85 million in illegal payments to
officials and employees at both state-owned and private
companies in 36 countries, according to a court filing. The
sales generated by the payments resulted in profits of $46.5
million from 2003 through 2007.  The case is U.S. v. Carson, 09-00077, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 