-- Exxon Wins Order for FERC to Reconsider Pipeline Rates
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-17T22:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/exxon-wins-ferc-s-reconsideration-of-pegasus-pipeline-rates-1-.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  won a court order
directing the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to reconsider
its denial of a bid to charge market rates on oil carried
through the Pegasus pipeline.  The agency’s decision to reject the request was
“unreasonable” because the Illinois-to- Texas  pipeline doesn’t
have the ability to control the market for transporting Canadian
crude, the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled today. The 858-mile
(1,381-kilometer) system handles 3 percent of the 2.2 million
barrels Western  Canada  produces daily, the court said.  “The record shows that producers and shippers of Western
Canadian  crude oil  have numerous competitive alternatives to
Pegasus for transporting and selling their crude oil,” the
three-judge panel said, returning the issue to the agency for
reconsideration.  Mobil Pipeline, a unit of Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil,
asked FERC for permission to charges uncapped rates in 2007. The
decision may affect other pipeline operators that have announced
plans to ship Canadian crude to the U.S.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  have requested the same type of
rate structure for their Seaway system.  Exxon is “pleased with the decision,” Patrick Henretty, a
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
on the case’s impact on other pipelines. The Pegasus line
carries about 66,000 barrels of oil a day, according to the
court.  Refined Products  Tamara Young-Allen, a spokeswoman for the commission,
declined to comment on the ruling. The agency hasn’t allowed
market-based rates on oil pipelines, although it has allowed
them on lines that ship refined products such as gasoline, she
said.  Unlike standard rates, pipelines with market-based rates
can charge whatever the market will bear and change their rates
without prior approval from the commission.  Oil producers challenged Pegasus’ request, saying it would
give the pipeline operator too much control over transportation
prices.  The agency denied Exxon’s request after concluding it had
the ability to manipulate rates on Pegasus above competitive
levels for a significant period of time because of the lack of
competition, the court said.  “The commission jumped the rails by treating the Pegasus
pipeline as the rough equivalent of a bottleneck or essential
facility for transportation of Western Canadian crude,” Circuit
Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  wrote for the court. “The record
thoroughly undermines FERC’s conclusion.”  Other Rate Seekers  In the five years since Pegasus applied for the rate, two
other pipelines have been announced that would carry Canadian
crude to refiners on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline would carry about
830,000 barrels a day from Canada’s oil-sands region to the
Gulf. Enbridge plans to ship 850,000 barrels a day to Texas
using its Canadian Mainline system and the Seaway pipeline,
which it co-owns with Enterprise, the biggest U.S. pipeline
operator.  Enbridge and Enterprise have applied for a market-based
tariff on the Seaway pipeline, which connects an oil-storage hub
at Cushing,  Oklahoma , with refineries in Houston. The request
has has drawn protests from more than a dozen oil producers and
trade groups. TransCanada hasn’t said what rates it will seek on
the Keystone line.  The court’s decision on the Pegasus pipeline could affect
how the commission decides Seaway and other pipeline tariff
requests, said Jack Semrani, an attorney with Ballard Spahr LLP
in  Washington .  ‘More Careful’  The full impact won’t be known until the agency decides
whether to appeal, said Semrani, who represents a group
protesting the Seaway tariff request.  “If FERC doesn’t appeal this and this becomes the law,
then FERC is going to have to be more careful in withholding
market-based rates,” Semrani said in a phone interview today.  TransCanada hasn’t applied for rates on the Keystone line
and can’t speculate what form they might take, Shawn Howard, a
TransCanada spokesman, wrote in an e-mailed message.  Rick
Rainey , a spokesman for Enterprise, declined to commented on the
company’s tariff request.  The case is Mobil Pipeline Co. v. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, 11-1021,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of
Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  