-- FedEx Late Delivery to Courthouse May Mean Deportation
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2012-04-17T18:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/fedex-late-delivery-to-courthouse-may-mean-deportation.html
A couple ordered deported to China
lost their appeal because  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  was one day late
delivering their case to court, an appellate panel ruled.  Chao Lin and his wife, Xue Yun Lin, had until Jan. 13,
2011, to file their case in the federal Court of Appeals in
Atlanta after the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals upheld their
removal from the U.S. They hired FedEx on Jan. 12 to deliver
their petition the next day. It arrived on Jan. 14, according to
an opinion issued today.  A snowstorm followed by severe icing delayed the court’s
opening on Jan. 13 until 10:30 a.m. The clerk’s office opened
after that and was also available for electronic filing, the
three-judge panel said.  “The Lins offer no evidence or assertion that the weather
made it impossible for them to access the clerk’s office,”
Judge William H. Pryor wrote in the decision.  The petition would have been filed directly with the court
if they had known that FedEx hadn’t already done so, according
to their lawyer, June Zhou of  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  They learned only when the court informed them that they
had missed the 30-day deadline, she said. Zhou declined to say
where in the state her clients live.  “I think it’s very unfair,” Zhou said when told of the
ruling.  Lacking specific package information, FedEx can’t determine
what happened to the Lins’, said a company spokesman, Scott
Fiedler.  Company Goal  While the company strives for 100 percent reliability, its
guarantee of next-day delivery doesn’t apply when natural
disasters make it impossible, he said. An ice storm caused
delays that week, he said.  Company policy allows customers to track their shipments
electronically or by phone, according to its website.  The Lins sought asylum in the U.S. saying that they have 
three children, which violates  China ’s one-child policy, and 
because they are Christians, Zhou said. Fearing prosecution on 
both grounds, they have been fighting deportation since 2006,
according to the court ruling.  “They are probably going to be deported,” said Zhou. As
for whether they will contest the ruling further, she said she
didn’t know yet.  After the immigration board ordered them back to China in
2006, the Lins three times filed to reopen proceedings. They
lost the last effort, in December 2010, because they had filed
too many times, conditions had changed in China, and they had
filed too late, the court said in today’s ruling.  High Court Ruling  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled earlier this year that a death
row inmate whose lawyers missed a filing deadline because of a
mailroom mixup should be allowed to have his appeal heard
anyway.  Citing “extraordinary circumstances quite beyond his
control,” a 7-2 majority revived the appeal of an Alabama man,
Cory Maples, whose case had been tossed out of court by the
Atlanta appeals court.  The case is Lin v. U.S. Attorney General, 11-10100, U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta). The
wife’s name is spelled Xin Yun Lin on docket entries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta
at   awoolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 