-- First Solar Will Cut 30% of Workforce, Shutter Plants
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-04-17T20:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/first-solar-will-cut-30-of-jobs-shut-german-malaysian-plants.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest thin-
film panel maker, will cut 30 percent of its workforce, about
2,000 jobs, as demand in Europe slows faster than the company
can expand in  emerging markets  in Asia. The shares surged.  Most of the jobs to be eliminated will be at a factory it’s
closing in  Germany  and in Malaysia, where it’s idling four
production lines, the Tempe, Arizona-based company said today in
a statement. The company will pay $245 million to $370 million
in severance and related costs.  The restructuring will help First Solar shift away from the
world’s largest markets in Europe, where competition from cheap
Chinese panels and declining subsidies make rooftop sales
unprofitable. The company is seeking to develop large, ground-
mounted  power plants  that will use its panels in sunny regions
such as  India  and the  Middle East .  The impact of subsidy cuts “on utility-scale solar
projects is particularly punitive even though utility scale is
the most cost-efficient way to add solar to the grid,” Chief
Financial Officer Mark Widmar said today on a conference call
with analysts and investors. The cost reductions resulting from
the closings “will enable us to invest in new emerging markets
where we anticipate achieving significant growth.”  First Solar rose 10 percent to $22.96 at the close in New
York, the most since Jan. 27. The shares have declined 32
percent this year.  Rooftop Systems  First Solar’s thin-film technology, which helped it become
the lowest-cost panel manufacturer, generates less electricity
than traditional polysilicon panels that are made mostly in
 China . That’s made it less popular for rooftop systems that are
favored in  Europe , said  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities in New York.  “They don’t have a good product for the rooftop market and
Europe doesn’t have the big open spaces where their panels make
sense,” said O’Neill, who has a “hold” rating on the shares.
“The factory closures provide some clarity going forward, but
they have a lot of work to do to prevent margin erosion.”  The plant in Frankfurt an der Oder, Germany, has about 560
megawatts of First Solar’s 2,520 megawatts of annual production
capacity, and will be closed in the fourth quarter. The company
spent 170 million euros ($223 million) to double its capacity,
and it reached full production in November.  Cutting Production  The company will idle four lines in Kulim,  Malaysia , this
month, trimming capacity at the plant by about 144 megawatts out
of a total of 1,680 megawatts. First Solar said it expects to
produce 1,500 to 1,800 megawatts of panels this year.  Cost savings associated with the cuts will reduce
manufacturing costs to 70 cents to 72 cents a watt this year,
the company said. Next year, First Solar expects to produce its
cadmium-telluride panels for 60 cents to 64 cents a watt.  “After a thorough analysis, it is clear the European
market has deteriorated to the extent that our operations there
are no longer economically sustainable,” Mike Ahearn, First
Solar’s chairman and interim chief executive officer, said in
the statement.  As part of its restructuring, First Solar said it paid down
$145 million of debt ahead of schedule under the company’s
German loan agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 