-- First Solar Latest Casualty in Renewable Energy Shakeout
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-18T21:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/first-solar-latest-casualty-in-renewable-energy-shakeout.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ’s decision to fire
30 percent of its staff and reduce production shows that even
the biggest solar panel makers aren’t immune from the shakeout
that’s bankrupted at least eight companies on two continents in
the past year.  The largest thin-film solar producer said yesterday it will
cut 2,000 jobs by the end of the year at a cost of as much as
$370 million. It marks the biggest staff reduction for the
industry since bankrupt Solyndra LLC, backed by U.S. government
loans, dismissed its 1,100 employees on Aug. 31.  Solar manufacturers, which expanded rapidly to meet double-
digit demand growth in the past decade, are struggling with
subsidy cuts in Europe and plunging natural-gas prices that make
renewable energy less competitive. The largest producers in
 China  say their profits will slump this year as shipments grow.  “Oversupply has become a problem for the entire
industry,” said Ben Schuman, an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities LLC in  Portland ,  Oregon . “China’s manufacturers have
not demonstrated rational behavior.”  Solar panel prices have  fallen  46 percent in the past year
as manufacturers led by First Solar and  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar company, boosted output. Germany
and Italy, the two biggest markets, are cutting rates paid for
solar power to curb an uncontrolled installation boom.  Shares Falling  The Bloomberg Large Solar index tracking 17 shares has
fallen 75 percent in the past year. First Solar fell 7 percent
to $21.35 at the close in  New York  today. Gas futures fell to
$1.951 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the lowest settlement price since
Jan. 28, 2002.  Germany’s  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s biggest solar-cell
maker, filed for insolvency on April 3, becoming the fourth
casualty in the country since December.  Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar
Millennium AG (S2M)  and  Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  have all filed for insolvency
as Germany cut incentives and China’s suppliers reduced prices.  They join Solyndra and three other U.S. solar companies
that have failed since August -- SpectraWatt Inc.,  Evergreen
Solar Inc. (ESLRQ)  and  Energy Conversion Devices Inc. (ENERQ)   Solar factories have expanded faster than demand and will
be able to make as much as 38 gigawatts of panels this year,
about 54 percent more than estimated demand, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Solar Glut  That excess supply will arrive on the market as Europe’s
largest economies, including Britain, Spain and France, follow
Germany and Italy in scaling back incentives to curtail
installation of power systems that are paid above-market rates.  “Demand is falling as governments, particularly in  Europe ,
lose appetite for subsidizing the industry,” said  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.  The shifting support in Europe is particularly painful to
First Solar because it favors rooftop power systems, which are
more likely to use Chinese polysilicon panels. First Solar
focuses instead on ground-mounted utility-scale plants that use
its thin-film products, he said.  The U.S. Commerce Department, responding to complaints from
U.S. solar manufacturers that Chinese competitors receive unfair
government support, imposed tariffs last month of as much as
4.73 percent on panels made in China.  First Solar’s Edge  First Solar’s thin-film technology, which helped it become
the lowest-cost panel manufacturer, generates less electricity
than traditional polysilicon panels and doesn’t perform as well
for rooftop installations that are widely used in Europe.  “They don’t have a good product for the rooftop market,
and Europe doesn’t have the big open spaces where their panels
make sense,” said Wunderlich’s O’Neill.  First Solar said it will close its factory in Frankfurt an
der Oder,  Germany , in the fourth quarter. The company completed
a 170 million-euro ($223 million) expansion there in November
that doubled production capacity to about 560 megawatts of
panels a year. It will idle four production lines in Kulim,
Malaysia, this month, with about 144 megawatts of capacity.  The closures come about six months after First Solar ousted
Chief Executive Officer Rob Gillette. Chairman and co-founder
Mike Ahearn took over as interim CEO and announced plans to
scale back or delay expansion plans in Vietnam and Arizona.  ‘Deteriorated’  “After a thorough analysis, it is clear the European
market has deteriorated to the extent that our operations there
are no longer economically sustainable,” Ahearn said in
yesterday’s statement.  For China’s manufacturers, higher domestic demand may help
offset declining sales in Europe.  “China will be a very, very important market in 2012,”
Chen Kangping, chief executive officer  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS) ,
said in interview last week. “Some will gain share as others
shut down.”  Jinko, based in Jiangxi, China, expects global shipments to
rise 50 percent this year from 950.5 megawatts in 2011.  “This is the problem about solar industry economics: there
is just too much capacity out there,” Aaron Chew, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in an interview. “In China,
they’re not any more competitive, they’re just bankrolled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  