-- Kentucky Starters Choose NBA Draft in Latest Won and Done
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-18T13:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/five-kentucky-starters-chase-nba-draft-in-latest-won-and-done.html
The  University of Kentucky ’s all-
underclassmen starting lineup is leaving school for the  National
Basketball Association  after winning the men’s college
basketball national championship.  Freshmen  Anthony Davis , Michael Kidd-Gilchrist and Marquis
Teague, and sophomores  Terrence Jones  and Doron Lamb, said at a
news conference that they will skip their remaining college
eligibility to pursue professional careers.  The five players, each projected to be taken in the draft’s
opening round, comprised Kentucky’s starting lineup on April 2,
when the Wildcats beat the  University of Kansas  in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament final. A dozen
underclassmen now have left coach  John Calipari ’s program for
the NBA draft in the past three seasons.  “This is a players-first program,” Calipari, 53, said
last night at the news conference. “During the season, it’s
about our team. When it’s over, it’s about moments like this.
They came to me and said we want to do this together.”  Should all five underclassmen and senior Darius Miller be
selected, it would be the first time that six college teammates
were taken in the same NBA draft.  A player must be at least 19 years old during the draft’s
calendar year and 12 months removed from his graduating high
school class to be eligible for the NBA Draft.  ‘Won and Done’  The rules were first applied in 2006 and have led to a
label of “One and Done” for college players leaving early.
After the Wildcats beat  Kansas  67-59, headlines changed that
phrase to “Won and Done.”  Davis, 19, was the Associated Press Player of the Year,
averaging a team-high 14.2 points, 10.4 rebounds and 4.7 blocks
this season. He was also the Southeastern Conference’s Player,
Freshman and Defensive Player of the Year.  Lamb, 20, was second on the team in scoring, at 13.7 points
per game, including a game-high 22 in the Wildcats’ championship
victory against the Jayhawks. Kidd-Gilchrist and Jones each
averaged more than 11 points and seven rebounds per game.
Teague, who along with Davis started all 40 games, had a team-
high 191 assists.  ESPN analyst Chad Ford predicts Davis and Kidd-Gilchrist
will be the  first and second  overall picks in the draft, which
takes place June 28 in Newark,  New Jersey . His mock draft has
Jones as the No. 12 pick, Teague No. 25 and Lamb No. 30.  Noel Picks Wildcats  Nerlens Noel, considered the nation’s No. 1 recruit by
ESPN.com and Scout.com, last week announced his intention to
play for Calipari next season. A 6-foot-10 player from Everett,
 Massachusetts , Noel chose the Wildcats over offers from Syracuse
University and  Georgetown University .  It is the fourth consecutive year that Kentucky has landed
Rivals.com’s top-rated recruiting class, which has given the
Lexington-based school a reputation for attracting top talent
that only stays in college for the one required season. Kentucky
has had five freshmen selected in the past two drafts, including
Washington Wizards guard  John Wall , the No. 1 pick in 2010;
Sacramento Kings center DeMarcus Cousins, and Detroit Pistons
guard  Brandon Knight .  In that same span,  Kentucky  has had two juniors selected --
DeAndre Liggins and Patrick Patterson -- as well as Enes Kanter,
who left the school after one year in which he was ruled
ineligible by the NCAA because of financial benefits he received
while playing in his native Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  