-- Former Nets Forward Schintzius Dies of Respiratory Failure at 43
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/former-nets-forward-schintzius-dies-of-respiratory-failure-at-43.html
Former  New Jersey Nets  forward
 Dwayne Schintzius  died of respiratory failure following a three-
year battle with leukemia. He was 43 years old.  The 7-foot-2, 275-pound forward was diagnosed with
 myelomonocytic leukemia  in 2009. He received two bone marrow
transplants from his younger brother, Travis, the most recent in
November. He died two days ago at Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa,
Florida, Travis Schintzius told the  Tampa Tribune .  “He was my big brother and I looked up to him and idolized
him my whole life,” Travis told the newspaper. “He’s at peace
now. He’s not suffering any more. Now he’s probably cracking
jokes and making people laugh in heaven.”  Dwayne Schintzius, who led the University of  Florida  to its
first three National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament
appearances, is the only Southeastern Conference player with
more than 1,000 points, 800 rebounds, 250 assists and 250
blocked shots. He left the team midway through his senior season
in 1989-90 when he decided against cutting his mullet hairdo at
interim coach Don DeVoe’s request.  Schintzius was selected by the  San Antonio Spurs  with the
24th overall pick in the 1990 National Basketball Association
draft. He played with the Nets from 1992-95 and also spent time
with the Sacramento Kings, Indiana Pacers,  Los Angeles Clippers 
and Boston Celtics during an injury-filled nine-year career.  Off the court, he played a Russian basketball player in the
movie  “Eddie”  starring  Whoopi Goldberg  and later played
himself in an episode of Home Box Office’s cable series
“Arliss.”  Schintzius is survived by his brother and by his parents,
Ken and Linda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  