-- Former Vitesse Executives Inflated Sales, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-17T22:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/former-vitesse-executives-inflated-sales-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
Two former executives of  Vitesse
Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS)  illegally inflated sales figures and
backdated  stock options , a prosecutor told jurors in closing
arguments at their federal conspiracy and securities fraud trial
in  Manhattan .  Louis Tomasetta, the former chief executive officer of
Vitesse, the Camarillo, California-based maker of integrated
circuits, and ex-executive vice president Eugene Hovanec are
charged with orchestrating a fraudulent scheme to meet sales
targets from 2001 to 2006.  “Missing Tomasetta’s targets was not an option because it
would hurt the company’s stock price and embarrass management,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Goldstein told a jury of 12
with four alternates in her closing argument today.  Tomasetta and Hovanec were motivated by pride and greed,
Goldstein argued at the end of their trial, which began March
22. The two men, who deny wrongdoing, face as much as 20 years
in prison if convicted of the most serious charges against them.  Vitesse agreed in 2007 to pay $8.75 million to settle
shareholder suits related to the alleged accounting fraud and in
2010 settled claims by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  for $3 million.  Yatin Mody, Vitesse’s former chief financial officer, and
its ex-director of accounting, Nicole Kaplan, pleaded guilty to
 securities fraud  and other charges in 2010. They testified
against Tomasetta and Hovanec in the trial.  Side Agreements  Goldstein said the defendants shipped millions of dollars
worth of products to Nu Horizons Electronics Corp., a
distributor, near the end of financial quarters and fraudulently
recorded the shipments as revenue. Vitesse and Nu Horizons had
secret side agreements that let the distributor make unlimited
returns of the products to Vitesse, she said.  Tomasetta and Hovanec were fired in May 2006 in an internal
probe of options backdating. The men created phony documents,
including compensation committee minutes and a Palm Pilot entry,
in an attempt to show the options were approved at earlier
meetings and weren’t backdated, Goldstein told the jury today.  A lawyer for the company told the executives they would
have to record $100 million in compensation expenses if the
meetings didn’t take place, the prosecutor said.  “You can prepare minutes days later,” Tomasetta’s lawyer,
Dan Marmalefsky argued to the jury. “You can prepare them
weeks, years later.”  Marmalefsky said his client wasn’t involved in detailed
accounting decisions that were made by others in the company.
Defense closing arguments are scheduled to continue tomorrow.  The case is SEC v. Vitesse, 10-9239, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  