-- Freeport Deal Talk Intensifies on Cheap Copper: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-04-17T22:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/freeport-deal-talk-intensifies-on-cheap-copper-real-m-a.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
is offering the best deal in copper for mining companies willing
to bet big on the metal.  Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded copper miner,
yesterday was  valued  at 3.3 times its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2013, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That was cheaper than
any other base metals producer with more than $10 billion in
market value and about a third less than the median.  While Freeport faces the first  back-to-back slump  in annual
earnings after workers at its Indonesian mine went on a three-
month strike and copper prices fell from a record on concern
over a slowdown in China, analysts say its Ebitda next year will
rebound to an all-time high as demand recovers. Freeport could
now attract  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , its partner in  Indonesia , according
to Adrian Day Asset Management. A deal would also give BHP
Billiton Ltd. or  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  a company that produces 10
percent of the world’s copper, Oracle Investment Research said.  “Freeport has probably the most attractive assets in the
world with its copper mine in Indonesia,” Jean-Francois Comte,
co-founder of Lutetia Capital, a Paris-based hedge fund that
bets on mergers and acquisitions, said in a telephone interview.
“Anybody who believes that would probably look at it.”  Eric Kinneberg , a spokesman for Freeport, declined to
comment on whether it would consider a sale or has been
approached about an acquisition. The Phoenix-based company had a
 market capitalization  of $35 billion yesterday.  Today’s Trading  Shares of Freeport climbed 2.3 percent to $37.76 in  New
York  today, the sixth-biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Materials Index.  Freeport-McMoRan, which traces its roots to the Freeport
Sulfur Co. founded in 1912, operates on four continents from
 South America  to  Africa  and has  copper mines  in the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo,  Peru  and Indonesia.  Last year, the company produced about 1.67 million metric
tons of copper, more than any other publicly traded mining
company and about three times the amount that  Rio Tinto  yielded,
according to the latest available data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since approaching an all-time high in January 2011, shares
of Freeport  fell  39 percent through yesterday, wiping out more
than $20 billion from its value. About half the drop came since
February, when violence flared among employees following the
strike at Freeport’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia and concern
increased that slowing economic growth in China will sap demand
for copper.  Copper Production  Shipments from the mine, which has the world’s largest
recoverable reserves of copper, were interrupted after employees
stopped working to demand higher wages on Sept. 15. The
stoppages caused Freeport to cut its first-quarter forecast for
copper production from the site last month.  China , which uses about 40 percent of the world’s copper,
expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace in
almost three years.  After Freeport’s Ebitda fell 0.3 percent in 2011, analysts
anticipate its earnings will  decrease  13 percent to $8.9 billion
this year for the first consecutive annual decline since at
least 1986, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Including net debt, Freeport was valued at $36.6 billion
yesterday, or 3.3 times its  projected Ebitda  of $11 billion next
year, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Jiangxi
Copper Co., Freeport’s closest publicly traded competitor by
output, commanded more than twice as much, the data show.  Relative Value  Freeport also sold for about $652 per metric ton of its
copper equivalent reserves, according to data compiled by Andrew Cosgrove and Kenneth Hoffman, metals and mining analysts for
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey .  The multiple, based on the median of analysts’ estimates
for copper prices in 2015, was about half the average of $1,232
a metric ton for similar-sized companies primarily focused on
copper mining, the data show.  Freeport, which acquired rival Phelps Dodge Corp. in 2007,
is boosting production after the global economic recession
halted its expansion.  The company plans to expand mills in the U.S., Peru and the
Congo to increase output almost 1 billion pounds (454,000 metric
tons) by 2016, Chief Financial Officer Kathleen Quirk said in a
Feb. 27 presentation. That would represent an increase of more
than 25 percent from its output last year and almost equal Rio
Tinto’s production in 2011.  “It’s very difficult for mining companies to build out”
brand-new copper sites, Michael Gambardella, a New York-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a telephone interview.
“If someone wants to start up a new copper mine in the world it
usually takes about seven or eight years.”  Copper Price  The price of copper may climb to $9,500 per metric ton, or
within 10 percent of its all-time high, over the next 12 months
as the global market remains in deficit for a third straight
year and Chinese demand picks up, according to Stefan Graber, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, who in July correctly
forecast gold would reach a record $1,600 an ounce.  Copper sold for $7,984.50 a metric ton yesterday.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, could
seek to buy Freeport and more than quadruple its own production
of the metal, according to Adrian Day, who oversees about $170
million as president of Adrian Day Asset in Annapolis,  Maryland .  The London-based company helped expand Freeport’s Grasberg
mine in 1995, which entitled it to a 40 percent share of
production at the Indonesian site above specific levels until
2021 and 40 percent of production after that, according to its
 annual report  released last month.  Rio Tinto, BHP  Rio Tinto produced 520,000 metric tons of copper last year,
accounting for about  11 percent  of the company’s $60.5 billion
in revenue, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BHP (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, can more than
double copper output with Freeport, according to the latest
available data compiled by Bloomberg. Copper and other base
metals made up 20 percent of BHP’s about $72 billion in revenue
last year, the data show.  Freeport would also help Anglo American restore some of the
copper it lost after selling a 24.5 percent stake in Anglo
American Sur SA, which includes the Los Bronces copper mine in
 Chile , to Mitsubishi Corp. in November. Codelco, Chile’s state-
owned producer, is seeking to exercise an option from 1978 to
buy 49 percent of Anglo American Sur and says the stake sale was
an attempt to block its option.  ‘No Question’  “There’s absolutely no question that this has to be
attractive to a larger buyer,” Laurence Balter, who manages the
 Oracle Mutual Fund (ORGAX)  for Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle
Investment Research, said in a telephone interview. The firm
oversees $100 million, including Freeport stock. Freeport is a
“diamond in the rough,” he said.  Ruban Yogarajah, a spokesman for Melbourne-based BHP, Rio
Tinto’s Illtud Harri and James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman for
London-based Anglo American, all declined to comment on whether
their companies are interested in buying Freeport.  One obstacle to an acquisition is Freeport’s size,
according to Kuni Chen, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Buying Freeport could cost over $45 billion, based on a 30
percent premium, Adrian Day Asset estimated. That would be
almost twice as much as the biggest ever takeover in the copper
mining industry -- Freeport’s own purchase of Phelps Dodge for
$23 billion five years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s possible that this could happen over time, but
you’re looking at a very large transaction and not a lot of
potential folks that have the deep pockets to do that,” Chen
said in a telephone interview.  Indonesia Mine  Chen also said Freeport’s  Indonesian assets  have risks that
could concern some potential buyers, citing the recent violence
at its Grasberg mine that prompted it to halt production.  The company said in January that two workers were shot dead
near the site. A total of 15 people have been killed and 56
injured in the shootings since July 2009 at Grasberg and along
the road leading to Freeport’s mining and milling operations in
the district, the company said in February.  The victims included Freeport employees, contractors,
members of  law enforcement  and civilians, it said.  “If you look at where copper is mined in the world, it’s
not always in the most stable of regions,” Chen said.  Foreign companies holding mining licenses in Indonesia will
also have to cut their stakes to 49 percent within 10 years of
starting production, from 80 percent, according to a decree
signed by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on Feb. 21.  ‘A Jewel’  Indonesia may ask foreign investors that are majority
owners of mining companies to sell shares to the government to
comply with the law.  Day of Adrian Day Asset says the prospect of owning
Freeport may still be worth the risk for potential buyers such
as Rio Tinto, BHP and Anglo American.  “This would be the way of picking up 10 percent of the
world’s copper production in one fell swoop, including some of
the world’s major copper mines,” he said. “If someone were to
buy Freeport they’d get a jewel at a great price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 