-- Gasoline Slides to Six-Week Low as Brent Weakens Versus WTI
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-04-17T20:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/gasoline-slides-a-third-day-as-brent-crude-weakens-versus-wti.html
Gasoline slid to a six-week low as
Brent oil weakened versus the U.S. benchmark crude and on
speculation that gasoline peaked before the April-to-September
U.S. driving season.  Futures declined as the London benchmark’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate oil sank to the lowest level since February
on reduced concern that tension over  Iran’s nuclear program  will
disrupt supplies. Gasoline has lost 5.3 percent since reaching a
2012 high of $3.4166 on March 26.  “You’re seeing unwinding of the Brent-WTI spread,
unwinding of crack spreads,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice
president at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York . “Because gasoline
was so long, it exacerbates this move and some traders think
gasoline has peaked.”  Gasoline for May delivery fell 3.3 cents, or 1 percent, to
settle at $3.234 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement since March 6. Gasoline’s premium to WTI,
or crack spread, narrowed $2.66 to $31.63 a barrel, the smallest
difference since March 6.  Gasoline’s premium to heating oil fell 4.3 cents to 10.74
cents, the smallest premium since March 19.  “Brent will continue to lose slowly to WTI,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,
 Florida .  “It was long Brent, long gasoline, short WTI. It was
a bit of a bubble.”  Brent’s Premium Narrows  The premium of Brent, traded on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, to Nymex-traded WTI, based on June
contracts, narrowed to $14.14 a barrel, the lowest since Feb. 1.  Brent, the benchmark for oil used in European refineries
that export gasoline to the East Coast, affects the price of
crude processed on the Gulf Coast, home to refineries with 49
percent of total U.S. capacity, according to  Energy Department
data .  Gasoline and Brent have risen this year as tension with
 Iran  escalated and the U.S. and European Union imposed sanctions
on Iran’s oil exports.  “Brent is coming off as the Iran situation is being kicked
down the road,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago .  International talks with Iran on April 14 over its nuclear
program yielded an agreement to reconvene in May, easing concern
that crude supplies will be disrupted. Negotiations are
scheduled to reconvene in Baghdad on May 23 between Iran and the
five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council
plus  Germany .  Hedge Fund Bets  Hedge funds  trimmed bullish bets on gasoline by the most in
more than three months in the week ended April 10. Funds and
other large speculators reduced wagers on rising prices, or net
long positions, by 7.1 percent, the biggest drop since Dec. 20,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitment of Traders report on April 13.  Enbridge Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP said they
will begin oil shipments about May 17 on the reversed Seaway
pipeline, from Cushing, Oklahoma, to the U.S.  Gulf Coast ,
according to a filing with regulators yesterday.  “The whole world of oil has been linked to Brent and not to
WTI,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in New York. “Now, the combination of Iran
tensions unwinding and the fact the Seaway pipeline is going to
start in May has gotten everybody jumping ship on the Brent-WTI
spread. Anything linked to Brent is basically up for sale.”  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.3
cent to $3.904 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring club. Prices, which are up 19 percent
this year, have fallen 3.2 cents since reaching a 2012 high of
$3.936 on April 4.  Heating oil for May delivery gained 1 cent to $3.1266 a
gallon, its fourth gain in five sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  