-- Generic-Drug Makers Win at High Court on Brand-Name Patents
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-17T16:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/generic-drug-makers-win-at-high-court-on-brand-name-patents-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court boosted
generic-drug makers in seeking federal approval for treatments,
saying they can argue in court that their brand-name rivals
overstated the reach of their patents in regulatory filings.  The justices today unanimously sided with Caraco
Pharmaceutical Laboratories Inc., a generic-drug company trying
to sell a lower-cost version of  Novo Nordisk AS (NOV) ’s Prandin
diabetes drug.  The decision gives generic companies what they say is an
important tool to prevent brand-name drugmakers from abusing the
Food and Drug Administration approval process to thwart
competition. It overturns a lower-court ruling that a 2010
Morgan Stanley research report said would have let brand-name
companies delay generic versions of select drugs.  Detroit-based Caraco and its Mumbai-based parent company,
 Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , contend that Novo improperly
extended its monopoly over Prandin until 2018 by misrepresenting
to the FDA the reach of one of its patents. Novo is based in
Bagsvaerd,  Denmark .  Caraco says the patent covers only the use of Prandin with
another diabetes drug, metformin. The so-called use code Novo
provided for the FDA’s Orange Book, which lists the patents for
branded drugs, suggests the company can preclude any use of
Prandin until 2018.  Generic Prandin  The FDA pointed to that Orange Book listing when it
rejected Caraco’s application to sell a generic version of
Prandin, also known as repaglinide.  The Supreme Court today said Caraco could challenge the
listing by filing a counterclaim in Novo’s patent-infringement
suit against the generic-drug maker. Writing for the court,
Justice Elena Kagan said Caraco could invoke a provision in the
so-called Hatch-Waxman Amendments letting generic-drug companies
challenge information submitted to the FDA in some
circumstances.  That provision “enables courts to resolve patent disputes
so that the FDA can fulfill its statutory duty to approve
generic drugs that do not infringe  patent rights ,” Kagan wrote.  Novo argued unsuccessfully that the counterclaim provision
applies only if a patent doesn’t cover any approved methods of
using a drug.  FDA ‘Opacity’  In a concurring opinion, Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  called on
Congress or the FDA to fix a system that forces generic-drug
makers to engage in “expensive and time-consuming litigation”
to challenge an overly broad use code.  Sotomayor faulted the FDA for its “opacity in describing
what is required of brand manufacturers” and suggested the
agency should evaluate the accuracy of use codes on its own.  The Supreme Court decision reversed a federal appeals court
ruling. The appeals court decision, the first to address the
issue, might have helped AstraZeneca Plc, Sanofi and Novartis
AG, according to the Morgan Stanley report.  The case is Caraco v. Novo Nordisk, 10-844.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 