-- Genworth Postpones Australian IPO After ‘Elevated’ Losses
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-04-18T05:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/genworth-postpones-australia-unit-ipo-after-elevated-losses.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the life
insurer and mortgage guarantor, postponed the initial public
offering of its Australian unit backing home loans to early 2013
after “elevated” losses in the nation this year.  The offering of up to a 40 percent stake in the unit had
been targeted for the second quarter of this year, the Richmond,
Virginia-based insurer said in a statement. The business has a
book value of about $2 billion, Edward Shields, an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said in November.  “This new time frame primarily reflects business
performance in  Australia ,” Genworth said in the statement. The
jump in losses occurred as lenders accelerated foreclosures,
particularly in coastal areas of Queensland state as a result of
flooding and a regional economic slowdown.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer, 53, who’s run
Genworth since its IPO in 2004, is battling a share price
decline as the worst U.S. housing crash in seven decades drains
capital at mortgage insurers, which pay lenders when homeowners
default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Fraizer, who had
his annual bonus cut this month, has sold a stake in a Canadian
operation and retreated from the variable-annuity business.  Genworth had appointed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS AG,
Macquarie Group Ltd. and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  to
manage the IPO, said a person with knowledge of the matter. The
insurer will report first-quarter earnings on May 2.  Reality Check  Companies have raised A$53 million ($55 million) in IPOs in
Australia this year, less than a quarter of the A$227 million
raised in the same period last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “In this kind of market any IPO needs a very compelling
story, a bargain element to the pricing and clear growth
prospects,” Shannon Finch, a Sydney-based partner at law firm
King & Wood Mallesons said. “The pain in Genworth’s market is
clear from their own description. All companies have these
reality checks along the way when considering an IPO.”  The IPO may have been one of the largest share sales in
Australia since railway operator  QR National Ltd. (QRN)  listed in
November 2010.  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,  Hong Kong ’s biggest
electricity producer, plans to sell shares in Australian power
company TRUenergy Holdings Pty this year, a person familiar with
the matter said in November.  Australian home loan delinquencies rose unexpectedly in the
three months ended Dec. 31 as a stalling housing market kept a
lid on financing options for homeowners,  Fitch Ratings  said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  