-- Germany Urges IMF Match to Euro Firewall Efforts, Official Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/germany-urges-imf-match-to-euro-firewall-efforts-official-says.html
Global talks to increase the
International Monetary Fund’s lending resources should yield a
figure similar to  Europe ’s $1 trillion effort to combat the debt
crisis in the euro region, a German government official said.  Many of  Germany ’s international partners are aware that
discussions at the IMF’s meeting in  Washington  this week must
demonstrate that Europe doesn’t stand alone in combating its
debt woes so there must be a parallel process to Europe’s
efforts, the official told reporters in Berlin today on
condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.  Germany has the clear expectation that countries around the
globe help provide funds that, together with Europe’s efforts,
convince financial markets its size is sufficient, the official
said. European Union governments agreed to add 500 billion euros
($656 billion) in fresh money to 300 billion euros already
committed to create a backstop that equals about $1 trillion.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said April 12 that
she will scale back her request for $600 billion of additional
resources, adding she hopes to make “real progress” on getting
additional funding when the IMF’s 187 member nations meet in
Washington this week.  Japan pledged $60 billion to boost the IMF’s resources
today, with Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  saying that he hoped for
an early agreement on contributions among Group of 20 members,
who will also gather in Washington. Euro nations have pledged to
pitch in 150 billion euros, and Sweden offered as much as $15
billion, depending on other nations’ contributions. The U.S.,
the fund’s largest shareholder, has refused to join in.  Germany doesn’t share the view held by some other countries
that economic growth should be bolstered by additional
 government spending , the official said. Germany will remind its
G-20 partners to meet their Toronto summit commitments of
halving budget deficits and stabilizing debts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  