-- German ZEW Investor Confidence Unexpectedly Improves
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-17T11:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/german-investor-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-for-a-fifth-month.html
German investor confidence
unexpectedly rose to a two-year high in April, suggesting
 Europe ’s largest economy can weather the resurgent debt crisis
in the euro region’s periphery.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased to 23.4 from 22.3 in March. That’s the fifth straight
gain and the highest reading since June 2010. Economists
forecast a drop to 19, according to the median of 39 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Germany may avoid a recession as unemployment at a two-
decade low bolsters domestic spending, helping to offset waning
demand for its exports across the euro region as austerity
measures bite. At the same time, rising borrowing costs in  Spain 
have fueled concern that the debt crisis is not under control.
While Germany’s benchmark  DAX share index  is up 13 percent this
year, it has shed 7 percent in the past month.  “Today’s ZEW index is good news but it should be taken
with a pinch of salt,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist
at ING Group in Brussels. “Yes, the economy avoided falling off
the cliff, but it is still flirting with recession.”  The euro jumped about a quarter of a cent after the report
before retracing to trade at $1.3138 at 1 p.m. in Frankfurt.
European stocks gained for a second day, with the Stoxx Europe
600 Index adding 1 percent.  Inflation Pressure  While today’s ZEW report adds to signs that the German
economy will rebound from its 0.2 percent contraction in the
fourth quarter of 2011, spending cuts across the euro region are
curbing foreign sales and clouding growth prospects just as
higher  oil prices  threaten to drive up inflation and erode
household purchasing power.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro region held at 2.7
percent for a fourth month in March, the European Union’s
statistics office said today, revising an initial estimate of a
decline to 2.6 percent. U.K. inflation unexpectedly accelerated
to 3.5 percent, according to data published by the  Office for
National Statistics  in  London .  In  Asia , the Indian central bank cut its benchmark  interest
rate  by a greater-than-forecast half a percentage point, seeking
to bolster growth with the first reduction since 2009. The
easing contrasts with Asian neighbors including Thailand and
 Indonesia  that have halted rate cuts as inflationary pressures
increase.  U.S. Output  In the U.S., industrial production may have risen 0.3
percent in March from the previous month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report
today.  Rising investor confidence in  Germany  is a “positive
surprise, especially because returning financial market
tensions, high oil prices and weak stock markets usually weigh
on sentiment,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “It’s an indication that the German economy is
doing quite well and chances are good that we can avoid
recession.”  ZEW’s gauge of the current situation rose to 40.7 from 37.6
last month. Economists predicted a drop to 35.  The euro-area economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year,
driven by contractions of 1.3 percent in  Italy  and 1 percent in
Spain, the European Commission said Feb. 23. It forecast growth
of 0.6 percent in Germany.  ‘Tense and Difficult’  Economic conditions in Europe will “remain tense and
difficult over the next few years,”  Henkel AG (HEN3)  Chief Executive
Officer Kasper Rorsted said yesterday. To combat that, the
German cosmetics and adhesives maker is seeking to boost the
proportion of sales in  emerging markets  to 45 percent of revenue
this year from 42 percent in 2011.  “We are convinced that the euro in its function as a
common currency is better for our economy in Germany and better
for our company,” Rorsted told the annual shareholders meeting
in Dusseldorf.  The debt crisis has nevertheless fueled speculation that
the currency bloc could splinter as the gaps between Germany and
its euro-area neighbors widen.  In Spain, where unemployment is approaching 24 percent as
the economy contracts, the government is implementing the
deepest austerity measures in three decades in an attempt to
rein in its  budget deficit  and win back investor trust.  Spanish 10-year yields breached 6 percent yesterday and the
cost of insuring the country’s bonds against default advanced to
a record.  Spain sold 3.18 billion euros ($4.18 billion) of bills
today, exceeding the maximum target of 3 billion euros. Still,
the average 12-month yield was 2.623 percent, up from 1.418
percent at the last auction on March 20, the Bank of Spain said.
The Treasury also sold 18-month bills at 3.11 percent, compared
with 1.71 percent last month. The country will sell 10-year
bonds on April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  