-- Goldman Sachs Net Falls as Debt Trading Lags Behind JPMorgan
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-17T20:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/goldman-sachs-beats-analysts-estimates-with-23-profit-drop.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, said profit fell 23 percent
as  revenue  from trading bonds, currencies and commodities lagged
behind Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  First-quarter net income dropped to $2.11 billion from
$2.74 billion a year earlier, the New York-based bank said today
in a statement. Earnings per share of $3.92 beat the $3.55
average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
boosted its quarterly  dividend  31 percent to 46 cents a share,
the first increase since 2006.  Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, reported a 20 percent decline in fixed-income trading
revenue to $3.46 billion and cut the size of its market bets to
the lowest level since 2006. JPMorgan’s revenue from that
business fell 11 percent to $4.66 billion and Citigroup, No. 3
by assets, reported a 4 percent drop in fixed-income trading to
$3.65 billion.  “Although earnings actually beat consensus, I think that
the results look somewhat disappointing in comparison with the
strong numbers we’ve seen out of JPMorgan and Citigroup,”
Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLC in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “The market had perhaps hoped
for a real blow-out quarter from Goldman Sachs.”  Goldman Sachs fell 87 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $116.86 at
4:15 p.m. in New York trading. The stock has gained 29 percent
this year. It declined 46 percent  in 2011 , the second-worst
annual performance since Goldman Sachs went public in 1999, as
 profit slid  to the lowest level since 2008.  Cost Cutting  Blankfein, 57, who began cutting costs in 2011 as revenue
declined for the second straight year, is banking on
international expansion and a market rebound to restore profit
growth. Gains in stock and corporate debt markets boosted total
trading revenue 87 percent from the fourth quarter.  “We’re encouraged by the early signs of improvement” in
markets, although the firm remains “cautious,” Chief Financial
Officer David A. Viniar, 56, said during a conference call with
analysts and investors today. He added that the dividend
increase was made in response to “shareholder feedback.”  Net income attributable to common shareholders, which
includes the cost of preferred dividends, climbed to $2.07
billion from $908 million, or $1.56 per fully diluted share, a
year earlier. Excluding a $1.64 billion one-time dividend paid
to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , last year’s first
quarter net income for common shareholders was $2.55 billion, or
$4.38 per share.  Revenue Decline  Revenue at Goldman Sachs fell 16 percent to $9.95 billion
from $11.9 billion a year earlier, beating the $9.41 billion
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Book
value per share rose to $134.48 from $130.31 at the end of
December.  “Our mix of businesses gives the firm significant room for
revenue growth as economic and market conditions continue to
improve,” Blankfein said in the statement.  Value-at-risk, a measure of how much the firm expects it
could lose in a single day of trading, dropped to an average of
$95 million in the first quarter from $135 million in the fourth
quarter. A 27 percent drop in value-at-risk on  interest rates 
compared with the prior quarter was driven by “lower levels of
volatility,” Viniar told analysts on the call.  Return on Equity  Return on equity, a gauge of how well Goldman Sachs
reinvests shareholders’ earnings, was 12.2 percent. That
compares with 14.5 percent in the first quarter of 2011,
excluding the dividend to Berkshire. The return on equity is
“not something we consider acceptable,” Viniar said.  Operating expenses decreased to $6.77 billion from $7.85
billion a year earlier. Compensation, the biggest expense,
declined 16 percent to $4.38 billion. The firm employed 32,400
people at the end of March, down from 35,400 a year earlier.  Last year’s plan to reduce expenses by $1.4 billion has
been “largely implemented,” and the company will continue to
seek ways to cut costs, Viniar said today.  Institutional securities, the sales and trading division
led since January by Isabelle Ealet, Pablo J. Salame, and Harvey M. Schwartz, generated $5.17 billion in revenue during the first
quarter, or 57 percent of the total. That’s down 14 percent from
$6.65 billion a year earlier and up from $3.06 billion in the
fourth quarter.  Accounting Adjustments  The figures include a $225 million net loss from accounting
adjustments related to an improvement in the creditworthiness of
the firm’s own debt, Goldman Sachs said. Viniar said that loss
was split about evenly between fixed-income, currency and
commodities trading, or FICC, and equities trading.  FICC trading revenue of $3.46 billion compared with $4.33
billion a year earlier and $1.36 billion in the fourth quarter.
Interest-rate trading, which includes  government bonds  and
related derivatives, “had a very strong quarter and all the
other businesses had good, but not great, quarters,” Viniar
said. Interest-rate trading is run globally by London-based
Konstantinos N. “Kostas” Pantazopoulos, a 43-year-old Greek
citizen who has been a partner since 2006.  Viniar, asked why FICC trading fell short compared with
Citigroup and JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
the firm and its clients “have been cautious.” He also said
Goldman Sachs’s share of the fixed-income market has fallen
since 2009, when it generated record trading revenue.  Market Share  “We still believe we’re getting a very high market
share,” he said. “We’re not getting the market share we were
getting in 2009, and remember I told you in 2009 we weren’t
going to keep that market share.”  Equities revenue of $2.25 billion was down from $2.32
billion a year earlier and up from $1.69 billion in the prior
quarter. Paul M. Russo, Michael D. Daffey and R. Martin Chavez
were named last month as co-chief operating officers of the
equities division, reporting to Ealet, Salame and Schwartz.  Investing and lending, the segment that includes money made
or lost on Goldman Sachs’s investments in companies, securities
and real estate, generated $1.91 billion of gains in the
quarter. That compares with $2.71 billion a year earlier and
$872 million in the fourth quarter.  Within that segment was $169 million from the company’s
stake in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s largest lender. That holding made $316 million a year
earlier and $388 million in the fourth quarter.  Investment Banking  The  investment-banking  division, led since May by Richard J. Gnodde, David M. Solomon and John S. Weinberg, made $1.15
billion of revenue in the quarter, down from $1.27 billion a
year earlier and compared with $857 million in the fourth
quarter. That beat estimates from five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg that ranged from $786 million to $993 million.  “Investment-banking revenues of $1.2 billion were much
better than our forecast,” analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG
led by  Howard Chen  wrote in a note to investors today. “The
current backdrop boasts many of the ingredients that could drive
a surge in activity.”  Within that business, fees from takeovers and other
financial-advisory assignments rose 37 percent to $489 million
from $357 million a year earlier and compared with $470 million
in the fourth quarter. Last week the company said that Yoel Zaoui, who had been the London-based co-head of global mergers
and acquisitions with Gene T. Sykes for less than a year, is
leaving after a 24-year career at the bank.  Equity Underwriting  Equity underwriting revenue decreased 40 percent to $255
million from $426 million a year earlier and was up from $191
million in the fourth quarter. Debt underwriting fees fell 16
percent to $410 million from $486 million a year earlier and
were higher than the $196 million generated in the fourth
quarter.  “While debt financing markets are open and equity
financing markets are improving, M&A activity has not yet gained
momentum,” Viniar told analysts today. He said the firm’s
backlog of investment-banking assignments remained unchanged in
the first quarter from the end of 2011.  Goldman Sachs ranks fourth among advisers on takeovers
announced globally this year after winning the top spot for
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank has
slipped to third place in equity, equity-linked and rights
offerings globally, after securing the No. 1 spot last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. In global corporate bond
underwriting, Goldman Sachs ranks seventh this year.  Investment Management  Revenue from  investment management , the division led since
the start of this year by Eric S. Lane and  Timothy O’Neill ,
dropped 8 percent to $1.18 billion from $1.27 billion a year
earlier and compared with $1.26 billion in the fourth quarter.
Assets under management fell to $824 billion from $828 billion
at the end of 2011.  “Our performance in the last several months has definitely
improved and if that continues I think that would be a good
precursor to good inflows of assets,” Viniar said. “We’ll have
to see if that continues.”  Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn, 51, were criticized
by former derivatives salesman  Greg Smith  in a New York Times
opinion piece last month for presiding over what Smith called a
decline in the firm’s commitment to client service. In a memo
sent to current and former employees, Blankfein and Cohn said
Smith’s view of the firm isn’t shared by most employees, adding
that they would investigate his claims.  Commitment to Clients  “Everyone at Goldman Sachs remains steadfast in their
commitment to serving our client franchise,” Viniar said today.
“We’re keenly aware that the quality of our advice and
execution in today’s challenging markets serves as the
foundation for maintaining these long-term client
relationships.”  Blankfein and Cohn, approaching their sixth anniversary in
their current roles, are also contending with the departure of
more than 50 partners in the past year, including eight members
of the management committee. Viniar said the departures are
“natural” and “warranted” because the firm had lower-than-
normal departures in the years immediately after the financial
crisis.  “I would expect that between now and the end of the year
you’ll see more partners leaving,” Viniar said. “It’s just the
natural progression and our bench is so deep that it’s really
not an issue at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  