-- Goldman Sets Bar as Wall Street Decathlon Registration Opens
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-17T16:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/goldman-sets-bar-for-wall-street-decathlon-as-registration-opens.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has set
the bar for challengers at this summer’s charity decathlon to
crown the best athlete on  Wall Street .  Goldman Sachs had the top two finishers and was the top
fundraising company in last year’s event, a 10-discipline
competition that raised about $500,000 for patient care and
research at New York’s Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.  Registration for the fourth annual decathlon opens today
and Brad Bagdis, a former Harvard University football captain at
Knight Capital Group Inc., is among those challenging the
Goldman Sachs team. Bagdis, 27, was third last year behind
Goldman’s Justin Nunez, a former defensive back at  Columbia
University , and Kyle VanFleet, who played fullback at  Georgetown
University .  “I’d be lying if I told you we weren’t gunning for them a
little bit this year,” Bagdis, who’s in his fourth year as an
institutional sales trader at Knight Capital, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a bit of a rivalry. I played
football against Nunez when he was at Columbia.”  Nunez, in his third year working in the investment
management division at Goldman Sachs, won the decathlon title
last year after finishing third in 2010.  His victory came before family, friends and colleagues at
his alma mater, as the competition was held at Columbia’s Wien
Stadium on the northern tip of  Manhattan . This year’s event,
which tests speed, strength and agility, will again be held at
Columbia on July 29. Registration information is available at
the event’s website,  thedecathlon.org .  Defending Champion  “After finishing third, my focus was on winning,” Nunez,
who finished with 7,095 points, 27 ahead of VanFleet, said by e-
mail. “Now that I’ve achieved that goal, I would like nothing
more than to hold on to the trophy for one more year.”  Bagdis and Nunez, 28, are among a group of former Ivy
League football players who plan to take part this year. Former
University of Pennsylvania defensive end David Betten of George
Weiss Associates and former Columbia offensive lineman Ralph
DeBernardo of J.P. Morgan also have committed.  Awards are presented to the top three finishers as well as
the top executive performer, the winners in three age groups
(under 30, 30-39 and over 40), and the top fundraiser.  Tom McGuirk, the managing director of HighTower Advisors in
 Menlo Park ,  California , traveled to New York and took top honors
in the executive division last year. The 41-year-old McGuirk
competed in the 400-meter hurdles for Ireland in the 1996 and
2000 Olympics.  Events  While the competition features runs at three distances --
40 yards, 400 meters and 800 meters -- that’s where its
similarities to the Olympic-style decathlon ends. Pull-ups, a
football throw, an agility drill, rowing, a vertical jump, bench
press and dips -- a triceps exercise using one’s own weight --
are also part of the one-day contest.  The field is limited to 150 competitors, each of whom must
raise $3,000 in contributions. Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News, is among the event’s corporate sponsors.  Bagdis raised $10,710 last year. His roommate, colleague
and training partner Brian Ceglarski, 27, brought in almost
$13,000, helping  Knight Capital  rank third in team fund raising
in 2011 behind Goldman Sachs ($37,146) and  Bank of America 
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch ($24,301). They have higher goals this
year, with at least two other co-workers joining the event and
strong support from management at the  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based securities firm.  Strong Support  “We’ve got a lot of help from the top guys who are
athletes themselves,” said the 6-foot-5 Ceglarski, who won the
rowing event in record time last year and plays hockey in a
league once a week at  Chelsea Piers . “They’ve been supportive
financially and in getting the word out there.”  Bagdis, who’s 6-foot-3 and 230 pounds -- down about 30
pounds from his playing weight as a defensive end and linebacker
at Harvard -- said he arrives at the office at 5 a.m. on
weekdays. He spends about an hour preparing for his work day and
then goes to the company gym downstairs for about an hour and 15
minutes before getting back to his desk for a daily team call at
7:30 a.m.  While he’s preparing for all 10 events, Bagdis said last
year’s experience made clear his weaknesses.  “Being a bigger guy, I’m going to focus more on the
running,” Bagdis said. “It was absolutely brutal, the 400 and
800 meters. I’m just not built for long distance.”  Doug Schlack, a 28-year-old junior bond broker in his fifth
year at  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP) , finished fifth in his debut at the
decathlon in 2011 and said this year he wants to match the
victory by his younger brother, Chris, at the event in 2010.  Doug Schlack said he isn’t focused on the team from Goldman
Sachs, even though he knows he’ll have to get past the defending
champion to bring his family a second title.  “I wouldn’t say I necessarily aim for those guys,”
Schlack said. “I just know if I stay consistent -- now that I
know what to expect -- I should be able to compete again. And as
much as you want to win this event, you can’t forget the cause
we’re all there for, raising money for cancer awareness and
having fun being able to compete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  