-- Google Says It Didn’t Need License to Use Java in Android
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-04-17T15:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/google-says-it-didn-t-need-license-to-use-java-in-android.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose Android software
runs on more than 300 million mobile devices, denied stealing
Oracle Corp.’ technology to develop the program.  Google outlined a defense today in federal court in San
Francisco against Oracle’s allegations of copyright and patent
infringement. Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , is
seeking $1 billion in damages and a court order blocking Google
from distributing Android unless it takes a license.  Oracle’s lawyer told the jury yesterday that Google knew as
far back as 2005 it had to license the Java programming
language, now owned by Oracle, to develop Android.  “Google didn’t need a license to use the Java language in
Android,” Robert Van Nest, an attorney for Google, said today
in federal court in  San Francisco  on the second day of an eight-
week trial.  Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  will testify
at the trial, the  Redwood City , California-based company said in
a filing yesterday. Oracle also said it plans to call  Mountain
View , California-based Google’s CEO,  Larry Page .  Michael Jacobs , an attorney for Oracle, yesterday showed
the jury e-mails he said outlined how Google executives knew the
company had to license Java technology and then tried to hide
evidence of Java code in Android.  “My proposal is that we take a license,”  Andy Rubin , a
Google senior vice president, said in an October 2005 e-mail to
Page shown to the jury. Rubin said Google would have to pay for
the license, the e-mail said.  ‘Give Back’  A Google engineer, Tim Lindholm, said in a February 2006 e-
mail that the company was in negotiations for a Java license.
Google didn’t agree to the terms of a type of license that
allows companies to use Java code and write new code on top of
it which “you have to give back to the open-source community,”
Jacobs said.  “You can’t keep it for yourself,” the Oracle lawyer said.
“They broke the basic rules of the Java programming
community.”  In another e-mail shown to the jury, one Google executive
tells another to “scrub out a few more Js” from Android code.
The “J” stood for Java, Jacobs said.  Oracle also alleges that Google infringed two Java patents
that a court-appointed expert estimated are worth $2.8 million
in damages.  The first phase of the trial will deal with allegations of
copyright infringement. Phase two will address patent claims. If
jurors find that  Oracle’s (ORCL)  intellectual property was infringed,
they will decide in a third phase whether the company is
entitled to damages.  Sun Microsystems  Java, developed by Sun Microsystems in the mid-1990s, lets
developers write programs that work across different operating
systems and on a variety of computers. A key building block of
the World Wide Web, it’s widely used in business applications.
The software also runs on billions of mobile devices. Oracle
acquired Sun in 2010 for $7.4 billion.  Van Nest said today that his client will prove four points
during the trial: that Sun gave Java to the public; that Google
built Android using “free and open” technologies; that Sun
approved of Android’s use of Java; and that Google made fair use
of the language in Android.  Google rejected an offer by Sun to accept $100 million in
royalties to use Java in Android’s development, Van Nest said
last year at a hearing in the case. The proposed three-year deal
in 2006 was for a technology partnership to build Android
jointly, rather than for just a patent license, he said.  Google, operator of the biggest search engine, relies on
Android, the most popular U.S. smartphone operating system, to
compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the mobile-phone market and to cut
its dependence on traditional Web-search advertising.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 