-- GSA Official Invokes Fifth Amendment on $823,000 Las Vegas Event
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-17T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/gsa-official-invokes-fifth-amendment-on-823-000-las-vegas-event.html
A General Services Administration
official refused to answer questions at a congressional hearing
into an $823,000  Las Vegas  conference criticized by lawmakers
and the Obama administration for wasting taxpayer money.  Jeff Neely, a regional commissioner who oversaw the event,
cited his Fifth Amendment rights as he appeared yesterday before
the House Oversight Committee. He is scheduled to testify before
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today.  Brian Miller , the GSA inspector general whose report
brought the matter to public attention, told the committee he
has asked the  Department of Justice  to consider criminal
charges.  Dan Tangherlini, the new acting administrator for GSA, told
lawmakers he had canceled 35 GSA conferences in response to the
report, “saving taxpayers $995,686.” Tangherlini said he would
work closely with Miller to recover money spent at the Las Vegas
conference, which included a mind reader, a clown and a $75,000
bicycle-building exercise.  Tangherlini joined the GSA from the Treasury Department on
April 2 to replace GSA Administrator Martha Johnson, who
resigned following the inspector general’s report on the five-
day conference in 2010 for about 300 agency employees.  Johnson apologized at yesterday’s hearing. “I will mourn
for the rest of my life the loss of my appointment,” she said
in her opening statement. She was appointed by the Obama
administration and confirmed in 2010.  Four Hearings  The agency’s deputy commissioner, David Foley, told
committee members that he understands the “outrage” over the
conference. “I sincerely apologize,” he said.  Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Republican from  Utah ,
questioned why Neely had been granted a bonus after the agency
was aware of the inspector general’s interim findings. Neely has
been placed on administrative leave.  “He’s still being paid by the taxpayer,” Chaffetz said.
“What does it take to be fired from the GSA?”  The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, led
by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, was the
first of at least four congressional committees that have
scheduled hearings this week on the GSA’s conference spending
spree.  Issa has requested government-wide data about the cost and
frequency of agency-funded overnight conferences and the
individuals hired to plan those events.  Coins, ‘Yearbooks’  The GSA, which manages property and purchases goods and
services for other government agencies, held its gathering at
the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,  Nevada . Its outlays also
included $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for participants and
$6,325 for commemorative coins, according to the agency’s
inspector general.  The conference included breakfasts with a price tag of $44
a person, more than triple the $12-a-person government allowance
for Las Vegas, according to the report.  President  Barack Obama  was “outraged by the excessive
spending, questionable dealings with contractors and disregard
for taxpayer dollars,”  Jacob Lew , White House chief of staff,
said in an April 2 e-mailed statement. Johnson fired two senior
agency officials and disciplined others before resigning, Lew
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  