-- GSA Employees May Have Stolen Agency IPods, Lawmakers Are Told
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-17T18:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/gsa-employees-may-have-stolen-agency-ipods-lawmakers-are-told.html
Misconduct at the  General Services
Administration  extended beyond overspending on a  Las Vegas 
conference to the possible theft of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPods by
employees, lawmakers were told today.  Brian Miller , the inspector general whose report on the Las
Vegas conference brought GSA abuses to light, told a House
subcommittee that his office subpoenaed Apple and discovered
that 115 iPods meant for an employee-rewards program had gone
missing, one of which was traced to the daughter of a GSA
official who has been placed on administrative leave.  Jeff Neely, the regional GSA commissioner who oversaw the
$823,000 Las Vegas conference being investigated by Congress,
didn’t appear at a second day of hearings on the event.  Neely, placed on leave following the inspector general
report, refused to testify yesterday in an appearance before the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, citing his
Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination. He had been
invited to testify today also.  “I guess the only way we’ll get to see him is on a video
in the hot tub,” Representative  John Mica , a Republican from
 Florida  who heads the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, said at the hearing. The New York Post today
published a photo that it said was of Neely in a hot tub in Las
Vegas.  Today’s hearing was held by a subcommittee of Mica’s
committee amid growing criticism of the GSA by lawmakers from
both parties.  Other Conferences  Lisa Daniels, a General Services Administration event
planner, told the subcommittee today she was unable to prepare
testimony because she was placed on administrative leave last
week and didn’t have access to her computer or files. Daniels
was excused and advised to hire an attorney.  Miller said his office has been investigating other trips
and conferences involving GSA employees, as well as the “Hat’s
Off” rewards program that offered iPods.  The GSA, which manages property and purchases goods and
services for other government agencies, held its gathering at
the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,  Nevada . The event featured
a mind reader, a clown and a $75,000 bicycle-building exercise.
It also included $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for participants
and $6,325 for commemorative coins, according to the agency’s
inspector general.  Breakfast for $44  The conference included breakfasts with a price tag of $44
a person, more than triple the $12-a-person government allowance
for Las Vegas, according to the April 2 report.  President  Barack Obama  was “outraged by the excessive
spending, questionable dealings with contractors and disregard
for taxpayer dollars,”  Jacob Lew , White House chief of staff,
said in an April 2 e-mailed statement. Johnson fired two senior
agency officials and disciplined others before resigning, Lew
said.  The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, led
by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, was the
first of at least four congressional committees that have
scheduled hearings this week on the GSA’s conference spending
spree.  Miller told the Oversight committee at yesterday’s hearing
that he has asked the  Department of Justice  to consider criminal
charges.  Dan Tangherlini, the new acting administrator for GSA, told
lawmakers he had canceled 35 GSA conferences in response to the
report, saving taxpayers $995,686. Tangherlini said he would
work closely with Miller to recover money spent at the Las Vegas
conference.  Tangherlini joined the GSA from the Treasury Department on
April 2 to replace GSA Administrator Martha Johnson, who
resigned following the inspector general’s report on the five-
day conference in 2010 for about 300 agency employees.  Johnson apologized at yesterday’s hearing. “I will mourn
for the rest of my life the loss of my appointment,” she said
in her opening statement. She was appointed by the Obama
administration and confirmed in 2010.  Issa has requested government-wide data about the cost and
frequency of agency-funded overnight conferences and the
individuals hired to plan those events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  