-- GSA’s Neely Doesn’t Appear at Second Hearing on Las Vegas Event
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-17T13:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/gsa-s-neely-doesn-t-appear-at-second-hearing-on-las-vegas-event.html
 Jeff Neely, a regional General
Services Administration commissioner who oversaw an $823,000  Las
Vegas  conference being investigated by Congress, didn’t appear
at a second day of hearings on the event.  Neely, who is on administrative leave, refused to testify
yesterday in an appearance before the House Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform, citing his Fifth Amendment
rights against self-incrimination. He had been invited to
testify today also.  Today’s hearing is being held by the House Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee, chaired by Representative  John
Mica , a Florida Republican, amid growing criticism of the GSA by
lawmakers from both parties.  Lisa Daniels, a General Services Administration event
planner, told the committee today she was unable to prepare
testimony for the committee because she was placed on
administrative leave last week and didn’t have access to her
computer or files. Daniels was excused and advised to hire an
attorney.  The GSA, which manages property and purchases goods and
services for other government agencies, held its gathering at
the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,  Nevada . The event featured
a mind reader, a clown and a $75,000 bicycle-building exercise.
It also included $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for participants
and $6,325 for commemorative coins, according to the agency’s
inspector general.  Breakfast for $44  The conference included breakfasts with a price tag of $44
a person, more than triple the $12-a-person government allowance
for Las Vegas, according to the April 2 report.  President  Barack Obama  was “outraged by the excessive
spending, questionable dealings with contractors and disregard
for taxpayer dollars,”  Jacob Lew , White House chief of staff,
said in an April 2 e-mailed statement. Johnson fired two senior
agency officials and disciplined others before resigning, Lew
said.  The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, led
by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, was the
first of at least four congressional committees that have
scheduled hearings this week on the GSA’s conference spending
spree.  Brian Miller , the GSA inspector general whose report
brought the matter to public attention, told the Oversight
committee at yesterday’s hearing that he has asked the
 Department of Justice  to consider criminal charges.  Canceled Conferences  Dan Tangherlini, the new acting administrator for GSA, told
lawmakers he had canceled 35 GSA conferences in response to the
report, saving taxpayers $995,686. Tangherlini said he would
work closely with Miller to recover money spent at the Las Vegas
conference.  Tangherlini joined the GSA from the Treasury Department on
April 2 to replace GSA Administrator Martha Johnson, who
resigned following the inspector general’s report on the five-
day conference in 2010 for about 300 agency employees.  Johnson apologized at yesterday’s hearing. “I will mourn
for the rest of my life the loss of my appointment,” she said
in her opening statement. She was appointed by the Obama
administration and confirmed in 2010.  Issa has requested government-wide data about the cost and
frequency of agency-funded overnight conferences and the
individuals hired to plan those events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  