-- IBM Raises Forecast After Net Income Rises; Sales Miss
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-17T23:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/ibm-raises-2012-forecast-as-earnings-top-estimates-sales-miss.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, raised
its full-year earnings forecast after posting a 7.1 percent
increase in first-quarter profit, helped by software margins.  Operating earnings will increase to at least $15 a share
this year, IBM said today, boosting its January forecast of at
least $14.85. Analysts predicted $14.92, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company also reported
revenue for last quarter that fell short of projections.  IBM is making progress with a plan to make software, which
is more profitable than hardware, account for half of earnings
as businesses and governments boost spending on programs that
analyze data and project trends. Consulting was hurt by  Japan ’s
recovery from last year’s earthquake and tsunami, as well as
constrained government budgets all over the world, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said today.  “The major markets continued to be weighed down by Japan
and by the public sector, which declined more sharply this
quarter” in terms of business services demand, Loughridge said
on a conference call. “The growth markets continued to perform
well, with double-digit growth again this quarter.”  Loughridge reiterated that he expects the company’s
performance to improve in the second half.  ‘Bottom Line’  “The top line and likely the bottom line should be
stronger in the second half,”  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a phone interview after the
earnings release. “The comparisons get a lot easier and they
are going to have some benefits from the cost cutting,” said
Sacconaghi, who has a market perform rating on the stock.  IBM fell 2.4 percent to $202.56 in extended trading, after
rising 2.3 percent to $207.45 at the close. Last month, the
Armonk, New York-based company’s  shares  closed above $200 for
the first time, factoring in stock splits.  Sales increased 0.3 percent to $24.7 billion, compared with
the $24.8 billion analysts predicted. Net income advanced to
$3.07 billion, or $2.61 a share, from $2.86 billion, or $2.31, a
year earlier. Earnings excluding some items rose to $2.78 a
share from $2.41. Analysts predicted $2.65.  Revenue from  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  declined 2
percent to $7.6 billion, while sales in the Americas and Asia-
Pacific region increased.  The effect on IBM’s revenue growth from Europe’s debt
crisis may worry some investors, said Joseph Foresi, an analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in  Boston , who has a buy rating
on the company.  Growth Markets  The euro averaged $1.31 in the first quarter, down 4.2
percent from the year-earlier period as Europe’s financial woes
continued. The drop means revenue from Europe, which combined
with Middle East and Africa accounts for about a third of IBM’s
sales, is worth less when converted to dollars.  Chief Executive Officer Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, who
took over in January, is also seeking to expand in faster-
growing economies. Revenue from growth markets, such as Brazil,
India and  China , increased 9 percent in the first quarter. Sales
from the regions will make up at least 30 percent of revenue by
2015, the company has said, up from 22 percent in 2011.  Formerly IBM’s sales and marketing head, Rometty, 54,
succeeded  Sam Palmisano  and became the first female CEO in the
company’s 100-year history. Palmisano, who had been CEO since
2002, remains chairman.  Hardware Sales  Rometty inherited a five-year plan that targets annual
operating earnings of at least $20 a share by 2015, up from
$13.44 last year. IBM is tapping a “gusher of data” through
its Smarter Planet and Smarter Commerce initiatives to achieve
its 2015 growth targets, Rometty said in her first letter to
shareholders in the 2011 annual report.  Sales at IBM’s software unit rose 5.5 percent to $5.6
billion. Services revenue growth slowed to 0.7 percent from the
fourth quarter’s 3 percent, while hardware sales declined 6.7
percent.  Backlog, which measures expected future revenue from
contracts, totaled $139 billion in the quarter, down $2 billion
from the fourth quarter. Contract signings for  services  were
$11.8 billion.  Mark Moskowitz , an analyst at JPMorgan & Chase
Co., projected $11.1 billion.  IBM has set goals of adding $20 billion in new revenue and
spending about $20 billion on acquisitions, from 2010 through
2015, as it expands offerings to business customers.  Loughridge today reiterated that acquisition goal on a
conference call, and said IBM spent $1.3 billion in the first
quarter closing purchases of five companies, including DemandTec
Inc.  IBM is selling its point-of-sale terminal business for
about $850 million to  Toshiba Tec Corp. (6588) , the Japanese maker of
scanners and bar-code machines, the companies said earlier
today. That deal is a “partnership” that will allow IBM and
Toshiba to combine some offerings in commerce, Loughridge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  