-- High-Yield to Return 13% in Best Risk-Reward Trade-Off, RBS Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-04-17T08:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/high-yield-to-return-13-in-best-risk-reward-trade-off-rbs-says.html
Junk-rated company bonds should
return 13 percent this year, giving the best trade-off between
risk and return in  Europe ’s credit markets, according to
analysts at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  Large companies at the top of the high-yield ratings
spectrum no longer need to rely on banks for the majority of
their funding and can issue bonds in a variety of currencies,
according to analysts led by Alberto Gallo in  London . They said
that the deteriorating outlook for growth is hurting,
particularly in peripheral countries, though such issuers
generate about 65 percent of their revenue abroad.  “Even with stagnant growth and lending activity, high-
yield companies have little refinancing to do and will be able
to repay their debt,” according to the analysts. “Current
valuations compensate for the macroeconomic deterioration.”  Slower economic growth typically causes defaults to
increase, sapping returns as weaker companies struggle to
refinance their borrowings amid declining revenue. While RBS
expects the default rate to rise to 4 percent this year, high-
yield companies have to refinance just 3 percent of outstanding
bonds, according to the Edinburgh-based lender.  Even so, now may not be the right time to buy junk debt
because yield spreads should be wider than current levels, the
analysts wrote.  European high-yield bonds generated returns of 11.1 percent
this year, after gaining 12.7 percent through the end of March,
assuming re-invested coupons, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro High Yield Constrained Index. That compares
with a loss of 2.5 percent in 2011 and a 14.7 percent gain the
year before, the index shows.  Junk bonds  are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  A “small correction” is likely, based on both the
economic outlook and the inflows into high-yield funds that have
helped drive the market this year, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  