-- Illumina Win in Board Contest May Signal Long Roche Fight
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-17T20:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/illumina-win-in-board-contest-may-signal-long-roche-fight.html
An  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  victory over
hostile suitor  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  for control of its board
tomorrow may signal investors are in for a long takeover battle.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer medicines, has
nominated six directors and proposed expanding the size of
Illumina’s board to 11 from nine as it seeks to acquire the San
Diego-based company for about $6.7 billion. Earlier this month,
three advisory firms sided with Illumina, recommending votes for
its four nominees including Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley .  Illumina, which makes tools for mapping DNA, has twice
rejected bids from the Swiss drugmaker, the latest valued at $51
a share. Roche said last week it won’t sweeten its offer again
without starting talks, and the three-month fight may drag on if
Illumina prevails tomorrow at its annual shareholder meeting in
 New York .  “Roche has tended to be very patient in the past,” Doug Schenkel, a Cowen & Co. analyst, said in an April 13 telephone
interview, citing previous successful acquisitions. “Both
Genentech and Ventana took the better part of a year from the
initial bid to coming to an agreement. There’s some precedent to
suggest this could last a long time.”  Illumina’s shares closed below Roche’s offer price last
week for the first time since the bid was made as investors grew
concerned the drugmaker would abandon the deal if Illumina
didn’t agree to start discussions. The shares  fell  2.1 percent
to $44 at the close of New York trading.  Roche rose less than 1 percent to 160.70 Swiss francs in
Zurich.  Losing Confidence  The decline shows investors don’t have a lot of confidence
that Roche will win at Illumina’s annual meeting, said Alastair Mackay, an analyst with GARP Research & Securities Co. in
Baltimore.  “Roche can posture and Roche can threaten, but at the end
of the day they only have three choices,” Mackay said in a
telephone interview last week. “Walk away, stick with the bid
of $51 -- which, unless they have something up their sleeve at
the shareholder meeting, will likely fail -- or raise their
bid.”  Proxy-advisory firms including Institutional Shareholder
Services said earlier this month that Illumina stockholders
should vote for management’s nominees and reject Roche. If
shareholders follow their advice, Roche may have to wait until
the 2013 annual meeting to try again unless it increases its
offer, said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager who helps
oversee $100 million, including Illumina shares, at Miller Tabak
& Co. in New York.  Wait Until Next Year  “If Illumina doesn’t allow Roche in to do due diligence,
they may have to wait until next year’s board meeting to put
their people on the board,” Funtleyder said in a telephone
interview last week. “In theory, Roche could offer $100 a share
and see what happens, but I don’t think that’s going to
happen.”  Roche has said its  size , experience and sales force will
enable it to expand Illumina’s business into increased
laboratory use, where the machines could help match the right
cancer therapies with patients.  About 80 percent of  sequencing revenue  now comes from
academic and government researchers, with the total market worth
more than $2 billion, Cowen’s Schenkel wrote in a March research
report. The cost of mapping DNA is falling as technology
improves, with the expectation that by next year, second-
generation machines will be able to sequence full human genomes
in a day for less than $2,000, Schenkel wrote. Illumina
dominates the next-generation sequencing market, he said.  Roche’s Message  “The combined capabilities of our two companies will
accelerate the transition of sequencing into clinical and
routine diagnostics,” Roche wrote April 11 in a letter to
Illumina shareholders. “But this will take considerable time
and the risks and uncertainties are real -- which make our $51
all-cash offer a very attractive one and a more than reasonable
starting point for negotiations.”  The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker bought biotechnology
company Genentech Inc. in March 2009, paying $46.8 billion for
the 44 percent stake it didn’t already own to end an eight-month
battle in which it raised its bid twice. Roche nabbed cancer-
test maker Ventana Medical Systems Inc. in January 2008 for $3.4
billion after a seven-month struggle in which it sweetened its
offer once.  The expectation that the Illumina conquest may follow suit
has pushed some shareholders to drop the stock rather than hang
on for a long wait. Dan Mahony, who manages $300 million at
Polar Capital in  London , bought Illumina immediately after
Roche’s initial bid of $44.50 a share in January, expecting a
sweetened offer. He said he sold his stake at the end of
February after signs an agreement wouldn’t be reached quickly.  “Now I just wonder if people have tempered their
expectations,” he said. “The market tends to be fairly
accurate with these things. Even if you want to wait for a $55
to $60 offer, it’s going to take some time to come through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  