-- IMF Says ECB Should Cut Rates, Keep Tools to Bolster Growth
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-17T14:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-says-ecb-should-cut-rates-keep-measures-to-bolster-growth.html
The  European Central Bank  should
cut  interest rates  and keep its crisis measures in place to help
euro-region growth and support the banking system, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  “Given the broad need for fiscal adjustment, much of the
burden of supporting growth falls on monetary policy,” the
Washington-based lender said today in its  World Economic
Outlook . “The ECB should lower its policy rate while continuing
to use unconventional policies to address banks’ funding and
liquidity problems.”  The ECB cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 1 percent
in December and pumped 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the
banking system to secure the supply of credit to households and
companies. The euro-area economy is projected to shrink by 0.3
percent in 2012, an improvement from the 0.5 percent contraction
the IMF forecast in January. The region will return to 0.9
percent growth in 2013, up from the fund’s previous forecast of
0.8 percent.  The euro extended losses after the forecast was released,
trading at $1.3109 at 4:08 p.m. in Brussels, down 0.3 percent.  ‘Funding Pressures’  While the ECB’s two three-year loans have helped alleviate
“funding pressures in the banking sector” and in “stabilizing
 market sentiment ,” a further rate cut would “ensure that
inflation develops in line with its target over the medium term
and guard against deflation risks, thereby also facilitating
much-needed adjustments in competitiveness,” the IMF said.  The “overarching policy priority in  Europe ” is to prevent
a renewed escalation of the debt and growth crisis, while
“working toward resolution of the underlying causes,” the fund
said.  To limit any damage from bank deleveraging, governments
should “in some cases” help lenders to raise their capital
levels. There is also “a need for a pan-euro area facility with
the capacity to take direct stakes in banks, including in
countries with little fiscal room to do so themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  