-- IMF Raises Global Forecast for First Time Since Early 2011
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-04-17T14:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-raises-global-economic-growth-forecast-to-3-5-from-3-3-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
raised its global growth forecast for the first time in more
than a year, with the U.S. boosting the outlook while recent
improvements remain “very fragile.”  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year,
compared with a January projection of 3.3 percent, the
Washington-based IMF said today in its World Economic Outlook.
It sees growth of 4.1 percent in 2013, up from 4.0 percent. It
raised its forecasts for the U.S. to gains of 2.1 percent this
year and 2.4 percent in 2013.  The report reflects the IMF’s view that the euro area,
while still facing an economic downturn and the “hard to
quantify” potential risk of a country’s default, has stabilized
since last year. The  euro area  economy is projected to decline
by 0.3 percent in 2012, an improvement from the 0.5 percent in
the IMF’s previous forecast. China is projected to grow 8.2
percent and  Japan  2 percent this year.  “For the last six months the world economy has been on
what is best described as a roller-coaster,” IMF chief
economist  Olivier Blanchard  said at a briefing in Washington
today. After European governments took measures to reassure
markets, “an uneasy calm remains. One has the feeling that at
any moment things could well get very bad again.”  The IMF last raised its quarterly projection for world
growth in January 2011, when it increased the forecast to 4.4
percent for that year from 4.2 percent.  The IMF’s projections for the U.S. are below the median
forecasts of 2.3 percent growth this year and 2.5 percent in
2013, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Growth  “Improved activity in the  United States  during the second
half of 2011 and better policies in the euro area in response to
its deepening economic crisis have reduced the threat of a sharp
global slowdown,” the IMF said in a summary of the report.
“Weak recovery will likely resume in the major advanced
economies, and activity is expected to remain relatively solid
in most emerging and developing economies. However, the recent
improvements are very fragile.”  “The most immediate concern is still that further
escalation of the euro-area crisis will trigger a much more
generalized flight from risk,” the IMF said. “Geopolitical
uncertainty could trigger a sharp increase in oil prices.” A 50
percent increase in the cost of oil would reduce global output
by 1.25 percent, according to the report.  Oil Price  Oil rose yesterday as the reversal date for the Seaway
crude pipeline was moved up, causing the spread between New
York-traded futures and Brent in  London  to narrow. Crude for May
delivery gained 10 cents to settle at $102.93 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 4.1 percent this
year.  As Group of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors
prepare to meet this week in Washington, the IMF warned that
policy makers in  Europe  “must prevent disorderly and
destructive deleveraging of the banking system and to promote an
adequate flow of credit to the private sector.”  Advanced economies, which include the U.S., the euro area,
Japan, the U.K. and  Canada , will grow 1.4 percent this year and
2 percent in 2013, the IMF said. Those are up from 1.2 percent
and 1.9 percent in the January forecasts. So-called emerging and
developing economies will expand by 5.7 percent in 2012 and 6
percent next year, up from earlier projections of 5.5 percent
and 5.9 percent.  IMF Forecast  The IMF forecast a 1.8 percent economic contraction in
 Spain , worse than the 1.6 decline the lender projected in
January, according to the report. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday that the country must slash its  budget
deficit  to maintain access to financing, as bond yields rose to
the highest level since his government came to power four months
ago.  Italy , where Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is trying to revamp
labor markets to make the economy more competitive, is forecast
to contract 1.9 percent this year, better than the 2.1 percent
slump the IMF had projected in January, the IMF said today.  “Some optimism has returned,” Blanchard said in a
statement accompanying the report. “It should remain tempered.
Even absent another European crisis, most advanced economies
still face major brakes on growth. And the risk of another
crisis is still very much present and could well affect both
advanced and emerging economies.”  European Banks  European nations should decrease the links between
governments and banks, “from the creation of euro level deposit
insurance and bank resolution to the introduction of limited
forms of Eurobonds, such as the creation of a common euro bill
market,” Blanchard said.  On  China , the IMF said growth in the world’s second-largest
economy had “moderated” since mid-2011, “and there is so far
little sign of a sharp correction in the potentially overheated
real estate sector and most related activities, despite
widespread concerns about a hard landing.”  After 8.2 percent growth for China this year, the IMF
forecasts an 8.8 percent expansion in 2013.  “The potential consequences of a disorderly default and
exit by a euro area member are unpredictable and thus not
possible to map into a specific scenario,” the IMF said. “If
such an event occurs, it is possible that other euro area
economies perceived to have similar risk characteristics would
come under severe pressure as well, with a full-blown panic in
financial markets and depositor flight from several banking
systems.”  On consumer prices, the IMF projects a 1.9 percent increase
this year in advanced economies and 1.7 percent in 2013. Those
are higher than the 1.6 percent and 1.3 percent the lender
forecast in January. In emerging and developing countries,
inflation will be 6.2 percent this year and 5.6 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  