-- IMF Warns of Hot Money as Latin America Growth Forecast Climbs
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-04-17T13:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-warns-of-hot-money-as-latin-america-growth-forecast-climbs.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
today raised its economic growth forecast for Latin America and
the Caribbean on an improved global outlook, warning against an
inflow of capital that as recently as 2010 caused currencies in
the region to surge.  The Washington-based lender increased its forecast for the
region’s real gross domestic product growth for 2012 to 3.7
percent from 3.6 percent in January, also boosting its global
estimate to 3.5 percent from 3.3 percent. The IMF kept its
forecast for  Brazil  unchanged at 3 percent as estimates for
 Mexico  climbed to 3.6 percent from 3.5 percent. Peru will lead
growth in the region by expanding 5.5 percent this year while
Paraguay will slow most and contract 1.5 percent, according to
the fund.  The region runs the risk of overheating as the spillover
from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has had a limited impact on
Latin America, the fund said in the report, the World Economic
Outlook. The IMF warned against relaxing economic policies as
consumer prices rise more than three times faster in  South
America  than in advanced economies this year.  “Policies must be alert to domestic overheating and must
build on a strong foundation of prudential measures developed
during the most recent periods of robust capital flows,”
according to the report. “The region has had difficulty
absorbing hot money in the past and this remains an ongoing
source of vulnerability.”  Inflation, Policy Balance  Consumer prices will rise an average of 7.4 percent in
South America this year, led by 32 percent and 9.9 percent gains
in Venezuela and  Argentina  respectively, the fund said. Prices
in Brazil, which is  Latin America ’s largest economy, rise 5.2
percent this year, down from 6.6 percent rise in 2011.  Mexico, the region’s second-biggest economy, will see
average prices rise 3.9 percent this year from 3.4 percent in
2011, the fund said. The country, which has kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged at a record low 4.5 percent for 25
straight meetings, can keep monetary policy at “accommodative”
levels if price pressures and estimates hold.  Latin American policy makers should take steps to sustain
liquidity without relaxing monetary policy if global financial
instability resumes, Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the fund’s
Western Hemisphere department, said in an April 12 interview.
Today’s report echoed that advice, signaling out countries with
higher-than-average inflation rates.  “These concerns are particularly acute in  Venezuela , where
policy has not tightened noticeably and inflation continues at
high levels,” according to today’s report. “Similarly, in
Argentina, although it is not affected by international credit
flows in the same way, high credit growth and high inflation are
worrisome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  