-- IMF Forecasts Middle East Growth to Accelerate in 2012
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-forecasts-middle-east-growth-to-accelerate-in-2012.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
forecast that economic growth in the  Middle East  and North
Africa will accelerate to 4.2 percent this year from 3.5 percent
in 2011.  The economies of oil importers will expand by 2.2 percent
and crude exporters by 4.8 percent, the Washington-based IMF
said in its World Economic Outlook report today. Egypt’s growth
will slow to 1.5 percent, it said, predicting growth rates of 11
percent for Iraq, 6.6 percent for Kuwait and 6 percent for Saudi
Arabia and Qatar.  “Among oil importers, strong oil prices, anemic tourism
associated with social unrest in the region, and lower trade and
remittance flows reflecting ongoing problems in  Europe  are major
constraints,” the IMF said. “For oil exporters, risks revolve
around the price of oil.”  Egypt ’s Hosni Mubarak and three other regional leaders have
been ousted since the start of last year by popular movements
that were partly fueled by the world’s highest youth jobless
rate. Saudi Arabia, the biggest economy in the Middle East,
increased  government spending  by 23 percent as the kingdom’s
rulers sought to create jobs and build houses in order to avert
the kind of popular uprising that swept other Arab countries.  “The primary challenge is to secure economic and social
stability, but there is also a short-term need to place public
finances on a sustainable footing,” the IMF said. “For oil
exporters, governments need to seize the opportunity presented
by high  oil prices  to move toward sustainable and diversified
economies.”  Economic growth in the region will slow to 3.7 percent in
2013, the IMF forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  