-- IMF Says Inflation May Constrain Easing From India to Indonesia
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-04-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-says-inflation-may-constrain-easing-from-india-to-indonesia.html
Asian nations including  India  and
Indonesia face elevated price pressures that will constrain
monetary easing even as the growth outlook for the region dims,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Emerging Asian economies may expand 6.8 percent in 2012,
after growing 7.3 percent last year, the fund said in its World
Economic Outlook report today. The region is experiencing a
“soft landing,” which will probably continue, it said.  Crude oil has risen 20 percent in the past six months,
forcing Asian governments to raise fuel prices and limiting
policy options for central banks in the world’s fastest growing
region. While India cut  interest rates  by more than economists
forecast today and  Australia  signaled slower inflation would
increase prospects for its first reduction this year, policy
makers elsewhere are holding borrowing costs steady to contain
price pressures.  “Although monetary tightening has been appropriately
paused in many Asian economies, and cautiously reversed in some,
room for further easing is constrained in economies where
underlying inflation pressures remain,” including India,
 Indonesia , Korea, and in countries that are still working
through previous credit expansion, such as  China , the IMF said.  While headline inflation in emerging  Asia  as a whole is
slowing and expected to continue easing, the IMF said price
gains will “stay elevated” in India and quicken in Indonesia.
Inflation in emerging Asia will slow to 4.7 percent this year
from 6.1 percent in 2011, it said.  Indian Inflation  India’s inflation may be 8.2 percent this year, compared
with 8.6 percent in 2011, the IMF said. The central bank slashed
its benchmark rate by half a percentage point today, seeking to
bolster growth with the first reduction since 2009. Inflation,
which remains the fastest among the biggest emerging economies,
might limit the room for further cuts, the central bank said.  Bank Indonesia  is shifting its focus to maintaining price
expectations from supporting growth, Perry Warjiyo, director of
economic research and monetary policy, said today. Inflation
accelerated for the first time in seven months in March and the
central bank left its key  rate  unchanged in April for a second
meeting after a reduction in February.  Indonesian consumer prices may climb 6.2 percent in 2012,
compared with 5.4 percent last year, the IMF said.  Threats to Asia’s growth include an escalation of  Europe ’s
debt crisis, a “sharp rise” in global risk aversion and Middle
East tensions that may cause  oil prices  to surge, the IMF said.  Euro Area Risks  “Policy in the region needs to be set with an eye toward
these risks,” the IMF said. An escalation of the euro area
crisis could lower emerging Asia’s output, while “a sharp rise
in global  risk aversion  and uncertainty would also produce
significant spillovers.”  Asian economies with low levels of public debt can slow the
pace of fiscal consolidation to counter the downside risks,
while improving finances remains a priority in India and  Japan ,
the IMF said.  “In India, while part of the expected slowdown to 7
percent in 2012 is a cyclical response to higher interest rates
and lower external demand, policy uncertainty and supply
bottlenecks are playing a role and will need to be tackled in
the near term to ensure that potential growth does not
decline,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  