-- IMF Sees Less Acute Global Fiscal Risks This Year
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-17T15:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-sees-less-acute-global-fiscal-risks-this-year.html
Budget deficits in most advanced
economies will decline this year from 2011 levels even as the
outlook for the global economy calls for more moderate growth,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Shortfalls in developed nations will contract by about one
percentage point of gross domestic product in 2012, the
Washington-based lender said today in its semi-annual Fiscal
Monitor report. The IMF warned that the goal of smaller deficits
in the medium term should not curtail growth now.  Many countries relied on government-relief measures to
weather the global recession and the financial crisis that began
in 2007, creating or deepening unsustainable budget deficits.
Efforts to rein in spending have been met with concerns that
support may be withdrawn too quickly before there is evidence of
accelerating, broad-based growth.  “Fiscal risks are declining but they are still very
high,”  Carlo Cottarelli , director of the IMF’s Fiscal Affairs
Department, said today in a news conference in  Washington .
“With regard to six months ago there has been some reduction to
risks. The risks are still elevated in advanced economies. What
is needed is a steady but gradual adjustment.”  Cottarelli said that “some countries like the  United
States  and Japan need to clarify their plans to reduce public
debt in the medium term.”  World Economy  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, down
from 3.9 percent in 2011, the IMF said today in a separate
report. Growth in developed nations will slow to 1.4 percent
from 1.6 percent last year.  Budget deficits in  emerging markets  will account for 2.1
percent of GDP this year, compared with 5.7 percent in advanced
economies. The IMF forecast that shortfalls in advanced
economies will narrow to 4.5 percent of output in 2013,
underscoring a steady decline since 2009 when deficits accounted
for 8.9 percent of GDP.  Fiscal consolidation efforts in the euro area will shrink
budget deficits in the region from 4.1 percent of GDP last year
to 3.2 percent in 2012 and 2.7 percent the following year,
according to IMF projections.  “In the short to medium term, many countries remain
vulnerable to unexpected shocks, leaving them with little margin
for policy errors,” the IMF said. “Although debt ratios are
expected to begin stabilizing by 2015 in the large majority of
countries, the risk of a setback is high.”  Third-Largest  The U.S. will post the second-largest  budget deficit  among
Group of Seven economies this year at 8.1 percent of GDP, behind
Japan’s 10 percent, according to the report.  “In the United States, any credible strategy will need to
include entitlement reforms to address the growth of age-related
spending, but other spending cuts, as well as revenue measures,
will also be needed,” the IMF said. “Large central bank
holdings of government debt and other assets will need to be
liquidated or rolled over to the private sector as the demand
for base money returns to more normal levels,” the IMF said,
referring to all central banks.  The borrowing needs of wealthy nations are projected to
level off before retreating in 2014, with  Japan ’s remaining the
largest at 59 percent of this year’s gross domestic product,
according to the IMF. Among emerging economies,  Pakistan ’s needs
will be 30 percent this year and next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  