-- IMF Raises Russian Growth Forecast to 4% on Higher Crude Prices
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-04-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/imf-raises-russian-growth-forecast-to-4-on-higher-crude-prices.html
Russia ’s economy will expand 4
percent this year, faster than earlier estimated, as the world’s
biggest energy exporter benefits from higher prices for
commodities, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The forecast for 2013 was revised down to 3.9 percent
because  oil prices  will probably retreat, the Washington-based
lender said today in its World Economic Outlook. The 2012
prediction was upgraded from a 3.3 percent projection in January
and was almost in line with the IMF’s projection of 4.1 percent
for this year made in September.  Slower investment following a surge last year may cut
expansion to 3.4 percent in 2012, from an earlier forecast 3.7
percent, the  Economy Ministry  said this month. Average prices
for  Urals crude  will be $115 a barrel this year, more than
earlier estimated, the ministry said. While higher crude prices
are currently buffering Russia’s economy, it remains exposed to
deteriorating conditions in export markets, the IMF said.  “Weaker exports to  Europe  along with policy tightening in
some economies will moderate growth in the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  this year, even though commodity prices are
expected to remain high,” the IMF said. “If the euro area
crisis intensifies, the fall in global demand together with the
associated decline in commodity prices will be a significant
constraint on the region’s growth.”  Growth in the CIS, a grouping of former Soviet republics,
is forecast to slow to 4.25 percent in 2012, from 5 percent last
year, according to the IMF. A possible escalation of the
European debt crisis also poses risks to Russia’s financial
industry, it said.  “Distress in a systemically important euro area bank could
cause an abrupt withdrawal of funding and raise the likelihood
of banking sector distress in Russia,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  