-- India Cuts Key Rate for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-04-17T11:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/india-cuts-key-rate-for-first-time-since-2009-to-aid-growth.html
India  slashed its benchmark
interest rate by a greater-than-forecast half a percentage
point, seeking to bolster growth with the first reduction since
2009. Inflation might limit the room for further cuts, the
central bank said.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the repurchase rate to 8
percent from 8.5 percent, the  Reserve Bank of India  said in a
 statement  in Mumbai today. The outcome was predicted by three of
25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Seventeen expected a
0.25 percentage-point cut and the rest predicted no change.  The move stoked gains in the rupee and government bonds,
and may buttress demand in an economy hampered by political
gridlock that’s restraining investment. Policy makers are
seeking at the same time to contain  inflation  that remains the
fastest among the BRIC nations.  “They are playing with fire,” said Jahangir Aziz, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Washington  who used to work
at the  International Monetary Fund . “I am increasingly assured
that this is going to be last rate cut” given the risks to
inflation from  oil prices  and loose fiscal policy, he said.  The yield on the most-traded 8.79 percent notes due
November 2021 fell to 8.34 percent as of 4:28 p.m. in Mumbai,
from the day’s high of 8.51 percent and yesterday’s close of
8.46 percent, according to the  Reserve Bank of India ’s trading
system. The rupee strengthened 0.2 percent to 51.56 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It slumped 16 percent
last year, spurring price pressures by boosting import costs.
The BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks closed up 1.2 percent.  ‘Upside’ Inflation Risks  “The reduction in the repo rate is based on an assessment
of growth having slowed below its post-crisis trend rate which,
in turn, is contributing to a moderation in  core inflation ,”
the Reserve Bank  said . “However, it must be emphasized that the
deviation of growth from its trend is modest. At the same time,
upside risks to inflation persist. These considerations
inherently limit the space for further reduction in policy
rates.”  Gross domestic  product  may expand 7.3 percent in the year
through March 2013, compared with the baseline projection of 7
percent for the previous 12 months, the central bank estimated
today. Inflation will probably be at 6.5 percent by the end of
the current financial year, it said.  Uncertainty about global commodity prices, particularly
crude oil, India’s fiscal shortfall, a “very high” current-
account deficit and food inflation are among risks to the
outlook, the  Reserve Bank  said.  ‘Price Stability’  “We will do everything possible to maintain price
stability,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in  New Delhi 
today. “The monetary policy announcement should help in
investment revival and strengthen business sentiment. We will
take some further additional steps in the coming weeks to
reinforce growth focus.”  Expansion has been hurt by declining investment and
moderating  consumer spending  after the Reserve Bank raised  rates 
by a record 3.75 percentage points from March 2010 to October
last year to fight inflation.  India’s monetary easing today contrasts with such Asian
neighbors as Thailand and  Indonesia , which have halted rate cuts
as inflationary pressures gain. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo this week urged major central banks to plan an
orderly withdrawal of excess liquidity and said further easing
may hurt emerging economies and the global economic recovery.  China Slowdown  China ’s growth slowdown may limit the region’s economic
recovery.  Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly dropped in March as
shipments of electronics eased and petrochemical sales fell amid
a decline in demand from China, a report today showed. Non-oil
domestic exports fell 4.3 percent from a year earlier, after a
revised 30.4 percent increase in February.  Foreign direct investment in China dropped for a fifth
straight month in March as economic growth slowed, with inbound
investment falling 6.1 percent from a year earlier to $11.76
billion, a report by the Ministry of Commerce showed today.  In  Australia , the central bank said a weaker expansion
flowing through to slower inflation would increase prospects for
the first  interest-rate  cut this year, minutes of its April 3
meeting showed. The minutes reaffirmed that the next rate
reduction hinges on an April 24 report on first-quarter
inflation, as recent data indicates the economy is growing
slower than the central bank predicted.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  decided against lowering
borrowing costs at its three meetings this year as the global
recovery stabilizes and a mining boom sustains domestic growth.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 3.5 percent in March, while
Euro-area inflation was 2.7 percent, reports showed today.  U.S. Industrial Output  In the U.S., industrial production may have risen 0.3
percent in March from the previous month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report
today. Home starts increased to a 705,000 annual rate in March
following a 698,000 pace the prior month, according to a
Bloomberg survey median.  India’s Subbarao has already eased monetary conditions by
reducing the amount of deposits  lenders  must set aside as
 reserves  twice this year, by a combined 125 basis points, to
4.75 percent to ease cash shortages in the banking system. He
left the  cash reserve ratio  unchanged today. Liquidity is
“steadily moving towards” its comfort zone, the RBI said.  Recent patterns of inflation and expansion signal India’s
trend rate of economic growth has declined from its peak before
the financial crisis, the Reserve Bank said. Significant supply
bottlenecks in infrastructure, energy, minerals and labor are
among the main reasons why, it said.  Fastest BRIC Inflation  The 6.89 percent climb in March in India’s benchmark
 wholesale-price index  exceeded the median 6.65 percent estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 33 economists, data showed
yesterday. While Indian inflation has eased from more than 9
percent recorded in most of 2011, it remains the fastest in the
so-called BRIC group of largest emerging economies that also
includes Brazil, Russia and China.  Monetary policy  will continue to aim to “condition and
contain perception of inflation” in the range of 4 percent to
4.5 percent, the Reserve Bank said. The central bank’s immediate
comfort zone is inflation at 5 percent and that level is
achievable, Subbarao said at a briefing in Mumbai today.  “The RBI is faced with a very difficult situation as
growth is slowing and inflation remains high,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at state-owned  Bank of Baroda  in Mumbai.
India needs “efforts from the government’s side to boost the
capacity of the economy by accelerating reforms,” Nitsure said.  Higher raw material costs and the rupee’s decline are
leading companies including steelmakers to raise prices.  Steel
Authority of India Ltd ., the nation’s second-largest producer,
increased tariffs in April for the fourth time in three months.  Current-Account Deficit  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, grappling with
fiscal and trade gaps and depressed industrial output, faces one
of the most challenging periods since taking office in 2004.  In the budget on March 16, the administration announced
record borrowing needs to plug a fiscal shortfall estimated at
5.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2012-2013. The current-
account deficit reached $19.6 billion in the three months
through December, the worst quarterly performance on record.  “From the perspective of vulnerabilities emerging from the
fiscal and current account deficits, it is imperative for
macroeconomic stability that administered prices of petroleum
products are increased to reflect their true cost of
production,” the Reserve Bank said.  A current-account gap at 4.3 percent of gross domestic
product in the fourth quarter of 2011 is unsustainable, it said.  Policy reversals have further hindered Singh’s economic
agenda, including the suspension of plans in December to open
India’s retail industry to foreign companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  