-- Indian Hotels Said to Seek Bigger Stake in Orient-Express
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-04-17T20:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/indian-hotels-is-said-to-seek-bigger-stake-in-orient-express.html
Indian Hotels Co. (IH) , the country’s
biggest hotel operator, has restarted efforts to boost its stake
in  Orient-Express (OEH)  Hotels Ltd., two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The Mumbai-based company has approached Orient-Express
about a deal, though discussions are at an early stage and may
fail to lead to an agreement, the people said, declining to be
identified as deliberations are private. Indian Hotels owns 6.9
percent of Hamilton, Bermuda-based Orient-Express, whose market
value has jumped 32 percent this year to $1.2 billion.  Indian Hotels, owner of the Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai,
initially paid $211.3 million for a 10 percent stake in Orient-
Express in 2007. Two years later, Indian Hotels said it would be
“happy” to boost its investment, though the company is opposed
to “hostile moves.” Orient-Express had in September 2007
rejected an approach to pursue strategic discussions from Indian
Hotels.  Orient-Express shares rose 5.9 percent to $10.45 by 4:03
p.m. in  New York  trading. They have  gained  40 percent this year.  Indian Hotels’ stake in Orient-Express was diluted since
the 2007 investment, as the New York-listed company completed
four stock sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
wasn’t clear how much of Orient-Express Indian Hotels is
seeking.  Paul White , the former Orient-Express chief executive
officer who rejected Indian Hotels’ approach, resigned from the
company’s board in July. Orient-Express owns New York’s 21 Club
restaurant and the Hotel Cipriani in  Venice ,  Italy .  Hotel Purchases  Indian Hotels in an e-mailed statement declined to comment
“on market speculation.” Victoria Legg, a spokeswoman for
Orient-Express in  London , declined to comment.  Indian Hotels, controlled by the  Tata Group , bought the
Ritz-Carlton in Boston in 2007 for $170 million from Millennium
Partners and renamed it Taj Boston. In 2005, the company re-
entered the New York market after six years with the rights to
manage the 201-room Pierre.  The company has 112 hotels and plans to open 12 new resorts
this year, according to a December  investor presentation . Sahara
Group, the Indian owner of assets ranging from TV channels to
real estate, bought the Grosvenor House in London’s Mayfair
district for 470 million pounds ($744 million) in December 2010,
in its first overseas hotel acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  