-- Indonesian Bonds Drop on Inflation, Fund Selling; Rupiah Steady
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-17T09:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/indonesian-bonds-drop-on-inflation-fund-selling-rupiah-steady.html
Indonesia ’s bonds dropped, pushing
the 10-year yield to a three-month high, after global funds
reduced holdings of the nation’s assets on concern faster
inflation will erode returns. The rupiah was little changed.  Overseas investors sold $34 million more local shares than
they bought yesterday and pared 780 billion rupiah ($85 million)
from their  holdings  of government debt last week, exchange and
finance ministry data show.  Bank Indonesia  predicts consumer-
price gains will reach 6.6 percent this year if fuel prices are
raised, compared with 3.97 percent last month, Governor Darmin
Nasution said on April 12.  “Continued uncertainty over fuel subsidies and higher
inflation expectations have investors expecting less real return,
which creates negative sentiment for Indonesian assets,” said
Taufan Tito, a foreign-exchange dealer at PT Bank Rakyat
Indonesia in Jakarta.  The  yield  on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to a three-
month high of 6.12 percent, according to final prices from the
Inter Dealer Market Association. That’s the highest level since
Jan. 16, two days before the nation was returned to investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service. The yield has climbed 18
basis points this month.  Bank Indonesia is shifting its policy focus to controlling
inflation rather than supporting economic growth, Perry Warjiyo,
director of economic research and monetary policy, said in
Jakarta today.  The rupiah was little changed at 9,173 per dollar as of
4:32 a.m. in Jakarta, after declining as much as 0.2 percent
earlier, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
6.75 percent for a ninth day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 