-- Instagram Deal Reflects Wrenching Structural Change
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/instagram-deal-reflects-wrenching-structural-change.html
The U.S. is recovering only slowly
from the Great Recession, and right now  Europe  isn’t recovering
at all.  But what will a full recovery in Europe and the U.S. look
like once we have it?  That’s not such an easy question. Recessions can accelerate
structural change. Industries aren’t all damaged to the same
extent. Some companies bounce back, others go under and stay
under, and new businesses take their place. The same goes for
 jobs . This recession has been so severe that it will cause a
bigger structural lurch than we are used to -- bigger than
traditional politics can comfortably handle.  Structural economic change has always raised the same basic
issues: who wins, who loses, and what do the winners owe the
losers. Wherever you look, these age-old questions are being
pressed with new urgency. And the answers we’ve come to expect
from left and right need some work.  The proximate  causes  of the crash were financial
incompetence and dumb regulation, but deeper structural trends
only loosely tied to those factors were already at work.
Globalization and information technology -- really, two aspects
of a single phenomenon -- are the drivers. They were powerful
before, but they’ll be even more potent as economies emerge from
the slump and reshape.  Innovation Versus Inequality  Jobless recoveries -- something the U.S. already
experienced after the recession of 2002 -- are one obvious
danger. Another, more subtle threat is widening economic
 inequality . In both cases, what we’ve seen so far may be just
the beginning.  Facebook (FB) ’s acquisition of Instagram, a small  software
company  with a popular photo-sharing application, is an extreme
and illuminating case. Thanks to the Internet’s astonishing
reach, a nifty product that required next to no labor and
comparatively little capital quickly went from nowhere to tens
of millions of users. The idea was valued at $1 billion even
before there was a revenue model to support it, and who’s to say
that’s too much?  A good day for rewards to innovation. Not such a good day
for income inequality -- though, come to think of it,  Mark Zuckerberg  could say he’s spreading the wealth around.  The economist Sherwin Rosen wrote about  superstars  30 years
ago. In certain kinds of market competition, he explained, the
winner takes all. This applies not just to rock stars and
champion athletes, but also to entrepreneurs and innovators.
Globalization and IT have multiplied the opportunities and grown
the prize exponentially.  Globalization and market scale are driving wage inflation
in top corporate jobs, too. Big multinational companies are
harder to run and have more at stake, so the best managers
command higher pay. Defects in corporate governance also play a
part in this growth in pay: passive shareholders and CEOs who
sit on each other’s compensation committees. So do disguised
subsidies to the finance industry. But the result is mostly what
you’d expect if the market for talent is working.  In the middle of the  income distribution , the news isn’t so
good. First, trade attacked high-wage manufacturing jobs. Then,
cheap telecommunications did the same for many service jobs.
That kind of outsourcing seems to have slowed. But let’s not
delude ourselves. More automation of routine tasks, including
white-collar work we used to call “skilled,” is a given. The
jobs won’t necessarily go to  India , but they will go. Doctors,
lawyers and other professionals will not be immune.  American Crucible  Because IT-driven restructuring has barely even begun, the
prospect on a business-as-usual basis is a further widening of
income inequality, and all the economic, social and political
stress that goes with it.  You’d expect this dynamic to express itself first and most
forcefully in the U.S., the crucible of IT innovation, blessed
(or cursed) with brutal, fast-moving labor markets and
comparatively light-touch government. Most of Europe is moving
in the same direction, just more slowly. Only the most stagnant
economies will be exempt.  Previous revolutions wiped out whole industries and entire
classes of worker. In 1800, 90 percent of Americans worked on
farms. By 1900, it was a little more than 40 percent, and 100
years after that a little less than  2 percent . It shouldn’t need
saying, but this was a good thing: The material affluence
enjoyed by most Americans today would have been difficult to
imagine 50 years ago, let alone in 1800. Official figures barely
capture much of this improvement. What’s cheap hardly registers
as gross domestic product; what’s free doesn’t count at all. The
way we measure these things vastly understates the utility of,
for instance, the smartphone and all its proliferating services.  What’s new is the rate of change. The IT revolution won’t
take 200 years to work through. And telling an unemployable
American middle manager in 2012 that change is good is not going
to be any less wrenching, or any more adequate, than saying the
same thing was to a British handloom operator at the turn of the
19th century. Conservatives mistakenly assume that they can tell
capitalism’s losers that “creative destruction is how capitalism
works” and leave it at that. It’s not sufficient, and it’s not
good politics, either. If structural change is accelerating and
 income inequality  is only in midsurge, as seems likely, it’s
more wrong now than ever before. The winners do owe something to
the losers -- and the more abrupt the transformation, the more
they owe.  The equal and opposite mistake of the left, of course, is
to see the whole idea of creative destruction as a scam.
Structural unemployment and growing inequality are not
byproducts of a hugely beneficial process of economic change,
but evidence of a crime. The vocabulary is telling. The
nefarious 1 percent are somehow “capturing” more of the value
that the rest of us create. The Instagram people get a pass, I
see. What they did was cool. But it’s different when the market
gives magnificent rewards to men in suits. That’s stealing, and
it has to stop.  Left and right will never come together on what winners owe
losers. Let’s hope not, anyway. There’s no right answer and
plenty of room for disagreement. But disagreement should be
intelligent. Small-government conservatives and big-government
liberals need to update their thinking, see what’s different
about this new industrial revolution, understand what’s good and
what’s bad, and thoroughly re-examine their traditional policy
prescriptions.  I’ve got some things to suggest. I’ll offer conservatives
some specific ideas next week and the left, the week after that.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes 
and Obama’s  oil-speculation plan ;  Peter Orszag  on saving money
through  health-care reform ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Ann Romney’s
choices ; William Pesek on  China’s power shift ;  Roger Lowenstein 
on  dodging Dodd-Frank ; Ana Palacio on  Spain’s outdated labor
laws .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 