-- Insurance Australia to Buy 30% of Vietnam’s AAA Assurance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-17T06:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/insurance-australia-to-buy-30-of-vietnam-s-aaa-assurance.html
Insurance Australia Group Ltd., (IAG)  the
Sydney-based insurer formed in 1925, agreed to buy a stake in
 AAA Assurance Corp. , the Vietnamese insurer said.  IAG will hold 30 percent of AAA after the Ho Chi Minh City-
based company issues new shares, Do Thi Kim Lien, chief
executive officer and chairman of AAA, said yesterday by phone.
The stake is valued at less than $20 million, IAG said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange, adding it has the
option to raise its holding to 49 percent.  “Vietnam’s insurance market has just started so there are
a lot of opportunities to explore,” Lien said.  IAG joins German insurer Talanx AG to tap the non-life
insurance market in  Vietnam  that is growing at a 20 percent
annual pace. Talanx in August agreed to buy a 25 percent stake
in PVI Holdings for 1.9 trillion dong ($91 million) to seek a
foothold in the Southeast Asian nation.  “A strategic priority for IAG is to boost its Asian
footprint, with Vietnam identified as a target market,” Sydney-
based Andrew Tubb, corporate affairs manager at IAG, said today
in an e-mail in response to a Bloomberg News request to confirm
the stake purchase. “IAG is currently reviewing opportunities
in Vietnam, and will update the market should an agreement be
reached.”  Asian Expansion  The Sydney-based insurer also said in the stock exchange
announcement it expects the transaction to be completed by June.
It said its goal is for its business in  Asia  to make up 10
percent of its gross premium by 2016. In the region, the company
said it’s targeting  India ,  China ,  Thailand , Vietnam,  Indonesia 
and Malaysia.  IAG said last week that its Malaysian joint venture, AmG
Insurance, entered into a conditional agreement to acquire
Kurnia Insurans (Malaysia) Bhd. for about A$480 million that
will make it the nation’s biggest general insurer.  Non-life insurance revenue in Vietnam may increase 20
percent to about 24.2 trillion dong in 2012, compared with a 15
percent growth in the life insurance sector, according to a
 report  on the Association of Vietnamese Insurers’ website.  “Vietnam’s insurance market has a lot of potential to
continue growing,” said Nguyen Thu Ha, an analyst at Bao Viet
Securities Co., a unit of Vietnam’s biggest insurer. “As their
income increases, Vietnamese people will spend more money on
insurance.”  Non-life insurance density in Vietnam was $10.30 in
premiums per capita, compared with $141.80 in  Malaysia  and
$77.60 in Thailand in 2010, according to a  report  by Swiss Re.  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  