-- Intel Forecasts Gross Margin That May Miss Some Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-04-17T21:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/intel-forecasts-revenue-that-may-top-some-estimates-on-new-chips.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, forecast second-quarter gross margin that
was lower than some analysts predicted as spending on a new
production technique erodes profitability.  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, will be about 62 percent in the
second quarter, Intel said in a statement today. Analysts had
projected gross margin of 63.5 percent for the period, the
average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Intel’s costs are rising as it overhauls older plants and
builds new ones in a shift to more advanced production. The
company expects to recoup that investment when the factories
reach full output, and Intel is sticking to its gross margin
forecast of 64 percent for the year, Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “The whole story of Intel in the past two years has
basically been margins,” said  Daniel Amir , an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets LLC in San Francisco. “For the first time
they’re kind of missing the margin target by more than a
percent.”  Intel  shares  slipped to $27.70 in extended trading
following the report. Earlier, the stock gained less than 1
percent to $28.47 at the close in  New York . That left the shares
up 17 percent this year.  ‘Cost Curve’  Smith said demand from corporations and  emerging markets 
remains relatively strong, and costs are rising because the
company is preparing three factories to run on the new 22-
nanometer production process.  “As we start the ramp of those products, the first units
that come out are relatively expensive,” Smith said. “Then
they come rapidly down the cost curve over the course of this
year.”  Sales in the current period will be $13.6 billion, plus or
minus $500 million,  Santa Clara , California-based Intel said.
Analysts had estimated revenue of $13.43 billion, the average
projection according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were
$13.03 billion a year earlier.  “The revenue guidance is actually not bad -- it reflects a
PC market recovery,” said Amir. “I think people expected it to
be a little bit better.”  Industry Indicator  Investors see Intel’s earnings as a broad indicator of
demand for desktop, server and laptop computers.  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) , Intel’s main competitor in PC microprocessors, is
scheduled to report first-quarter results later this week.  For the first quarter, Intel said net income was $2.74
billion, or 53 cents a share, compared with $3.16 billion, or 56
cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 0.5 percent to $12.9 billion. 
Analysts had predicted profit of 51 cents a share on sales of 
$12.85 billion. In January, Intel predicted sales of $12.8 
billion, plus or minus $500 million.  For 2012, the chipmaker had projected it would spend $10.1
billion on research and development and about $12.5 billion on
new plants and machinery.  Gross margin is the only measure of profitability that
Intel predicts. The margin reached almost 65 percent last year,
boosted by rising average prices for Intel’s chips amid a lack
of competition.  “Gross margin is the one that people focus on,” said  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco.
“People are trying to figure out why the numbers aren’t a
little stronger.”  Worldwide PC shipments will increase 4.4 percent this year
to 368 million units, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “We are very upbeat about the back half of the year,”
said Betsy Van Hees, a San Francisco-based analyst at Wedbush
Securities. “We’re definitely going to see more PCs shipped.
There are going to be a lot of Ultrabook models out there.”  Intel’s biggest customers are PC makers Hewlett-Packard
Co., Dell Inc. and Quanta Computer Inc., according to a
Bloomberg  supply-chain analysis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  