-- Investors Double U.S. Stock Holdings Amid Europe Concerns
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/investors-double-u-s-stock-holdings-amid-europe-concerns.html
Allocations in U.S. stocks almost
doubled in April on renewed concern that the euro-area debt
crisis will worsen, prompting investors to sell European
equities and hoard cash, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 27 percent of 191 respondents, who together manage
$554 billion, said they were overweight U.S. stocks, meaning
they hold more than is represented in benchmarks. That’s up from
14 percent last month. Expectations for an appreciation in the
dollar hit the third-highest level in over 10 years.  The U.S. “is a default for investors,” said  Gary Baker ,
BofA’s head of European equity strategy at a press briefing in
London. “If you’re concerned about growth, and not sure how
concerned you should be, ultimately the U.S. is still your
safest haven.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 8.9 percent
this year, boosted by better-than-expected U.S. economic data
and corporate earnings. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has risen 5.1
percent so far in 2012. Most U.S. stocks rose yesterday after
retail sales climbed 0.8 percent, almost three times as much as
economists projected.  Asset allocators reduced their holdings in the euro area
this month, with a net 32 percent underweight the region, the
survey showed. That’s up from 14 percent in March. Investors
also reduced their positions in emerging-market equities, to
roughly equal that of the U.S.  “There is nothing particularly alarming in the survey,”
said Baker at the press conference. “It’s more precautionary
 risk reduction  than a genuine risk-off scenario. There is a lot
of cash sitting on the sidelines.”  Cash Balances  The average cash balances for respondents jumped to 4.7
percent in April from 4.2 percent, the highest level since
December as investors rotated out of equities and commodities
amid renewed sovereign-debt concerns, the survey showed. Baker
says cash levels now flash a so-called contrarian buy signal for
stock markets.  “Historically, global equities tend to rally 5 to 6
percent in the subsequent four weeks,” Baker wrote in the
report. “We believe any significant upside in April and May
requires stronger growth or fresh policy stimulus.”  Overall equity allocations fell to 26 percent overweight
from 33 percent last month, while weightings on commodities
declined to 8 percent from 10 percent. The survey’s Risk &
Liquidity Indicator, which combines readings of risk appetite,
investor time horizons and cash weightings, fell to 38 from 42,
the lowest level since the end of 2011.  BofA conducted the global survey from April 5 to April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  