-- Iran Sanctions Hitting Turkish Economy, Energy Costs
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-04-17T18:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/iran-sanctions-hitting-turkish-economy-energy-costs.html
Turkey ’s exports to Iran have
fallen 20 percent this year and the cost of imported oil has
soared after sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program,
Turkey’s Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said.  The economic cost “is borne by Turkey,” not just by Iran,
Caglayan told reporters today in Washington, when asked whether
sanctions on Iran’s trade are the best way to rein in the
nuclear ambitions of Turkey’s eastern neighbor. “Other
countries pay the price of sanctions, too.”  The price of oil has risen as efforts to restrict Iran’s
oil exports have fueled global insecurity over energy supplies.
Turkey paid $54 billion for energy imports last year, a 40
percent increase over 2010, he said.  Oil climbed to a two-week high today in  New York  as the
 International Monetary Fund  bolstered its global growth
forecast. Crude oil for May delivery advanced $1.42, or 1.4
percent, to $104.35 a barrel at 1:13 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Crude is up 5.8 percent this year.  The U.S., European allies and Israel accuse Iran of seeking
a nuclear weapons capability. The U.S. and EU have imposed
penalties restricting trade with Iran since last November in an
effort to pressure Iran’s leaders to give up illicit aspects of
their nuclear program.  Iran, which says its program is for civilian energy and
medical research, met representatives from the U.S., EU,  China 
and Russia on April 14 in Istanbul in an effort to restart
stalled negotiations, and agreed to meet again in  Baghdad  next
month.  Respecting Sanctions  Turkey was the sixth-largest importer of Iranian crude
during the first half of 2011, buying 182,000 barrels a day,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  In that period, Turkey
accounted for 7 percent of Iran’s oil exports, according to the
U.S. data.  The five biggest importers were China, Japan, India,  South
Korea  and Italy. Iran is the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia .  Caglayan said Turkey isn’t bound by unilateral U.S.
sanctions in the same way it must abide by United Nations
sanctions. He and Namik Tan, the Turkish Ambassador to
Washington, said Turkey nonetheless has decided to cut its  oil
imports  from Iran by 20 percent this year in response to U.S.
sanctions.  Under a U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, Iran’s oil buyers have
until June 28 to assure the State Department that they will
“significantly reduce” their dependence on Iranian imports.
The U.S. granted 11 exemptions last month to Japan and EU
countries for having promised reductions.  If Turkey or any other country fails to qualify for an
exemption, that nation’s financial institutions that process oil
deals with Iran’s central bank would be cut off from the U.S.
banking system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  