-- U.S. Imposes Tax Reporting on Nonresidents’ Bank Deposits
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-18T16:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/irs-issues-final-rules-for-reporting-nonresidents-bank-deposits.html
The U.S. will require banks to
report interest payments to nonresident aliens starting in 2013
in a setback for banks and Republican lawmakers who say the plan
will drive away investments.  The regulations, adopted yesterday, are part of the
government’s efforts to work with other countries on tax
evasion. The Treasury Department and the  Internal Revenue
Service  say the U.S. should ask its banks to report information
just as it is requiring overseas banks to provide information on
U.S. account holders.  “As if our tax code weren’t already broken enough, the
Obama administration has added another regulation that will have
disastrous consequences for Florida,” Senator  Marco Rubio , a
Florida Republican, said in a statement. “By requiring banks to
report interest earned by foreign investors, the administration
has unilaterally handed down a job-destroying mandate that would
encourage billions of dollars to flee Florida’s economy.”  Florida and Texas lawmakers, along with banks, have
criticized the rules, maintaining they will discourage
investment in the U.S. and could provide financial information
about dissidents to repressive regimes.  Rubio and Representative Bill Posey, also a Florida
Republican, have introduced bills that would block the
regulations.  ‘Deeply Troubling’  “Deeply troubling is the administration’s refusal to
conduct a simple economic impact study to analyze the loss these
deposits will have on the  U.S. economy  and specific financial
institutions that are heavily dependent on foreign deposits,”
Posey said in a statement yesterday.  Emily McMahon, the Treasury Department’s acting assistant
secretary for tax policy, said in a letter to the Miami Herald
in March, provided today by her office, that nonresidents have
multiple reasons for keeping money in the U.S.  Those, she wrote, include “the strength and stability of
our financial institutions and the quality of our regulatory
supervision.”  The Florida Office of Financial Regulation estimated that
banks in the state have between $15 billion and $20 billion in
deposits held by nonresident aliens.  Groups that opposed the regulation included the  American
Bankers Association  and the  Credit Union National Association .
Banks opposed to the rules include  East West Bancorp Inc. (EWBC)  and
BBVA Compass Bancshares Inc.  Similar Rule in 2001  In its waning days in office in 2001, the Clinton
administration Treasury Department proposed a similar regulation
that the Bush administration then narrowed. The Obama
administration revived the broader proposal last year.  Under a law passed by Congress in 2010, the U.S. requires
foreign banks to track and report payments to U.S. account
holders, who are liable for U.S. taxes on their worldwide
income. This regulation serves as a companion to that
requirement.  “A jurisdiction’s willingness to share information with
the IRS to combat offshore tax evasion by U.S. taxpayers
depends, in large part, on the ability of the IRS to exchange
information that will assist that jurisdiction in combating
offshore  tax evasion  by its own residents,” the regulations
say.  The regulations say the U.S. will share information only
with countries with which it has an agreement to do so.
According to an IRS list, those countries and jurisdictions
include  China ,  France ,  Germany , Israel,  Japan , Mexico,
Switzerland, the U.K. and Venezuela.  Agreement With Canada  The U.S. has an automatic exchange agreement with just one
country,  Canada .  In the regulations released yesterday, the IRS wrote that
it will exchange information only with countries that protect
confidentiality and use the data solely for tax purposes.  “These regulations should not significantly impact the
investment and savings decisions of the vast majority of
nonresidents who are aware of and understand these safeguards
and existing law and practice,” the IRS and Treasury wrote.  In a statement, the Treasury Department said it doesn’t
exchange information with  Venezuela  and has no plans to do so.  The Posey bill is H.R. 2568. The Rubio bill is S. 1506.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  