-- Islamic Cleric Abu Qatada Is Held in U.K., Faces Deportation
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-17T17:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/islamic-cleric-abu-qatada-is-held-in-u-k-faces-deportation-1-.html
U.K. officials arrested Islamic
cleric Abu Qatada and told him he faces deportation to  Jordan ,
as the government attempted to bypass a European court ruling
stopping him being sent for trial on terrorism charges.  Abu Qatada, a Jordanian whose real name is Omar Othman, was
detained by U.K. Border Agency officials today, Home Secretary
Theresa May told lawmakers. The  European Court of Human Rights 
in Strasbourg,  France , ruled Jan. 17 that he couldn’t be
deported to Jordan because courts there might use evidence
gained through torture. He was granted bail by a British court
in February and freed from a high-security prison under a 22-
hour curfew.  “The assurances we have received from Jordan mean we can
undertake deportation in full compliance with the law,” May
told the House of Commons in  London . “We can soon put Qatada on
a plane and get him out of our country for good.”  The Jordanian cleric has been described by a judge in  Spain 
as former al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden’s right-hand man in
 Europe . A British man was kidnapped and murdered in Niger in
2009 by al-Qaeda’s north African network, which had threatened
to kill him if the U.K. didn’t release Abu Qatada. He has denied
links to al-Qaeda.  Civilian Court  May traveled to Jordan last month to seek assurances from
the government allowing Abu Qatada to be sent home. She said the
cleric will be tried by a civilian court, in public, with the
right to call defense witnesses. His current conviction in the
country, from a trial in his absence, will be quashed on his
arrival.  Abu Qatada will be retried in line with Jordanian laws, the
country’s minister of state for media affairs, Rakan Majali was
quoted as saying by the state-run Petra news agency. “The
Jordanian constitution ensures a fair trial,” he said.  The ECHR ruling is one of a number that have angered Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party , which argues that
European judges are interfering too much in British justice and
political decisions. Cameron called in January for changes to
the court to reduce that interference, and a meeting of the 47-
nation Council of Europe gets under way in Brighton, southern
 England , on April 18 to discuss the future of the tribunal.  The court ruled last week that Abu Hamza al-Masri, an
Islamic cleric jailed for inciting murder and racial hatred, can
be extradited from Britain to the U.S., dismissing his argument
that prison conditions there would violate his human rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  