-- Mitsubishi, Mitsui Back $6 Billion Sempra Gas Terminal
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-04-17T16:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/mitsubishi-mitsui-back-6-billion-sempra-gas-terminal.html
  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui & Co.
agreed to help  Sempra Energy (SRE)  develop a $6 billion natural-gas
export facility in Louisiana, as  Japan  imported record amounts
of the fuel.  Mitsubishi and Mitsui, both based in Tokyo, would each get
a third of the 1.7 billion cubic feet a day of export capacity
in exchange for helping develop the project, San Diego-based
Sempra said today in a statement. The gas-liquefaction plant
will be part of Sempra’s existing import terminal in Hackberry,
Louisiana.  A surge in North American production has caused gas futures
in New York to drop to a 10-year low and owners of liquefied
natural gas import terminals to propose exports. Asian demand
has climbed as Japan’s 10 regional electric utilities bought
record amounts of LNG last year to generate power, replacing
nuclear output after last year’s Fukushima disaster shut all but
one of the nation’s 54 reactors.  Sempra will retain 50 percent ownership of the project,
Doug Kline, a spokesman for the company, said today in an e-
mail. How much the Mitsui and  Mitsubishi (8306)  invest depends on
financing arrangements yet to be determined, he said.  FERC Approval  Today’s announcement follows the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission’s decision yesterday to approve  Cheniere Energy
Inc. (LNG) ’s application to export gas from its facility in  Cameron
Parish , Louisiana.  To export gas by tanker, the fuel is cooled to minus 260
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 Celsius) causing it to condense
and become a liquid.  Sempra’s facility may begin exporting gas in late 2016,
pending regulatory approval and debt financing. The company is
awaiting Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval and
permission from the Energy Department to export the fuel to
nations that don’t have free-trade agreements with the U.S.  Sempra rose 0.9 percent to $63.73 at 11:39 a.m. in  New
York . Mitsui gained 0.3 percent to 1,275 yen and Mitsubishi fell
0.2 percent to 1,770 yen at the close in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  