-- J&J Raises Forecast as Profit Climbs on Demand for Drugs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-17T20:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/j-j-s-first-quarter-profit-climbs-on-demand-for-new-drugs.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of health-care products, raised its full-
year earnings forecast after quarterly profit climbed on the
divestiture of an older drug and revenue from new medicines.  Earnings excluding one-time items  will  be $5.07 to $5.17 a
share for 2012, helped by currency exchange rates,  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J said in a statement today. Last
quarter, the company provided a forecast of as much as $5.15.  First-quarter profit beat by 1 cent the $1.36 average of 19
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, bolstered by sales of
new drugs, including the prostate cancer medicine Zytiga. The
company gained $357 million in cash for selling its hypertension
treatment Bystolic to Forest Laboratories Inc.  “The medical device and pharmaceutical units look good and
are improving, which are two legs of the stool,”  Matt Miksic , a
Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst in New York, said by telephone.
“The one that is disappointing is consumer.”  Consumer sales fell 2.4 percent after the company shut a
 Pennsylvania  factory making over-the-counter drugs that were
recalled, according to the company’s statement.  “It’s very difficult to predict how long it will last and
how much the company will have to spend” to satisfy regulatory
requirements to return the products to shelves, Miksic said.  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $64.22 at the close of New
York trading, and has gained 6 percent in the past 12 months.
Pfizer Inc., based in New York, is the top seller of medical
products.  Analysts Estimate  Analysts had  estimated  J&J would generate $5.10 a share in
earnings this year as  Alex Gorsky  takes the helm on April 26
from Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon, whose 10-year
tenure was marked by recalls on products from Children’s Tylenol
to artificial hips. Sherilyn McCoy, the former vice chairman of
J&J’s pharmaceuticals and consumer division, last week was named
CEO of Avon Products Inc.  J&J’s McNeil consumer unit suspended manufacturing at its
Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, plant on April 30, 2010, the same
day it pulled 136 million bottles of over-the-counter children’s
medicines tainted with metal flecks or containing improper
levels of ingredients.  The company signed a consent decree in March 2011 expanding
U.S. oversight at the plant and others in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, and Las Piedras,  Puerto Rico .  Longer Return  It’s taking longer to return products that had been
recalled, such as Children’s Tylenol and Motrin, to the U.S.
market than the company had anticipated, said Chief Financial
Officer Dominic J. Caruso in a call with analysts. About half
the items will return this year, half in 2013, he said.  J&J is confident the name-brand products will recapture
market share from store brands once they return, Caruso said.  “We’re obviously disappointed that it’s taking us
longer,” he said. “Our brands, both Tylenol and Motrin,
continue to score very highly compared to store brands even
though they aren’t on the store shelves. That gives us a great
confidence that the significant legacy we’ve built over the
years remains with consumers.”  Net income increased to $3.91 billion, or $1.41 a share,
from a year earlier, J&J said. The company posted  sales  of $16.1
billion, little changed from a year earlier.  The company is awaiting regulatory review of its $21.3
billion purchase of  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , a maker of tools and implants
to treat damaged bones.  J&J’s acquisition of Synthes would make J&J the leader in
the $5.5 billion market for trauma devices, said Derrick Sung,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, in an
April 13 note to investors.  Trauma Market  J&J agreed to buy  West Chester , Pennsylvania-based Synthes
in April 2011 for 159 Swiss francs a share in cash and stock.
The purchase, which will give J&J a device company with almost
half the trauma market and an operating margin of 35 percent, is
pending regulatory review in the U.S. and  Europe .  “You buy Johnson & Johnson because it’s a defensive stock
that will give you a good return over time and not give you a
rocket ride,” said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager who
helps oversee $100 million, including J&J shares, at Miller
Tabak & Co. in  New York . “These earnings are consistent with
that.”  Last week, an Arkansas judge ruled J&J must pay more than
$1.1 billion in fines after a jury found the company illegally
marketed and misled doctors about the antipsychotic medication
Risperdal. The penalty is the largest of the three handed down
so far against the company in state cases alleging it hid the
drug’s risks and tricked Medicaid regulators into paying too
much for the medication.  J&J said today the fine was “excessive” and that it plans
to ask for a dismissal. If the attempt to dismiss is
unsuccessful, J&J said it will file for a new trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  