-- Jaguar Land Rover IPO Seen as Jackpot as Valuation Soars
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-04-17T23:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/jaguar-land-rover-ipo-seen-as-jackpot-as-valuation-soars.html
When  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  bought Jaguar
and Land Rover in 2008 for $2.5 billion from  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
investors greeted the announcement by selling its stock. Those
who held on may be sitting on a jackpot.  The two British luxury car brands are worth $14 billion,
according to the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News, more than  Fiat SpA (FI)  or  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  With a
planned $12 billion in capital spending and product development
over five years and a proposed partnership with Chery Automobile
Co. to expand in China, conditions are right for an initial
share sale, according to Fim Asset Management Ltd. and Kim Eng
Securities Pvt.  After acquiring Jaguar and Land Rover from Ford, Tata
Motors hired KPMG International and Roland Berger Strategy
Consultants to help cut costs at the luxury unit. The company
introduced new models including the new XJ sedan, the Evoque
compact SUV and the XF sedan, according to a June 2009
presentation, and began targeting new  emerging markets  such as
 Russia  and China.  “By listing Jaguar Land Rover, Tata Motors will allow
investors who aren’t focused on India to invest in the
company,” said Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based  money manager 
at FIM Asset Management that oversees about $1.2 billion
including Tata Motors shares. “The new models planned for JLR
require a large amount of investment, especially if the company
wants to follow on the success of the Evoque.”  Record Sales  Tata Motors, the second-best performing  automaker stock 
globally this year, extended its gains after Jaguar Land Rover
recorded its highest ever monthly sales in March. That has
helped make up for the slowdown in annual deliveries of Tata-
branded passenger vehicles in  India , where  interest rates  and
fuel prices have dented  consumer confidence .  The Indian automaker said in August that it will double its
annual spending on product development and capital expenditure
at Jaguar Land Rover to 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) over
five years to fund an expansion that includes a pipeline of 40
new or upgraded vehicle models. That is more than the $2 billion
in profit that Tata earned in the 2011 fiscal year.  The British luxury carmaker will also add 1,000 jobs and a
third shift to boost production at its U.K. plant to meet
surging demand for the Range Rover Evoque, named the North
American truck of the year in January in  Detroit .  Unlocking Value  “I think it will be a good thing if Tata Motors decides to
list JLR,” said Jigar Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst with Kim Eng
Securities, using the acronym for the two British brands that
Tata combined after the purchase. “An IPO for JLR makes sense
as it will unlock value for shareholders.”  Tata Motors expects to fund Jaguar Land Rover’s capital
expenditure and product development needs through internal cash
accruals, Debasis Ray, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“However, we will continue to consider opportunities for
capital structure management as done in the past.”  In March, Tata Motors raised 500 million pounds in notes,
adding to a 1 billion pound  bond issue  in May 2011. The company
had cash and equivalents of $3.1 billion as of Sept. 30, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg  The company’s stock has advanced more than 60 percent this
year in Mumbai trading, the biggest percentage gainer on the 30-
company benchmark Sensitive Index. The company is also the
second-best performer this year on the MSCI AC World Automobiles
& Components Index.  Product Pipeline  Jaguar, which announced that it would introduce a two-seat,
all-new sports car in 2013 called the F-Type, is looking to
expand its product portfolio as sales more than quadrupled in
 China , and doubled in Russia in the quarter ended Dec. 31,
compared with a year earlier, Tata Motors said in a presentation
on its website.  Jaguar and Land Rover sales in China and Russia boosted
profitability as demand in emerging markets helped tide over
slower growth in advanced economies. The Evoque, which the
company began delivering in September, accounted for 30 percent
of Land Rover’s 65,287 retail sales in the October-to-December
quarter.  The two British brands weren’t always winners. When Tata
announced the deal in March 2008, its largest acquisition ever,
Jaguar’s sales had dropped 33 percent in the U.S. and  Europe  in
the preceding two months, while Land Rover’s deliveries fell 13
percent and 7.7 percent respectively during the period.  Diluting Ownership  Jaguar was listed on the London Stock Exchange until 1990
after Ford bought the company. The U.S. carmaker sold  Aston
Martin  in 2007, and Jaguar and Land Rover businesses a year
later as losses in its main auto business drained cash.  Tata may prefer to fund the  capital spending  through a bond
issue to avoid diluting ownership of its biggest profit center,
according to Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  at
Raiffeisen Capital Management which oversees about $1.1 billion
of emerging-market assets including Tata Motors.  “Two years ago, it would have made sense for Tata Motors
to have sold a stake in JLR,” said Maier. “Today, there is
still growth and liquidity is not a problem.”  Global sales at JLR gained 29 percent to 314,433 vehicles
in the 12 months through March, the company said in a statement
this week. That compares with the 3 percent annual increase in
sales for Tata passenger vehicles.  China Growth  The company expects China to become the second-largest
market for Land Rover, and the third-largest market for Jaguar
in the year that ended March 31, it said in a presentation on
its website.  JLR will spend 3.5 billion yuan ($555 million) for a 50
percent stake in a planned venture with Wuhu, China-based Chery
Auto. The agreement, signed in December 2011, will build the
U.K. luxury carmaker’s models in China to challenge  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in the world’s largest auto
market. The government still has to approve the venture.  The company will introduce new versions of the XF and Range
Rover Sport in the 2013 financial year, Bhaumik Bhatia, an
analyst at Mumbai-based IDBI Capital, said in an April 9 note.
There is currently a waiting period of about six weeks for JLR
models, and two to three months for the Evoque, according to the
report.  “Luxury car sales have picked up this year especially in
emerging markets like China.” FIM Asset’s Erajuuri said.
“Jaguar has been listed in the past before it was acquired by
Ford in 1989 and so I think investors will invest in JLR.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  