-- Japan Poised for Era of Sustainable Inflation, Nomura Say
-- B y   S a m   W a i t e   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-04-18T05:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/japan-poised-for-era-of-sustainable-inflation-nomura-say.html
Japan is poised to exit more than a
decade of deflation as a strengthening yuan bolsters China’s
buying power, fueling Japanese production and buoying prices,
according to  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   Demand from China will propel continuous gains in Japanese
consumer prices next year as companies ramp up production with
factories now running at about three quarters of capacity,
 Takahide Kiuchi , Nomura’s chief economist, said in an interview
on April 13. The yuan has gained 5.2 percent against the yen
this year, making Japanese products more affordable in China,
which became Japan’s biggest overseas market in 2009.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  last month said China will adopt
policies to encourage domestic consumption and wean the country
from its dependence on exports. The shift may help Japan absorb
a glut of unused factory capacity and unwind a cycle of
declining prices that has weighed on economic growth. Deflation
has driven wages down 16 percent since a 1997 peak and caused
 tax revenues  to fall by about 20 percent in the same period,
according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even mild deflation is a bad thing,” Kiuchi said. “When
people expect deflation, wages tend to decline more rapidly.
That means real wages decline and that undermines consumption.”  Japanese companies are using about 73 percent of their
factory capacity, according to trade ministry data released
yesterday. An increase in capacity utilization to about 85
percent in August 2007 preceded  Japan ’s last period of inflation,
a 15-month stretch of  price gains  between October 2007 and
December 2008.  Idle Factories  Prices resumed falling in March 2009 during the depths of
the recession that followed the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. when plunging exports forced Japanese companies to
idle as much as half of their factories.  China’s share of Japan’s exports more than doubled in the
decade through 2011 to about 20 percent, finance ministry data
shows.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food unexpectedly rose 0.1
percent in February from a year earlier, the first gain in five
months, the statistics bureau said on March 30. Nomura, SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. and NLI Research Institute Ltd. expect the
 Bank of Japan  to expand its asset-buying when the board gathers
on April 27 to help meet an inflation goal of 1 percent.  No ‘Magic Wand’  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , who last week began attending
ministerial meetings on Japan’s persistent price declines, has
said that lack of demand is the “root cause of deflation” and
the central bank has no “magic wand.” The Bank of Japan has
held its key interest rate near zero for most of the period
since 2001, raising the rate no higher than 0.5 percent.  Japan’s core consumer prices have fallen in 42 of the 56
quarters since 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average pay for Japanese workers fell to 3.8 million yen
($47,250) last year from 4.5 million yen in 1997, labor ministry
reports show. Without adjusting for price changes, household
spending fell 8.4 percent in the 10 years through 2011.  Deflation and Japan’s low-interest rates have also weighed
on the stock market. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has fallen
about 50 percent since July 1998, when consumer prices started
to slide. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained about 40
percent in the same period.  Money Into Stocks  “Inflation causes interest rates to rise and that pushes
money out of bonds into stocks,” said Masakuni Fujiwara, chief
executive officer at VistaMax Fund Advisor in  Tokyo . “Price
gains caused by a narrowing of the supply-demand gap will also
be positive for companies.”  While outlays by Japanese consumers has fallen, wages for
Chinese workers are increasing and the yuan’s gains are
increasing the mainland’s purchasing power.  Even after its appreciation this year, the yuan still has
room to rise against the yen, Nomura’s Kiuchi said.  China ’s
currency is 7.8 percent weaker than its one-year peak of 11.847
yen set in October. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts the yuan
will increase 3 percent against the dollar by the end of 2012.  A strengthening yuan will also relieve deflationary
pressure by making Chinese imports more expensive, reducing
competition for Japanese manufacturers of home appliances,
clothes and other products, Kiuchi said. China on April 14
doubled the yuan’s trading band to 1 percent, giving officials
more flexibility to adjust monetary policy.  “The yuan’s strength will weaken the competitiveness of
China’s exports,” Kiuchi said. “That will also help Japan
escape deflation.”  Other contributors to Japanese inflation include  oil prices ,
higher tariffs by Japan’s biggest utility, and a pick-up in
household spending ahead of proposed sales tax increases in 2014
and 2015, Kiuchi said.  Kiuchi isn’t the only one predicted price increases in
Japan. Investors’ expectations for inflation in Japan are rising
at the fastest pace among Group of Seven nations, except  Canada ,
as indicated by  interest-rates  for inflation-linked bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Waite in Tokyo at 
 swaite1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Clark at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net  