-- Japan’s Population Declines by Record in Challenge for Growth
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-04-17T09:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/japan-s-population-declined-by-largest-ever-0-2-last-year-1-.html
Japan ’s population fell by a record
last year, underlining the struggle to boost growth and rein in
soaring welfare costs in the world’s most rapidly aging society.  The population declined by 0.2 percent to 127.8 million as
of Oct. 1, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
said in a  report  today. Fukushima prefecture, which was
devastated by last year’s record earthquake and nuclear disaster,
registered the biggest decline, of 1.93 percent.  Japan faces a shrinking workforce as 2012 marks the first
year the nation’s  baby boomers  are set to retire. The world’s
third-largest economy has contracted three of the past four
years and policy makers including  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa have said low growth is mainly the result of
demographic changes.  “It will definitely will negatively affect long-term
economic activity, especially potential growth numbers,” said
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo. “The generation of baby boomers are leaving the labor
market and this demographic change could impact the fragility of
the pension system.”  Japan is the world’s oldest society, with a median age of
44 years, according to a 2009 United Nations report.  “The most significant challenge confronting Japan  is how
to adjust to a rapid demographic change that is unprecedented in
developed countries,” Shirakawa said in a January speech.  Fiscal Quandary  Social-security expenses, which have more than doubled in
the past two decades, account for 52 percent of general spending
in the fiscal year that began April 1. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has proposed doubling the national  consumption tax ,
currently at 5 percent, by 2015 to address the fiscal pressures
and contain the world’s biggest public debt. The legislation
faces resistance from opposition lawmakers as well as some in
his own party who’ve warned about damping domestic demand.  People aged 65 or older comprised 23.3 percent of the
entire population, compared with 23 percent for the year before,
according to today’s report.  The population of Iwate, which was also hit by the
earthquake and nuclear crisis, fell by 1.03 percent. The capital
of Tokyo was one of seven prefectures where the number of people
rose, gaining 0.28 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  