-- Japan Will Provide $60 Billion to Expand IMF’s Resources
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-04-17T08:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/japan-will-provide-60-billion-to-expand-imf-s-resources-1-.html
Japan  said it will provide $60
billion to the International Monetary Fund’s effort to expand
its resources and shield the global economy against any
deepening of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  unveiled the commitment in
speaking to reporters in Tokyo today before semiannual meetings
of the IMF and  World Bank  in  Washington  April 20-22. Azumi said
he hopes for an early agreement among Group of 20 members, who
will also gather in Washington, on contributions to the IMF.  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, becomes the
largest donor yet outside of Europe to IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde ’s campaign to bolster the fund’s resources for
the second time in three years. Azumi said that the stance of
 China , the world’s largest holder of foreign-exchange reserves,
is in the same direction as Japan’s and that he hopes Japan’s
pledge will accelerate the commitments of others.  “It’s in everyone’s best interest that Europe gets back on
its feet as soon as possible,” said Matthew Circosta, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. The announcement may
“add stability to financial markets that had been weakening
over the last few weeks as the crisis flared up again,
particularly in Spain.”  The euro held losses against the dollar, trading at 1.3132
as of 5:13 p.m. in Tokyo, down 0.1 percent.  Europe needs to do more itself to strengthen financial
firewalls, Azumi said. Japan may be the biggest contributor
among non-European nations and will be expressing its views
“more strongly than before,” he said.  Striking a Deal  No comment was immediately available from China’s finance
ministry, after Japan yesterday briefed Chinese Vice Premier
 Wang Qishan  on the move.  Azumi said that while it may not be possible to reach an
overall agreement on expanding the IMF’s resources in
Washington, it’s “fully possible” over a longer period. South
Korean Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon also said it may be
difficult this week, when major countries including the U.S. and
 Canada  haven’t stated their positions, Korean-language news
provider Yonhap Infomax reported, citing his comments at a
conference in  Seoul .  “We are willing to contribute to the increase in IMF
resources once the world reaches an agreement,” South Korea’s
Deputy Finance Minister, Choi Jong Ku, said today. “We need to
see discussions and moves by others before deciding how much we
will give.”  The IMF is co-financing bailouts in  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland. It currently has about $380 billion available.  ‘Good News’  Lagarde said last week that she would scale down her
request for $600 billion of additional resources as threats to
the global economy diminished. The boost was designed to enable
an additional $500 billion in lending. While euro nations
committed to pitch in 150 billion euros ($197 billion), the
U.S., the fund’s largest shareholder, has refused to join in.  “Some of the dramas that were envisaged” at the end of
2011 or early this year have not materialized and some “good
news” has restored a little bit of confidence, Lagarde said in
Washington April 12. The IMF is reassessing risks, “which will
bring me to probably reassess a lower number of additional
resources needed,” she said. The IMF chief today welcomed
Japan’s pledge, calling on other nations to follow its lead.  Threat From Spain  Surging Spanish borrowing costs have highlighted the risk
that the crisis will re-ignite and prompted a deputy economy
minister, Jaime Garcia-Legaz, to call on the  European Central
Bank  to resume direct intervention in the markets. Yields on
 Spain ’s 10-year notes soared as much as 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 6.16 percent yesterday. That’s the highest
level since Dec. 1 and is edging toward the 7 percent level that
pushed Greece, Ireland and Portugal into rescues.  “Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has clearly eased from
last year’s critical situation following the region’s policy
efforts, but we can’t be optimistic about the situation at
all,” Azumi said. “It’s important to strengthen the IMF’s
financial resources to ensure the crisis is contained, and this
is important not only for the euro region but also for  Asia  as
well as Japan.”  Junko Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities Japan
Ltd. in  Tokyo , said today’s announcement may partly be intended
to defuse criticism of Japan for unilateral interventions to
weaken the nation’s currency.  “Japan wants to show its cooperation in the global
economy,” Nishioka said. “Japan also knows that stabilization
of the European economy will benefit its economy as well.”  Financial Clout  The financial clout of Asia’s two biggest economies was
illustrated by data yesterday showing China, the holder of the
world’s largest currency reserves, remained the largest foreign
U.S. creditor in February and Japan’s purchases of Treasuries
picked up.  China’s holdings rose for a second straight month,
increasing by 1.1 percent to $1.18 trillion, U.S. Treasury
Department data show. Those of Japan, America’s second-largest
lender, climbed 1.2 percent to $1.096 trillion as the Asian
nation continued to intervene in the  currency market  to stem
yen’s appreciation.  China’s currency reserves rose 3.9 percent in the first
three months of 2012 from the previous quarter, reversing the
first quarterly decline since 1998, according to the People’s
Bank of China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  