-- Jobs Data Simultaneous Release Jeopardized Under Curbs
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-18T12:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/jobs-data-simultaneous-release-jeopardized-by-u-s-restrictions.html
The U.S. Department of Labor said
it can’t promise journalists they will be able to transmit
market-sensitive economic releases at exactly the same time
under changes resulting from the first review of procedures in a
decade.  The agency ordered media organizations to remove computer
software, hardware and communications lines they have installed
at the department to transmit news on data such as the
unemployment  rate  and consumer prices. Instead, reporters will
have to use government equipment, software and Internet
connections.  “I’m not going to guarantee anything,” Carl A. Fillichio,
the department’s senior adviser for communications and public
affairs in Washington, said on a  conference call  when asked if
every news organization will be assured a connection to the
Internet “at exactly the same millisecond.”  Under the current system, credentialed journalists in so-
called lockups are given data in advance of their release to the
public, allowing time to prepare stories, headlines and tables.
Communication by phone or computer is cut off for the half hour
that reporters are typically given to write their stories. A
Department of Labor employee then flips a switch that opens
telephone and data lines, allowing journalists to transmit their
stories using their own equipment.  Bloomberg News is among the organizations that participate.
Bloomberg has written to the Department of Labor opposing the
changes.  ‘Wide-Ranging Impact’  “There are few government reports that have the wide-
ranging impact on the market as the Department of Labor
statistics, and we are troubled by the degree of government
restrictions on how the press can fully and accurately report
this data to the public,” said  Matthew Winkler , editor-in-chief
of Bloomberg News.  With the new system, journalists in the lockup will have to
rely on government-provided  Internet access  to send their
stories, with no guarantee they can connect to the Internet at
the same time. Currently, news organizations taking part in the
lockups can maintain their own lines. The changes would take
effect with the release of data on the  unemployment rate  and
non-farm payrolls on July 6.  “If some investors will be getting this information before
others, that will create a discrepancy in the markets, and I
suspect the SEC will be interested in addressing the issue,”
 Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity strategist at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $370 billion,
said in an e-mail. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or
SEC, is the government agency tasked with protecting investors
and maintaining fair and orderly markets.  No Comment Sought  The changes were announced without providing news
organizations any opportunity to comment in advance.  Directives from the Office of Management and Budget give
the Department of Labor “the option of offering pre-release
access, and if we exercise that option we are also required to
establish procedures and security arrangements,” Fillichio said
on the conference call. A recording of the call is available on
the department’s  website .  “You want everyone to get access to the information at
precisely the same time,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S.
economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York . “Anything that
reduces the integrity of that system is something you don’t
want. We’re relying on the quality of their release and
distribution system. It could introduce some additional
volatility around the time of the release.”  ‘Leveling’ Field  Fillichio said that because every news organization will
have the same government-provided equipment, “we are totally
leveling the playing field.” Reporters will also be provided
with pens and paper.  “This doesn’t strike me as good public policy or good for
investors,” said Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed
credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , who helps
oversee $32 billion. “This is not leveling the playing field as
much as it is seizing control of the means of communication.”  The department isn’t required to offer lockups, Fillichio
said. “This is a courtesy we provide,” he said. “And let me
say it’s one that I think is important and very well worth
doing, but it and participation by news organizations in it, is
not a right.”  The changes were intended to improve security, Fillichio
said. He cited “violations of the embargo and the use of
equipment in the lockups,” while declining to provide
specifics.  Rules Broken  “We are not going to comment on security issues,” he
said. “There have been consequences when someone was caught
breaking the rules,” he said, adding that “two individuals of
different news organizations were suspended from participation”
over the past two years. He didn’t name the individuals or their
news organizations, nor did he specify the alleged infractions.  Journalists have also been told to reapply for lockup
credentials and that space may be limited.  In an April 10 letter to journalists, Fillichio said “the
purpose of pre-release access would be best served” if the
process resulted in a group of organizations that “distribute a
variety of types of news/media products that reach a wide and
diverse audience.”  “The department will not consider editorial or political
viewpoints in making credentialing decisions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  