-- Jordan Set to Win Swiss Cabinet Backing as SNB Chief
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-04-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/jordan-poised-to-win-swiss-government-backing-as-snb-president.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph to say franc breached limit only
on April 5.)  The Swiss government may appoint
Thomas Jordan as president of the central bank as soon as today,
filling the post left vacant by Philipp Hildebrand and taking up
his role as the franc’s defender-in-chief, lawmakers said.  The government plans to discuss the appointment at its
weekly meeting, which begins at 9:00 a.m. in Bern. Jordan will
be named as head of the  Swiss National Bank  at the meeting, NZZ
am Sonntag reported on April 15. Swiss President Eveline Widmer- Schlumpf said last month that Jordan is “clearly a leading
candidate” for the SNB’s top job.  “It’s all but certain that Jordan is going to be the next
president,” Christophe Darbellay, head of the Christian
Democratic Party, a member of the country’s ruling coalition,
said by telephone. “He is a renowned academic, he knows the
central bank through and through and is globally well
connected.”  The central bank imposed a cap of 1.20 francs per euro on
Sept. 6, the first ceiling in more than three decades, in a bid
to force a “substantial and sustained weakening” of the
currency. The SNB indicated it would defend the franc by buying
foreign currency in “unlimited quantities.”  Traders recently began for the first time in seven months
to test the SNB’s determination to defend the limit as the euro
area’s resurgent debt crisis drove up demand for safer assets.
The franc breached the cap on April 5.  Swiss Assets  Demand for Swiss assets is so strong that investors
accepted negative yields at an auction of six-month government
bills last week as  Spain ’s borrowing costs rose toward levels
that prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Jordan, 49, became interim chairman on Jan. 9, the day
Hildebrand stepped down under a cloud created by his wife’s
purchase of $504,000 in August, weeks before the cap was
introduced. His two-year term was the shortest in the bank’s
history.  The government will publish its decision today, a Swiss
official said on condition of anonymity.  The two remaining spots on the board will be filled by
Jean-Pierre Danthine, currently a governing board member, and
Fritz Zurbruegg, head of the Federal Finance Administration, NZZ
am Sonntag said.  Jordan was born in 1963 in Biel,  Switzerland , and studied
economics and business at the University of Bern. The father of
two joined the SNB in 1997 and became head of its research unit
in 2002. In 2004, he was appointed a deputy member of the SNB’s
six-person enlarged governing board before joining the three-
member directorate in 2007. When Hildebrand became president in
2010, Jordan was elected vice chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  