-- Kaba Appoints New M&A Head as It Whittles Down List of Targets
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-04-17T11:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/kaba-appoints-new-m-a-head-as-it-whittles-down-list-of-targets.html
Kaba Holding AG (KABN) , the Swiss maker of
high-security locks, named a new head of mergers and
acquisitions as the company starts approaching a shortlist of
targeted companies.  The company, based in Ruemlang, Switzerland, has about 500
million francs ($547 million) to spend and aims to make its
first acquisition by the end of 2013, Chief Executive Officer
Riet Cadonau said in an interview yesterday. Chief Operating
Officer Frank Belflower will oversee M&A from July 1, following
the retirement of Ulrich Wydler.  “Our goal was to have a long list by the end of the 2011
calendar year, and a short list by the end of April, which we
have achieved,” Cadonau said. Two banks are helping Kaba with
its reshaping, although none have yet been mandated for a
specific deal, he added.  Kaba, which sold a door unit for $244 million last year,
has a three-prong acquisition strategy. It’s focused on  Asia  and
 Latin America  as well as products for hotels, teller machines
and airport security, and white spots in developed countries
where it has lower market share like in Poland, Cadonau said.  The Swiss company, which competes with  Assa Abloy AB (ASSAB)  and
 Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) , is seeking to expand its Access +
Data Systems division, which generated 580.5 million francs in
revenue last year from locks and computerized access equipment.
Targets are a mix of public and private companies, the CEO said.  Kaba acquired Moeller Undall Group of Norway in 2011 for 41
million francs.  Reshuffle  Belflower’s appointment is part of a reshuffle announced
yesterday in which Kaba’s high-margin Industrial Locks segment
will be merged into Kaba’s Access +  Data Systems (ADS)  division,
effective July 1 2012. Creating two distinct divisions -- Access
+ Data Systems and Key Systems, will improve efficiency, Cadonau
said.  “There will be some savings, but our goal is to protect
the margin,” he said. The move will help bolster profitability
in  North America  for “years to come,” he said.  Cadonau expects improved sales and marketing performance
following the combination, as well as savings in supply chain
management. Employee numbers will remain “more or less the
same,” he said, declining to say by how much the move would
affect profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  