-- Kreider Makes NHL Debut in Rangers’ Playoff Win After NCAA Title
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/kreider-makes-nhl-debut-for-rangers-nine-days-after-ncaa-title.html
Chris Kreider made his debut for
the  New York Rangers  in last night’s playoff win against the
 Ottawa Senators , becoming the first player since 1987 to appear
in the National Hockey League postseason in the same year that
he won a national college championship.  Kreider, who won the National Collegiate Athletic
Association title with  Boston College  on April 7 and started
practicing with the Rangers four days later, totaled 11 minutes,
11 seconds of ice time in  New York ’s 1-0 victory at Ottawa.  Kreider, 20, skated on the Rangers’ top line with Brad Richards and Marian Gaborik, his debut coming one day after New
York forward Carl Hagelin was suspended three games by the
league for elbowing.  “I’m really happy with the way he played,” Rangers coach
 John Tortorella  said of Kreider at a post-game news conference.  Kreider just missed a goal during the second period, when
he chipped a rebound under the glove of Senators goaltender
Craig Anderson that went wide of the net.  The last person to claim the NCAA title and make his
professional debut in the NHL playoffs in the same season was
Tony Hrkac, who won the college championship with the University
of North Dakota 25 years ago before playing for the St. Louis
Blues in the NHL postseason, the league said.  Kreider didn’t play in the first two games of the Rangers’
best-of-seven series against the Senators, which the teams split
at Madison Square Garden.  Top Seed  With Hagelin suspended, Kreider is now getting his chance
for New York, which finished the regular season with an Eastern
Conference-high 109 points and is a top seed in the playoffs for
the first time since 1994, when it last won the  Stanley Cup .  Hagelin, a rookie forward, was disciplined for elbowing
Senators forward Daniel Alfredsson in New York’s 3-2 overtime
loss on April 14. He’ll also miss the next two playoff games.  Kreider is the first Rangers player to make his NHL debut
in the playoffs since Lauri Korpikoski on May 4, 2008, in Game 5
of the Eastern Conference semifinals at Pittsburgh.  Kreider had three goals and an assist in four NCAA
tournament games this season for Boston College, which defeated
Ferris State University 4-1 in Tampa,  Florida , for its fifth
national title and third in five seasons. Kreider, who was
selected by the Rangers in the first round of the 2009 NHL Entry
Draft, finished his junior year as the team leader in goals
(23), points (45) and penalty minutes (66).  Jeff Farkas, who lost the NCAA title game with  Boston
College  in 2000 and then joined the  Toronto Maple Leafs , is the
last player to participate in both college hockey’s final game
and the NHL playoffs in the same year, according to the league.
 Matt Carle  of the  Philadelphia Flyers  is among those who have
played in both the NCAA and the NHL in the same season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  