-- N.Y. Men Sent on ‘Martyrdom Operation,’ Plotter Testifies
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/n-y-men-sent-on-martyrdom-operation-subway-plot-convict-says.html
A  New York  man who pleaded guilty
to plotting to bomb the city’s subway system for al-Qaeda
testified that he believes the terrorist group brainwashed him.  Najibullah Zazi, testifying against alleged co-conspirator
Adis Medunjanin in federal court in  Brooklyn , responded “yes, I
say that,” when a defense attorney asked yesterday if he
thought al-Qaeda brainwashed him.  Medunjanin, 27, Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay were recruited by
al-Qaeda for a bombing of subway lines in  Manhattan  around the
eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks,
according to the indictment. The plot was stopped within days of
its happening in 2009, prosecutors said. Zazi, 26, and Ahmedzay,
27, pleaded guilty in 2010.  “I don’t consider my life miserable but I consider my life
with too much problems,” Zazi testified. “My problems is
because of their bad strategy,” he said referring to al-Qaeda.  In August 2008, the three men went to join the Taliban in
Pakistan where they were recruited by  al-Qaeda , which gave them
military training and encouraged them to conduct suicide attacks
in the U.S., prosecutors said.  Also yesterday, the jury began listening to videotaped
testimony of Saajid Muhammad Badat, 33, who is the first
terrorist convicted in the U.K. to present testimony in a U.S.
trial, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said in an April 16
statement.  Shoe Bomb  Badat pleaded guilty in 2005 to plotting to blow up a
passenger airplane by igniting a shoe bomb on behalf of al-
Qaeda. He withdrew from the plot.  “I agreed to take an explosive device on an aircraft and
explode it,” he said in the video. “What we call a shoe
bombing.”  Badat, who was sentenced to 13 years, later reduced to 11,
said he went to Afghanistan in 1999 when he was 19 to be trained
“to fight jihad.” In his April 16 opening statement,  Robert
Gottlieb , one of Medunjanin’s lawyers, said Badat’s testimony
would show that the three subway-plot suspects received much
less extensive training in Pakistan.  Badat said he couldn’t travel to New York to testify
because U.S. charges are pending against him stemming from the
same incident and he would be arrested.  The jury will continue watching his testimony on April 23.  Richard Reid   Badat’s co-conspirator was “shoe bomber” Richard Reid,
who pleaded guilty and is serving a life sentence in the U.S.
Reid was flying to Miami from Paris in December 2001 when he was
found trying to light his shoe.  The jury also heard testimony yesterday from Zakir Khan,
22, who knew Medunjanin, Ahmedzay and Zazi from the Hazrati Abu
Bakr Siddique Mosque in Queens.  Kahn said Medunjanin agreed with the views of a sheik whose
taped lectures they listened to and who said suicide bombing was
allowed under Islam. Kahn said he disagreed with that view.  Kahn said the three men tried to get him to travel with
them to  Pakistan . His family wasn’t “happy with it at all” and
made him speak to a teacher. After that, he told the three he
wasn’t going.  Medunjanin “did not agree with what she said, with what
the teacher said,” Kahn said.  Zazi testified that the three men went to a terrorist camp
in Waziristan, Pakistan, and were taught to use rocket
launchers, machine guns, grenades and pistols. He was also
trained in how to make bombs.  ‘Useful Lanes’  Zazi testified April 18 that the plotters discussed bombing
Grand Central Station and he mentioned the No. 3 subway train,
which runs on Manhattan’s West Side, or the No. 4 train on the
East Side.  “These lanes are the busiest and the most useful lanes of
all,” he said.  Zazi, who finished his testimony yesterday, said Medunjanin
intended to carry out the plot. When questioned by Assistant
U.S. Attorney David Bitkower about his feelings for Medunjanin,
Zazi said “I love him” and broke down crying.  Medunjanin is a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Bosnia.
Ahmedzay immigrated to the U.S. from  Afghanistan . Zazi was born
in Pakistan. He testified that he had falsely written on
immigration forms and told authorities that he was from
Afghanistan.  Ahmedzay and Zazi are both cooperating with the government
and haven’t been sentenced yet. Ahmedzay was the first witness
in the trial. All three men have been in custody since their
arrests.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson is presiding over the
trial, which may last about three weeks.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 