-- New York City Plans to Open High School for Software Engineering
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-17T17:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/new-york-city-plans-to-open-high-school-for-software-engineering.html
New York City  plans to open 54 new
schools serving 21,000 students, including an academy of
software engineering for grades nine through 12, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The institutions, which will open in September, will bring
to 589 the number of schools the Bloomberg administration has
created since 2002, the mayor’s office said in a news release.
Schools Chancellor Dennis Walcott and the mayor cited parent
surveys and test scores to assert that new schools perform
better than those that they replace.  “New schools have changed thousands of lives in New York
City for the better, helping more students graduate and prepare
for college and careers,” Walcott said in a statement before a
news conference at Washington Irving High School near
 Manhattan ’s Union Square.  Washington Irving is the site of the future software and
engineering school, which will offer career-oriented classes in
programming and business.  Support for education in applied sciences is part of
Bloomberg’s strategy to make the city economy less reliant on
 Wall Street . In December, the mayor announced the city would
provide free land and about $100 million in infrastructure
support to  Cornell University  and Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology for a 2 million-square-foot applied science and
engineering campus on Roosevelt Island.  The new-school announcements comes as the administration
faces protests by some parents and the  United Federation of
Teachers  over plans to close at least 25 struggling schools, and
fire as many as half the teachers who worked in them.  Thirty of the new schools will be run by the district and
24 are charters, which are public institutions that operate
independently. The new schools will serve all grades, from
kindergarten through high school, the mayor’s office said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman   smerelman@bloomberg.net  