-- Newmont’s Peru Gold Mine Needs ‘Substantive Improvements’
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-04-18T01:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/newmont-s-peru-gold-mine-needs-substantial-improvements-.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s suspended
$4.8 billion gold project in  Peru  needs “substantive
improvements” to gain approval, according to the author of a
government-commissioned study.  “There’s no such thing as zero impact, the project
requires substantive improvements,” Rafael Fernandez, who co-
wrote a study on Minas Conga that was delivered to the
government today, said at a press conference in  Lima .  Peru suspended the project and commissioned a review after
Andean farmers, fearing the project would dry up local water
supplies, blocked roads and destroyed Newmont installations in
November. The government will make a decision on the mine based
on the report’s recommendations, said Fernandez.  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Newmont, which has
invested $800 million in the project to date, proposes to build
reservoirs in the northern Andean region of Cajamarca to replace
four highland lakes which would dry up.  Newmont welcomes the review of Conga’s 13-year
environmental impact study and is confident the consultants were
objective and impartial in their work, spokesman  Omar Jabara 
said in e-mailed comments last week.  “Conga’s reservoirs would more than double the current
water storage capacity of the four lagoons in question and would
provide a reliable, year-round water supply to downstream
users,” Jabara said. “Conga’s EIA underwent extensive reviews
by 12 government agencies and was approved by the mines and
energy ministry in 2010.”  Legal ruling  The 248-page report will be published April 18 on
government websites and discussed in public hearings, Peru
Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes said at the press conference.  The Constitutional Tribunal, Peru’s highest law court,
today overruled a legal ban on the Conga project issued by the
Cajamarca regional government last year, Environment Minister
Manuel Pulgar said at a separate press conference.  The consultants recommended increasing water storage
capacity in the reservoirs and delegating Peru’s National Water
Authority to monitor water usage, Pulgar said.  “This isn’t a report that determines viability or not,”
Pulgar said. “It’s an objective, technical report that will
allow for dialogue based on solid foundations.”  Newmont gained 0.3 percent to $48.33 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 19 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  