-- NLRB Union Poster Rule Delayed While Challenge Proceeds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/nlrb-rule-on-union-rights-posters-put-on-hold-pending-appeal-1-.html
The  National Labor Relations Board 
can’t require businesses to tell workers their union rights on a
workplace poster while challenges to a judge’s ruling upholding
the rule proceed, an appeals court said.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington yesterday granted a
request by the  National Association of Manufacturers , the
National Right to Work Legal Defense and Education Foundation
and other business lobby groups who claim allowing enactment of
the rule would affect more than 6 million employers who
otherwise wouldn’t be subject to NLRB regulation.  “The board has waited more than 75 years to publish the
challenged rule requiring employers to post a notice of employee
rights,” the groups said in a March 12 filing seeking the
delay. “The board can therefore afford to wait a short time
longer before the rule goes into effect.”  The ruling follows a March 2 decision by U.S. District
Judge Amy Berman Jackson in which she left the poster
requirement undisturbed while striking down the NLRB’s ability
to punish any failure to comply. The agency said in a statement
today that its regional offices will not implement the measure,
which was to take effect on April 30.  The  Washington  case, filed in September, is one of two
challenges to the NLRB provision, issued on Aug. 30. U.S.
District Judge David C. Norton in Charleston,  South Carolina , on
April 13 ruled the regulator exceeded its authority in
promulgating the poster rule, holding in favor of the U.S. and
South Carolina Chambers of Commerce.  Appeal Both Rulings  The NLRB said it will appeal both Norton’s decision and
that portion of Jackson’s ruling that “raise questions about
enforcement mechanisms.”  “Requiring employers to post this notice is well within
the board’s authority,” NLRB Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce said
in yesterday’s statement. “It provides a genuine service to
employees who may not otherwise know their rights under our
law.”  Jay Timmons , chief executive of the National Association of
Manufacturers, said in an e-mailed statement that the rule is an
“attempt by the board to assert power and authority it does not
possess.”  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v.
National Labor Relations Board, 12-05068, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  