-- Northern Trust Profit Rises 6.8% as Stock Markets Rally
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-17T20:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/northern-trust-profit-rose-6-8-as-global-equities-rally.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-
largest U.S. independent custody bank, said first-quarter net
income rose 6.8 percent after the company won new business and
stock markets rallied this year.  Net income increased to $161.2 million, or 66 cents a
share, from $151 million, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier,
the Chicago-based company said today in a statement. Profit
matched the 66-cent average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Northern Trust this year joined rivals  State Street Corp. (STT) 
and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in eliminating jobs to lower
expenses as  interest rates  near zero erode profits. The company
said in January it cut 700 jobs. BNY Mellon and State Street
eliminated a combined 3,750 jobs in the past 16 months.  “We saw some growth in assets in the last three months, so
we’re hoping this is the first sign of revenue growth across the
board for the custody banks,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis,
Tennessee-based analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC. Mosby said
he expected Northern Trust’s job cuts to affect earnings in the
second quarter.  Northern Trust rose 1.5 percent, to $46.87 at 4:00 p.m. in
Nasdaq composite trading. The shares have  climbed  18 percent
this year, compared with a 17 percent increase in the 20-company
Standard & Poor’s index of asset managers and custody banks.  Revenue increased 7.5 percent from a year earlier and
expenses increased 11 percent.  After falling last year, the MSCI ACWI Index of global
stocks has gained 9.1 percent this year.  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by reducing return on
investments and lending. Northern Trust has also waived some
fees on money market mutual funds to keep client returns above
zero.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . Northern Trust also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  