-- NYSE Plans to Let More Brokerages Become Market Makers
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-04-17T18:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/nyse-plans-to-let-more-brokerages-become-market-makers.html
The  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  plans
to let more brokers become market markers, providing a new
category of competitor for firms such as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Getco
LLC that oversee trading in shares at the Big Board.  The exchange proposed creating  supplemental liquidity
providers  that would operate as registered market makers and get
more lenient treatment for short sales, according to a  filing 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a category
would fall between the two tiers of traders that now provide
prices to buy and sell on the exchange: designated market
makers, whose duties are most stringent, and the current
supplemental liquidity providers, who face fewer obligations.  Exchanges are experimenting with ways of inducing market
makers to quote more aggressively to attract volume. Nasdaq
Stock Market proposed a pilot test in less-active exchange-
traded funds that would allow issuers to pay for bids and
offers. Bats Global Markets Inc. started a program this year
that encourages market makers by giving $200 a day to the firm
with the best quotation performance for ETFs listed on Bats and
$50 to the firm in second place.  “The program recognizes the significance of SLPs to NYSE’s
market model and expands the number of potential firms that
could participate,” Joseph Mecane, co-head of U.S. listings and
cash execution at NYSE Euronext, said in a phone interview. “It
gives SLPs the ability to be deemed registered market makers.”  Providing Quotes  Nine SLPs operate at the NYSE providing quotes that augment
those supplied by designated market makers, which are in charge
of trading. The new category of brokers must meet the current
SLP quoting requirements and provide continuous bids and offers.
The initial program began in 2008.  NYSE’s SLPs currently can’t become market makers on that
venue the way they can on Nasdaq or exchanges run by Bats and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC. The proposal would allow firms that
want the benefits of being market makers and the better pricing
available to SLPs to trade on the exchange.  Mecane said he expects a “handful” of firms, either
current SLPs or other brokers, to become SLMMs, as the new
category will be called. The program will be introduced in June
or July, pending SEC approval, he said. The SEC must approve the
program before New York-based NYSE Euronext can implement it.  NYSE’s four designated market-making companies, which
include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Knight Capital Group Inc.,
have more onerous quoting and trading requirements than current
SLPs and those who may join the new category. They get higher
rebates than SLPs and other firms when they provide bids and
offers for customers to trade with.  Bids, Offers  Brokers in the new category must provide continuous bids
and offers in the stocks in which they’re registered, just as
they do on Nasdaq Stock Market and other exchanges. They must
also meet the requirement for NYSE’s SLPs that they furnish bids
or offers at the best available prices at least 10 percent of
the day each month and trade 10 million shares daily across
their securities. Current SLPs include Barclays, Citadel LLC,
Tradebot Systems Inc. and Virtu Financial LLC.  NYSE Amex  proposed  a similar market-making program for its
stocks. That exchange’s SLP program began in January 2010.  NYSE, the world’s largest exchange by the value of its
listed companies, hasn’t had competing market makers since at
least 1967, although only 33 corporations were represented by
more than one specialist earlier that decade, according to “A
Financial History of the  United States ” by Jerry W. Markham.
Designated market makers replaced specialists in the mid-2000s
as the SEC imposed new trading rules on exchanges and brokers.  Single Market Maker  Each NYSE stock will continue to have a single designated
market maker obligated to maintain fair and orderly trading and
run the auctions at the start and end of each trading day. NYSE
rivals have multiple registered market makers competing against
one another on their venues.  Mecane said NYSE created competition within its market when
it introduced the SLP program in 2008. Since then the exchange
has “effectively had multiple market-maker-like liquidity
providers with obligations,” he said. That program was started
to provide more quotes at better prices in NYSE-listed stocks
after SEC rules boosted competition from rivals including  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in  New York , Bats in Lenexa,  Kansas , and  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge.  NYSE accounted for 20.8 percent of volume in stocks listed
on its exchange this year through yesterday, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Including NYSE Arca, the parent company’s
share of trading was 30.3 percent, the data show. NYSE traded
four-fifths of the volume in its companies a decade ago before
the SEC’s regulatory overhaul.  SLP-Prop Firms  Current SLPs can choose to remain as they are or become
market makers. The former will be known as SLP-Prop firms. A
broker can be both an SLP-Prop and SLMM as long as the trading
comes from separate business units and their activity isn’t
coordinated, NYSE said in the filing. Not all securities may
have market makers from the new category.  SLMMs will be considered bona fide market makers and will
qualify for more lenient requirements related to short sales,
NYSE said in its filing. The firms must also meet net  capital
requirements  specific to market makers, NYSE said.  “The exchange believes that the proposed rule change would
expand the number of member organizations eligible to
participate in the SLP program,” NYSE said in the filing. “In
particular, it would enable member organizations that are
registered as market makers on other exchanges that are not
interested in joining the existing proprietary-only SLP program
to join the SLP program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  