-- Oakley Tests Technology That Would Rival Google’s Project Glass
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-04-17T04:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/oakley-tests-technology-that-would-rival-google-s-project-glass.html
Oakley Inc. is developing
technology that can project information directly onto lenses,
putting the sunglass maker into potential competition with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)   The technology would let Oakley, a division of  Italy ’s
 Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) , make hardware that’s comparable with
Google’s Project Glass, an experimental effort to build
smartphone features into eyewear, Oakley Chief Executive Officer
Colin Baden said in an interview.  Companies are stepping up efforts to build a wider range of
electronics -- including articles of clothing -- that can
connect wirelessly to the Internet. The market for so-called
connected devices, a broad category that includes smartphones,
tablets and PCs, may surge to 1.84 billion units in 2016, more
than double the figure for last year,  according  to research firm
IDC in Framingham,  Massachusetts .  “As an organization, we’ve been chasing this beast since
1997,” Baden said. “Ultimately, everything happens through
your eyes, and the closer we can bring it to your eyes, the
quicker the consumer is going to adopt the platform.”  Oakley would initially target athletes with products based
on the so-called heads-up technology, Baden said. Oakley could
develop a similar product for the U.S. military through  Eye
Safety Systems , a subsidiary that specializes in eyewear for
military and government agencies, he said.  “Obviously, you can think of many applications in the
competitive field of sports,” Baden said. “That’s the halo
point of where we would begin, but certainly you can transcend
that into a variety of other applications.”  ‘Barrier to Success’  Early versions of the product would not be cheap, Baden
said. The product should be able to function on its own, while
also working with a smartphone wirelessly using Bluetooth, he
said. The device might be controlled with voice commands,
similar to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Siri software, he said.  “There’s a lot of interesting optical issues that come up
when you’re trying to create a positive experience when
interacting with these devices,” Baden said. “So the
technology barrier to success is significant.”  Oakley released sunglasses in 2004 that featured an MP3
music player built in. While the  Thump  product line was not a
big hit, it is profitable, Baden said. The latest version, the
Thump Pro, costs $129 for a half-gigabyte of storage. That means
it holds one-fourth the songs as the smallest iPod, yet costs
more than twice as much.  Oakley has been working on technology related to heads-up
displays for about 15 years, and has 600 patents, many of which
apply to optical specifications, Baden said. The company would
consider licensing the patents, he said.  Baden declined to comment on whether Oakley would release
its own so-called smart glasses, but he said the market for such
a device is ripe. He said Oakley would have an edge over more
tech-savvy competitors because the company is able to create
stylish accessories.  “People get very particular when they put stuff on their
face,” Baden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  