-- Tobacco Packaging, Stock-Cost Rule, Bunge: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-17T12:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/tobacco-packaging-stock-cost-rule-bunge-suspended-compliance.html
The U.K. government called for
reactions to plans for standardized packaging for tobacco
products as part of a drive to discourage smoking.  The Department of Health in London said in a  statement on
its website  yesterday it wants interested parties to express
their views on proposals for packs that might carry no branding,
be a single color and carry a standard text in a uniform font.
The department also said it wants to know about any possible
effect on the illicit tobacco market.  Legislation  banning the promotion and display  of tobacco
products in supermarkets and other large stores came into force
in England earlier this month. That ban will be extended to all
stores by April 2015.  A move by the U.K. to standardized packaging would echo
policy in Australia, where cigarettes will have to be sold in
dark brown packets as of Dec. 1, with no symbols or images and
the same font for all brands.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMT) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are
challenging the Australian law and will present their arguments
against it in Canberra beginning tomorrow. Honduras complained
about the measure at the  World Trade Organization  earlier this
month.  Separately,  tobacco companies ’ claims that Australia was
illegally seizing their trademarks with a law requiring
cigarettes to be sold in plain packages was questioned by judges
who said companies would still retain their brand names on the
new packs.  British American Tobacco Plc, Europe’s biggest cigarette
maker, and Japan Tobacco Inc. were joined by Philip Morris
International Inc., the largest publicly traded tobacco
manufacturer, and Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, maker of Gauloises
Blondes, in a  challenge  to the Australian ban on logos.  The Australian ban, the first of its kind in the world, is
being watched by  governments  around the globe. A  High Court 
ruling upholding the law, which is due to go into effect Dec. 1,
might prompt other countries to follow suit, further eroding the
value of the tobacco companies’ brands.  Several judges questioned the benefit the government
receives from appropriating space on cigarette packages now
reserved for the companies’ logos and trademarks. To win, the
tobacco companies must persuade the judges the government
benefits from the prohibition on the use of the trademarks and
as a result would have to compensate them.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Dimon Widens Gap With JPMorgan Bankers as Wall Street Pay Slides  Jamie Dimon, awarded $23 million for running  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  last year, earned 67 times the average amount set aside
for his investment bankers and traders, the widest gap among
firms that report divisional pay.  Dimon, 56, chief executive officer of the New York-based
lender, was one of the few bank CEOs who avoided a pay cut for
2011. The ratio of his compensation to the average for all
employees at JPMorgan’s  investment bank  increased from 62 times
the previous year.  CEO pay in banking has dropped since peaking before the
financial crisis, bringing the ratio at most firms to between
18-to-1 and 50-to-1 from some that topped 100-to-1 in 2006 and
2007.  The ratio gives a picture of the rebound in CEO
compensation from 2008, when most leaders didn’t take bonuses
amid losses and government bailouts. That comes as lawmakers and
regulators increase attention on the pay disparity between top
executives and workers, and the Occupy Wall Street protests
targeted income inequality.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is drafting a
rule, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, that would force public
companies to disclose the ratio of CEO compensation to median
pay, the level at which half the employees are above and half
below. The rule was pushed to address concerns about rising
executive pay and income inequality.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in New
York, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Fed Releases Principles on Financial Market Infrastructures  U.S. regulators published a final report on principles for
financial market infrastructures aimed at strengthening risk
management for payments systems and central counterparties.  The principles, released today by the  Federal Reserve ,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission, also set standards for central securities
depositories, securities settlement systems, and trade
repositories, according to a joint statement by the regulators.  According to a statement by William C. Dudley, president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the standards are designed
to make the financial systems more resilient to financial
crises.  Senate Blocks Buffett Rule 30% Minimum Tax Rate for Top Earners  The U.S. Senate blocked the proposed Buffett rule that
would set a minimum 30 percent federal tax rate for the highest
earners, stopping the legislation for now while an election-year
debate on tax policy and income inequality continues.  The 51-45 vote yesterday in Washington fell short of the 60
needed to advance the measure, and Republicans derided the
Buffett rule as a political stunt. President  Barack Obama  has
been campaigning for the legislation across the country,
maintaining that it’s unfair that some high-income taxpayers use
deductions and preferential tax treatment of investment income
to pay lower rates than many middle-income wage earners do.  The Republican roadblock of the measure may intensify
partisan wrangling as Democrats seek to take advantage of public
support for the idea. A Gallup poll last week showed about six
in 10 voters favor the idea.  Senator Charles Schumer of New York said his fellow
Democrats will return to the issue repeatedly and propose the
minimum tax to pay for such items as a research and development
tax credit or spending for college aid.  In a statement released after the vote, Obama criticized
Republicans for blocking what he called a “common sense” idea.  For more, click here, click here, and see Interviews
section, below.  Compliance Action  OptionsXpress Accused by SEC of Skirting Naked Short-Sale Rules  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused an
online brokerage firm and four of its executives of engaging in
naked short-selling in violation of securities laws from at
least October 2008 to March 2010.  OptionsXpress Holdings Inc. conducted a series of sham
“reset” transactions designed to give the illusion that the
firm had purchased securities to comply with obligations
associated with short sales, the SEC said in a statement
yesterday. The agency also accused an OptionsXpress customer of
taking part in the alleged scheme, which it said violated
Regulation SHO requirements.  The firm and the customer “used sham reset transactions to
avoid, sometimes for months, compliance with Reg. SHO’s stock
delivery requirements,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
said in the agency’s statement.  In September, Chicago-based OptionsXpress became a wholly
owned subsidiary of  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   Taxpayers Dealing With U.S. Stock-Cost Rule Seek Extensions  Taxpayers and accountants rushing to meet today’s tax-
filing deadline are struggling to adjust to a new law requiring
brokers to report to the  Internal Revenue Service  what their
clients paid for stocks.  The so-called cost basis reporting requirement, which in
this  tax-filing season  applies only to stocks bought and sold in
2011, comes with new forms and tricky calculations causing some
taxpayers to file for extensions so they can get the math right.
Congress required brokers to report the basis so that taxpayers
don’t underreport their gains or overreport their losses.  Cost basis reporting will become more complicated for
taxpayers and accountants for at least two years as additional
types of assets fall under the rules. The requirement will cover
mutual funds and most exchange-traded funds starting in 2012 and
fixed-income instruments and options beginning in 2013.  Brokers, accountants and taxpayers are still getting used
to the rules, which will eventually simplify and standardize
basis reporting, said Stevie Conlon, senior director and tax
counsel at Wolters Kluwer Financial Services. The firm provides
software to brokers that calculates cost basis.  Congress created the cost basis requirement in 2008 in the
same law that authorized the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The
requirement is part of the government’s effort to reduce the
estimated $385 billion annual net gap between taxes owed and
taxes paid.  Trickier cases involve so-called wash sales, when taxpayers
sell shares at a loss and buy within 30 days on either side of
the transaction. In those instances, the loss is generally
disallowed by the IRS and added to the cost basis of the
repurchased shares.  For more, click here.  Argentina Suspends Bunge From Grain Registry Over Taxes  Bunge Ltd. (BG) ’s Argentine unit was suspended from the
country’s grain exporters’ registry by the local tax agency,
saying it avoided 435 million pesos ($99 million) of payments.  Bunge evaded taxes between 2006 and 2007, the agency, known
as AFIP, said in an e-mailed statement. The  White Plains , New
York-based company had previously been suspended from the
registry in March 2011 as part of a separate tax probe.  Argentina is the world’s largest exporter of soy-oil, the
second-largest of corn and the third-largest of soybeans. Bunge
is among the country’s five biggest exporters of the products.  The suspension from the registry means Bunge will lose
certain tax advantages for sales within Argentina and will have
limited access to permits required to transport grains.  Following the previous suspension, an appeals-court ordered
that Bunge be returned to the registry because AFIP hadn’t given
the company enough time to defend itself, according to the
ruling.  Bunge spokesman Stewart Lindsay didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  German Bank Levy Revenue to Decline This Year, Handelsblatt Says  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble expects the bank
levy introduced in 2011 to generate less in 2012 than it did
last year,  Handelsblatt  reported, citing a letter to lawmakers.  Revenue from the levy probably will drop to 500 million
euros ($657 million) in 2012 from 590 million euros a year
earlier because of weaker economic growth as a result of the
region’s debt crisis and banks’ writedowns on their exposure to
Greece, Handelsblatt said.  The government forecast in 2010 that the levy would produce
1.3 billion euros in revenue annually, the newspaper said.  Courts/Tribunals  Ex-GE Bankers Defrauded Cities in Bid-Rigging Scam, U.S. Says  Three former  General Electric Co. (GE)  bankers defrauded cities
and the Internal Revenue Service in a bid-rigging scheme
involving municipal bonds, a prosecutor told jurors yesterday at
the start of a fraud trial in Manhattan federal court.  Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and Peter Grimm face
charges of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating auctions
for municipal bonds. The government claims that between August
1999 and November 2006 the men gave kickbacks to brokers hired
by local governments to solicit bids, to win auctions and
increase their profits.  The charges grew out of a five-year investigation by
federal antitrust prosecutors into the $3.7 trillion municipal
 bond market . In December, GE agreed to pay $70.4 million to
resolve its part of the investigation. The defendants deny any
wrongdoing.  Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have acknowledged illegal activities by
former employees and paid more than $670 million in restitution
and penalties.  The case is focused on guaranteed investment contracts, or
GICs, which cities buy with the money raised from selling bonds.  Prosecutors said they intend to introduce recorded
telephone calls made by the defendants as evidence of the
scheme, Waszmer said. Defense lawyers welcomed the introduction
of the tapes, saying they will show that legitimate business was
being transacted.  The case is U.S. v. Carollo, 10-cr-00654, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Clay Capital’s Turner Gets Year in Prison in Insider Case  James F. Turner II, chief investment officer of the hedge
fund Clay Capital Management LLC, was sentenced to one year in
prison for insider trading that prosecutors said made more than
$2.5 million.  Turner, 45, was sentenced yesterday in federal court in
Newark, New Jersey, where he admitted Dec. 19 that he illegally
traded in shares of  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , Moldflow Corp. and
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a
statement. U.S. District Judge Dennis Cavanaugh also imposed a
$25,000 fine.  Clay Capital ran the Clay Fund from 2007 to 2010, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a parallel civil
suit. Turner admitted he got tips from Scott Vollmar, his
brother-in-law and a director of business development at
Autodesk, and from Scott Robarge, a college friend and manager
at Salesforce.com.  Turner, of Traverse City, Michigan, pleaded guilty to one
count of  securities fraud . He faced as many as 20 years in
prison. Joseph Bush, his attorney, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Vollmar, of Florence, Oregon, and Robarge, of Louisville,
Colorado, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities
fraud. They are to be sentenced May 14. Turner, Vollmar and
Robarge were sued Aug. 31 by the SEC over the scheme.  While the investments of Turner and his partners remain in
the Clay Fund, its other assets were liquidated and distributed
in December 2010, the SEC said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Turner, 2:11-cr-00868, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Ex-Cantor Fitzgerald Traders Fighting FSA’s Market-Abuse Fines  Two former Cantor Fitzgerald Europe traders accused of
committing market abuse are challenging the U.K. finance
regulator’s decision to fine them and ban them from working in
the industry.  The trial focuses on stock trades on Dec. 31, 2007 and Jan.
31, 2008, by Cantor Fitzgerald Europe traders including Cheickh
Tidiane Diallo and Patrick Sejean, according to papers filed by
the Financial Services Authority for a trial that began today in
London. They were trading on the instructions of Stefan
Chaligne, an equity-fund investment manager.  Chaligne “instructed CFE to buy stock with the goal of
raising the price” of a company in which the fund already held
shares, the FSA said in the court papers. The trades were done
“on those particular dates,” because they were the days on
which performance fees for Chaligne were decided, based on the
fund’s value, according to the agency.  Diallo worked for Cantor Fitzgerald from 2006 until April
16, 2011, in a customer trading role, according to the FSA
register. Sejean worked for the firm from 2002 until March 16,
2011.  Interviews  Levitt Says Mandate on Chairmen and CEOs Is Wrong  Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, said a mandate to separate the
positions of chairman and chief executive officer at U.S.
companies “will have unintended consequences.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Benenson Says He Supports Obama’s Buffett Rule  Lawrence Benenson, partner at  Benenson Capital Co. , talked
about his support for the Obama administration’s efforts to
increase taxes on top U.S. earners.  Benenson, who met with President Barack Obama last week,
spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret
Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Heritage Foundation’s Fraser Discusses Tax Increases  Alison Fraser, director for the  Roe Institute  for economic
policy at the Heritage Foundation, discussed proposed tax
increases. Fraser explained what would happen to the tax rules
if Congress “does nothing on any tax policy” before Jan. 1,
2013.  Fraser talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Courtney
Donohoe on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 