-- Prostitution Inquiry in U.S. Said to Turn to Confidential Data
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/obama-backs-secret-service-chief-in-prostitution-inquiry-2-.html
An investigation is underway to
determine whether any classified information was compromised
when U.S. Secret Service agents consorted with prostitutes in
Colombia before a summit attended by President  Barack Obama ,
according to two U.S. officials.  Authorities are checking identities of the women and
whether they may have been recruited by a foreign intelligence
service or a group with hostile intentions, said the officials,
speaking on condition of anonymity because the inquiry is
confidential.  Obama retains confidence in Mark Sullivan, the director of
the Secret Service, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
yesterday.  Sullivan “acted swiftly” when accusations were made that
as many as 11 agents were involved with prostitutes in the
resort city of Cartagena before Obama’s arrival for the Summit
of the Americas, Carney told reporters in Washington. “The
Secret Service performs admirably” in protecting the president,
Carney said.  Obama’s agenda at the summit on the economy, trade and
engagement in  Latin America , which concluded April 15, was
overshadowed by the reports of misconduct among U.S. personnel.  The allegations, which prompted the recall of 11 Secret
Service agents to the U.S. before the president arrived, also
involved 10 members of the military who were in Cartagena as
part of the summit preparations. The Pentagon is conducting its
own inquiry.  Lawmaker Briefed  Sullivan has asked the inspector general of the Department
of Homeland Security, the Secret Service’s parent agency, to
begin a probe as well, said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, in a statement. Marty Metelko, a spokeswoman for the
inspector general’s office, declined to comment.  Investigators haven’t discovered that any of the women had
ties to any hostile groups or governments, said House  Homeland
Security  Committee Chairman  Peter King  in an interview. King
said he was briefed by the Secret Service on the probe.  The 11 Secret Service employees are being investigated for
participating in the incident with 11 women, said King, a New
York Republican. Some of the Secret Service employees have told
investigators the women were prostitutes while others have said
they were companions and met at a bar, he said.  Most of the employees are special agents and at least two
were uniformed officers, King said. All were part of an advance
team that specialized in spotting snipers and dealing with
explosives, he said.  Personnel Involved  The military personnel were two Marine Corps dog handlers,
five Army special forces members, two Navy explosives detection
specialists and a member of the  Air Force , according to a U.S.
official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  At one point, the women felt outnumbered in the hotel rooms
and requested that more women join them, Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican, said in an interview. McCaul,
chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on
Oversight, Investigations and Management, also said he was
briefed on the investigation.  One Secret Service employee got into an argument with a
woman over the price for her services, and the Colombian police
were called, King said. After the employee paid the woman, the
police, who routinely report any incident involving a foreign
national, contacted the U.S. embassy, he said.  Prostitution is legal in designated areas of  Colombia ,
according to the U.S. State Department.  At a news conference before leaving Cartagena, Obama said
he would await the outcome of a “thorough” investigation.  Previous Incidents  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the top Republican on the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, told
reporters she will ask Sullivan whether such incidents had
occurred previously and wants the committee to hold a hearing on
the episode.  “I find this to be so appalling,” Collins said. “I can’t
help but think: What if the women involved had been spies? What
if they’d been members of the drug cartel? What if they’d
planted equipment or eavesdropping devices?”  The Senate Judiciary Committee, which oversees the Secret
Service’s budget, has also requested details about the incident,
according to a panel staff member who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the committee hasn’t commented on the
incident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  