-- Obama to Urge Congress for More Regulation of Oil Markets
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-17T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/obama-will-call-on-congress-to-increase-oil-market-regulation.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Congress to bolster federal supervision of oil markets,
including bigger penalties for market manipulation and greater
power for regulators to increase the amount of money traders
must put up to back their energy bets.  Obama asked Congress to fund a six-fold increase for
surveillance and enforcement staff at the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission to put “more cops on the beat” overseeing
oil markets.  He also is seeking to give the CFTC new authority to raise
margin requirements for traders’ oil positions and stiffen civil
and criminal penalties for businesses that are guilty of market
manipulation to $10 million from $1 million. The plan would cost
$52 million.  “We can’t afford a situation where some speculators can
reap millions, while millions of American families get the short
end of the stick,” Obama said in remarks in the White House
Rose Garden today.  The price of g asoline  has emerged as an issue in the 2012
presidential campaign and raised concern that it may slow
economic growth by pinching  consumer spending . Obama has been
seeking to set out his differences with Republicans.  Mitt Romney , the likely Republican nominee, has accused the Obama
administration of thwarting domestic oil production through
regulations.  ‘Political Gimmick’  Republicans control the  House of Representatives  and have
enough votes in the Senate to block legislation, making
prospects for passage of Obama’s proposal dim.  House Speaker  John Boehner , who endorsed Romney today, said
the government already has all the tools it needs in the CFTC
and the Securities and Exchange Commission if Obama believes the
market is being manipulated.  “Instead of just another political gimmick, why doesn’t he
put his administration to work to get to the bottom of it?” the
Ohio Republican said at a news conference in Washington.  Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago , said the move
would have little impact on energy prices and may force some out
of the U.S. market.  “To blame speculators for reflecting the fundamentals of
the market is far stretched,” Flynn said. “If they raise the
margins too high, it’s going to make the market less
transparent, it’s going to force money overseas.”  Staying ‘Aggressive’  Brian Deese, deputy director of the White House National
Economic Council, said at briefing after Obama spoke that the
proposals are aimed at maintaining public and market confidence
at “a time of particular volatility.”  While the CFTC and Federal Trade Commission already are
investigating potential market manipulation, Deese said the
administration is “trying to stay as aggressive as we can.”  The average retail price for a gallon of regular gasoline
was $3.904 as of yesterday, according to the American Automobile
Association’s daily survey. That’s up from $3.833 a year ago.
Prices may have peaked. Futures for May delivery fell for the
third day to $3.2262 a gallon at 12:25 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Obama has been discussing international oil markets with
counterparts in the Group of Eight, whose leaders he will host
at a Camp David summit on May 18-19.  Last week, the president discussed the global oil market in
a videoconference with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as the
U.S. and its allies continue to monitor the economic impact of
energy costs.  International Talks  Officials in  France  and the U.K. said last month that the
allies have talked about whether to tap strategic petroleum
stockpiles to keep prices in check. The U.S. has said that no
decision has been made.  The discussions coincide with efforts led by the U.S. to
force Iran to end development work that may lead to building a
nuclear weapon. Further U.S. sanctions on Iran are set to take
effect by the end of June, about the same time a European Union
embargo of Iranian oil kicks in. Iran is the second-largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Obama repeated today that events affecting the global
market are the main reason for the rise in energy prices,
including growth in emerging economies such as  China  and  India 
and tension in the  Middle East .  “Rising  gas prices  means a rough ride for a lot of
families” Obama said in remarks in the White House  Rose Garden .
“When gas prices go up it’s like an additional tax that comes
right out of your pocket.”  Still, he added, “there are no quick fixes.”  Oil Prices  Crude oil for May delivery advanced $1.27 to $104.20 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since April 2. Crude is up 5.4 percent this year.  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy, said the CFTC
“certainly needs more funding” given what they been asked to
do to oversee markets. Still, he said, it likely would have
little impact on energy costs.  “In commodities, if you want to see lower prices, you have
to make more of it or use less of it,” Kilduff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  