-- Obama Delivers on Tax Cut Promises
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-17T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/obama-delivers-on-tax-cut-promises-as-increases-for-rich-blocked.html
President Barack Obama campaigned
in 2008 on tax cuts for most Americans and tax increases for the
fortunate few. He has delivered on the breaks and, for the most
part, been unable to follow through on attempts to raise taxes.  Obama turned his call for middle-income tax breaks into law
within a month of taking office, incorporating a $400-a-person
tax credit for workers into the 2009 stimulus law. In late 2010,
with the economy still weak and Republicans gaining political
clout, Obama agreed to an $858 billion  tax cut  that extended all
of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts for two years.  “The tax policy has been substantially in the conservative
direction whereas the rhetoric has gone in the exact opposite
direction,” said Don Susswein, a tax aide to former Republican
Senator Bob Dole who said he supported Obama in 2008.  Today, as Americans reach the fourth annual tax-filing
deadline since Obama became president, they are encountering a
tax system that relies on the architecture he inherited from
Bush. On top of that regime, Obama has added targeted tax breaks
for small businesses, college students and low-income families,
along with some tax increases for top earners to finance the
expansion of health insurance coverage.  ‘Not Hugely Different’  “The tax system is not hugely different from what it was
in 2008,” said  Leonard Burman , a professor at  Syracuse
University  in  New York  who worked in the Treasury Department
under President  Bill Clinton . “The tax system is still too
complicated, still unfair and still doesn’t raise enough money
to pay for the government.”  The recession and Obama’s tax cuts pushed federal  revenue 
as a share of the economy to a 60-year low. Income tax rates
haven’t changed. The estate tax affects fewer people and at a
lower rate than when Obama took office. Workers’ payroll taxes
were reduced during 2011 and 2012.  Many of the major tax provisions of the 2010 health law
haven’t taken effect. Tax credits to help people purchase health
insurance begin in 2014 and tax increases on the wages and
investment income of the highest earners start in 2013.  Campaign Promises  “The president has been very successful in following
through on the promises that he made in the campaign,” said
 Jason Furman , who advised Obama during the campaign and is now
deputy director of the National Economic Council. “The core
promise was that he wasn’t going to raise taxes on middle-class
families.”  During the campaign, Obama made a distinction between the
majority of taxpayers and top earners -- who he defined as
individuals making more than $200,000 a year and married couples
making more than $250,000.  “I can make a firm pledge: Under my plan, no family making
less than $250,000 a year will see any form of tax increase --
not your income tax, not your payroll tax, not your  capital
gains  taxes, not any of your taxes,” he said in a Sept. 12,
2008, speech in Dover,  New Hampshire .  Still, Obama has signed bills -- particularly the health-
care law -- that raised taxes paid by some people who earn less
than $250,000 a year.  ‘Didn’t Keep His Word’  The 2010 health law included a new 10 percent excise tax on
indoor tanning, a higher threshold for taxpayers to itemize the
medical-expense deduction and limits on using tax-advantaged
accounts for over-the-counter drugs. The law eventually will
require taxes for high-cost health insurance plans and impose a
penalty on people who don’t purchase insurance.  “He didn’t keep his word on that,” said  Grover Norquist ,
the anti-tax activist, who maintains a list of Obama-backed tax
increases for middle-income households on the website of his
group, Americans for  Tax Reform . “I’m sure he told the truth
somewhere and we missed it.”  Austan Goolsbee , who advised Obama during the campaign and
in the White House, cautioned against singling out a portion of
the health care law.  “Middle class taxes are way down,” said Goolsbee, who has
returned to his previous job as a business school professor at
the  University of Chicago . “The president cut taxes for
virtually everyone in the country, and I kinda think that one
speaks for itself.”  Average Income Tax  In 2010, the average income  tax rate  for a median-income
family was  4.55 percent , according to the  Tax Policy  Center, a
nonpartisan research group in  Washington . From 1955 through
2007, that rate hadn’t been lower than 5.34 percent.  Obama hasn’t been able to end the Bush-era tax cuts for the
highest earners or raise taxes for private equity managers. Each
of his budget proposals called for allowing the tax cuts for
high earners to expire, pushing the top income tax rate to 39.6
percent from 35 percent. He also has proposed higher tax rates
for the capital gains and dividends of top earners, along with
caps on deductions and other tax breaks for that group.  During 2009 and 2010, Democrats controlled the  House of
Representatives  and at times had a reliable 60-vote bloc in the
Senate that allowed them to advance legislation. They didn’t
vote on extending the Bush tax cuts until after the 2010
election, and by then, they were unable to separate the breaks
for high earners from those for other taxpayers.  “It was a major mistake not to do that very early in
2009,” said Susswein, a principal at McGladrey & Pullen LLP in
Washington. “He would have established that wedge or that
contrast.”  Estate Tax  At the end of 2010, Congress extended all of the Bush-era
tax cuts, including those for high earners. Obama agreed to set
the estate tax with a $5 million per-person exemption and a 35
percent top rate, more generous to the wealthy than the 2009 tax
parameters. The estate tax had been repealed altogether in 2010.  The 2010 law allowed the $400 tax credit for workers to end
and replaced it with a 2 percentage-point cut in the  payroll
tax . Congress has since extended the payroll tax cut through
2012.  With the payroll tax cut, a family earning $50,000 in wages
is paying $1,000 less a year in federal taxes in 2012 than it
was in 2008. Most of Obama’s other tax cuts depend on
households’ particular situations and whether they use targeted
breaks for such things as tuition.  ‘Holding Pattern’  Goolsbee said tax policy during the Obama years reflects a
“holding pattern” as the two parties figure out if they can
reach a “grand bargain” on taxes and spending.  The 2010 law, he said, “seemed like a recognition by both
sides that we’re still basically in the depths of the downturn
so the fight over high-income tax rates would have to be
revisited in 2012.”  That discussion is taking place amid a presidential
campaign. Obama has been pushing for a “Buffett rule” setting
a minimum tax rate of 30 percent for households making more than
$2 million a year. Republicans blocked an attempt to advance the
measure in the Senate yesterday.  His expected Republican presidential opponent,  Mitt Romney ,
wants to cut marginal tax rates by 20 percent in each bracket
and pay for the change by curtailing tax breaks. He wants to
reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent and
end taxation of investment income for households making less
than $200,000.  Romney Response  “If Americans think today’s tax day is painful, just wait
until a second Obama term,” Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for
Romney, said in a statement. “After three straight years of
chronic unemployment and slow economic growth, Americans can’t
afford four more years of  Barack Obama ’s job-destroying
policies.”  Some items that Obama talked about during the 2008 campaign
have disappeared from the administration’s agenda. For instance,
he had proposed eliminating income taxes for elderly people
making less than $50,000 a year and allowing people who don’t
itemize their deductions to take a 10 percent credit for
mortgage interest.  Furman said those proposals were dropped before Obama took
office when it became clear the  budget deficit  would be worse
than anticipated.  The most far-reaching campaign promise, Burman said, was
the pledge to prevent tax increases for all but the highest
earners.  “That’s ruled out any kind of meaningful tax reform, and
it’s made it virtually impossible to use the tax system as a way
to get the budget under control,” he said. “I don’t think he
can make policy by saying that 95 percent of the population is
insulated from any future tax increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  