-- Oil Rises to Three-Day High on Spain Debt, Retail Sales
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-17T20:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/oil-rises-to-three-day-high-on-spain-debt-retail-sales.html
Oil climbed to a two-week high in
 New York  as Spain raised more than its maximum target at a debt
auction and the  International Monetary Fund  bolstered its global
growth forecast.  Futures gained 1.2 percent after Spain sold 3.18 billion
euros of bills today, easing concern the European credit crisis
will spread. The IMF raised its outlook for 2012 and 2013. The
price difference between oil in New York and  London  narrowed
after the reversal of the Seaway pipeline was moved up and talks
on  Iran’s nuclear program  yielded an agreement to reconvene.  “We’re rebounding in large part because of the better-
than-expected bond auction in Europe,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at futures brokerage PFGBest in  Chicago .
“The spread is coming in a great deal because there’s less
concern about a cutoff of Iranian supply and the Seaway reversal
was moved up a couple days.”  Crude oil for May delivery advanced $1.27 to $104.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since April 2. Crude is up 5.4 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  said U.S. oil supplies rose 3.41 million barrels to
369.3 million last week. Oil gained $1.26, or 1.2 percent, to
$104.19 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:35 p.m.  Brent oil for June settlement rose 10 cents to end the
session at $118.78 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  The European benchmark contract’s premium to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate for the same month narrowed to
$14.14 based on settlement prices, the lowest level since Feb.
1.  Brent-WTI Spread  “The Brent-WTI spread is really being worked right now,”
said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “We’re seeing a spread play
more than anything else.”  Spain sold 12-month and 18-month bills a day after yields
on its 10-year bonds reached the highest level this year.  Oil
prices  have shifted for more than two years on the latest
developments in the European debt crisis and the projected
impact it would have on energy demand. The crisis that began in
Greece has spread to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and  Spain .  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year and 4.1
percent in 2013, the Washington-based IMF said today in its
World Economic Outlook, raising forecasts made in January from
3.3 percent for 2012 and 4.0 percent for next year. The U.S.
will grow 2.1 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2013, up from
1.8 percent and 2.2 percent in the lender’s January projections.  Advanced economies, which include the U.S., the euro area,
Japan, the U.K. and Canada, will grow 1.4 percent this year and
2 percent in 2013, the IMF said. That’s up from 1.2 percent and
1.9 percent in the January forecasts.  Macroeconomic Growth  “The single most important driver of crude-oil demand is
macroeconomic growth,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy
consultant. “The IMF report is indicative of more growth in
much of the world, which is very bullish for commodities.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
increased 0.5 percent, led by cocoa, nickel and oil. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.5 percent.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  said they
plan to switch the Seaway pipeline flow on about May 17 to carry
crude from Cushing, Oklahoma, to the U.S. Gulf Coast, according
to a filing with the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .
That’s earlier than a previous June 1 start date.  The move is forecast to cut a glut at Cushing, where the
WTI contract traded on the Nymex is delivered.  “The reversal of the Seaway pipeline will make WTI barrels
more valuable,” Armstrong said.  Iran Talks  The first international talks in 15 months on Iran’s
nuclear program, held April 14 in Istanbul, were called
“constructive” by both  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s
foreign policy chief, and  Iran ’s lead negotiator, Saeed Jalili.  The United Nations’ five permanent Security Council members
plus  Germany  will meet Iranian delegates in  Baghdad  on May 23,
Ashton said April 15.  President Barack Obama urged Congress today to increase
federal supervision of oil markets, including bigger penalties
for market manipulation and greater power for regulators to
boost the amount of money traders must put up to back their
energy bets.  Obama Plan  Obama asked Congress to fund a sixfold increase for
surveillance and enforcement staff at the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission to put “more cops on the beat” overseeing
oil markets.  He wants the CFTC to be able to raise margin requirements
for traders’ oil positions and also asked lawmakers to raise
civil and criminal penalties for businesses that are guilty of
market manipulation to $10 million from $1 million. The plan
would cost $52 million.  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude oil stockpiles climbed  1.8 million barrels  to a
10-month high of 367 million last week, according to the median
of 10 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 615,035
contracts as of 4:36 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 687,731
contracts yesterday, 6.8 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.59 million, an 11-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  