-- Oil Trades Near 2-Week High on IMF Forecast, Spanish Sale
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-04-18T05:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-on-spanish-debt-imf-forecast.html
Oil traded near the highest close
in two weeks after the  International Monetary Fund  boosted its
growth outlook and a Spanish debt sale raised more than planned,
easing concern an economic slowdown will curb crude demand.  Futures were little changed in New York after gaining for a
second day yesterday. The IMF increased its 2012 global growth
forecast to 3.5 percent from 3.3 percent and said oil will
advance 10 percent this year on rising demand and possible
supply disruptions.  Spain  sold 3.2 billion euros ($4.2 billion)
of bills, compared with a maximum target of 3 billion. U.S.
 crude stockpiles  climbed a fourth week, data from the industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  showed.  “The IMF forecast and Spain auction and other indicators
from Europe have all been positive factors,” said  Ken Hasegawa ,
a commodity derivatives sales manager at Newedge in  Tokyo , who
forecasts West Texas Intermediate crude will trade near $105.
“The upside is limited from here. It could be time for profit
taking after the sharp gains of the last two days.”  Crude for May delivery was at $104.42 a barrel, up 22
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:52 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday gained 1.2
percent to $104.20, the highest close since April 2. Prices are
5.7 percent higher this year.  Brent futures for June settlement were at $118.76 a barrel,
down 2 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s front month  premium  to WTI was
at $13.93, from $14.14 yesterday, the lowest level since Feb. 1.  Technical Resistance  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along its middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $104.92 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted
yesterday’s advance near that indicator. Sell orders tend to be
clustered close to chart-resistance levels.  The IMF’s oil-price forecast compares with a January
projection for a 4.9 percent decline and assumes a level of
$114.71 a barrel, based on the average of Brent, Dubai and WTI
crude, the Washington-based agency said in a report. Non-fuel
commodity prices will drop 10 percent this year, it said.  Crude reached the highest level since May last month amid
speculation that Western sanctions aimed at halting  Iran’s
nuclear program  will disrupt Middle East shipments. The U.S. and
its allies say  Iran  is seeking the capability to make an atomic
bomb. Iran says it’s conducting research for civilian energy and
medical purposes.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles increased 3.4 million barrels last
week, the API said. An Energy Department report today may show
they expanded  1.8 million barrels , according to the median of 10
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories dropped 2.6 million barrels, the API
said. They are forecast to slip  1.1 million barrels , according
to the Bloomberg survey. Distillate supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, fell 2.4 million barrels
compared with a projected 125,000 barrel decline.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  U.S. gasoline demand declined 1.3 percent last week from
the prior seven days and slipped below year-earlier levels for
the 33rd consecutive week,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s SpendingPulse
report showed yesterday. Drivers bought 8.69 million barrels a
day of the fuel in the seven days ended April 13, down from 8.8
million the prior week, it showed.  Market Regulation  Gasoline slid to a six-week low yesterday. Futures for May
delivery fell 3.3 cents, or 1 percent, to $3.234 a gallon on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. The motor fuel has lost 5.3
percent since reaching a 2012 high of $3.4166 on March 26.  President Barack Obama yesterday urged Congress to bolster
federal supervision of oil markets, including bigger penalties
for market manipulation and greater power for regulators to
increase the amount of money traders must put up to back their
energy bets.  Crude prices also rose yesterday after German investor
confidence unexpectedly advanced to a two-year high in April,
suggesting  Europe ’s largest economy can weather the debt crisis
in the euro region’s periphery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  