-- Owner of Islands Claimed by China to Talk Price With Tokyo
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-04-18T05:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/tokyo-s-ishihara-seeks-to-buy-senkaku-islands-claimed-by-china.html
Three uninhabited Islands at the
center of a territorial rift between Japan and  China  are on the
market. The seller: a 69-year-old property investor from the
suburbs of Tokyo who may get up to $500 million for the property.  Kunioki Kurihara began talks with Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara in December to sell his holdings in the Senkaku Islands
to the Japanese capital, said Toshio Matsumura, a manager at
 Hishiya Kaikan Co. , a real estate firm operated by Kurihara.  Ishihara, 79, is interested in using public funds to buy
the islands, said Motoyuki Nakazawa, a spokesman for Tokyo’s
government, citing comments the governor made in a speech in
Washington April 16. The real estate is part of a five-island
chain about 1,900 kilometers (1,200 miles) southwest of Tokyo,
in the  East China Sea  between  Taiwan  and Okinawa Prefecture,
which administers the territory.  Such a deal may fuel tension between  Asia ’s two biggest
economies, which both claim the islands, known as Diaoyu in
Chinese. The feud was underlined by a 2010 collision between a
Chinese fishing trawler and two Japanese Coast Guard vessels in
nearby waters. Control over the area would give the holder
rights to undersea natural gas and oil fields, and the countries
have yet to implement a 2008 agreement to jointly develop them.  Ishihara’s remarks prompted China to reiterate its
sovereignty of the islands. Any unilateral acts from Japan won’t
change that they belong to China, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in a statement on the ministry’s website yesterday.  Provocation to China  Discussions in  Japan  about buying them are a provocation,
the state-run Global Times said in an editorial today. “A
military option is not an easy choice today, but Asian countries
still have flexible means to solve this problem,” it said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in parliament
today that his administration wants to confirm the intent of the
landowner. Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said yesterday
that the government could pursue nationalizing the Senkakus “if
necessary.”  It’s difficult to estimate the value of the three isles,
which could range from zero yen to 40 billion yen ($492 million),
according to Hishiya Kaikan, based in Saitama, a prefecture that
borders Tokyo. The company and the  Tokyo  Government haven’t
started talking about price, Matsumura added. He declined to
comment on whether the central government approached Kurihara.  Kurihara wants to offload the islands, named Uotsurijima,
Kitakojima and Minamikojima, because he doubts whether an
individual can protect their environment or manage any disputes
between the countries over the territory, Matsumura said.  Plants, Animals  “Ishihara and we have a mutual understanding that it’s
time to hand over the lands to the government,” he said. “We
wonder if it’s appropriate for an individual to own them as the
area is sometimes dangerous and contains a variety of peculiar
animals, insects and plants.”  The chain has unique species of moles, mantises, ants,
crabs and azaleas among others, according to research by
Japanese universities.  “The Senkaku Islands are very small and no one lives there,
but the surrounding waters are critical because of their natural
resources like oil and fisheries, and because of national
security,” said  Yoshihiko Yamada , a professor at Tokai
University’s School of Marine Science and Technology.  Kurihara bought the isles from businessman Zenji Koga about
40 years ago, according to Matsumura. Koga inherited them from
ancestors who explored the area during the Meiji Era of 1868-
1912, he said.  Past Antagonism  Ishihara is seeking to reach a formal agreement with the
landowner by the end of December after receiving approval from
the metropolitan assembly, the governor said at a symposium at
the  Heritage Foundation  in  Washington , according to Nakazawa,
who attended the conference.  Ishihara has antagonized China in the past. In a 1990
Playboy magazine interview, he denied Japan slaughtered Chinese
civilians in 1937 in Nanjing. He has also called for “tearing
up” Japan’s pacifist constitution in response to China’s
growing economic and military influence.  In his speech, Ishihara vowed that Tokyo would protect the
islands and he noted the wealth of fisheries in the surrounding
seas, Nakazawa said. The governor will discuss details after
coming back to Tokyo on April 19, he said.  Ishihara didn’t say his city would buy the other two
Senkaku islands, one of which is owned by the Japanese
government. The other is held by Kurihara’s sister, Kazuko, who
doesn’t plan to sell, according to Hishiya Kaikan.  Apart from its five main land masses, Japan has 6,847
islands that are home to about 700,000 people, according to
Tokai University’s Yamada.  The Senkakus aren’t the only islands in the country that
are for sale. Aqua-Styles, Japan’s only real estate company that
focuses on unpopulated islands, is advertizing Komariyamajima in
Wakayama Prefecture for 150 million yen. The 3,384 square-meter
islet has a white sand beach and is surrounded by clear waters,
according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  