-- Hollande Seeks to Overcome Doubts in Fight Against Sarkozy
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-18T12:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/hollande-seeks-to-overcome-doubts-in-campaign-to-tackle-sarkozy.html
Francois Hollande  began his march
toward the pinnacle of French power in Lorient, a Breton port,
three years ago. On June 27, 2009, he told 400 Socialist Party
activists they needed to unite to oust  Nicolas Sarkozy .  It was  the first  of his almost 500 events in  France ’s
longest-ever campaign to make voters forget he was nicknamed for
a pudding brand and get them to see him as a credible challenger
to the most unpopular post-World War II president.  Along the way, Hollande, 57, has had to fight doubts over
his own leadership ability, rifts among Socialist factions, the
legacy of humiliating defeats on his watch as party chief in
2007 and 2002, and the shadow cast by  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,
the favorite to run this year until his 2011 arrest in  New York .  “Hollande has been misjudged by party colleagues,” Jean- Pierre Jouyet, chief of France’s financial-markets regulator and
a friend since their military training in 1977, said in an April
16 interview. “I spent the two summers with him after he made
his decision to be a candidate and while others took the
nomination for granted, he was getting ready.”  Polls show Hollande’s determination may pay off as Sarkozy
struggles to overcome the highest joblessness in 12 years and a
disapproval rating that reached 64 percent in an Ifop poll
published April 15. The Socialist has led every survey since May
2011 and is extending his advantage in the days before the April
22 first round. Hollande’s lead for the May 6 runoff grew to 58
percent to 42 percent in a CSA poll published today. That
compares to a 14 point lead last week.  A native of Rouen, the Norman city where Joan of Arc was
burned at the stake by the English in the 15th century, Hollande
has spent his career mainly behind the scenes.  ‘Normal’  He began in 1981 as an aide to then-President  Francois Mitterrand  and has never held a minister’s job. A blank slate as
a national candidate, Hollande set out to create a persona he
called “normal” to contrast with Sarkozy’s “President Bling
Bling,” a leader who sought the spotlight.  “While it was hard some months ago to imagine that his
‘moderate man’ image, some call it soft, would be convincing,
the fact that he embodies the reverse of Sarkozy created a real
rivalry,” said Jean Chiche, a senior researcher at Paris’s
Political Sciences Institute. “Maybe that’s what voters will
ask for in the ballot, after five years of constant buzzing.”  A victory would make Hollande France’s first Socialist
leader since Mitterrand in 1995. He would also be the only
Socialist among the European chiefs leading the fight against
the region’s financial crisis. His prescriptions including a
more activist central bank and revised treaties to promote
growth -- and not just enforce austerity -- put him at odds with
 Germany ’s  Angela Merkel . She has campaigned for Sarkozy.  ‘Tough’ Period  “As for markets, the post-election period will be tough
for any candidate,” Jouyet said. Still, Hollande “is fully
capable of facing market demands.”  France, which lost its AAA credit rating at  Standard &
Poor’s  in January, is fighting to avoid crisis fallout. The  risk
premium  on 10-year French debt over Germany’s reached the
highest since 1990 in November and this year has averaged 110
basis points. That’s about triple the level in 2009, before the
market maelstrom began.  Hollande, a lawmaker representing a district in rural
France,  struggled for nearly 15 years  to be considered the
natural Socialist leader, forcing him to seek support from the
base rather than from the capital’s power networks.  He quit as party first secretary in 2008 after 11 years,
triggering an acrimonious succession fight between  Martine Aubry 
and Segolene Royal, the mother of his four children and the
loser to Sarkozy five years ago. Aubry won amid accusations by
Royal of cheating. Meantime, Hollande went off the radar to plot
a comeback in discreet encounters with long-time allies.  Hollande’s Musing  Over the winter holidays that year, Hollande discussed his
presidential hopes with his partner, Valerie Trierweiler, she
recounted. “Do you think you’re the best?” she asked. “Yes,”
Hollande responded. “Then go,” said the 47-year-old journalist
for Paris Match magazine and mother of three adolescent boys.  Then he emerged in Lorient. He eventually declared his
candidacy  in March 2011 in Tulle , the town in central France
where he heads the local council of Correze and which he
represents in the national parliament.  Hollande used his extended campaign to lose 40 pounds and
toughen an image that had earned him the nickname “Flanby,” a
 Nestle SA (NESN)  caramel pudding.  “I had to mature from the light-hearted and funny first
secretary of the party that I had been for 11 years,” Hollande
told a group of reporters in the southern town of Montpellier
March 29. “I had to take it up a notch, show a more
responsible, a more presidential face.”  New York Arrest  In May, Hollande trailed Strauss-Kahn, then International
Monetary Fund chief, in opinion polls. The economist and former
finance minister abandoned a possible bid after he was arrested
in  New York City  on sexual-assault charges. Those charges were
dropped by U.S. prosecutors in August.  “Hollande has plowed his own furrow, tilling the soil
nearly unnoticed for all these years,” Bernard Cottin, his
campaign finance chief and a friend since Institute of Political
Sciences of Paris in Paris in 1974, said in an April 12
interview. “He is dogged.”  Former Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin never chose
him to be part of his government and he was left in charge to
heal the devastated party after Jospin was bounced in the first
round of the 2002 presidential race by the far-right National
Front. It was Royal who held three ministers’ jobs and won the
2007 nomination to run for president. She made their 2006
separation public after losing the election.  Holdings  Hollande, who reported income of 78,516 euros in 2010, now
rents a modern apartment that he shares with Trierweiler for
3,000 euros ($3,932) a month, parking included, in the 15th
arrondissement of Paris. He says he holds no stocks and owns
nothing like the 50,000-euro Patek Philippe SA watch that was
given to Sarkozy by his third wife, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy. He
vacations in a 130 square meter (1400 square foot) house with
swimming pool near the Riviera bought in 1986 with Royal and
that he now owns outright.  Hollande’s path to power followed a traditional French
route. He graduated from the Institute for Political Sciences in
Paris and the  National School of Administration , schools that
trained all post-war presidents, except Sarkozy and  Charles de
Gaulle .  He’d been educated at  HEC-Paris , an elite business school
where he befriended some who were to become corporate leaders,
such as  Axa SA (CS)  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries. His
social circle includes  Jean-Bernard Levy , CEO of Vivendi SA, and
Jean-Louis Beffa, former CEO of Cie. de Saint-Gobain.  Training Ground  “Hollande is a man of networking and in these 30 years he
has built strong support from rural France to labor unions and
CEOs,” said Paul Boury who heads the  lobbying office  Boury et
Associes. “While Sarkozy promotes himself as business-friendly,
Hollande keeps it quiet, but he isn’t any less connected,” he
said in a Jan. 27 interview in Paris. “He is the other France:
Socialist and pro-business and markets.”  His politics stem largely from his mother, a social worker
and an admirer of Mitterrand. His father, whom he described as
authoritarian, was a doctor whose far-right views “helped me
shape my own convictions,” he said in the speech that launched
his bid on  Jan. 22 in Le Bourget , near Paris.  “Hollande is a social democrat in the sense that he
accepts that the market is the ‘allocator by default’ of
resources,” London-based Gilles Moec, co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview. “Also, he
accepts that other civil actors, such as unions, not just the
state, play an important role in shaping policies.”  Left Front  That balance prompted former Socialist Jean-Luc Melenchon
to form a bloc he has called the Left Front, which may pressure
Hollande to adopt policies to make markets shudder.  While Hollande has called financial markets his “real
enemy” and advocated cracking down on derivatives, he has
committed to eliminating the  budget deficit  by 2017, albeit a
year later than under Sarkozy’s plan. He has said he would
“defend the social model,” stop Sarkozy’s reduction in the
civil service and raise taxes on the wealthy, including a 75
percent levy on earnings of more than 1 million euros.  Like Sarkozy, Hollande speaks minimal English. There’s more
than language to learn on the fly. His first foreign trip after
swearing-in the week of May 14 would be to see Merkel in Berlin.
On May 18, the presidential Airbus heads to Camp David, the
White House retreat in  Maryland , for a Group of Eight summit to
be followed by a meeting of NATO leaders in  Chicago .  ‘Unknown Quantity’  “If Obama asked me, ‘who is he?’ I would say that as a
president, he is a totally unknown quantity,” said Ezra Suleiman, a political-science professor at  Princeton University 
and member of the Suez Environnement supervisory board. “The
hatred against Sarkozy has grown to such proportion in France
that many voters have no choice but to trust him and hope he’ll
have the shoulders for what unbelievably painstaking situation
he could face starting May.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  