-- Olympic Rebels Plot Protests With 100 Days to London Games
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-04-18T13:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/olympic-protesters-plot-disruption-with-100-days-to-london-games.html
A hundred days before the London
Olympics, organizers of sport’s biggest event are stepping up
preparations and publicity. So are groups that want to use the
games as a stage for protest.  The 16 days of competition will draw athletes from more
than 200 nations as well as protesters ranging from local
residents to international activists campaigning against
sponsors such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  BP Plc. (BP/)   “This is the moment to seize,” Colin Toogood, who has been
raising funds for a campaign against Dow, said in an interview.
“It’s going to start ramping up.”  London beat Paris,  New York  and Moscow to host the games,
which start July 27. The U.K. government tripled its original
budget to 9.3 billion pounds ($14.8 billion) after failing to
get companies to finance and develop the main site in east
London. The security budget doubled to 553 million pounds last
year as a review found that an original estimate of 10,000
guards was short by nearly 14,000 people.  “People will use the Olympics as an excuse to very
effectively get their point across,” Nigel Currie, director of
London-based sports marketing agency brandRapport, said in an
interview. “Any sort of baggage at all where they could be
criticized, something like this will attract that sort of
unwanted attention. The Olympics is just so big now.”  Planning Meetings  Toogood was among more than 40 campaigners at a meeting
held last weekend near London’s financial district by a group
calling itself the  Counter Olympics Network . They were joined by
U.S. opponents of BP, the oil producer that paid to be the
official “sustainability” partner.  The Gulf Coast Fund, which supports victims of natural
disasters and environmental accidents in the southern U.S.,
criticized the British oil company’s involvement after a 2010
accident in the  Gulf of Mexico  killed 11 workers and pumped oil
into the water for 87 days. A spokeswoman said the company
doesn’t comment on the actions of protest groups.  “BP as the sustainability sponsor is utterly ridiculous,”
Derrick C. Evans, an adviser to the Gulf Coast Fund, said in an
interview in London after traveling from  Mississippi . “It’s a
horrible mistake that you would have think had been written up
by a satirist to lampoon either BP or London and the U.K.
because it makes no sense.”  Activists will wear Olympic-themed gas masks at  Rio Tinto
Plc (RIO) ’s annual general meeting tomorrow in the British capital,
the London Mining Network said by e-mail. They’re protesting air
pollution at Bingham Canyon,  Utah , where most of the Olympic
medals are being produced.  Bhopal Deaths  Dow’s 10-year agreement with the  International Olympic
Committee  has been targeted because the Midland, Michigan-based
company bought Union Carbide Corp.  The purchase came 16 years after a leak at a Union Carbide
plant in Bhopal, central  India , killed more than 3,800 people,
according to  Bhopal.com , a website set up by the company. A
study by  Amnesty International , a human-rights group, showed
7,000 perished within days and another 15,000 died later from
exposure to methyl isocyanate gas.  At Amnesty International’s U.K. headquarters on April 16,
activists introduced “ Greenwash Gold 2012 Campaign ” to find,
which of Dow, BP and Rio Tinto Plc had damaged the environment
the most.  Dow acquired Union Carbide in 2001, about 10 years after
the Indian Supreme Court approved a $470 million settlement paid
by Union Carbide and Union Carbide India.  Protest Plans  The opposition is “beyond belief” Dow Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Liveris  said in a Feb. 28 interview. Union paid a
settlement and protestors are targeting Dow as it’s a “healthy
company with deep pockets,” he said. They should talk to the
Indian government, Liveris said.  London ’s organizing committee has raised more than 700
million pounds from sponsors, which it says are crucial to
funding the games. The organization didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  At their meeting, activists sat in a circle and
brainstormed how their protests could hurt the games and
sponsors. They didn’t clap for fear of interrupting someone and
instead used sign language to show their approval of an idea
before pausing for a lunch of baguette and soup.  Suggestions included occupying buildings, halting
construction and blocking lanes designated for Olympic
officials, as well as hacking websites and carrying out
subversive poster and advertising campaigns. One activist was
selling T-shirts showing five handcuffs interlinked like the
Olympic rings logo.  ‘Too Radical’  The group included students, local residents, activists and
Elizabeth Hogg, an 89-year-old Canadian who was handing over the
“Poverty Olympic Torch” from  Vancouver , which hosted the 2010
 winter games , to London.  “I’m passing it on to younger people with bright ideas,”
Hogg said in an interview. “I hope they’re not too
confrontational. Being too radical can get people’s backs up.”  Nine thousand police officers will be deployed during the
peak of the Olympics and 20,000 security staff will be needed
overall, double the original estimate. Additional numbers will
come from the private security sector, the military and
volunteers.  ‘Heavy Handed Policing’  The U.K. criticized previous Olympic host  China  for the way
it dealt with protestors and “would look very hypocritical” if
it tried to suppress legitimate protests, said Margaret Gilmore,
a senior researcher in security at the  Royal United Services
Institute , a London-based think tank.  “But if they become violent they are going to have to come
down on them. It may be that we have to see some heavy-handed
policing if those demonstrations and protests get out of hand,”
she said. “They cannot be allowed to when you have such large
numbers of sporting spectators moving around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Chris Spillane in London at 
3549 or  cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 