-- London Mayoral Candidate Livingstone Attacks Olympic VIP Lanes
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-17T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/london-mayoral-candidate-livingstone-attacks-olympic-vip-lanes.html
Ken Livingstone , the Labour
candidate for mayor of London in next month’s election, attacked
plans to allow executives from companies sponsoring the 2012
London Olympic Games to drive past other traffic in reserved
“VIP lanes.”  “We should say everybody on a bus is a VIP,” Livingstone
told a lunch for parliamentary reporters in London today. “It’s
all bloody McDonald’s and Coca-Cola executives in these lanes.
It’s not the athletes, they’re in the village.”  Londoners are currently being targeted by a poster campaign
urging them to prepare for difficulties getting around the city
during the Olympics. The games organizers say it’s necessary to
reserve parts of the road network for Olympic vehicles to ensure
competitors can move around the British capital quickly during
the event that runs from July 27 to Aug. 12.  Livingstone is trailing Conservative Mayor  Boris Johnson  in
opinion polls before the May 3 election. He was the first person
to win election as mayor when the post was established in 2000
and had the job for two terms before losing to Johnson in 2008.  As well as urging  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
executives to use the underground rail network instead of
limousines, Livingstone told journalists the U.S. should have
put  Osama Bin Laden  on trial rather than killing him in an
attack on his compound in Pakistan last year.  “I was appalled to see Osama Bin Laden in his pajamas shot
dead in front of his kid,” Livingstone said.  He said that if elected, he will seek funding in the
markets for infrastructure projects including housing and
transport networks. Livingstone floated the possibility of a
 bond issue  or of persuading investment funds to deliver such
projects directly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 