-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise as China New Loans Trump Slower GDP
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-04-17T06:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/hong-kong-stocks-rise-as-china-new-loans-trump-slower-gdp.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with the
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  heading for a second day of declines, as  China ’s
foreign direct investment fell for a fifth month, underscoring
concern that Europe’s debt crisis is hurting the economy.  Esprit Holdings Ltd., which depends on Europe for about 80
percent of its sales, dropped 2.9 percent. China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. led a gauge of property developers lower after a
report Shanghai won’t loosen property curbs. SouthGobi Resources
Ltd. plunged 10 percent after saying Mongolia requested the
suspension of some its mines.  The Hang Seng Index dropped 0.7 percent to 20,462.03 as of
2:08 p.m. in Hong Kong, with more than twice as many shares
declining as advancing. Trading volume on the gauge was almost
15 percent below the 30-day intraday average. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies lost 1.2 percent
to 10,713.62.  “ China’s economy  is still slowing down,” said Satoshi
Nishitsugu, a senior strategist at Okasan Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “Investors are worried about the external environment
and Europe’s problems are weighing on the market.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today after the gauge fell less than 0.1 percent in  New
York  yesterday. Most U.S. shares rose after a report showed
retail sales gained 0.8 percent in March, almost three times as
much as economists projected.  Spanish Yields Surge  Shares of companies that do business in Europe fell before
a Spanish debt auction today that comes as yields on the
country’s 10-year bonds rose to the highest level this year and
the cost of insuring against the nation’s default reached a
record.  Esprit Holdings lost 2.9 percent to HK$15.68.  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , a maker of mobile phones that
depends on Europe for a quarter of its operating profit, sank
5.9 percent to HK$4.51.  Mainland companies listed in Hong Kong extended declines
today after the Ministry of Commerce said foreign direct
 investment  in China dropped 6.1 percent in March, falling for a
fifth month. Spending in China by European Union companies
slumped by a third in the first two months of the year as the
region grapples with its debt crisis, the data showed.  “We got some negative FDI numbers and so there will be
some selling, but it won’t be as bad as people think because the
market has already fallen so much amid concern that China would
have a hardlanding,” Okasan’s Nishitsugu.  Rally Slows  Hong Kong ’s equity benchmark has retreated about 5.7
percent since the start of March as China cut its economic
growth target and on speculation stocks had risen too fast after
the index advanced 15 percent in the first two months of the
year. Stocks on the gauge trade at an average of 10.4 times
estimated earnings, compared with 11 times on Feb. 29.  China Overseas Land & Investment, the mainland’s biggest
developer by market value, fell 2 percent to HK$16.08. China
Resources Land Ltd. declined 0.9 percent to HK$14.82.  Shanghai won’t soften controls or change existing policies
on the  property market  in China’s biggest city, Xinhua reported
yesterday, citing Mayor  Han Zheng . China has toughened
requirements for down payments and mortgages, and imposed
restrictions on the number of homes each family is allowed to
buy. The nation’s first-quarter home sales fell 18 percent after
the government reiterated it will maintain curbs on the market.  Hong Kong stocks also declined today after Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest mutual
fund, said China will curb economic growth to address
overinvestment and bad loans that built up after policy makers
used stimulus to combat the 2008 crisis.  Slowing Rally  SouthGobi Resources (SGQ)  plunged 10 percent to HK$49.80 after
saying Mongolia requested the suspension of projects including
the Ovoot Tolgoi mine while it reviews Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd.’s proposed purchase of a controlling stake in the company.  The aluminum producer slid 2.7 percent to HK$3.66.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index expiring this month fell 0.6
percent to 20,456. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  slumped 0.9 percent
to 21.19, indicating options traders expect a swing of about 6.1
percent in the benchmark index over the next 30 days.  Among shares that advanced today,  Yue Yuen Industrial
Holdings Ltd. (551)  gained 1.4 percent to HK$26.30 after U.S. retail
sales increased. Li & Fung Ltd., the biggest supplier to Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., added 0.4 percent to HK$16.86.  -- With assistance from Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong. Editors:
Jason Clenfield,  Jim Powell   To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  