-- Loomis Sayles’ David Rolley Says Company Is Defensive in 2012
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-04-17T13:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/loomis-sayles-david-rolley-says-company-is-defensive-in-2012.html
David Rolley , vice president of the
global fixed income group at Loomis Sayles & Co, which manages
$170 billion of investments, comments on the companies outlook
for 2012 and why its more defensive this year than last. He
spoke at a conference in Doha, Qatar.  “We decided to reposition the portfolios more defensively,
not just with respect to holding local assets but essentially
all risk assets across the board,” he said. “We were
significantly overweight non-Japan Asian currency. We took that
down, so its not a Gulf specific perspective. Its a global
investor risk appetite of generalized concern. Thats what we are
worried about as we look at this year.”  On the losses taken by European banks from the Greek debt
crises:  “Collectively, they choose to shrink balance sheet,” he said.
“Instead of adding 1 percent of GDP to their equity, they are
trying to sell 5 to 10 percent of euro zone GDP from their
balance sheet all at the same time, thereby kind of devastating
some markets.”  “You look at that and the first question is are they done?” he
said. “I would say the answer is no. That’s our first
conclusion. They aren’t finished shrinking and there will be a
much slower pace.”  On Italy and  Spain :  “Italy and Spain are important parts of our benchmarks,not in
our credit portfolios but in our sovereign portfolios,” he
said. “We’ve been essentially still treating Italy and Spain as
stories that have not turned the corner yet but that have a lot
of volatility in that story. If they get really pushed down
hard, we have to be defensive enough to buy some but we are
sellers and we have been underweight the whole time. We are now
extremely underweight Italy and Spain.”  On China:  “China lost a step or two in terms of its global growth story
and the China trade is big,” he said. “It has a lot of moving
parts. Things that are correlated with China range of specific
regional names in  Asia  through the Australian dollar through the
Brazilian real through credit spreads in half a dozen countries
and so thats a big, big global growth story. We think there is a
soft landing. Our soft landing is a little softer than other
people’s soft landing and we don’t think they turn the corner
until mid year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  