-- Top Mexican Candidates Reject Expropriation After YPF Seizure
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-04-17T17:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/top-mexican-candidates-reject-expropriation-after-ypf-seizure.html
Mexico ’s two leading presidential
candidates rejected oil expropriation as an effective energy
strategy in comments today at the World Economic Forum on Latin
America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.  They spoke a day after Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said the government would take control of
 YPF SA (YPFD) , the South American nation’s largest oil company. Repsol
YPF SA, Spain’s biggest oil company, held a majority stake in
the company.  “The route of expropriation, and especially in energy
matters, is not what most promotes investment or generates
greater confidence,” said Enrique Pena Nieto, the candidate
from the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. He leads
opinion polls ahead of Mexico’s July 1 election.  Pena Nieto and Josefina Vazquez Mota, the candidate from
the ruling  National Action Party , or PAN, have both called for
overhauling Mexico’s energy laws to allow greater private sector
investment. Mexico expropriated foreign oil companies in 1938
and created state-owned oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos.  “I don’t agree that expropriation is the way to
prosperity,” Vazquez Mota said.  Vazquez Mota had 21 percent support in a poll released
April 16 by Grupo Economistas Asociados-ISA, up from 18 percent
on April 11. She remains about 19 percentage points behind the
front-runner, Pena Nieto, who had 40 percent support in the
face-to-face survey of 1,148 people from April 14 to April 16.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Party of the Democratic
Revolution, or PRD, was third with 14 percent support. The poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  