-- Oracle Tells Jury Google Stole Technology to Make Andoid
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-17T00:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/oracle-tells-jury-google-stole-technology-to-make-andoid.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  knew as far back as
2005 that it had to license the Java programming language to
develop Android software and didn’t strike a deal because it
didn’t want to share portions of the mobile phone operating
system, an  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  attorney told a federal jury.  Michael Jacobs , the lawyer for the Redwood City-based
software maker, said today that using Oracle-owned Java ensured
that Google’s Android software would be quickly embraced by
programmers who write applications for smartphones and provide
the search engine company with a commercial advantage.  Google’s mistake was that it didn’t take out a license
allowing it to use Java and requiring it to share parts of
Android, Jacobs said in his opening statements at Oracle’s trial
against Google in  San Francisco . Oracle is seeking $1 billion in
damages.  “You can’t just step on someone’s intellectual property
because you have a good business reason for it,” Jacobs said.
“Google makes a lot of money from Android, and a portion of
that money is Oracle’s.”  Oracle alleges that Google infringed copyrights and patents
for Java. The two-month trial that started today will include
testimony from the companies’ chief executive officers,  Larry Ellison  and  Larry Page , as well as damages experts appointed by
both sides and the presiding judge.  Google’s top executives knew they needed a license for
Java, a so-called “open source” language that works across
different computer systems, Jacobs said.  “My proposal is that we take a license,” Google senior
vice president  Andy Rubin  said in an October 2005 e-mail to Page
shown to the jury. Rubin said Google would have to pay for the
license.  Google engineer Tim Lindholm said in a February 2006 e-mail
shown today that Google was in negotiations for a Java license.
Yet Google didn’t agree to the terms of a type of license that
allows companies to use Java code and write new code on top of
it that “you have to give back to the open source community,”
Jacobs said.  “You can’t keep it for yourself,” he said. “They broke
the basic rules of the Java programming community.”  In another e-mail that Jacobs showed to the jury, one
Google executive tells another to “scrub out a few more Js”
from Android code. The J stood for Java, Jacobs said.  Rubin said in an April 2011 videotaped deposition shown to
the jury that Google doesn’t make money off Android. Jacobs
showed the jury a transcript from an October earnings call in
which Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said “people who use Android
search twice as much as everything else.”  “Not only is there more searches, and there’s more ads,
but it’s also more lucrative,” Schmidt said. “So, on that
basis alone, Android is hugely profitable.”  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , is also
seeking a court order blocking Google from distributing Android,
now running on more than 300 million devices, unless it takes a
license.  Multiphase Trial  The first phase of the trial will deal with allegations of
copyright infringement. Phase two will address patent claims. If
jurors find that Oracle’s intellectual property was infringed,
they will decide in a third phase whether the company is
entitled to damages.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , denies
infringing Oracle’s patents, saying the technology it used,
called application programming interfaces, or APIs, isn’t
covered by copyright and that its use of parts of the Java
platform was fair and legal.  “Computer programming languages are not copyrightable, and
neither are Oracle’s APIs,” Google’s attorney Robert Van Nest
said in a court filing. “Oracle accuses Google of infringement
for doing what the Oracle API specifications describe. That is a
classic attempt to improperly assert copyright over an idea
rather than expression.”  Google’s attorneys will make their opening statements
tomorrow.  Failed Talks  Settlement talks held April 2 and in September failed to
resolve the lawsuit.  Java, developed by Sun Microsystems in the mid-1990s, lets
developers write programs that work across different operating
systems and on a variety of computers. A key building block of
the World Wide Web, it is widely used in business applications.
The software also runs on billions of mobile devices. Oracle
acquired Sun in 2010 for $7.4 billion.  Google rejected an offer by Sun to accept $100 million in
royalties to use Java in Android’s development, Van Nest said
last year at a hearing in the case. The proposed three-year deal
in 2006 was for a technology partnership to build Android
jointly, rather than for just a patent license, he said.  Google relies on Android, the most popular U.S. smartphone
operating system, to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the mobile-phone
market and lessen its dependence on traditional Web-search
advertising.  Patents’ Value  Oracle also alleged that Google infringed the two Java
patents in the case that a court-appointed expert estimated are
worth $2.8 million in damages.  In its original lawsuit, filed in 2010, Oracle claimed
Google was infringing seven patents. All but two have been
removed from the case. Google won a ruling last year throwing
out Oracle’s $6.1 billion damage estimate. U.S. District Judge
William Alsup, who is presiding over the case, ruled that
copyright damage estimates should start at $100 million, the
2006 offer from Sun.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 