-- Morgan Stanley to Expand at Manhattan’s 1 New York Plaza
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-04-17T20:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/morgan-stanley-signs-lease-to-expand-at-1-new-york-plaza-tower.html
Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, signed a lease for almost 1.2 million
square feet (111,480 square meters) of space at  Brookfield
Office Properties Inc. (BPO) ’s 1 New York Plaza in lower  Manhattan .  The bank, which currently occupies about 816,000 square
feet at the building, will expand by an additional 337,000
square feet under a deal that runs through 2029, Brookfield said
in a statement today. The agreement is the largest office lease
for a single building in the city since 2008, according to the
New York-based landlord.  The deal follows a weak quarter for office leasing as Wall
Street firms cut jobs and delayed decisions on space. Studley
Inc., a New York-based brokerage, projected last month that
agreements would be signed for the rental of about 5.7 million
square feet this year through March. That would be the smallest
quarterly tally since the 4.5 million square feet leased in the
second quarter of 2009, when demand froze in the aftermath of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  “For a major financial institution to make a decision of
this scale is a big positive, for the market and for us,”
Brookfield Chief Investment Officer Dennis Friedrich said in a
telephone interview. “There are a number of large tenants
moving toward making large space decisions. A 15-year-plus
commitment is a good signal to the market.”  Consolidating Space  One New York Plaza, at the foot of Manhattan near Battery
Park, has 2.6 million square feet of space and is one of New
York’s largest office buildings.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , based at 1585
Broadway in midtown Manhattan, will consolidate operations
currently in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ; Brooklyn; and Midtown to
the tower, Friedrich said.  The additional 337,000 square feet that the bank is taking
was vacated by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  when it moved into its
new headquarters on West Street, Friedrich said. It doesn’t
include two 45,000-square-foot trading floors near the top of
the 50-story skyscraper.  Brookfield’s negotiations with Morgan Stanley took more
than a year. Friedrich attributed the slow progress to the
complexities of the consolidation that the company was
contemplating.  “They did not step away from the table and there wasn’t a
period of time where they were questioning whether they were
going to do this,” he said.  Matt Burkhard, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to
comment on the deal or the plans for consolidation. The bank was
represented by brokers including Newmark Grubb Knight Frank
Chief Executive Officer Barry Gosin and Vice Chairman Brian
Waterman. A Newmark spokeswoman, Mira Matic, said the firm
wouldn’t comment.  Outside Manhattan  Morgan Stanley currently has offices at 1 Pierrepont Plaza
in downtown  Brooklyn , and at Harborside Financial Center in
Jersey City. Many Manhattan-based financial companies pushed
back-office operations into locations across the Hudson and East
rivers in the 1980s and 1990s to save money.  The lease signing at 1 New York Plaza “indicates demand
for functional space in a transportation-centric, amenity-rich
location at a low cost,” John Guinee, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in an e-mail. “Morgan Stanley
is consolidating into a building where they are already
ensconced and taking more high-quality, technology-rich space at
a bargain price.”  Brookfield  gained  2 percent to $17.56 in New York trading.
The stock has advanced 12 percent this year, compared with a 9.6
percent increase in the  Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index. (DJUSRE)   Building 85% Occupied  For Brookfield, one of the biggest benefits of the deal is
that it “puts to bed” about 950,000 square feet of leases at 1
New York Plaza that would have expired in 2014, said Friedrich,
who declined to disclose the rent Morgan Stanley will be paying.
The agreement leaves the building about 85 percent occupied, he
said.  Brookfield still has two other major challenges in
Manhattan, its largest market. One is re-leasing more than 3
million square feet of  Bank of America  Corp. leases at
downtown’s World Financial Center that expire next year. The
other is to find anchor tenants for the 5.4 million-square-foot
Manhattan West skyscraper project west of Pennsylvania Station
in Midtown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  