-- Los Angeles Gasoline Falls on Selling as Tesoro Shuts Compressor
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-17T22:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/los-angeles-gasoline-falls-on-selling-as-tesoro-shuts-compressor.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles
weakened against futures for the first time in four days on
suppliers selling fuel in the market even as  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  shut units at  California  refineries.  Tesoro shut a compressor at the 97,000-barrel-a-day
Wilmington refinery in Southern California after a  power
failure , said Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the company’s
headquarters in San Antonio. Conoco, based in Houston, also shut
a sulfur unit at the 128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery in
California after a fire, county regulators said.  Refineries were selling in the wholesale market despite the
shutdowns, adding to speculation that supply is still high, said
Bob van der Valk, an independent fuel pricing analyst in Terry,
 Montana . Tesoro cut fuel prices at the rack in Southern
California after the compressor was shut, he said.  “Tesoro is shrugging it off,” van der Valk said in a
message.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles 
dropped 5.5 cents to a discount of 2 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline was the first in four
days.  San Francisco Carbob tumbled 8.5 cents to a premium of 2.5
cents a gallon.  CARB diesel in Los Angeles slipped 0.75 cent to 6.5 cents a
gallon above Nymex heating oil futures. The same fuel in San
Francisco fell 1.5 cents to a 7-cent premium.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
dropped 5.5 cents to 2 cents above gasoline futures. Low-sulfur
diesel  there  fell for the second day, by 4 cents to a premium of
23.5 cents a gallon versus heating oil futures.  Tesoro finished planned work on the diesel hydrotreater at
the Anacortes refinery in  Washington  last week and was preparing
to start it over the weekend, a person with direct knowledge of
the work said April 13. An unspecified unit was in the process
of starting yesterday, Barbee said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  