-- Toshiba to Buy IBM’s Point-of-Sale Business for $850 Million
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-04-17T08:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/toshiba-to-buy-ibm-s-point-of-sale-business-for-850-million-1-.html
Toshiba Tec Corp. (6588) , the Japanese
maker of scanners and bar-code machines, will acquire
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s point-of-sale terminal
business for about $850 million in its biggest acquisition ever.  Toshiba Tec, 50 percent owned by TV and computer maker
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , will acquire the Retail Store Solutions business,
the companies said in a joint  statement  today. The deal is
expected to close late in the second quarter or early in the
third quarter, subject to regulatory approvals, it said.  The transaction gives Toshiba a business that had revenue
of about $1.15 billion last year and about 1,000 employees
globally. Retailers use the point-of-sale systems, which include
both hardware and software, to process and record transactions,
manage inventory and collect and analyze data including
customers’ purchasing trends.  “The purchase would strengthen Toshiba Tec’s core
business,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600
million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Toshiba Tec will use its own money to fund the purchase,
spokesman Takashi Mizuno said by phone. The company had 82.05
billion yen ($1 billion) yen in cash and near cash as of Dec.
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Strong Presence’  Toshiba Tec rose 6.9 percent, the most in a month, to close
at 327 yen in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei newspaper reported
the deal earlier today. Toshiba was unchanged at 333 yen. IBM
was little changed at $202.72 in New York trading yesterday.  “Toshiba Tec enjoys a strong presence in retail store
solutions in Asia-Pacific, including  Japan , and we are confident
that this acquisition will support expansion in  North America ,
Europe and the emerging economies,” Norio Sasaki, president at
Toshiba, said in the statement.  Armonk, New York-based IBM, the world’s largest computer-
services provider, is increasing its focus on software, cloud
computing and  emerging markets  as part of a five-year plan that
includes adding $20 billion in new revenue by 2015.  “It will have a major impact for Toshiba Tec,” said
Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“Toshiba Tec will be able to expand its POS business with the
acquisition, as IBM already has customers and can lure new ones
with its brand.”  Toshiba Tec’s previous biggest takeover was a $315 million
takeover of TEC Electronics in 1993, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Today’s deal comes as Toshiba and other Japanese consumer-
electronics makers cope with slumping demand and a stronger yen.
Toshiba in January cut its profit forecast by 54 percent for the
year ended March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  