-- House Panel Backs Gasoline Bills Targeting EPA Rules, Drilling
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-17T17:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/house-panel-backs-gasoline-bills-targeting-epa-rules-drilling.html
A House Energy and Commerce
Committee panel approved legislation to study and delay rules
from the Environmental Protection Agency linked to gasoline and
natural gas.  The energy and power subcommittee voted 15-8 today for the
measure. Natural gas was added in a voice vote, as proponents
said the fuel could be used in the future to replace gasoline in
vehicles. The measure advances to the full House, and the
Democratic-led Senate needs to act before the bill can become
law.  “The American people are concerned about high gasoline
prices, but they are particularly angry when they learn that
their own federal government may be making matters worse,”
Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and chairman
of the subcommittee, said before the vote.  Gasoline prices at the pump are up 19 percent this year,
after falling to an average for $3.904 a gallon yesterday,
according to AAA  data .  The panel also approved, 9-7, a bill requiring the Energy
secretary to develop a plan for opening more federal lands for
oil and gas drilling when the administration decides to release
crude from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  Republicans such as Whitfield said environmental rules are
leading to an increase in fuel prices. The legislation would
prohibit the EPA from issuing new regulation requiring
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from refineries or lower
polluting sulfur in gasoline while a government panel studies
the effect of regulations on gasoline prices.  ‘Imaginary Solution’  The EPA hasn’t proposed either of those regulations, and
Democrats said it didn’t make sense that rules yet to be issued
were already pushing prices higher.  “This is an imaginary solution to very real problem,”
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said at
the hearing.  Republicans’ focus on gasoline prices, and criticisms of
the administration of President  Barack Obama , were sidetracked
when Representative  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, proposed to
add natural gas to the EPA measure.  Whitfield opposed that move, saying it was diverting focus
from the emphasis on transportation fuels.  “I don’t see how we can’t consider natural gas,”
Representative Brian Bilbray, a California Republican, said
during the debate. “Natural gas is the only place we are going
to find the Btus to replace gasoline within the next decade.”  A British thermal unit, or Btu, is a traditional measure of
energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  