-- House Republicans Seek About $34 Billion Food Stamp Cut
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-18T14:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/house-republicans-seek-about-34-billion-food-stamp-cut.html
House Republicans  are calling for
$34 billion in cuts over the next decade to the food-stamp
program, setting up a fresh election-year battle over the U.S.
budget  deficit .  Lawmakers said they plan to include the reductions in a
package of $261 billion in spending cuts they will propose to
replace automatic cuts scheduled to take effect in January.  House Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas  said the
plan is designed to squeeze inefficiencies out of the food-stamp
program, which is projected to cost taxpayers about $80 billion
this year.  “It’s basically closing loopholes; it’s tightening things
up; it’s reflecting the budgetary times we’re in,” said Lucas,
an Oklahoma Republican.  Democrats said such cuts would hurt millions of poor
Americans. “We’re literally going to take it out of the mouths
of babes,” said Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat.
“It’s outrageous.”  The plan is sure to stall in the Democratic-controlled
Senate and probably will become a campaign issue.  “Everything that happens in an even-number year is always
an election issue,” Lucas said. The plan will establish a
marker for Republicans in negotiations over what to do about the
potential budgetary collision that looms at the end of this
year.  Automatic Cuts  About $1 trillion in automatic cuts are set to begin taking
effect in January -- the outcome of last year’s failure of a
budget-cutting supercommittee to agree on a plan to reduce the
deficit. The Bush-era income tax cuts will expire at the end of
the year, and the government once again will be approaching its
 debt limit .  A budget plan adopted last month by House Republicans
orders a half-dozen congressional committees to recommend $261
billion in spending cuts by April 27. Lawmakers aim for the plan
to reach the House floor in May.  The chamber’s tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, charged
with finding $53 billion in savings, is taking up legislation
today that would make it harder for illegal immigrants to
receive a  child tax credit . It will also consider ending social
services block grants, which help states provide a variety of
services to low-income Americans.  Burden on Children  “In their zeal to cut taxes for the very wealthy, House
Republicans continue to put the burden on the backs of children,
the elderly and the disabled,” said Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the Ways and Means panel.  The most significant item before Ways and Means would save
$43.9 billion by requiring people who receive more in health
insurance subsidies than they’re eligible for under the 2010
health care law to return the entire overpayment to the
government. Unanticipated increases in income -- such as a year-
end bonus --can change someone’s eligibility for tax credits,
which will be calculated based on the previous year’s income and
paid directly to insurance companies.  Current law caps the amount of overpayments that taxpayers
are required to refund to the government. Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who chairs the Ways and Means
Committee, said the change would protect taxpayers by preventing
them from paying for benefits to people who don’t qualify.  The change would increase the number of individuals without
health insurance by 350,000, said Thomas Barthold, chief of
staff of the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.  Retirement Benefits  Other programs that probably will be targeted include
federal workers’ retirement benefits and the government’s flood-
insurance program. Republicans also want to revamp medical-
malpractice laws to limit damages, which the  Congressional
Budget Office  says would save money because lower insurance
premiums for doctors would translate into smaller fees for their
patients.  Food stamp cuts may be among the most contentious
proposals. The program grew rapidly after the 2008 financial
crisis, with about one in seven Americans now receiving benefits
averaging $134 a month. This year’s cost is more than the annual
budgets of most federal agencies, and food stamp costs have more
than doubled since 2007.  The Republicans’ plan, which the chamber’s Agriculture
Committee is taking up today, would end a $20 a month increase
in benefits provided in the administration’s economic stimulus
plan. It also would clamp down on what Republicans call abuses
by state governments of the program’s eligibility rules, which
they say have allowed many undeserving people to receive
benefits.  “All we’re simply saying is: ‘You need to qualify for what
you receive,’” Lucas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  