-- Howard Stern Suit Against Sirius XM Over Pay Is Dismissed
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-17T21:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/howard-stern-suit-against-sirius-xm-over-pay-is-dismissed.html
Howard Stern ’s lawsuit against
Sirius XM Radio Inc., in which the radio personality sought to
recover $300 million in unpaid stock awards that he claimed he
was owed, was dismissed by a New York judge.  Justice Barbara Kapnick of state  Supreme Court  rejected
arguments by Stern’s production company that subscribers to XM
Satellite Radio, which merged with Sirius, should be counted
when calculating performance-based compensation.  “The plain language of the agreement is inconsistent with
any reading that the parties intended subscribers acquired by
merger with XM to be considered,” Kapnick wrote in an order
dated yesterday.  One Twelve Inc., Stern’s production company, and his agent,
Don Buchwald, sued Sirius XM Radio last year, claiming the
company refused to pay stock awards owed under an agreement that
brought Stern to Sirius.  “Howard is really bummed that a judge has dismissed his
lawsuit against Sirius,” Stern’s show said in a statement
posted on its Twitter feed. “He plans on appealing.”  An attorney for One Twelve, Seth Rothman, didn’t respond to
a phone message seeking comment.  Stern, known for his raunchy shows and penchant for
profanity, moved to subscription radio to dodge indecency rules
that bind traditional broadcasters. He left  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s radio
unit, where he had 12 million listeners, in December 2005,
citing pressure from the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission ,
which fined him for the sexual and scatological humor.  XM Purchase  Stern’s show began running on satellite radio in January
2006. Sirius purchased its competitor, XM Satellite Radio
Holdings Inc., for $2.76 billion in July 2008 and changed its
name to reflect the merger. Stern signed a new five-year deal
with Sirius XM in December 2010 and his production company sued
the company three months later.  Stern’s original agreement called for One Twelve to receive
five bonuses of $75 million in stock -- along with a
10 percent bonus to Buchwald -- if the number of Sirius
subscribers exceeded company estimates by certain amounts,
according to Kapnick’s decision.  Lawyers for One Twelve said that the production company was
owed another $300 million in stock plus a 10 percent bonus for
Buchwald because of the additional subscribers brought in by the
purchase of XM.  Internal Estimates  The defendants argued that the contract only required them
to pay the bonuses if the number of Sirius subscribers -- not
including the 9 million customers who subscribed to XM at the
time of the merger -- exceeded internal estimates.  Sirius paid the first $75 million in January 2007 after the
number of subscribers exceeded its own estimates by more than 2
million, Kapnick wrote. The company paid One Twelve
$25 million and Buchwald $2.5 million after the merger as
provided for in the agreement, and isn’t required to pay the
other bonuses because the additional XM subscribers weren’t
considered as part of the original deal, the judge wrote.  “While it may be true that Stern and Buchwald hoped and
expected to reap the benefits from any significant growth that
Sirius experienced after they entered into the agreement, that
subjective expectation cannot suffice to override the clear,
unambiguous language of the agreement,” Kapnick wrote.  The case is One Twelve Inc. v.  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) ,
650762-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  