-- Lowe’s Builds Up Leverage to Buy Back Shares: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-04-17T15:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/lowe-s-builds-up-leverage-to-buy-back-shares-corporate-finance.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  is raising $2 billion
in the  bond market  to finance stock repurchases as the second-
biggest U.S. home-improvement retailer boosts leverage to reward
shareholders even as its profitability wanes.  Lowe’s sold five-, 10- and 30-year debt yesterday, five
months after the company that sells products from flowers to
washing machines issued $1 billion of notes. The retailer may
use proceeds to buy back shares, according to a regulatory
filing. Lowe’s plans to increase its leverage to as much as 2.25
times from 1.8 times,  Robert Hull , Lowe’s chief financial
officer, told an earnings conference call in November.  That should raise concern among  bondholders  that the
Mooresville, North Carolina-based retailer will add to a $9.2
billion debt load when earnings rise, according to Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. The company plans to repurchase $4.5
billion of  stock  annually until 2015 even after same-store sales
were little changed last year and margins narrowed.  “Lowe’s is willfully increasing its leverage in order to
return more cash to shareholders,” Carol Levenson of Chicago-
based Gimme Credit wrote in a report yesterday. “Subdued home
improvement spending and a still cautious consumer do not
exactly scream ‘Hey it’s okay to take on more debt’ to us.”  ‘Turns Me Off’  Lowe’s sale yesterday was its biggest on record and
accounts for the remainder of the $3 billion of debt that Hull
said the company would take on by the end of this year as it
boosts its ratio of lease-adjusted debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, share-based
payments and rent. The company sold $1 billion of notes two days
after he spoke on the November conference call.  “When a company turns toward financial engineering, it
kind of turns me off,” said  Joel Levington , managing director
at Brookfield in New York, which manages about $25 billion.
“Any bondholder has to be somewhat skeptical of the company
given that they’ve changed their financial policies,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Credit-default swaps linked to Lowe’s debt jumped 9 basis
points yesterday to 71 basis points, the highest level since
Feb. 22. The contracts, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, traded as high as 107 basis points last year.  Swaps for Home Depot Inc., Lowe’s larger competitor, rose 2
basis points to 47 basis points. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Builder Confidence  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders fell in April to a
three-month low, a sign the industry is still trying to gain its
footing as the country recovers from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo  index  of builder confidence showed
yesterday.  Proceeds from the Lowe’s issue may be used for general
corporate purposes including  capital spending  and acquisitions
as well as share buybacks, according to the regulatory filing.
The company said in December it expected to repurchase almost
$18 billion in stock between 2012 and 2015, provided there
aren’t other uses for its cash.  The home-improvement retailer issued $500 million of 1.625
percent, five-year notes that yield 80 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, $750 million of 3.12 percent, 10-
year debt at a spread of 115 basis points and $750 million of
4.65 percent, 30-year securities at 155 basis points, Bloomberg
data show.  Lowe’s  shares fell  0.2 percent to $31.98 at 10:54 a.m. in
New York. The stock has gained  26 percent  this year to the most
expensive price relative to earnings in almost two years,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘More Aggressive’  The company last raised its target for maximum leverage to
1.8 times from 1.5 times so-called Ebitdar in 2010 after earlier
lifting its target of 1.4 times in 2009, according to
transcripts of conference calls.  “This transaction is consistent with our previously
announced leverage target,” said Julie Yenichek, a spokeswoman
for the company.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the  company’s debt  two
levels in November to A3 after the leverage increase was
announced in the conference call with analysts and investors,
signaling a more aggressive financial policy that favored
shareholders, according to Maggie Taylor, a senior credit
officer at Moody’s. The company could be downgraded again if
leverage using her firm’s measures exceeds 2.75 times earnings
or if earnings to interest expense falls below 6.5 percent, she
wrote in a Nov. 14 report.  “What happened today confirms the reason we downgraded
Lowe’s,” Taylor, based in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Clearly their financial policy has gotten a bit
more aggressive.”  Rising Leverage  Lowe’s posted a  ratio  of Ebitda to interest expense of 9.13
in its fiscal 2012 fourth quarter, Bloomberg data show. That’s
down from 11.09 in the similar period a year earlier.  “Certainly as leverage increases, the chances of them
being downgraded also go up,” Alexander Diaz-Matos, an analyst
at Covenant Review LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday rated the new debt A-,
equivalent to the Moody’s grade, with a “negative” outlook.  Sales by Lowe’s stores open at least a year were flat in
2011, trailing Home Depot’s gain of 3.4 percent. Its  net income
margin  dropped to 3.66 percent, from 4.12 percent in fiscal
2011, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Worst Time’  Lowe’s may lag behind its competitor in sales growth again
this year, according to Peter Keith, a Piper Jaffray Cos.
analyst in New York.  In an online survey of 440 homeowners, Piper Jaffray found
that four in 10 plan to spend more on improvements this year
over 2011. Twelve percent are reluctant to spend because of
declining  home prices , a lower percentage than Keith said he had
expected, which may be a sign of “pent up demand getting
released,” he wrote in an April 16 note.  “There is no question that we are behind in certain
areas,” William Doug Robinson, Lowe’s senior vice president in
charge of international operations and customer support
services, told the Raymond James Institutional Investors
Conference on March 6. Lowe’s hasn’t distinguished itself from
Home Depot, which attracts shoppers because it has more
locations, he said.  Lowe’s also plans raise its dividends as earnings increase
to maintain a one-third payout ratio, Robinson told the Raymond
James conference. It last increased its quarterly payment to 14
cents a share on May 27 for its Aug. 3 dividend, and it will
boost the rate to  16 cents  for the corresponding period of this
year on May 21, according to Bloomberg Dividend Projections.  “It is often the case that a retailer decides to ramp up
its share repurchases using additional debt to finance this at
precisely the worst time for increasing leverage,” Levenson
wrote in an e-mail. “With Lowe’s we don’t know where this
intentional leveraging might end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  