-- Patchett, Miller on Orange Prize for Fiction Shortlist
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-04-17T09:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/patchett-miller-on-orange-prize-for-fiction-shortlist-1-.html
One-time winner Ann Patchett and
debut novelist Madeline Miller are finalists in the Orange Prize
for Fiction, whose winner takes home 30,000 pounds ($47,850) and
a bronze statuette called “the Bessie.”  Created in 1996, the annual Orange Prize celebrates fiction
by women worldwide. The shortlisted novels evoke settings as
remote as the Amazon and Communist Romania. American authors
have claimed the past three prizes and dominate this year’s
shortlist, announced at the  London  Book Fair today.  In “State of Wonder” (Bloomsbury), Patchett, who won the
2002 prize, tells the story of Dr. Marina Singh, a scientist
dispatched by a pharmaceutical company to trace her mentor, who
has gone rogue in the Brazilian  rain forest  while developing a
valuable new drug.  Classics teacher Miller is also American. Ten years in the
writing, her first novel, “The Song of Achilles,” unfolds
against a backdrop of the Trojan War and describes the intense
bond between Homeric heroes Patroclus and Achilles.  The other finalists include Esi Edugyan’s Man Booker Prize
finalist, “Half Blood Blues” (Serpent’s Tail), and Cynthia
Ozick’s “Foreign Bodies” (Atlantic), a retelling of  Henry
James ’s “The Ambassadors.” Anne Enright’s “The Forgotten
Waltz” (Cape) and Georgina Harding’s “Painter of Silence”
(Bloomsbury) complete the list.  The winner will be announced at a ceremony in the Royal
Festival Hall at London’s Southbank Centre on May 30.  Previous winners have included Tea Obreht for “The Tiger’s
Wife,” Barbara Kingsolver for “The Lacuna” and  Marilynne
Robinson  for “Home.”  The shortlist “includes six distinctive voices and
subjects, four nationalities and an age range of close on half a
century,” said Joanna Trollope, chairwoman of the judges.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 