-- PepsiCo Aims to Bring Urban Cool to Mountain Dew Image: Retail
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-04-17T20:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/pepsico-aims-to-bring-urban-cool-to-mountain-dew-image-retail.html
Urban cool and Mountain Dew are two
phrases that don’t usually go together.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  is trying
to change that.  The snack and beverage giant built the country’s best-
selling non-cola soft drink on the strength of its popularity in
the largely white suburbs of the Plains states and the
Southeast. Now it’s working to broaden the sugary, caffeine-
laced drink’s appeal to a wider, more diverse, array of young
soda consumers. In a marketing push featuring hip-hop singer Lil
Wayne and street skateboarder Paul Rodriguez, PepsiCo is hoping
Mountain Dew will catch on in urban centers such as  New York ,
Miami, Los Angeles and  New Orleans , matching the dominance the
brand enjoys in markets like Nebraska and  Kentucky .  “Our biggest opportunities are in those areas with the
highest concentration of consumers who probably haven’t heard
the dew message as focused as we could have,” said Brett
O’Brien, vice president of marketing for Mountain Dew.  Mountain Dew has been a bright spot for the $76 billion
U.S. soft drink industry, which is locked in a seven-year
decline. There is cause for worry, however, after the brand --
one of PepsiCo’s most important -- lost share last year to  Coca-
Cola Co.’s (KO)  Sprite and Fanta. At the same time, the company’s
target consumers -- young people aged 18 to 24 -- are
increasingly more diverse. The trick for the world’s second-
largest soda maker will be reaching these new audiences while
holding on to core Mountain Dew drinkers.  ‘How We Dew’  PepsiCo has its work cut out. The percentage of white, non-
Hispanics younger than 24 fell to 18.6 percent of the population
from 21.5 percent between 2000 and 2010, according to Census
data compiled by Bloomberg. And though Caucasians represent 70
percent of soda drinkers, they represent 80 percent of Dew
consumers, according to iTrack Data figures provided by PepsiCo.  The new campaign, which debuted this week, centers on the
tag line, “This is How We Dew,” and features  Lil Wayne 
narrating. “If you got anything from me, it’s to find your
thing and do you,” he says over clips of concert footage and
skateboarders. “We all know it’s not what you do, it’s how you
do.” The anthem ad mixes in snowboarders and a country singer
to keep the brand’s mainstream hooked in.  Take a look at a map of the U.S. showing Mountain Dew’s
top-selling states and you’ll find a swath reaching from  North
Dakota  east to the Virginias and south to  Arkansas . In the
Southeast, Dew even outsells Coca-Cola in  convenience stores  in
 Georgia , Coke’s home state. Mountain Dew accounts for 20 percent
of PepsiCo’s total U.S. beverage sales.  Tennessee Moonshine  Dew’s weakest territory stretches from  California  along the
southern border of the U.S. to  Louisiana . Under-served urban
centers often carry only regular Mountain Dew, O’Brien said.
PepsiCo will boost spending on the brand this year as it tries
to close the geography gap.  Mountain Dew was named for the moonshine liquor produced in
the Appalachian stills of  Tennessee . In the 1940s, brothers Ally
and Barney Hartman concocted a lemony soda as a spirits mixer,
trademarking the name in 1948. Early bottles featured a gun-
toting hillbilly chasing a federal agent from an outhouse.  PepsiCo bought the brand in 1964. Its first TV ad used the
slogan, “Ya-Hoo Mountain Dew. It’ll tickle your innards.” A
barefoot, one-toothed mountain man raved, “Shore as shootin’,
there’s a bang in every bottle,” as a curvy woman wearing a
hair bow and Wilma Flintstone-looking dress took a sip.  ‘Matter of Messaging’  The new campaign -- targeted at consumers in their teens to
20s -- brings together a diverse lineup of seven celebrities,
O’Brien said. Individual TV and radio ads by each superstar will
be tailored to regional markets. The point: Link Dew to stuff
young people find cool.  Country singer Jason Aldean’s spot might be in heavy
rotation in Nashville, for example, while Lil Wayne flashes on
screens in  Los Angeles  and rapper Mac Miller dominates airwaves
in his home state of  Pennsylvania . Mexican-American pro
skateboarder Paul Rodriguez -- a.k.a. P-Rod -- appeals to a
street-skate set that is racially diverse, O’Brien said.  “It’s been a matter of messaging,” O’Brien said. “We
haven’t really talked to this differentiated, emerging teen base
as much as we have that heartland consumer.”  Lil Wayne’s collaboration with Mountain Dew marks his first
ever endorsement deal with a major consumer-products company.
Next month, a promotion called DEWeezy -- a cross-pollination
with his nickname Weezy -- will invite consumers to help produce
a 30-second TV spot.  Old School  While the campaign marks Dew’s most pointed effort yet to
broaden its appeal to blacks and Hispanics, it isn’t the first
attempt. Early this decade, Mountain Dew teamed up with rapper
Busta Rhymes. Like Lil Wayne, Busta Rhymes had massive cross-
over appeal.  PepsiCo lost share in the U.S. carbonated beverage market
to Atlanta-based Coca-Cola from 2008 through 2010, according to
Beverage Digest, an industry newsletter. Pepsi shares fell 1.7
percent in the 12 months before today, compared with a 6.5
percent rise for Coca-Cola. PepsiCo gained 0.6 percent to $66.40
at the close in New York, while Coca-Cola climbed 2.1 percent to
$73.95.  Dew’s latest marketing will be coupled with a distribution
push in urban centers like  New York City . Flavors including
cherry Code Red and orange Live Wire, as well as diet varieties,
may be added to the lineup at gas stations and convenience
stores, where 45 percent of all Mountain Dew is sold.  Mountain Dew won’t forget its roots. Just this week,
PepsiCo began offering soft drinks at Matthews, North Carolina-
based  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , which previously offered only
Coca-Cola. The chief selling point: Mountain Dew.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  