-- NFL Schedule Sends Giants Back to Title Scene in San Francisco
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/peyton-manning-to-begin-broncos-career-at-home-against-steelers.html
The  New York Giants  will return to
the scene of their overtime win in the National Football
Conference championship game when they visit the  San Francisco 
49ers on Oct. 14.  The National Football League released the  schedule  for its
256-game season last night. It will start with the Giants
hosting the  Dallas Cowboys  on Sept. 5, continuing a tradition in
which the Super Bowl champion has been host for every opener
since 2004.  Peyton Manning will make his  Denver Broncos  debut with a
home game against the Pittsburgh Steelers in the opening week of
the 2012 season.  “We’re excited about that,” Broncos Executive Vice
President John Elway said. “Any time you have a guy behind the
center named  Peyton Manning , you’re going to get a lot of
attention.”  Four-time NFL Most Valuable Player Manning was released by
the Indianapolis Colts to avoid making a $28 million payout
after he missed a season following neck surgeries. In his first
game for Denver, Manning will face a Steelers team that ranked
first in overall defense last season.  “The opening game in Denver obviously will be an
interesting way to start the season,” Steelers President Art Rooney said. “There will be a lot of attention paid to Peyton
Manning’s first game with the Denver Broncos, so it’ll be
exciting starting out that way.”  Win Over 49ers  The Giants, who defeated the 49ers 20-17 at  Candlestick
Park  on Jan. 22 to advance to the Super Bowl, also will play the
Atlanta Falcons, Carolina Panthers, Baltimore Ravens and
Cincinnati Bengals in non-division games on the road. The New
Orleans Saints, Tampa Bay Buccaneers,  Green Bay Packers ,
Cleveland Browns and Steelers will be their non-division
opponents at home.  The New York Jets also will begin the season at home,
against the Buffalo Bills on Sept. 9.  The Jets face the Houston Texans, Colts, San Diego Chargers,
Arizona Cardinals and 49ers at home in non-division games. They
will play the Jacksonville Jaguars, Tennessee Titans, Steelers,
St.  Louis Rams  and Seattle Seahawks on the road in non-division
games.  The Colts, 2-14 last year without Manning, will face four
playoff teams: Detroit, Green Bay, Houston and New England,  “We are looking forward to a very competitive schedule,
especially an always tough AFC South slate,” said new Colts
coach Chuck Pagano. “This team continues to gel and build
chemistry with each passing day and we will continue to labor at
a high level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  