-- Pfizer Said to Choose Buyer for Baby-Food Unit Next Week
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-18T09:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/pfizer-said-to-pick-nutrition-unit-buyer-as-soon-as-next-week.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  may select a buyer for
its infant-nutrition unit as soon as next week after receiving
bids from  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone SA (BN) , according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  Nestle and Danone each submitted final offers of about $10
billion for the business, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. Other consumer
companies and private-equity firms are also involved in the
auction because they may alleviate the antitrust risk for the
bidders, one person said yesterday.  Danone and Nestle have been working on ways to overcome
antitrust hurdles, people familiar with the matter said in
February. At that time, Nestle was considering buying all of
Pfizer’s  infant-nutrition assets  and then conducting an auction
to sell what it can’t keep because of regulatory concerns it
would become too dominant in some markets, one person said.
Danone was weighing a joint bid with  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) ,
the people said then.  “This deal makes huge strategic sense for Nestle,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote today in a note
to clients. “It is in the right categories and the right
markets and with a reasonable price we would expect a fairly
positive reaction from investors.”  Evaluating Bids  The companies’ talks with Pfizer could still break down and
a deal may not be reached.  Danone has told outsiders it is unlikely to win the auction
and Nestle may be the final bidder, said a person familiar with
the matter. Pfizer has continued to speak to Danone and is
trying to keep them in the process as bids are evaluated, the
person said. A third bidder that was in the running is no longer
in the auction, the person said.  Pfizer, based in  New York , also is planning an initial
public offering for its animal-health unit and has hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley
to handle that sale, one person said. The Wall Street Journal
reported earlier yesterday on Pfizer’s plans.  A spokesman for Nestle and a spokeswoman for Danone
declined to comment today. Pfizer said in an e-mailed statement
that no decisions have been made on the animal-health and
infant-nutrition businesses, though a public transaction is most
likely for the animal-health division. A Mead Johnson spokesman
declined to comment.  Pfizer Drugs  Pfizer is divesting the businesses as Chief Executive
Officer  Ian Read  shrinks the company and focuses on developing
new medicines. Read is seeking to replace revenue lost to
generic competition for Lipitor, the company’s top-selling drug
whose U.S. patent protection ended in December.  Danone shares rose 0.9 percent to 53.54 euros as of 11:52
a.m. in Paris. Nestle fell 0.2 percent to 56.65 Swiss francs.
The French company has also outperformed for the year, gaining
10 percent to Nestle’s 4.8 percent.  Pfizer shares were trading at $22.25 in  Germany , down from
$22.31 at yesterday’s close of New York trading. They have
increased 10 percent since the company said on July 7 it would
divest the two units.  Nestle may face antitrust issues in more than a dozen
countries, while Danone would have hurdles in key markets
including the U.K., the people said in February.  China, where Pfizer  generated  about 29 percent of its 2010
infant-nutrition revenue, is a country where local regulators
will scrutinize any bid, one person said. China’s baby-food
market will probably expand by about 17 percent a year from 2010
to 2015, Euromonitor International estimated last year.  Buying Pfizer’s business would give Nestle about 10 percent
of the infant milk formula market in  China , while a Danone
purchase may create a company with at least a 17 percent share,
people with knowledge of the figures said in February. Mead
Johnson would likely have the largest, at about 20 percent or
more, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  