-- Polish Main Rate Should Rise to 5% This Year, PKO’s Bodys Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-17T13:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/polish-main-rate-should-rise-to-5-this-year-pko-s-bodys-says.html
Poland ’s central bank should raise
its benchmark interest rate by half a point to 5 percent as
price growth remains “stubbornly high” and an economic
slowdown is “relatively mild,” said PKO Bank Polski SA’s chief
economist Radoslaw Bodys.  The Monetary Policy Council will increase the rate by a
quarter-point at its May meeting “if monthly data doesn’t
surprise” or in June, while the next rate increase will come
after the second quarter, Bodys told a conference in Warsaw
today.  The Narodowy Bank Polski on April 4 warned that it will
consider raising  interest rates  as early as May if slowing
growth fails to curb inflation, which has exceeded the 3.5
percent upper end of its tolerance range since January 2011.
Policy makers the same day left the benchmark seven-day interest
rate at 4.5 percent, keeping it unchanged at the highest since
January 2009 for a 10th month.  Poland’s  economy , the only one in the European Union to
dodge a recession in 2009, expanded an estimated 4.3 percent
last year, while monthly data suggests the first-quarter growth
slowed to 3.5-4 percent, according to PKO Bank Polski, which
forecast a full-year increase of 3 percent.  ‘Some Misunderstanding’  “There is some misunderstanding in saying the council
cannot impact inflation because it is mainly driven by
commodities prices,” said Bodys, who sees the inflation rate
below 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter. “It cannot influence a
price of crude oil, but it can impact the price of oil in zloty
as the increase would strengthen the zloty.”  Policy makers have indicated their decision on rates in May
will hinge on economic data due this week, including production,
wages and jobs growth. Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said in an April
14 interview that “over the next few days there should be
enough for us to make a preliminary judgment on the pace and
structure of economic growth.”  A day earlier, central bank Governor Marek Belka was cited
by PAP newswire as saying the bank will “almost certainly”
vote on a rate-increase motion next month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  