-- Power Producers, Mine Workers, States Seek EPA Rule Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/power-producers-mine-workers-states-seek-epa-rule-review-1-.html
Twenty-four U.S. states, the United
Mine Workers of America and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  asked a
Washington federal court to review new U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency air-pollution regulations.  The new National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air
Pollutants, or NESHAP, require operators of coal- and oil-fired
power generators to meet standards “reflecting the application
of maximum achievable control technology,” according to the
published regulation.  More than a dozen challenges to  the rule  have been filed
with the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Washington since April
13, including a joint filing by 22 states including
Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, Oklahoma and  West
Virginia .  This is the first time the American Public Power
Association, a Washington-based group of 2,000 community-owned
utilities, has filed a petition to block an EPA regulation, said
Nick Braden, the group’s vice president for communications.  The group, saying its community-owned utilities can’t meet
the deadline, seeks to require the EPA to re-propose the rule.
The rule gives power-producers three years to comply, with a
fourth or fifth year possible with state or federal approval.  “It’s not the rule itself, but the timeline of
compliance,” Braden said in an interview.  ‘Fragile Economy’  The 22 states filing the complaint are concerned about the
effect of the regulation on affordability and reliability of
power, according to Joy Yearout, a spokeswoman for  Michigan 
Attorney General Bill Schuette.  Schuette complained in October that the proposed rule would
overburden Michigan’s “fragile economy,” and urged EPA to hold
off on issuing the final regulation.  The number of states filing to block the measure is
telling, said  Scott Segal , a lawyer at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP
in Washington who represents coal-fired utilities. “There is
really a bipartisan consensus that this rule went too far, too
fast,” Segal said in an interview.  The  Sierra Club  filed a petition so that it can preserve
its legal rights to defend EPA’s regulation on mercury and other
toxic pollution from coal-fired  power plants , said Sanjay
Narayan, a lawyer for the San Francisco-based group.  “We have supported the rule throughout,” he said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 