-- Premier League Signs Four-Year Agreement for Global Radio Rights
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-17T23:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/premier-league-signs-four-year-agreement-for-global-radio-rights.html
Fans of  Manchester United , Chelsea
and Liverpool living outside of  Europe  will be able to listen to
live matches in three languages after the Premier League signed
a four-year radio agreement with  UTV Media Plc (UTV) ’s Talksport unit.  The 20-team league is the richest and most popular domestic
competition in world soccer. Its global television sales are
worth a record 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) over three
years with live matches shown in more than 200 countries.  Scott Taunton, Talksport’s chief executive officer, said it
will cost 800,000 pounds to set up radio broadcasts of all 380
games a season in Mandarin, Spanish and English. He forecast a 1
million-pound loss for the first year. Neither Talksport nor the
Premier League disclosed financial terms of the agreement, which
starts with the 2012-13 season.  “The more we looked into the research available it became
obvious that there’s a compelling proposition outside of the
U.K.,” Staunton said in a telephone interview. “We will make
access to commentary ubiquitous: whether on radio or online,
people will be able to find the commentaries easily. It’s our
intention to ensure all of our broadcasts are free.”  Since Belfast-based UTV acquired Talksport in 2005, revenue
at the radio station has almost doubled to 31.5 million pounds.
In March it said Talksport’s operating profit for fiscal 2011
was 7.4 million pounds.  Phil Lines, who was responsible for selling the Premier
League’s last international broadcast rights, said Talksport
“could make a bit of money” because of the league’s
popularity.  “They’re already in the radio business so it’s a natural
expansion or them,” Lines, who now works in the sports unit of
Lagardere SCA, said.  Key Market  Taunton said  Southeast Asia  is expected to be a key market
for the company and it was possible commentary in Thai, Malay
and Indonesian may follow.  “In countries like  Indonesia  more fans claim to be fans of
the Premier League than in the U.K.,” he said, adding the
company is seeking to widen Talksport’s brand outside of the
Britain, where it provides game coverage and sports debate.  Most Premier League games are available worldwide only on
 pay television . Taunton’s company is looking to reach fans that
don’t have access to the premium channels.  “We are planning in the coming days and weeks to meet
internationally with a number of broadcasters and have the basis
of proposition for them already,” he said.  The company is taking a flexible approach, he said. Options
include the direct sale of game broadcasts to radio stations,
websites and bookmakers. Rights may also be given to radio
stations free of charge in return for advertising Talksport’s
online commentary services. It’s also looking to sell global
naming rights to potential sponsors like “a Coke, a Pepsi, or a
Nike,” Taunton said.  The company is also seeking to acquire rights to overseas
rights for  Spain ’s top soccer league and English soccer’s F.A.
Cup as well as international cricket and rugby.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  