-- Prostitutes Push for N.Y. Law Banning Condoms as Evidence
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-04-17T18:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/prostitutes-push-for-new-york-law-banning-condoms-as-evidence.html
Prostitutes are pushing  New York 
lawmakers to make the state the first in the U.S. to ban police
from using condoms as a reason to arrest them.  Condoms are considered probable cause by police when they
make a prostitution arrest, according a report released today by
the Sex Workers Project at the Urban Justice Center in New York.
As a result, prostitutes sometimes don’t carry prophylactics
when working, raising the risk they’ll get and spread HIV/AIDS,
said the report, which was co-written by the PROS Network, a
coalition of sex workers, organizers and service providers.  The groups gathered today in Albany, New York’s capital, to
press lawmakers to pass a previously introduced bill that would
ban the police practice. If it’s approved, New York would follow
 China , which stopped using condoms as evidence to jail
prostitutes in 2007, the report said.  “We have heard from clients so often that they’re afraid
to carry condoms because of police harassment that we know it’s
having a public health impact,”  Sienna Baskin , co-director of
the Sex Workers Project, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “This would be New York taking a leadership role and
addressing an issue other states haven’t yet addressed.”  Included in the report was a survey of 35 sex workers in
New York City, where there were about 2,700 prostitution-related
arrests in 2009, according to the report. Of the 35, 16 said
there are times when they don’t carry condoms out of concern
they’ll be used as evidence against them.  Prostitute’s Dilemma  “I’m damned if I do and damned if I don’t,” a 22-year-old
city prostitute told a researcher, the report said. “I don’t
want to get any disease, but I do want to make money.”  The proposed bill is too broad, said Rhonnie Jaus, the
chief of sex crimes and crimes against children division in the
Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office. It would affect prosecution
of human trafficking crimes, she said.  “Sometimes we need to use the evidence of condoms to prove
cases particularly involving promoting and trafficking,” Jaus
said in a telephone interview today. “To create a law that
completely restricts our use of this evidence would undermine
our ability to prosecute these cases.”  State Senator Velmanette Montgomery, the Brooklyn Democrat
who sponsored the measure, said she gave condoms to her now 25-
year-old son when he was in high school and college.  More Access Needed  “We should be requiring that any person engaged in any
kind of sexual activity should have access to condoms,”
Montgomery said today at a press conference in Albany. “A
condom should not be viewed as an indicator of criminal
activity.”  More than 107,000  New York City  residents are living with
HIV/AIDS, and the rate of infection in the city is three times
the national average, the report said. AIDS is the third leading
cause of death for city residents ages 35 to 54.  “Confiscation of condoms is clearly counterproductive from
a health perspective and disrespectful of the rights of sex
workers to protect themselves from HIV,” the Joint United
Nations Program on HIV/AIDS wrote this year in a report.  New York City has been giving out condoms since 1971, and
in 2007 the  Department of Health  and Mental Hygiene began
issuing its own brand. In 2009, the department distributed more
than 40 million of the contraceptives, the Sex Workers Project
report said.  “It’s a mixed message from the city,” said Julie Falchuk,
program coordinator for FROST’D @  Harlem United , a member agency
of the PROS Network that helped interview the sex workers for
the survey. “It’s clear that public health is not being
considered across all parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  