-- Rajoy Says Other Spanish Companies Won’t Face Expropriation
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-04-17T21:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rajoy-says-other-spanish-companies-won-t-face-expropriation-1-.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he doesn’t expect Argentina to seize any other
Spanish companies, after the South American country announced it
will take a controlling stake in  YPF SA (YPFD)  yesterday.  Speaking on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum on
 Latin America  in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, Rajoy said he thought
the seizure of YPF would be an isolated event. Madrid-based
Repsol valued its 57.4 percent stake in YPF at 4.1 billion euros
($5.4 billion) at the end of 2011, the company said in a
regulatory statement yesterday.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
announced the expropriation of 51 percent of YPF yesterday. She
justified the takeover by blaming Repsol for insufficient
investment in new oil production that’s forcing the nation to
import more energy.  Spain ’s Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria today pledged
retaliation against Argentina. “The consequences will be in the
areas of diplomacy, trade, industry and energy,” Soria said in
an interview on state radio stations RNE. He declined to be more
specific.  Asked if Spanish actions could trigger more takeovers by
the Argentine state, Rajoy replied “no.”  Fernandez yesterday criticized the investment levels of
foreign companies that operate in the telecom and banking
industries, Diario Critico reported.  Telefonica SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are
among the Spanish companies with units in South America’s
second-largest economy.  “What yesterday happened to a Spanish company, somebody
might think it could happen tomorrow to any other investment,”
Rajoy said in a speech earlier today. “It’s a serious
precedent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net . 