-- Rand Surges as Yields Fall Most in 3 Years on Citi Index
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-17T14:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rand-surges-as-yields-fall-most-in-3-years-on-citi-index.html
South African 10-year yields fell
the most in more than three years and the rand led emerging-
market currency gains after Citigroup Inc. said the nation’s
government bonds may be included in its global index.  The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped 21 basis points to 7.73 percent, the lowest since Feb. 3
and the biggest one-day decline since December 17, 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s currency
surged 1.5 percent to 7.8222 per dollar as of 3:37 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  The South African Government Bond Index met all requirements
for inclusion in the World Government Bond Index in April, and
will be included in the gauge from October if it meets needs in
May and June, New York-based Citigroup said in an e-mailed
statement. Inclusion in the index, a first for the continent,
may fuel demand from investors who track the gauge, attracting
as much as $7.5 billion to the nation’s bond market, according
to Citigroup data.  “Long-term it’s obviously very positive,” Malcolm Charles, who manages Investec Asset Management’s 30 billion rand
($&.8 billion) South African bond fund, said by phone from Cape
Town. “It will be supportive of bonds. It means the bonds will
have an underlying bid.”  The requirements for inclusion in the Citigroup index are
size,  credit quality  and a lack of barriers to entry. Eleven
South African local-currency bonds with a combined market value
of $88 billion would be represented in the index, with a
projected weighting of 0.44 percent, Citigroup said.  Spanish Auction  The rand also rallied after  Spain  sold more debt than its
target at an auction, easing concern the nation’s fiscal crisis
will worsen and improving investors’ appetite for riskier
assets. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities gained
for the first time in three days and South Africa’s benchmark
stock  index  advanced, reversing an earlier retreat.  “The Spanish auction was a bit of a help,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “It takes
away one of the huge negative points for risk appetite.”  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 dropped for a fourth day, shedding four basis points to
4.12 percent, the lowest since the bonds were first sold on Jan.
17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to buy the debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries narrowed by three basis points to 209 basis
points.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  