-- Rangers Beat Senators for 2-1 Lead in NHL Playoffs, Bruins Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-17T04:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rangers-beat-senators-1-0-to-take-2-1-lead-in-nhl-playoff-series.html
Brian Boyle scored a goal for the
third straight game as the  New York Rangers  beat the Ottawa
Senators 1-0 to take a two-games-to-one lead in their National
Hockey League first-round playoff series.  Boyle’s third-period tally snapped a scoreless tie at
Scotiabank Place in Ottawa and Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist 
stopped 39 shots for his fourth career postseason shutout.  The Boston Bruins, the second seed in the Eastern
Conference behind the Rangers, beat the Washington Capitals 4-3
for a 2-1 lead in their series. Zdeno Chara scored the winning
goal for the Bruins with one minute, 53 seconds remaining as his
slap shot deflected off the stick of Capitals defenseman Roman Hamrlik and past goaltender Braden Holtby.  The St. Louis Blues held off the  San Jose  Sharks 4-3 in
last night’s final playoff game to take a 2-1 lead their Western
Conference matchup. Andy McDonald had a goal and two assists for
the Blues, who are the No. 2 seed in the West.  In today’s playoff matchups, the Detroit Red Wings host the
 Nashville Predators  trailing 2-1, while the  Phoenix Coyotes 
visit the  Chicago Blackhawks  and the  Florida Panthers  are at the
 New Jersey Devils . Both series are tied at 1-1.  After splitting the first two games in New York,
yesterday’s Game 3 between the Rangers and Senators was
scoreless until Boyle’s goal 7:35 into the final period. A shot
by Dan Girardi came off the boards to Boyle, who flipped a
backhanded shot over Senators goaltender Craig Anderson.  “It went off the boards and then it actually caromed off
the net, so I think that’s what confused Anderson,” Boyle said
in a televised interview. “A fortunate bounce for us for sure.
I was fortunate enough to be in that spot.”  Rangers’ Shutout  Lundqvist completed his shutout with 14 third-period saves,
including several in the final minute after the Senators pulled
their goalie for an extra skater.  The Senators will host the top-seeded Rangers in Game 4 of
the best-of-seven series on April 18.  Chara finished with one goal and two assists for the Bruins,
who also got goals from Brian Rolston, Rich Peverley and Daniel Paille at the Verizon Center in  Washington .  The Capitals, who had tied the score 3-3 on a goal by
Brooks Laich with six minutes left, will host Game 4 of the
best-of-seven series on April 19.  At HP Pavilion in San Jose, California, McDonald scored
1:01 into the second period as the Blues took the lead for good.
Patrik Berglund, Jason Arnott and Alexander Steen also scored
goals as St. Louis, the second seed in the West, opened a 4-1
lead less than one minute into the third period and then held
off a late rally by San Jose.  The Sharks will also host Game 4 on April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  