-- Rare Titian Confirms Durer’s Fear of Venetian Thievery
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rare-titian-confirms-durer-s-fear-of-venetian-thievery.html
On Feb. 7, 1506, Albrecht Durer
wrote home to Nuremberg from  Venice . He had been warned, he
mentioned, not to eat with Venetian painters, presumably to
avoid poisoning since many were his enemies and copied his work.  Durer didn’t specifically mention Titian among those he
darkly suspected, but as a small show -- “Titian: A Fresh Look
at Nature” at the  National Gallery  in London -- makes clear,
the young Venetian had been taking a hard look at the German’s
art.  At its center is one of Titian’s first large-scale
paintings, “The Flight Into Egypt” (c. 1506-7), on loan from
the  Hermitage  in  St. Petersburg , and recently cleaned. Around it
the National Gallery has assembled an array of pictures by
Titian and contemporaries such as Giorgione and partly from its
own collection, partly from loans.  The result is a nicely organized introduction to a moment
of crucial cultural fusion in Western art. Durer wasn’t the only
important figure to stop off in Venice at the start of the 16th
century.  Leonardo da Vinci  was there in 1500, and the effect of
his ideas is visible in the row of early Titian portraits that
begin the exhibition.  “The Flight Into Egypt” might owe something to  Da Vinci ’s
landscape vision, yet also turns out to be full of details that
reflect Durer’s influence, among them a resting deer, an alert
fox and a poppy plant. Northern artists were renowned as
specialists in these detailed observations of nature.  German Guests  The Renaissance art historian Giorgio Vasari went so far as
to attribute Titian’s success in this picture -- in part at
least -- to the artist keeping “some Germans in his house who
were excellent painters of landscape scenery and plants.”  Certainly the dewy naturalism of “The Flight Into  Egypt ”
gives the picture its appeal. The painting is essentially a
landscape, and a surprisingly big one (more than 2 meters by 3
meters or about 6 feet by 10 feet) for this early date. The
sweep of the woods and hills is delightful, with nestling sheep
and figures resting in the shade of the trees. You can see why
John Constable was such a Titian fan.  In the distance -- as Antonio Mazzotta points out in the
accompanying book (“Titian: A Fresh Look at Nature”) -- loom
the Alpine peaks that can be seen from Titian’s boyhood home of
Pieve di Cadore. As a whole, however, the painting is bitty,
with the main figures of the Holy Family group strung along the
front edge in an awkward row.  Cameron, Brown  That unevenness isn’t surprising because when Titian
painted it he was no more than 18 or 19 years old. His age at
any point is uncertain, a fact that led to a bizarre and
inconclusive art historical spat between  David Cameron  and
 Gordon Brown  in 2009.  Brown remarked that the painter did his best work shortly
before dying at 90, Cameron shot back that he died at 86,
complaining that the then U.K. prime minister never got his
facts right. Actually, Titian’s birth date is unknown, and
consequently so is his age at death. Currently, the best guess
is that he was born around 1488-90.  If you want to decide whether Brown was correct in his
wider point -- that Titian got better with age -- go to Room 1
where the late masterpiece “Diana and Callisto” (1556-9),
recently acquired for 45 million pounds ($71 million), is on
display until July 1. It makes an extraordinary exercise in
comparison and contrast with “The Flight Into Egypt,” painted
a half century before, though both feature figures in a richly
mellow landscape.  “Titian: A Fresh Look at Nature” is at the National
Gallery,  London , through Aug. 19. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Jorg von Uthmann on  Paris
art ; Ryan Sutton on  New York dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 