-- RBA Sees Case for Rate Cut If Inflation Eases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-17T03:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rba-sees-case-for-rate-cut-if-inflation-eases.html
Australia ’s central bank said a
weaker expansion flowing through to slower inflation would
increase prospects for the first interest-rate cut this year,
minutes of its April 3 meeting showed.  “Members had lowered their assessment of the pace of
growth somewhat,” the minutes released today by the Sydney-
based  Reserve Bank  of Australia showed. “If slower growth in
demand could be expected to result in a more moderate inflation
outcome, then a case could be made for further easing of
monetary policy.”  The minutes reaffirmed that the next rate reduction hinges
on an April 24 report on first-quarter  inflation , as recent data
indicates the economy is growing slower than the central bank
predicted. The RBA decided against lowering borrowing costs at
its three meetings this year as the global recovery stabilizes
and a mining boom sustains domestic growth.  The RBA board will “have the opportunity at its next
meeting to review the inflation outlook based on comprehensive
new data on prices, as well as information on demand and
output,” the minutes showed. “Members judged it prudent to
evaluate those data before considering a further policy
adjustment.”  Currency Drops  The Australian dollar declined after the minutes, trading
at $1.0333 as of 12:20 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0342 just before
the release and $1.0356 yesterday in  New York .  Traders are pricing in a 90 percent chance the RBA will
reduce borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 4
percent at the next policy meeting on May 1, a Credit Suisse
Group AG index showed.  “The April minutes confirm first quarter inflation data
will be the key input for the May monetary policy decision,”
said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.
“We expect inflation remained benign, making a 25 basis-point
cut in the bag next month.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced borrowing
costs twice late last year as employment stagnated and asset
prices declined even as resource investment surged and the local
dollar strengthened.  “In underlying terms, inflation was expected to remain
within the target” of 2 percent to 3 percent over the year
ahead, policy makers said in the minutes. “Members again noted
that some improvement in productivity growth would be needed to
achieve this forecast.”  ‘Softer Labor Market’  The nation’s  unemployment rate  has held at about 5.25
percent for the past six months even as the currency’s strength
hurts manufacturing and tourism. “Members noted, however, that
an easing in average hours worked and a decline in the
participation rate were indicative of a softer labor market than
implied by the unemployment rate,” the minutes showed.  Since the April 3 meeting, Australian government data have
shown a mixed picture in the domestic economy.  Payrolls rose more than economists forecast in March,
capping the best quarter since the final three months of 2010,
and the unemployment rate held at 5.2 percent.  Australian home-loan approvals fell for a second month on
the fastest exodus of first-home buyers in a decade, and
 consumer confidence  declined to an eight-month low.  ‘Sharp Differences’  Policy makers noted “the sharp differences in performance
between sectors and regions of the economy, and the considerable
structural change that was occurring, as well as the soft
overall conditions in the housing sector and the likelihood of a
significant fiscal tightening in the next few years.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  is aiming to deliver the nation’s
first budget surplus since the global financial crisis when he
releases the document for the 2012-13 fiscal year on May 8.  Australia’s currency has remained above parity with the U.S.
currency for almost four months as the RBA kept the nation’s
benchmark borrowing cost at 4.25 percent, the highest level
among major developed nations.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer,
shuttered its export division in August. Toyota Motor Corp. and
General Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing
the currency’s strength.  Policy makers noted in the minutes that the  exchange rate 
has remained high “in the context of an easing in the terms of
trade,” referring to a measure of export prices relative to
import prices.  U.S. Growth  In the minutes, officials said the U.S. economy’s
“moderate expansion” was continuing, while economic conditions
in several European countries “remained weak.” Growth in  China 
“had slowed to a more sustainable pace, as the authorities
there had intended,” policy makers said.  The expansion in Australia is being driven by China, the
nation’s biggest trading partner, which is buying up  iron ore ,
coal and natural gas as millions of people in the world’s most
populous nation move to urban centers.  Resource projects in Australia valued at A$456 billion
($472 billion) are spurring companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
to increase hiring.  “Growth in Australia’s major trading partners, weighted by
shares of merchandise exports from Australia, was expected to be
around average in 2012,” policy makers said in the minutes.
“This would be underpinned by the continued economic recovery
in the U.S., the prospect of still-solid growth in China, and a
recovery of activity in other parts of east  Asia .”  Mining investment had increased by about 60 percent in 2011
and with a large number of projects already at a commitment
stage, resource investment and export volumes appear likely to
increase further in coming years, policy makers said in the
minutes.  Australia unexpectedly posted back-to-back trade deficits
as coal and metal exports slumped, a government report earlier
this month showed.  “Commodity prices have declined for a few months in late
2011 and were noticeably below their peaks, but generally had
been relatively stable at quite high levels for the past few
months,” policy makers said. “Although Australia’s terms of
trade therefore appeared to have peaked, the level remained
high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  