-- Reading Secures Premier League Return After Four-Year Absence
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-18T02:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/reading-earns-premier-league-promotion-after-beating-forest-1-0.html
Reading beat Nottingham Forest 1-0
to secure promotion to the Premier League after a four-year
absence from English soccer’s elite division.  Mikele Leigertwood’s 81st-minute goal at the Madjeski
Stadium last night sealed the home win that lifted The Royals to
88 points atop the Championship with two matches left,
guaranteeing them a top-two finish.  Reading, which dropped out of the Premier League on the
final day of the 2007-08 season on goal difference, missed out
on promotion last year by losing to Swansea in the playoff final
at Wembley stadium in  London .  “After the worst moment of my career at Wembley, May 30th
last year, now to this, my best moment,” Reading manager Brian
McDermott said on his team’s website. “I can celebrate for the
next couple of months.”  Winning promotion to the world’s richest soccer league is
worth at least 90 million pounds ($143 million), accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from at least 40
million pounds in additional revenue and minimum guaranteed
payments of 48 million pounds in the following four seasons if
they drop straight back down.  Fifty-four percent of all promoted teams retained their
Premier League status the next season, according to Infostrada
Sports. The percentage rises to 63 percent for teams who finish
first in the Championship.  Southampton, West Ham  Second-place Southampton has 85 points after a 3-1 win at
Peterborough. West Ham tied Bristol City 1-1 to advance to 80
points, assuring it will finish at least third. Birmingham is
fourth with 72 points, one ahead of Blackpool and Cardiff.  While the top two teams gain automatic promotion, the next
four play off for the last available spot in the Premier League.  Reading rebounded after taking four points from its first
four matches, sealing promotion with a run of 15 victories in
its past 17 games.  Owner John Madejski is close to selling Reading, which
finished eighth and 18th in its previous two campaigns in the
top flight, to Russian tycoon Anton Zingarevich’s Thames Sports
Investment, the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  