-- Treasuries Decline Amid Signs of Easing in Europe’s Debt Crisis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-17T21:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/treasuries-decline-amid-signs-of-easing-in-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in three days after  Spain  raised more than its maximum target at
a bill auction, buoying global stocks and damping demand for
safer assets.  Ten-year  note yields  climbed from the lowest level in six
weeks amid demand for Spain’s debt and as German investors
confidence rose. Treasuries dropped even as U.S. home starts
unexpectedly decreased and industrial production in the U.S. was
unchanged for a second month in March. Stocks advanced after the
 International Monetary Fund  raised economic growth forecasts.  “We’d gotten pretty low in yields, and now the market is
catching its breath as risk assets are performing somewhat
better,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “There is still a
ton of uncertainty surrounding the Fed and  Europe , so we should
hover around these levels until there is new information.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note climbed two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.0 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent security due in February 2022 dropped 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100. The yield dropped to 1.94 percent
yesterday, the least since March 6.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.6 percent. The  Stoxx
Europe (SXXP)  600 Index advanced 2 percent.  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.1 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 9.8 percent including
reinvested dividends.  Economic Reports  Housing starts dropped 5.8 percent to a 654,000 annual
rate, less than the lowest estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the least since October, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The slump was led by the
multifamily category, which at the same time showed a jump in
permits, a proxy for future construction.  The output last month at factories, mines and utilities
held steady, compared with a median projection for a 0.3 percent
increase in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, data from the
Federal Reserve showed today in Washington. Manufacturing, which
makes up about 75 percent of total production, dropped 0.2
percent in March, the most since April 2011.  ‘Toward the Downside’  “People are dismissing it as a volatile, multifamily
component of the housing-starts data,”  Chris Ahrens , head
 interest-rate  strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at primary
dealer UBS AG, said of the homebuilding drop. “We are telling
people to trade the 10-year very tactically right now, from 1.95
percent to 2.05 percent, with the thought process that the
probability of outcomes are still skewed toward the downside”
for yields.  Germany ’s ZEW report showed investor confidence
unexpectedly rose. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim said its  index  of German investor and analyst
expectations unexpectedly climbed for a fifth month to the
highest level since June 2010.  Spain sold 3.18 billion euros ($4.17 billion) of 12- and
18-month bills, surpassing the government’s target of 3 billion
euros.  “We are in a relief mode today, in terms of the  euro
zone ,” said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in  London . “There was relief in the Spanish bill sales.
The equity market has a bid to it and that in turn has put some
upward pressure on Treasury yields.”  Fed’s Buying  The Fed bought $1.88 billion of Treasuries due from 2036 to
2042 today, according to the  New York  Fed’s  website , part of its
program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities to hold down borrowing costs.
The central bank has pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate
near zero until late 2014 to support growth.  The 10-year Treasury note yield would be as high as 3.1
percent if the Fed’s accommodative policies and European debt
concerns weren’t present in the market,  Adrian Miller , a fixed-
income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  “We will continue to have the questions of what is going
on in Europe and what will the Fed do,” he said, “and that
will keep us hovering around these levels, putting a lid on
perspective increases in rates that would ordinarily result in
higher yields.”  The 10-year yield will increase to 2.57 percent by year-
end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  Going Long  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said investors raised expectations for
price gains in Treasuries by 10 percentage points to 25 percent,
the most on record, in a weekly sentiment survey. Neutral
positions decreased by 15 percentage points to 57 percent. Short
positions, or bets prices will decline, increased by 6
percentage points to 19 percent.  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year and 4.1
percent in 2013, the Washington-based IMF said today in its
World Economic Outlook, raising forecasts made in January from
3.3 percent for 2012 and 4.0 percent for next year. The U.S.
will grow 2.1 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2013, up from
1.8 percent and 2.2 percent in the lender’s January projections.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has widened to 2.29 percentage points from
1.95 percentage points at the end of last year. The average over
the past decade is 2.14 percentage points.  TIPS Sale  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, a  measure 
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.71 percent on April 12, below its
2.76 percent average during the past decade.  The U.S. plans to sell $16 billion of five-year TIPS on
April 19. Merrill Lynch’s TIPS  index (SPX)  has gained 2.5 percent this
year, reflecting demand for inflation protection.  The 30-year bond yield may fall toward a seven-week low
after breaking below its 100-day moving average of 3.11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate dropped to
3.09 percent yesterday, the lowest since March 7. The yield may
find support at its Feb. 28 low of 3.02 percent. Support refers
to an area where buy orders may be clustered.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury rose one basis points
today to 3.14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  