-- Treasuries Hold Gain on Concern Debt Crisis Is Deepening
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-04-17T08:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/treasuries-hold-gain-on-concern-debt-crisis-is-deepening.html
Treasury 10-year yields stayed
below 2 percent for a third day on speculation the European
sovereign-debt crisis is intensifying.  U.S. government bonds have returned 1.3 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors a 3.2 percent
loss in the period including reinvested dividends, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Spanish 10-year yields climbed to a four-
month high yesterday before the nation sells bonds this week.
China’s government is taking steps to slow growth, Pacific
Investment Management Co. said.  “The environment still remains supportive for
Treasuries,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Ten-
year yields below 2 percent reflect risk-aversion concerns
stemming from the euro-region’s debt crisis and uncertainty
surrounding the global economy.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note was little changed
at 1.98 percent at 9:22 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent security due in February 2022
traded at 100 5/32. The yield dropped to 1.94 percent yesterday,
the least since March 6. The 30-year yield was also little
changed, at 3.13 percent.  Spain  is scheduled to sell 12- and 18-month bills today,
followed by auctions of debt due in 2014 and 2022 on April 19.
The nation’s 10-year yield rose to 6.16 percent yesterday, the
most since Dec. 1 and approaching the 7 percent level that
pushed  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek rescue packages.  Europe Concern  “There are some risks to the current economic situation:
European sovereign debt and China,” said Kei Katayama, who buys
non-Japanese bonds at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which oversees
the equivalent of $61.6 billion from Tokyo, including  Asia ’s
second-largest mutual fund. “Investors are relying on safer
assets such as Treasuries.”  China will curb economic growth to address over-investment
and bad loans that built up after policy makers used stimulus to
combat the 2008 financial crisis, according to Pimco, which runs
the world’s biggest mutual fund.  “Aside from some cuts in the reserve requirement ratio, we
do not expect to see aggressively expansionary policy to combat
the incremental economic slowdown that is unfolding right now in
 China ,” Ramin Toloui, Singapore-based co-head of the global
emerging markets portfolio management team, wrote in a  report  on
the company’s website.  Largest Creditor  China was the largest foreign U.S. creditor in February
amid a rebound in the country’s foreign-currency reserves as
 Japan ’s purchases of Treasuries picked up.  China’s holdings rose for a second month, increasing by 1.1
percent to $1.18 trillion, U.S. Treasury data released yesterday
show. Those of Japan, America’s second-largest lender, climbed
1.2 percent to $1.096 trillion. Net foreign purchases of
Treasuries rose $41.2 billion, or 0.8 percent, to a record $5.1
trillion, the data show.  Ten-year Treasury yields less than 2 percent may be too low
given the signs of a U.S. economic recovery, said Toyota Asset
Management Co., a unit of the world’s biggest automaker by
market value.  Home starts rose to a 705,000 annual rate in March
following a 698,000 pace the prior month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce Department data today.
Existing-home sales increased 0.7 percent last month, a separate
survey showed ahead of the April 19 report by the National
Association of Realtors.  Industrial production gained 0.3 percent in March after
being little changed in February, economists said before the
 Federal Reserve  releases the figure today.  ‘Recovering Modestly’  “The  U.S. economy  keeps recovering modestly,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the equivalent of $22 billion as
chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management in Tokyo. “Yields
at current levels are too low.”  The 10-year yield will increase to 2.57 percent by year-
end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has widened to 2.26 percentage points from
1.95 percentage points at the end of last year. The average over
the past decade is 2.14 percentage points.  Break-Even Rate  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, a  measure 
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.71 percent on April 12, below its
2.76 percent average during the past decade.  The U.S. plans to sell $16 billion of five-year TIPS on
April 19. Merrill Lynch’s TIPS index has gained 2.5 percent this
year, reflecting demand for inflation protection.  The Fed has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero until late 2014 to support growth. The U.S. central
bank is also replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities to hold down borrowing costs. It
is scheduled to buy as much as $2 billion of Treasuries due from
2036 to 2042 today as part of the program, according to the New
York Fed’s  website .  The 30-year bond yield may fall toward a seven-week low
should it break below its 100-day moving average at 3.11
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
dropped to 3.09 percent yesterday, the lowest since March 7. The
yield may find support at its Feb. 28 low of 3.02 percent.
Support refers to an area where buy orders may be clustered  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  