-- Republicans Propose Energy Cuts as Fossil Fuels Boosted
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-17T15:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/republicans-propose-energy-cuts-as-fossil-fuels-boosted.html
House Republicans  released a fiscal
2013 Energy Department budget plan shifting more money to
fossil-fuel programs while cutting total spending to $26.3
billion, about $358 million less than this year.  The House Appropriations Committee energy panel will vote
tomorrow on the measure, which reflects the differing energy
policy priorities between President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans. The committee said the Republican
budget is about $1.8 billion lower than Obama’s 2013 request.  If it passes the Republican-controlled House, the bill
would face a Senate led by Democrats.  The draft budget gives priority to programs that “support
economic competitiveness,” reduce gasoline price volatility and
enhance U.S. energy security, Republicans said in a statement.  “While cutting spending in lower-priority programs, the
bill focuses taxpayer dollars where they are most needed and
best used,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold
Rogers, a  Kentucky  Republican, said in a statement.  Obama’s budget request calls for increasing spending on
 energy efficiency  and alternate energy by 25 percent. Projects
supporting oil, natural gas and cleaner coal would receive $554
million, or $207 million more than they did in fiscal 2012,
under the Republican proposal.  Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers’s home state
of Kentucky is the third-largest U.S. coal producer, behind
 Wyoming  and  West Virginia .  Republicans would also provide $25 million to revive the
Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository in Nevada, which the
Obama administration has moved to shut.  The House bill also provides $1.01 billion, or $36 million
above fiscal year 2012, to Energy programs that address the
causes and effects of increased gasoline prices, according to
the committee. That includes a $25 million appropriation for
research into shale oil resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  