-- Retailers Adding Workers Makes U.S. March Decline a Blip
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/retailers-adding-workers-makes-u-s-march-decline-a-blip.html
Applicants weren’t deterred by the
heavy rain that fell in  San Francisco  when local  Jamba Inc. (JMBA) 
outlets opened their doors for the smoothie chain’s first
nationwide summer job fair on March 27.  “There were many stores that were packed,” said Kathy
Wright, Jamba’s vice president of human resources, who made the
Bay Area rounds that day. “We were interviewing under tents out
in the rain. Even with the bad weather we had great people.”
The Emeryville, California-based retailer is opening new stores
and looking to fill 2,500 positions across the country.  Other merchants, including specialty retailer  Mattress
Firm Holding Corp. (MFRM) , also plan to add jobs this year. The
Houston-based company says it’s looking for 200 workers to beef
up its sales and corporate staffs as it expands. The response of
such companies is easing concerns about an April 6 U.S. jobs
report that showed retail employment declined by about 34,000 in
March from the previous month.  As shoppers spent money on goods ranging from electronics
to clothing and furniture, retail sales rose last month by 0.8
percent, the Commerce Department  reported  yesterday. The
increase was almost three times higher than forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Receipts at  chain stores 
climbed 4.1 percent from a year earlier, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  reported.  Sales Creates Hiring  Growth in sales tends to create hiring, said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist in  New York  at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. “The strength in first-quarter retail spending
means we should see a meaningful snapback in retail hiring this
quarter.”  Stores “will be adding jobs this year, not unlike what we
saw on a year-over-year basis last year,” said Jack Kleinhenz,
chief economist at the National Retail Federation, a Washington-
based trade group. “There are concerns out there, but on the
other hand there’s momentum in hiring and in spending.”  That momentum sometimes has been slow and uneven. Last
month’s drop in retail payrolls was the biggest decline since
October 2009, and merchants have regained only a third of jobs
lost in 2008 and 2009, according to the Kronos Retail Labor
Index, a measure of the health of the sector’s labor market
prepared by  Macroeconomic Advisers  LLC.  Retailers have been adding about 35,000 employees a month,
on average, for the past six months. While that’s below the pre-
recession average of 55,000 in 2006 and 2007, it’s “sufficient
to see a slow rise in retail employment,” said  Chris Varvares ,
senior managing director of Macroeconomic Advisers in  St. Louis ,
Missouri. “The retail sector over the last three months has
trended higher at a very solid pace.”  One in Four Americans  The numbers are important because retailers employ about
one in four Americans, according to their trade group. Retail
sales accounted for 50 percent of  consumer spending  in 2011,
Commerce Department data show.  Investors have driven up their shares as spending
increases. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index,
which includes  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Gap Inc., has gained  17 percent 
this year through April 16 compared with  8.9 percent  for the
broader  S&P 500 .  Varvares and other economists call the March payroll report
an anomaly caused by the mild winter. Balmy weather in much of
the country might have coaxed shoppers out in January and
February, leading merchants to add or retain workers in those
months at the expense of March hiring.  Low-Employment Sectors  Still, the first-quarter sales rally won’t necessarily
translate into a hiring boom, said Richard Hastings, macro and
consumer strategist at Global Hunter Securities LLC in
Charlotte, North Carolina. Some of last month’s growth was due
to higher  gasoline  prices and expansion in low-employment
sectors of the industry, including deep-discount chains  Dollar
Tree Inc. (DLTR) ,  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  and  Dollar General Corp. (DG)   “We have to ask ourselves, how many people work in each
store?” Hastings said. Also, large stores have become highly
efficient at managing their workforce, for example scheduling
staff only during peak shopping hours, he said.  Internet-based sales expanded faster than brick-and-mortar
sales, growing by 9.3 percent in March from a year earlier
compared with 6.5 percent, the Commerce Department reported, as
online retailers, including Amazon.com Inc., continue to raid
traditional merchants’ customer base.  “Retail-trade employment, long term, is not growing,”
Hastings said.  Industry Changes  Industry changes are evident. Some large department stores
are restructuring to adapt to more-nimble competitors and
changing shopper demand. Plano, Texas-based  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  this
month said it will eliminate nearly 1,000 positions.  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , based in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, plans to
close 62 of its 4,010 stores in the first half of the year and
has not estimated the number of jobs lost. Richfield, Minnesota-
based  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  will shutter 50 big-box locations, the
company announced in March, cutting 400 jobs in its corporate
and support areas plus an unspecified number of store personnel.  Others are aggressively expanding. Macy’s, the owner of its
namesake and Bloomingdale’s chains, said in February that it may
hire 4,000 new employees this year, matching the 4,000 positions
it added last year.  Ulta Salon Cosmetics & Fragrance Inc. (ULTA) , based in
Bolingbrook, Illinois, plans to hire 2,000 employees this year
to staff 100 new stores and a distribution center for its makeup
and hair-care products.  The optimism extends to smaller merchants, too. South Moon
Under, a privately held mid-Atlantic fashion retailer, has seen
15 consecutive months of improved sales at its 15 stores,
climbing back to pre-recession levels last year. Now the Berlin,
Maryland, company plans two new locations and will add 50 people
to its 325-person staff in the coming months.  “Business is growing rather rapidly,” Chief Executive
Officer Frank Gunion said. “We’re becoming more aggressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  