-- Rhinos Run Wild as Paris Grand Palais Becomes Arty Zoo
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rhinos-run-wild-as-paris-grand-palais-becomes-arty-zoo.html
You could call it an indoor zoo.  “Beaute Animale,” a new exhibition at the  Grand Palais  in
Paris, features 120 paintings, drawings, sculptures and
photographs of animals.  There are many masterpieces in the show -- Goya’s fighting
cats, Guericault’s melancholy horses, Audubon’s U.S. birds and
Courbet’s dying trout, a self-portrait of the despondent painter
who was doing time because of his key role in the Commune revolt
and the demolition of the column on Place Vendome.  Durer’s famous hare hasn’t budged from its wall in Vienna’s
 Albertina . Instead, there’s his no less famous rhino, a gift
from an Indian prince to King Manuel I of  Portugal .  The artist hadn’t seen the sensation of the Lisbon court
with his own eyes, which explains why he added -- maybe inspired
by the mythical unicorn -- a second horn on the animal’s back.  Another diplomatic gift, a giraffe sent in 1826 by the
viceroy of  Egypt  to Charles X, the last Bourbon king in  France ,
walked the 770-kilometer distance from Marseille to Paris where
it lived for about 20 years in the  Jardin des Plantes , feeding a
cottage industry of prints, scarves, plates and other souvenirs.  Not all the artists in the show are household names.  One of the funniest canvases, “Monkeys as Art Critics”
(1889), is by the Munich-based Gabriel von Max. A fervent
Darwinist, he loved to portray monkeys with human features and
even kept some of his models as pets.  Western Beasts  To narrow the vast field, the organizers have limited the
exhibition to Western art from the Renaissance to the present.
That deprives us of the rich medieval fauna -- heraldic animals
and emblems of saints.  You also look in vain for Rembrandt’s slaughtered oxen or
Picasso’s bullfights. This is a sensitive show drumming up
support for endangered species and pleading for biodiversity.  The most serious omission is the lack of any structure,
chronological or otherwise.  Jeff Koons ’s 1991 wooden poodle
peacefully faces Horace Vernet’s 1848 sketch of a ram.  At one point, a wall text raises the question as to why we
find certain animals cute and detest others.  Georges Louis Buffon, the great naturalist, we are told,
proclaimed in his “Histoire Naturelle” (1749-1804) that the
horse was “the most noble animal.” The cat, by contrast, had
“innate malice, a false character and a perverse temperament.”  The only reason to tolerate cats in the house, according to
Buffon, is that they chase other, even less agreeable beasts.  The organizers lamely conclude that tastes do change. They
also demonstrate that a few artists swam against the stream:  Van Gogh  painted a bat,  Louise Bourgeois  was obsessed with spiders.  If you expect a systematic exploration of the role animals
played in art history, you’ll be disappointed. As a personal
selection of often beautiful works, the show merits a visit.  “Beaute Animale” is at the Grand Palais, Paris, through
July 16. Information:  http://www.rmngp.fr . The exhibition is
sponsored by  Vetoquinol SA. (VETO)   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on  London 
art; Ryan Sutton on  New York dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 