-- Rio Sees China Copper Use Growing More Than 8% a Year
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-04-17T20:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rio-sees-china-copper-use-growing-more-than-8-a-year-correct-.html
China ’s copper demand will probably
grow more than 8 percent annually in the next five years as the
country uses more of the metal to develop its power
infrastructure, Rio Tinto Group’s head of copper said.  Continuing Chinese copper demand will reduce stockpiles of
the metal in the second half of this year,  Andrew Harding , the
head of Rio Tinto Group’s copper division, said in an interview
in Santiago today.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange has declined 4.7 percent in April on concerns that
Chinese growth will slow. China is the world’s largest copper
user, buying more than a third of global output.  Copper futures for July delivery climbed 0.5 percent to
settle at $3.654 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the price fell as much as 1.2 percent. The metal has
gained 5.7 percent this year.  Chinese copper purchases probably will recover in the
second half as stockpiles run down, helping generate another
deficit of copper cathodes,  Charlie Sartain , head of Xstrata
Plc’s copper division said today. Demand may exceed supply by
500,000 metric tons this year, Vanessa Davidson, a London-based
analyst at metals consultancy CRU said in a presentation today.  China’s spending on infrastructure including its  power grid 
is “far from complete”,  Diego Hernandez , chief executive
officer of Chile’s state-owned Codelco, the world’s largest
copper producer, said today. Global output will rise to 22
million metric tons if all expansions planned by mining
companies go ahead, leading to a supply excess, Hernandez said.  Harding said he is “confident” that Rio will achieve its
target of starting the Oyu Tolgoi copper project in Mongolia in
the first half of next year as the country negotiates a power
agreement with neighboring China. The opening of Oyu Tolgoi,
which will cost $6 billion to build, won’t “dent” prices
because of rising demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  