-- Rio Tinto’s Iron Ore Production Misses Analyst Estimates
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-04-17T16:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rio-tinto-first-quarter-iron-ore-gains-9-on-mine-expansions.html
Rio (RIO)  Tinto Group, the third-biggest
mining company, reported a lower-than-estimated 9 percent
increase in first-quarter  iron ore  production as inclement
weather disrupted mining operations.  Output of the steelmaking raw material rose to 45.6 million
metric tons in the three months to March 31 from 41.9 million
tons a year earlier, London-based Rio said in a statement today.
The result compares with the 47 million-ton median estimate of
three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rio, the second-largest iron ore exporter behind  Brazil ’s
Vale SA, is spending at least $15.6 billion on expanding its
iron ore operations to meet demand from  China . Three tropical
cyclones in the quarter forced the stoppage of exports at its
West Australian operations in the Pilbara.  “There were weather activities that have hit some of those
production locations so it is just slightly below the area of
expectations,”  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at Shaw Stockbroking
Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “They will be able to recover
that lost production.”  Rio rose 2.3 percent to close at 3,517.5 pence in London
trading after dropping 0.8 percent to A$64.70 in Sydney earlier.  “We had a solid first quarter,” Chief Executive Officer
Tom Albanese said in the statement. “We were therefore well
positioned for the relatively strong markets in the first
quarter, albeit with continued volatility as we anticipated.”  Steel Production  Steel production in China, Rio’s biggest customer, rose to
a record last month as new plants increased production amid
higher prices, the National Bureau of Statistics said on April
13. Spot iron ore prices gained 6.5 percent in the quarter.  “Inventories of steel have stopped rising, and have
started to decline in the last month which is a good sign for
the market, suggesting it’s not just a margin story but a demand
story,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said by phone yesterday.  Rio said today it expects to produce 250 million tons of
iron ore this year from its operations in  Canada  and Australia.
It may report  net income  of $6.7 billion in the first half, down
from $7.6 billion a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company plans to boost output in Australia’s Pilbara
region to 283 million tons by the end of 2013 and to 353 million
tons by the end of the first half of 2015.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the third-biggest shipper of iron ore, is doubling capacity. BHP
reports its quarterly production tomorrow.  Copper Down  Rio produced 119,500 tons of mined copper, down 18 percent
from a year ago because of lower grades at its Kennecott Utah
operation. It expects mined and refined copper output of 600,000
tons and 320,000 tons during this year respectively.  Aluminum output was 9 percent lower at 854,000 tons because
of a labor dispute at a smelter in Canada and the closing of a
plant in the U.K., taking idled capacity to 412,000 tons, Rio
said. Output may total 2.2 million tons this year, it said.  Rio announced in October it’s planning to divest or close
13 aluminum assets, including smelters and alumina plants from
 Australia  to the U.S., to improve the group’s financial
performance. Rio may choose an in-specie distribution or a
separate listing for the assets, UBS AG said Oct. 17.  Selling Assets  Rio, following a similar announcement from BHP in November,
is considering selling diamond assets that delivered earnings of
$10 million last year because the mines no longer fit its
strategy, the company said last month. Production of the
precious gems rose 41 percent in the first quarter.  Hard coking coal rose 5 percent on the previous year to 1.7
million tons. Heavy rainfall during March is expected to hamper
production during the second quarter, Rio said. Thermal coal
output rose 3 percent to 4.1 million tons after Rio bought the
remainder of Coal & Allied Industries Ltd.  Rio expects to spend $16 billion in 2012 on new projects
and expansions, it said. “Further project approvals, mainly in
the Pilbara, are likely to increase this level of investment as
the growth program continues,” the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  