-- Roche’s Avastin Rejected by U.K. for Use in Breast Cancer
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/roche-s-avastin-rejected-by-u-k-for-use-in-breast-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin doesn’t
meet cost criteria for extending the lives of breast-cancer
patients when combined with the chemotherapy drug capecitabine,
and shouldn’t be used as a first-line treatment, the U.K.
medical-spending regulator said.  An appraisal by the National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence found it was unclear whether Avastin, also
known as bevacizumab, extended overall survival and improved
patients’ quality of life more than capecitabine alone, the
agency said today in a statement.  The regulator advises the  National Health Service  on which
treatments represent value for money as part of the state
health-care provider’s decisions on drug purchases. Based on the
assessment, Avastin probably isn’t worth the average monthly
cost to the NHS of about 3,689.12 pounds ($5,874.55) per
patient, NICE said.  “We understand the need for effective treatments that can
help patients live for as long as possible with a good quality
of life,”  Andrew Dillon , chief executive officer of London-
based NICE, said in the statement. “However, the evidence
submitted to our independent appraisal committee did not
conclusively show that bevacizumab could do either.”  Avastin also failed to win the backing of NICE last year
for the treatment of breast cancer that has spread when combined
with paclitaxel, another chemotherapy. The agency’s final
guidance on Avastin with capecitabine, sold by Roche as Xeloda,
will be published in August.  "This draft guidance is not the final recommendation from 
NICE," Roche said in an e-mailed statement. "Roche is committed 
to working with NICE and will respond to the draft guidance."  NICE compared Avastin and capecitabine with capecitabine
and a placebo. While Avastin halted progression of the disease
for 2.9 months longer than the chemotherapy alone, it was
unclear if the drug extended patients’ lives, NICE said.  The decision follows a U.S. Food and Drug Administration
move in November to revoke approval of Avastin as a treatment
for metastatic  breast cancer . Avastin, with 5.29 billion Swiss
francs ($5.78 billion) in 2011 sales, didn’t extend lives and
triggered side effects including high  blood pressure  and
bleeding when used for the disease, the FDA said on Nov. 18. The
drug remains approved in the U.S. for colon, lung, kidney and
brain cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  