-- Romania Receives 4 Non-Binding Bids for Majority in Oltchim
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-04-17T14:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/romania-receives-4-non-binding-bids-for-majority-in-oltchim-1-.html
Romania  received four preliminary
non-binding bids for a majority stake in  Oltchim SA (OLT) , an
unprofitable state-owned chemical company.  Germany ’s  PCC SE , which already owns a minority stake in
Oltchim,  Russia ’s JSC TISE and two Romanian companies,  Pegamont
SA  and AISA Invest SA, submitted offers, the Economy Ministry
said in an e-mailed statement today in Bucharest.  The ministry “will complete the presentation paperwork and
will organize an auction to sell Oltchim, based on the
negotiation of the preliminary, non-binding offers,” it said in
the statement. Romania plans to hold the auction on May 31, said
Florin Vladan, a ministry director in charge of state-asset
sales, on March 27.  Romania’s government pledged to the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union to sell stakes in state-owned
companies, mostly energy producers, to help ease the budgetary
financing burden as it aims to lower the deficit to 1.9 percent
of gross domestic product this year from 4.35 percent last year.  Oltchim  shares  rose 3 percent to close at 0.99 leu today,
valuing the company at 340 million lei ($102 million).  The potential investors interested in the stake also have
the option to negotiate with  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  on a takeover of its
Arpechim refinery to have a “fully integrated company,”
according to Vladan. The government aims to sell its entire 54.8
percent stake in Oltchim, while Petrom seeks to fully close the
Arpechim refinery this year as part of a cost-cutting program.  The government extended the Oltchim sale from an original
date of April 30 to wait for the European Commission’s approval
of a debt-to-equity swap, aimed at increasing the company’s
capital before the stake sale. It received the clearing from the
European Union’s competition regulator on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  