-- Rosen to Romney Leaves Some Women Weary of Mom Debate
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/rosen-to-romney-leaves-some-women-weary-of-working-mom-debate.html
Democrat Kadie Whalen, 32, is a
stay-at-home mother raising three kids. Republican Evelyn
Valleao, 44, works full-time yet says she wishes she was
financially able to be home with her four children. And Rosie
Kohn, a 60-year-old Republican skeptical of  Mitt Romney , went
back to work 10 years ago after raising five children.  There’s one thing they all agree on, though: Politicians
shouldn’t be wasting their time wading into the mommy wars.  “There are bigger issues,” Kohn said, standing outside a
supermarket in suburban Philadelphia. “God almighty, why do
people worry about stuff like that?”  The comment by Democratic strategist Hilary Rosen that Ann Romney, the wife of the Republican presidential contender,
“never worked a day in her life” sparked a political dispute
that pulled in some of the most prominent women in politics.  While Romney, trailing President  Barack Obama  among women
in the polls, has tried to capitalize on the comment as a sign
that Democrats don’t respect the work of stay-at-home mothers,
interviews with more than a dozen female voters in swing states
show it isn’t working. The women say they want candidates to
talk about the economy, gas prices and fiscal issues that affect
their lives, not about the choices they’ve made in them.  “I think it’s a little old-fashioned for this day and time
to be even having that conversation,” said Tricia Graham, a
mother of two who works as a school principal in Phoenix.
“Personally, I know more men that stay home with kids than I
know women. It’s a much different conversation now.”  ‘Patronizing’ Debate  The political debate “feels patronizing” to many women
voters, said Ruth Mandel,  director  of  Rutgers University ’s
Eagleton Institute of Politics in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  “The challenges women are facing have to do with how to
make their lives work as workers outside the home and as
managers inside the home,” she said. “It’s taken for granted
that women are trying to manage complex lives.”  With women likely to make up more than half the electorate
next November, the pressure is intense for both parties to find
a way to connect with them. The stakes are highest for Romney,
who is running behind Obama by 16 points among women voters,
according to a CNN/ORC International  poll  released yesterday.
The poll was taken April 13-15, after Rosen made her comment on
CNN.  ‘Early Birthday Gift’  Seeking to gain some ground, Romney’s campaign also seized
on Rosen’s remark as a chance to elevate  Ann Romney ’s profile.
At an April 15 fundraiser, a day before her 63rd birthday, she
told supporters that the comment was “an early birthday gift,”
according to NBC News, calling it “a really defining moment.”  “I love the fact that we’re talking about this,” she said
yesterday in  an interview  with ABC News.  Yet while most of the women interviewed disagreed with
Rosen’s remarks -- which Obama campaign officials also denounced
as inappropriate -- they say they don’t relate to Ann Romney
either.  “It wasn’t hard for her to stay at home because she could
get all the help she needed,” said Whalen, as she tied flowers
into small bouquets for her two daughters in a Wynnewood,
 Pennsylvania , park. “She’s not a figure women today can
identify with.”  More than 71 percent of mothers work, according to the 2011
Bureau of Labor Statistics Databook on Women in the  Labor Force .
Women also held a majority of nonfarm payroll jobs in January
2010 -- for the first time since the U.S. Department of Labor
started collecting data in 1964.  Would Do Same  A number of women interviewed said they envied Ann Romney’s
ability to stay home with her children, saying they would do the
same if they could afford to take the pay cut.  Sherry Woods, a sales manager and mother of a 14-year-old,
said Rosen’s comments were “callous” and showed a lack of
respect for those Republicans, like her, who take family values
seriously.  “It is a hard job,” she said. “You’re a housekeeper,
you’re an accountant, medical personnel.”  Still, Woods questioned whether Ann Romney understood the
sacrifices most women have to make. Mitt Romney, 65, who co-
founded private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, has an estimated
wealth of as much as $250 million, according to his campaign.  Woods, a 41-year-old from Hampton Woods,  Virginia , stayed
home for eight months after she had her children. Then, she had
to go back to work so her family could get medical benefits.  “I had no choice; I would be home if I could,” she said.
“Ann Romney doesn’t know what it’s really like.”  Financial Sacrifice  There are also those who decided to stay at home, even
though it was economically challenging for their families.  Watching her children play in a suburban Philadelphia park,
Jen Russo recounted the financial sacrifices she and her husband
made so she could raise their four children at home. The couple
has chosen to have one car to save money, and when they were
younger once had their phone service cut off because they
couldn’t pay the bill.  “We made those choices,” the former preschool teacher
said. “But it was better than the alternative for me.”  Russo said she plans to return to work once her youngest, a
4-year-old playing in a nearby stream, enters school. Even now,
though, she sees a lot of common ground with her sister, who is
raising her children while working. Both of them, she said,
balance their children with other household priorities, like
cooking dinner, helping with homework and paying bills.  “There’s still negotiations that everyone has to do,” she
said. “There are good days and bad days. You just try not to
yell too much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  