-- Russia’s VTB Plans Middle East Push as Others Withdraw
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-04-18T08:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/russia-s-vtb-capital-plans-middle-east-push-as-others-withdraw.html
VTB Capital, the investment banking
unit of  Russia ’s second-biggest lender, is expanding its
equities division in Dubai as brokerages retreat from the
region.  The bank started trading  Middle East , Turkish and Polish
shares in February and plans to expand its investment banking
services in the Gulf Cooperation Council region, Makram Abboud,
chief executive officer of the Middle East and Africa said in e-
mailed responses to questions from Bloomberg yesterday. The
company declined to say how many people it employs in Dubai.  “VTB Capital does not have the legacy issues that are
impacting many other firms,” said Abboud, who was appointed in
January. “We are able to grow our business at a time when many
others are downsizing, reducing their capabilities and
withdrawing from specific markets and businesses.”  VTB (VTBR)  is expanding in Dubai as the emirate rebounds from its
biggest financial crisis. Stock trading surged eightfold in the
first quarter, the most among the world’s 40 biggest markets. In
2011, share prices and trading values fell to their lowest
levels since 2004, leading 50 of the 98 local brokerages active
in 2008 to suspend operations.  The benchmark  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  has
risen 22 percent this year after losing 17 percent in 2011. The
measure was trading 0.4 percent higher at 1655.01 at 12:16 p.m.
in Dubai.  Brokerage Suspensions  Banks including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  have trimmed their equities or equity research divisions
after trading on the  Dubai Financial Market  plunged to a six-
year low in 2010. Al Futtaim HC Securities LLC, a Dubai-based
broker ranked first by value traded in July according to the
 Dubai Financial Market website , said on Jan. 4 it would stop
operating in the U.A.E.  “We are creating a global investment business so what we
are trying to build in Dubai is very close to what the other
large international investment banks have established in this
region,” Abboud said. “Trade and financial flows between
Russia, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa and  Asia 
will increase and VTB Capital is uniquely positioned to
participate in these flows and support our clients.”  VTB Capital plans to provide advisory, mergers and
acquisitions, equity and fixed-income trading, structured
lending and asset management services throughout the Middle East
and  Africa , Abboud said.  “We are seeing a market that is relatively positive at the
moment,” he said. “We will probably see this tendency for a
little longer, but the fundamental issues of the euro zone
crisis and Arab Spring are far from being resolved and the
volatility is bound to come back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  