-- Russian Stocks Dragged Down by Gazprom as Putin Slams Gas Tax
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-04-17T14:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/russian-stocks-dragged-down-by-gazprom-as-putin-slams-gas-tax.html
Russian stocks fell for a second
day as OAO Gazprom, the gas export monopoly, tumbled after
president-elect  Vladimir Putin  said the tax burden on the
nation’s natural gas producers is too low, while weak Chinese
economic data curbed investor appetite for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  of 30 shares fell 0.4 percent to 1,471.61
by the close in Moscow. Gazprom, which has the third-biggest
weighting in the gauge, plunged 2.1 percent. Preferred shares of
oil producer OAO Surgutneftegas retreated 2.5 percent while OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov’s steelmaker, sank 0.9 percent.  Gazprom sank to 170.90 rubles, its biggest one-day fall
since April 6, after Putin told a government meeting today that
gas taxes are “economically unjustified.” Emerging-market
stocks dropped after foreign direct investment into  China  fell
for a fifth month, outweighing a better-than-expected auction of
Spanish debt.  “There has been talk of raising taxes for gas producers
for years,” Michael Kart, managing partner at Spectrum Partners
Ltd. in Moscow, said by phone. “The net effect on Gazprom’s
profit and loss is unknown, but everyone is jittery and that has
snowballed into a sell-off.”  ‘Thickening’ Clouds   Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, slid 0.4 percent
to $114.25 a barrel. Foreign direct investment in China fell 6.1
percent in March from a year earlier, according to data from the
Ministry of Commerce today. Industrial production in the U.S.
was unexpectedly little changed in March for a second month,
data from the  Federal Reserve  showed today in  Washington .  “Clouds are thickening,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist
at Troika Dialog, wrote in an e-mailed report today. “The
metals and mining sector, globally and in Russia, has been among
the weakest in recent weeks because of China fears. That
weakness looks to have more to run before finding some
stability.”  Spanish bonds gained as the nation sold 12-month and 18-
month bills a day after borrowing costs climbed to the highest
level this year.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.3 percent to $29.74 today. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, slipped 0.8 percent to 31.87 points.  Today’s decline in the Micex trimmed this year’s advance to
4.9 percent. The benchmark gauge is valued at 5.5 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies, compared with
a 13 times for  Brazil ’s Bovespa equity index, which has climbed
10 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  