-- S. Africa Yields Seen at 3-Year Low by RBS on Bond Index
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-18T14:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/s-africa-yields-seen-at-3-year-low-by-rbs-on-world-bond-index.html
South Africa ’s proposed addition to
Citigroup Inc.’s World Bond Index may drive yields to the lowest
in more than three years based on Mexico’s experience, according
to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The yield on South Africa’s 10.5 percent bonds due 2026
dropped four basis points today to 8.16 percent, the lowest
since Feb. 3. The yield dropped 23 basis points yesterday, the
most since 2009, after Citigroup said it may include the
nation’s debt in the index. It may fall as low as 7.70 percent
in coming months, according to Demetrios Efstathiou and Roderick Ngotho, London-based RBS analysts. That would be the lowest
level since January 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The rate on  Mexico ’s 7.5 percent bonds due 2027, known as
Mbonos, fell 97 basis points in the months leading up to the
Latin American nation’s inclusion in the index in October 2010.  “Like in the case of Mexican Mbonos, we think that an
outperformance of the South African market should be expected in
the near future,” Efstathiou and Ngotho said in e-mailed
comments. “Already markets started pricing in the benefits of
the expected inclusion.”  The South African Government Bond Index met all
requirements for inclusion in the World Government Bond Index in
April, and will be included in the gauge from October if it
meets tests in May and June, New York-based Citigroup said in an
e-mailed statement. Inclusion in the index, a first for the
continent, may fuel demand from investors who track the gauge,
attracting as much as $7.5 billion to the nation’s bond market,
according to Citigroup data.  Foreign Investors  Foreign investors bought a net 7.8 billion rand ($996
million) of South African bonds yesterday, the  second-largest 
ever after they bought 14.7 billion rand of the nation’s debt on
April 25, 2008. Yesterday’s purchases brought total non-resident
investment in rand bonds this year to 25.3 billion, according to
JSE Ltd. data.  “An additional attractive aspect of South African bonds is
that the real yields are close to the highest available in the
index,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today.  The average yield of the 11 South African bonds that may be
included is the highest of any of the 22 countries in the index,
at 7.6 percent, compared with 1.63 percent average for the
gauge, Citigroup said. South Africa’s bonds would have a 0.44
percent weighting in the index, compared with 0.64 percent for
Mexico, and 0.55 percent for  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  