-- South Korea Stops Search for North’s Rocket Debris
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-17T07:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/s-korea-stops-search-for-north-s-rocket-debris-after-un-censure.html
South Korea  will call off its
search for debris from last week’s failed North Korean rocket
launch a day after the  United Nations  expanded the sanctions
list for the totalitarian regime in its latest act of censure.  The military will halt recovery operations today at 5 p.m.
local time after four days of unsuccessful attempts, said a
defense ministry official who declined to be named, citing
ministry policy. Ten ships couldn’t locate any fragments due to
murky waters and strong currents, the official said. Yonhap News
earlier reported the decision to end the search.  The UN  Security Council  censured North Korea yesterday for
firing the rocket and updated its list of sanctioned goods. A
South Korean minister said last week the botched launch
increases the likelihood that  North Korea  will test an atomic
weapon as it did in 2009 following a similar incident.  South Korea has repeatedly urged the North to halt
“further provocations that undermine peace and stability on the
Korean peninsula and northeast Asia,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Cho Byung Jae said yesterday in a statement on the
ministry’s website. Japan and  Australia  joined the South today
in welcoming the UN statement.  The long-range rocket, which was fired on April 13 to put a
satellite into orbit, exploded shortly after liftoff over the
 Yellow Sea , scattering debris off the South Korean coast. The
missile reached an altitude of 151 kilometers (93 miles) before
disintegrating into 20 pieces and falling into the ocean 100 to
150 kilometers off the western coast, South Korean Major General
Shin Won Sik said.  ‘Bad Behavior’  The launch defied weeks of international condemnations and
a February agreement to suspend missile and nuclear tests in
exchange for 240,000 tons of U.S. food aid. President  Barack Obama  canceled the food assistance in line with his March pledge
to not reward “bad behavior” and to sternly respond to any
provocation.  Chances are “very high” that new North Korean leader Kim
Jong Un may order another attack or a nuclear test to overcome
the embarrassment of the failed rocket launch, South Korean
Deputy Defense Minister Lim Kwan Bin said last week at an
emergency parliamentary committee meeting.  Admiral Samuel J. Locklear, the top American military
commander in the Pacific, told reporters today in Seoul that the
U.S.-South Korea  alliance  is “continually looking at all
options” in responding to a possible North Korean nuclear test,
according to U.S. Forces Korea spokesman Kim Young Kyu. Locklear
was answering a question about whether surgical strikes were
being considered, Kim said.  IAEA Report  North Korea will cancel its March 16 invitation to
 International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors to survey its
nuclear facilities,  Japan ’s Yomiuri newspaper reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified diplomatic official. South
Korea’s chief nuclear envoy Lim Sung Nam said yesterday he can’t
confirm the report, adding that the status of inspection
discussions is unknown.  The Security Council ordered its sanctions committees to
“designate additional entities and items” within 15 days that
could help North Korea’s missile and nuclear programs, the 15-
member body said yesterday in its presidential statement, a step
below a resolution that requires a vote.  Two UN resolutions are already in place after North Korea
detonated atomic devices in 2006 and 2009. The measures call for
stepped-up inspection of suspect air and sea cargo and seek to
block funding for nuclear, missile and proliferation work.  UN ‘Process’  U.S. Assistant Secretary for  Asia  Kurt Campbell yesterday
declined to comment on whether the U.S. will seek new sanctions,
saying in Seoul that he will “let the process play out” at the
UN. Campbell was meeting South Korean officials to discuss
“potential next steps” to the rocket launch.  Kim, who delivered his first public speech on April 15
since taking power in December, did not address the rocket
failure, instead announcing that the world cannot threaten or
blackmail his “undefeated” 1.2 million-strong military.  A South Korean intelligence report warned a week ago that
recent activity at the Punggye-ri nuclear testing site is
consistent with preparation for previous atomic device
detonations.  North Korea will begin developing a larger rocket to put a
satellite into orbit as part of a five-year space development
program to improve its economy, Choson Sinbo, a pro-North Korean
newspaper based in  Tokyo , reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified official at North Korea’s Committee for Space
Technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  