-- Safest Return Imperiled as Kansas Considers Tax Cut: Muni Credit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/safest-return-imperiled-as-kansas-considers-tax-cut-muni-credit.html
Proposals to cut income taxes are
threatening a winning streak for municipal bonds from  Kansas  and
Oklahoma, which have been the safest among U.S. states for more
than two years.  Debt of Kansas and Oklahoma issuers has earned 7.79 percent
and 7.32 percent, respectively, since the end of 2009, after
adjusting for volatility, according to data compiled by Standard
& Poor’s and Bloomberg through April 13. The risk-adjusted gains
were the highest among 26 states tracked by S&P.  Republican Governors  Sam Brownback  of Kansas, the biggest
U.S. wheat exporter, and Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, home to two of
the largest U.S. oil fields, have benefited from gains in
commodity prices. They have proposed tax cuts to stimulate job
growth and attract business. The plans portend a “risky” trend
for municipal debt as state finances are still rebounding from
the recession that ended in 2009, Chris Mier at Loop Capital
Markets LLC in  Chicago , said in an interview.  The states “have nowhere to go but down” in terms of
risk-adjusted performance, said Mier, Loop’s chief municipal
strategist. “This has got to be one of the more worrisome
trends in state and local finance. If this gains acceptance,
it’s an experiment in state and local finance at a very
vulnerable time.”  Neither Kansas nor Oklahoma has projected a  budget deficit 
for next fiscal year. Thirty states have forecast or addressed a
gap for the period, according to the  Center  on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a Washington nonprofit focused on issues affecting
lower-income Americans. States and the  District of Columbia 
faced $49 billion of shortfalls in the period, after closing
more than $500 billion of gaps in the previous four years.  2012 Sales  Issuers in Kansas and Oklahoma have sold a combined $1.2
billion of debt this year, or about 10 percent of those in
 California , the largest U.S. municipal borrower, Bloomberg data
show. While Kansas has no general-obligation debt, S&P’s index
includes bonds sold by agencies such as the Transportation
Department and cities such as Wichita. The Oklahoma index
includes the state’s general obligations, agencies and
municipalities such as  Oklahoma City .  Without adjusting for volatility, Kansas debt trailed the
$3.7 trillion municipal market in the past year, 12.1 percent to
12.75 percent, while Oklahoma securities returned 11 percent,
according to S&P.  Puerto Rico , which beat all U.S. states in the
past 12 months with a 16 percent return, is third from the
bottom after accounting for volatility.  ‘Prudent’ Path  Brownback’s proposal lowers the individual income tax to a
range of 3 percent to 4.9 percent, from 3.5 percent to 6.45
percent, and eliminates the levy for some non-wage business
income. The plan is paid for by halting certain deductions and
credits and forgoing a scheduled sales-tax decrease. It would
cost $90 million in fiscal 2013, $99 million the following year
and $50 million by 2017, according to the budget division.  Lawmakers have passed their own bills and reconvene April
25 to negotiate. Those measures would cost at least $233 million
next year and as much as $911 million in 2017, the Legislative
Research Department  estimates .  If politicians “don’t do it prudently and they don’t have
verifiable offsets for reducing the revenues, then yes I think
they are at risk,” Bob Campbell, who oversees about $300
million in Kansas bonds at American Independence Financial
Services in Wichita, said of the state’s returns.  “I’m optimistic that the politicians, in whether it be
Kansas or Oklahoma, will be prudent and will follow the same
kind of path they have over the years,” he said.  Fallin’s Plan  Fallin, 57, would cut the income tax to a range of zero to
3.5 percent, from 0.5 percent to 5.25 percent, with the eventual
goal of eliminating it, according to her fiscal 2013  budget . A
version of the plan passed the  House of Representatives  and
awaits a vote in the Senate. It will cost the state $383 million
in projected revenue in fiscal 2013 and $980 million the
following year, according to the Oklahoma Tax Commission.  “There is a balance where you can right-size government
itself, you can reduce spending, also let people keep more of
their hard-earned money and create a more competitive business
environment,” Fallin said in an interview in New York last
week. “Investors are out looking for where can they find the
best rate of return in whatever state.”  At least 10 states passed tax cuts last year, said Michael
Leachman, director of state fiscal research at the center on
budgets.  Jobless Rates  Brownback, 55, and Fallin lead states with jobless rates
below the 8.2 percent national average. Kansas’s rate was 6.1
percent in February, while  Oklahoma ’s was 6 percent.  Kansas has gotten a boost as U.S. farm exports rose to a
record in 2011. Oklahoma is benefiting as crude has averaged
more than $100 a barrel this year.  In the final quarter of 2011, the states ranked eighth and
10th, respectively, in terms of tax-revenue growth relative to
the prior three months, according to Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States. The states have closed about $6 billion of
deficits combined since fiscal 2009.  “Part of the rationale for these tax changes is that they
will jump-start the Kansas economy -- that’s giving a lot of
credence to fiscal policy,” said Donna K. Ginther, an economics
professor at the University of Kansas in Lawrence. “Our state
budget is already very lean.”  Individual income tax accounted for 46 percent of Kansas
general-fund revenue in fiscal 2012, according to the
Legislative Research Department. It made up about 35 percent in
Oklahoma in fiscal 2011, according to Ron Jenkins, a State
Finance Office spokesman. Income tax “is the single most
important source of state revenue,” according to Fallin’s
budget.  Road Map  Brownback’s “road map of controlling state spending while
reducing the tax burden on all Kansans has put our state on
sound fiscal footing and has returned business confidence so
investments and  job creation  are flowing into our state,”
Sherriene Jones-Sontag, his press secretary, said by e-mail. The
governor’s efforts “will continue to make Kansas a great place
for bond investors.”  Kansas has a AA+ issuer rating from S&P and Aa1 from
Moody’s Investors Service, both second-highest. Oklahoma general
obligations have a Aa2 Moody’s rating, third-highest, and AA+
from S&P.  Fallin said last week that she met credit-raters in  New
York  in January and asked them to review the state’s grade.
Moody’s kept the state’s rating unchanged in February, citing
constraints to financial flexibility such as the “high bar to
raise taxes” and a “trend towards reduction in personal income
tax.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price variation,
giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The returns aren’t
annualized. Higher volatility increases the prospect for losses.  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  PENNSYLVANIA plans to sell $950 million of tax-exempt
general-obligation bonds via competitive bid as soon as today.
It’s the state’s biggest sale of long-term, tax-exempt debt
since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s rates the
debt Aa1. (Updated April 17)  ATLANTA,  Georgia ’s biggest city, plans to sell about $492
million in tax-exempt and AMT airport-revenue bonds as soon as
this week, according to the offering document. The proceeds will
go toward construction at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta
International Airport. (Updated April 17) 