-- Saudi Basic First-Quarter Profit Drops 5% as Prices Decline
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-17T15:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/saudi-basic-first-quarter-profit-drops-5-as-prices-decline.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, said first-quarter profit
dropped 5 percent on lower prices for its products and higher
feedstock costs.  Net income  fell to 7.27 billion riyals ($1.94 billion) from
7.69 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based company,
known as Sabic, said in a  statement  today. The  average  estimate
of seven analysts was for a profit of 6.64 billion riyals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income from the year-earlier period declined “as a
result of lower prices for some products and an increase in some
of our feedstock,” Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady said
during a press conference today. “It was a result of the
general state of the economy worldwide. There was a deliberate
slowdown in growth to quell inflation in  China . The state of the
European situation affected that.”  Sabic shares gained the most in more than a year after the
quarterly profit beat estimates. The  shares advanced 4.3 
percent, the most since March 2011, to 102.25 riyals at the 3:30
p.m. close in Riyadh.  Sabic Sales  “There is a lag effect of low prices in the fourth
quarter,” Faisal Potrik, an analyst at Riyad Capital, said
before the results were announced. “Demand has been good but a
slowdown in China is on people’s minds.” Al-Mady said earlier
this month that demand growth from China, one of Sabic’s biggest
markets, was moderating as the nation’s economy slows.  Sabic sales rose 11 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, while production gained 9 percent,  Al-Mady said.
It seeks to triple output to 130 million tons by 2020.  “There is still some growth in the U.S. and internally
here in  Saudi Arabia ,” Al-Mady said. “We think 2012 is going
to be a good year overall.”  Sabic, the maker of fertilizers, plastics and steel, has
added output capacity through units and joint ventures. The
company plans to begin producing urea in the third quarter of
2014 at a 2 billion-riyal plant being built by its fertilizer
unit. It forecast steel-production capacity will grow 50 percent
this year to 6 million metric tons after completing work at a
plant in Jubail.  Sabic Units  Sabic and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., known as
Sinopec, got approval from the government of  Trinidad and Tobago 
to start talks on building a complex to produce methanol, the
Riyadh-based company said in February. The company signed in
January a memorandum of understanding with Sinopec to build a
petrochemical plant in Tianjin, China. The companies will have
annual polycarbonate capacity of 260 kilo metric tons from the
plant when operations start in 2015.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer (SAFCO)  posted a 5.5 percent decline in
first-quarter profit to 787 million riyals, according to a
company statement on the Saudi bourse.  Saudi Kayan (KAYAN)  said on April
14 that its first-quarter loss widened to 71.1 million riyals
from 8.33 million riyals in the year-earlier period.  “Costs increases are far outstripping product prices in
the first quarter,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors, said in response to e-mailed questions.
“Product prices have failed to impress since the start of the
year.”  Sabic has no plans to tap the  debt market , Chief Financial
Officer Mutlaq al-Morished told reporters in Riyadh today. “We
only go if we need something,” al-Morished said. “At the
moment, we don’t see anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  