-- Scapegoating Oil Speculators Won’t Ease Pain at the Pump
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/scapegoating-oil-speculators-won-t-ease-pain-at-the-pump.html
No one, least of all President
 Barack Obama , should expect oil or gasoline prices to fall
because of the five-point plan he unveiled at the White House
yesterday.  Obama is understandably worried about higher energy costs -
- they can act as a drag on economic growth, and many people
blame the chief executive when  prices at the pump  approach $4 a
gallon. His proposal calls for adding staff at the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission to monitor oil markets, spending more
on  information technology  to track trading, stiffer penalties
for manipulators, limits on the size of the bets speculators can
make, and increased disclosure by the CFTC of trading data.  Yet there is almost no chance that the package will be
passed by Congress, and in any case it would have little effect
on near-term prices.  At least the president acknowledged that there “are no
quick fixes” for higher  oil prices . That’s because Obama knows
that the increase in gasoline prices can be traced largely to:  -- Instability in the  Middle East , particularly threats by
 Iran  to close the  Strait of Hormuz  in the event of an attack on
its nuclear facilities. About a fifth of the world’s oil passes
through the strait.  -- The worldwide economic recovery. The U.S. economy has
shaken off the hangover of the financial crisis of 2008, and the
 International Monetary Fund  yesterday raised its forecast for
global economic growth this year to 3.5 percent from 3.3
percent.  Role of Speculators  The temptation to blame speculators for higher oil prices,
while wrong-headed, has a certain appeal. It is of a piece with
a broader narrative -- on display in both the Occupy  Wall Street 
and Tea Party movements -- that the benefits of growth are going
to an ever-narrower slice of the populace.  Yet speculators aren’t inherently bad. Quite to the
contrary: They serve a vital purpose, helping create a market of
buyers and sellers. Many  academic researchers  have found that
speculators, by anticipating future price moves, can reduce
volatility.  It is true that traders, as opposed to actual users such as
airlines and truckers, account for the bulk of the transactions
in oil futures markets. But that doesn’t mean they are to blame
for higher oil prices. Speculators also operate in the markets
for natural gas, where prices have plunged almost 60 percent in
the past year because of vast increases in supplies. Speculators
can push prices up or down, but they can’t repeal the laws of
supply and demand.  As for outright price manipulation? It surely happens, and
we don’t take issue with the government trying to catch and
punish those who break the law. Just don’t expect to see the
results of enforcement efforts next time you fill up.  Obama is correct about one point. Republicans are kidding
themselves and voters when they argue that unfettered drilling
in environmentally sensitive areas will lead to $2.50-a-gallon
gasoline. Maybe Obama’s adversaries are reminiscing about those
days not so long ago when gasoline was  $1.63 a gallon . That was
the price in December 2008, when it looked as if the world
financial system might unravel.  The short-term market for oil is influenced by forces far
beyond the control of the White House. What a president can do
is devise policies that promote conservation, encourage the
development of alternative and renewable energy, and work toward
smart extraction of domestic fossil fuels. Trying to make the
 U.S. economy  less dependent on oil, as Obama has done, is the
best idea out there.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today's highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes ;
 Peter Orszag  on saving money through  health-care reform ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Ann Romney's choices ; Clive Crook on
economic fairness; William Pesek on  China's power shift ;
 Roger Lowenstein  on  dodging Dodd-Frank ; Ana Palacio on  Spain 's
 outdated labor laws .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 