-- Scene Last Night: Shawn Matthews, Bud Selig
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-17T12:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/scene-last-night-shawn-matthews-bud-selig.html
Shawn Matthews, chief executive,
Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. Inc., had dinner last night in the
Temple of Dendur with U.S. Major League Baseball Commissioner
 Bud Selig  and the chairman of the Boston  Red Sox ,  Tom Werner .  Matthews and Werner were honorees at “Lead Off for a
Cure,” a fundraiser for Autism Speaks and the  Gillen Brewer
School  on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. The event at the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art -- which is featuring Yankees third
baseman  Alex Rodriguez  in advertisements -- raised $1.3 million.  Matthews, a board member of  Autism Speaks , has four
children, including an 11-year-old son with autism, Ryan, who
prefers swimming to baseball. One in 54 boys in the U.S. is
diagnosed on the autism spectrum, according to a report from the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  “I look at autism as something you just deal with,”
Matthews said. “It’s easy for a child with autism to be
isolated. It’s important we draw them out and include them in
everything we do.”  Seeking donations for Autism Speaks from people in finance
is “harder these days,” Matthews said, “but the money is
certainly available. The trick is asking nicely.”  Like a lot of Mets fans, Matthews was glad for the 7-3
start of the season -- and cautiously pessimistic. “It’s not
going to last,” he said. Moments later, Mets chairman, chief
executive officer and co-owner  Fred Wilpon  arrived.  Red Sox  Was the chairman of the Red Sox worried that the team is
alone in last place in the American League East division? “No,”
Werner said. “It’s early yet.”  Cantor Fitzgerald LP’s chairman and CEO,  Howard Lutnick ,
said he is rooting for the Yankees “because my kids all like
the Yankees.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  chief administrative officer Frank Bisignano and another honoree, noted that the Arizona
Diamondbacks play on Chase Field.  Warburg Pincus partner Fred Hassan, also honored, said he
was more of an “innovation guy” than a baseball guy.  Other guests included Stephen Ross, chairman and chief
executive of Related Cos. and owner of the Miami Dolphins, Paul Tagliabue, former commissioner of the National Football League,
and Jon Miller, president of programming for NBC Sports and NBC
Sports Network.  Former Major League Baseball player Jon Warden said he’s
staying in town an extra night to see his son Karl dance in
Broadway’s “How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include an  interview  with E.O.
Wilson by Zinta Lundborg, a  review  by James Pressley of “White
House Burning,” Patrick Cole on  Food Bank  for New York City
gala, Philip Boroff on Met Museum  salaries .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 