-- Scene in D.C.: Lupone, Adrienne Arsht at Sondheim Gala
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-17T14:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/scene-in-d-c-lupone-adrienne-arsht-at-sondheim-gala.html
It was shoes that ignited their
friendship.  “I think they were Chanel,” said singer  Patti LuPone 
concerning the footwear worn by philanthropist Adrienne Arsht
when the two met backstage at a LuPone performance two months
ago.  They reunited last night among 300 guests at the Italian
embassy for the Signature Theatre’s Stephen Sondheim Award Gala.
LuPone was the honoree for her work in seven Sondheim
productions; Arsht was the gala chairwoman.  Asked how she kept guests from stepping on the train of her
blue floral Oscar de la Renta, Arsht said, “I just walk really
fast.”  She and LuPone talked with former Supreme Court Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor. Others joined Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero
on the patio for drinks on an unseasonably balmy evening.  The freshly appointed ambassador said he arrived in
 Washington  earlier this year and is looking forward to sampling
the city’s musical options.  Ever the diplomat, he demurred when asked his suggestions
for the best Italian restaurants in D.C.  The ambassador’s wife was absent with the flu, which also
prevented Sondheim from attending.  Spring Fever  “I have spring fever, literally,” Sondheim said in remarks
read during the program by the theater’s artistic director, Eric
Schaeffer.  Kenneth Feld, chief executive of Feld Entertainment, and
Chevy Chase Trust Managing Director Deborah Gandy, the
chairwoman of the Signature Theatre board, were at the dinner,
which included sea bass en papillote and P-shaped breadsticks in
homage to Patti. Afterward, young singers offered other tributes
to LuPone.  The Cole Porter and Edith Piaf melodies brought many of the
guests to their feet.  “I shouldn’t be singing for my supper,” LuPone said when
receiving her award, adding, “I had a little too much to drink,
so we’ll see what happens.” Then she broke into Sondheim’s
classic “Anyone Can Whistle.”  Hovering over a decadent dessert bar, singer Tracy Lynn
Olivera said, “I didn’t eat dinner because I was nervous. Now I
want to eat all this sugar.”  Guests mingled in the embassy’s salons with plates of
chocolate biscotti, admiring the paintings on the walls.  The theater raised about $450,000 from the event.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 