-- Schapiro Says SEC Will Change Cost Calculation of Regulation
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-17T14:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/schapiro-says-sec-will-change-cost-calculation-of-regulation-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is developing a new method for calculating the cost
of rule-making in response to challenges from courts and
lawmakers, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told a House panel today.  Schapiro has instructed SEC staff to consider the cost of
both congressional mandates and rules the agency is developing
through its own authority, she said in  testimony  before the
House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee hearing in
Washington. The move is in response to an SEC inspector general
 report  that suggested the agency doesn’t consider the economic
effects of rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The report released in January recommended that the SEC use
a pre-Dodd-Frank baseline whenever possible to determine the
cost of imposing a new rule on financial markets.  The guidance “states that as a policy matter, where a
statute directs rule making, rule writing staff should consider
the overall economic impacts, including both those attributable
to congressional mandates and those that result from an exercise
of the Commission’s discretion,” Schapiro said. “This approach
should allow for a more comprehensive evaluation of alternative
means of meeting a statutory mandate and give the most complete
picture of a rule’s economic effects.”  ‘Deeply Troubling’  Schapiro is facing questions about what  House Republicans 
call the SEC’s “aversion” to studying the cost for companies
to comply with the agency’s rules. Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican and the subcommittee
chairman, said the SEC’s “record on cost-benefit analysis is
deeply troubling.”  “These needless regulations lead to higher costs, reduced
wages and diminished hiring that harm our economy more than
benefit it,” McHenry said.  Schapiro’s testimony highlights the difficulties the agency
has faced in implementing the many rules required by the 2010
regulatory overhaul while determining a reasonable estimate of
their cost.  “The unprecedented rule making burden generated by passage
of the Dodd-Frank Act has tested the resources and analytical
capabilities of the agency,” Schapiro said in her testimony.  The role of cost-benefit studies have gained prominence
inside the agency after a July 2011 ruling from the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  rejecting an SEC rule that would have made it easier
for shareholders to insert board candidates onto public-company
ballots. The court said the agency failed to adequately assess
the costs of the rule.  Rule-Making Slowed  The rejection made all future SEC rules vulnerable to a
similar challenge, forcing Schapiro to redouble efforts to study
cost-benefit effects. Since then, the pace of SEC rule-making
has slowed by about half.  Among the rules in limbo are the so-called Volcker rule to
ban banks’ proprietary trading, restrictions on asset-backed
securities deals and forcing firms to disclose whether
manufacturing metals were mined in war-ravaged parts of  Africa .  The SEC  announced  late yesterday that it will hold a
meeting tomorrow on whether to adopt a joint rule with the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission that would strengthen
oversight of the $708 trillion global swaps market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  