-- Scotland May Get Separate Climate Goal to U.K. on Independence
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-17T16:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/scotland-may-get-separate-climate-goal-to-u-k-on-independence.html
Scotland  would have a separate
European Union renewable-energy target if it became independent
from the U.K., according to its government.  “There would have to be some decomposition, if you like,
of the U.K.’s target into a Scottish equivalent as Scotland
would become part of the European Union,”  David Wilson ,
director for energy and climate change at the Scottish
government, said. “That would be for negotiation between
Scotland and the U.K. government and if necessary with  Europe .”  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond , leader of the semi-
autonomous government in Edinburgh, wants to call a referendum
on independence from the U.K. in 2014. The U.K, which also
includes England and  Wales , has to get 15 percent of its energy
from renewable sources by 2020 under  European Union law .  That target would likely remain the same overall, Wilson
told a panel of lawmakers. “But how it’s allocated between
Scotland and the rest of U.K. would have to be a matter for
negotiation” and could result in an increase of Scotland’s
contribution, he said. “We would be happy to take 15 percent
and the rest of the U.K. takes 15 percent,” he said.  Scotland has its own national targets including generating
100 percent of its electricity demand from renewable sources by
2020. It also plans to achieve a 42 percent reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and an 80 percent cut by 2050.  ‘We wouldn’t expect that trajectory to change,” Wilson
said, though there may be some “statistical” work required, he
said.  The U.K. will need Scotland’s clean power in an integrated
energy market to “keep the lights” on and meet clean power
goals, Energy Minister Fergus Ewing said during the same U.K.
parliamentary Committee on Energy and Climate Change.  “Our preference is to continue with a U.K. integrated
energy market. That is really almost a necessity under the EU
framework under which we operate,” he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  