-- SEC OptionsXpress Case Alleges Sham Trades Hid Illicit Shorting
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sec-optionsxpress-case-alleges-sham-trades-hid-illicit-shorting.html
Three years of discussions between
regulators and OptionsXpress Inc. culminated in a lawsuit
yesterday, when the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
alleged the brokerage helped facilitate illicit short sales.  The company, four executives and a customer violated SEC
regulations with sham options trades from October 2008 to March
2010 designed to give the illusion of compliance with short-sale
rules, the SEC  said . Customers in the OptionsXpress trades
accounted for an average of 48 percent of daily volume in one of
the targets,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , in January 2010.  U.S. regulators have faced added pressure to police short
sellers since the financial crisis in 2008, when complaints by
corporate executives prompted the SEC to temporarily ban bearish
bets in almost 1,000 companies. Yesterday’s order involved
options trading that the commission said was used to circumvent
rules against so-called naked shorting, or speculating a stock
will fall without borrowing it.  “The problems of naked short selling and settlement
failures were ongoing for many years and it was pretty clear to
the casual observer that something was going on,” James Angel,
a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s business school
in Washington, said yesterday in a phone interview. “It’s good
that the SEC is prosecuting this. I’m only asking what took them
so long.”  Regulation SHO  In a short sale, an investor borrows a stock and sells it,
with the goal of profiting from a price decline. The SEC’s
Regulation SHO requires investors and their brokers to borrow
shares within three days of making a short sale and bars firms
from executing further bets until previous ones are settled.  OptionsXpress, its former Chief Financial Officer Thomas E. Stern, and the customer, Jonathan I. Feldman of Baltimore, are
fighting the agency’s claims. Feldman was identified by the SEC
as a senior vice president at a regional savings bank.
OptionsXpress is a Chicago-based broker that was acquired by
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  last year.  “We believe the evidence at trial will demonstrate that
OptionsXpress timely covered consistent with Reg SHO,” said
Stephen Senderowitz, an attorney for the OptionsXpress. The
company was in touch with regulators regarding the transactions,
no one was defrauded, and the transactions “were not shams and
were neither novel nor exotic,” Senderowitz said.  Greg Lawrence, a lawyer for Feldman, said his client
“entered into legitimate open-market trades, and he believed,
and still believes, that his brokers complied with all rules.”
The SEC “is unfairly trying to change the rules through
litigation,” Lawrence said.  A phone call to Vincent Schmeltz, Stern’s attorney, wasn’t
immediately returned.  Cooperating With SEC  The SEC settled related claims against three OptionsXpress
employees: Peter Bottini, Phillip Hoeh and Kevin Strine,
according to a separate administrative order. Attorneys for Hoeh
and Strine declined to comment. A phone call to Steven Biskupic,
a lawyer for Bottini, wasn’t immediately returned. Bottini is in
charge of trading and  customer service  at OptionsXpress, Hoeh is
chief compliance officer and Strine is vice president of
compliance, the SEC said.  In resolving the action, Bottini, Hoeh and Strine agreed to
cooperate with the SEC’s investigation without admitting or
denying wrongdoing or paying any financial penalties.  Charles Schwab , the San Francisco-based brokerage, agreed
to buy OptionsXpress for about $1 billion in stock last year,
adding the retail options brokerage founded in 2000 to its
equity and mutual fund offerings. The acquisition was completed
in September.  Difficult to Borrow  The SEC said six customer accounts at OptionsXpress
targeted companies where demand to sell short was so high that
it was difficult to borrow shares. To get around that, synthetic
short bets were created by selling bullish options priced far
below the level of the stock, known as deep-in-the-money calls.  That required those accounts to deliver shares to
OptionsXpress within three days to meet securities rules, the
SEC said. Instead, the broker let the customers enact so-called
buy-write trades, which gave the appearance of meeting the
delivery obligation without actually complying.  “While the daily use of buy-writes gave the impression
that OptionsXpress was closing out the failures to deliver as
required, OptionsXpress and the customers were simply kiting
stock to maintain the naked short position,” the SEC wrote in
its complaint.  The customers used the trading strategy between October
2008 and March 2010 on about 25 stocks, including Sears and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the SEC said. In 2009, they
bought about $5.7 billion of securities and sold about $4
billion of options, according to the regulator.  Feldman’s Trades  Feldman’s trades, involving at least $2.9 billion of
purchases and $1.7 billion of options, occurred between July
2009 and March 2010, the SEC alleged.  OptionsXpress didn’t deliver shares associated with short
sales for at least 236 continuous settlement days in the
2009-2010 period, the SEC said. It failed to deliver shares in
at least 25 companies at least 1,317 times, the complaint said.  OptionsXpress executives should have known the reset trades
violated Reg SHO, the SEC said. The commission issued guidance
about stock-option trades that gave the appearance of
circumventing rules in 2003. The  American Stock Exchange  issued
fines in 2007 for activity similar to the OptionsXpress trades.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange  sent a notice to members
including the options broker later that year, cautioning them
about similar strategies. The SEC in 2009 filed a case against
other entities and individuals about “sham reset
transactions,” the regulator said.  ‘Problematic’  The SEC said OptionsXpress “knew early on that the trading
was problematic.” Starting a month after the SEC updated short-
sale rules in September 2008, the broker began internal
discussions about customer short positions and related
strategies that the client used to keep the trade open.  CBOE contacted OptionsXpress starting in November 2008
about its short-selling compliance, according to the suit. Back
and forth communication between compliance officials,
OptionsXpress traders and customers continued during 2009.  A discussion between an OptionsXpress lawyer and compliance
officers at the SEC led to the broker providing an inaccurate
and incomplete trading example, the agency said.  When electronic message boards included information about
“mystery trades” and “faux trades” in Sears, Feldman told a
friend that, “I read the latest thread on the SHLD ‘volume
spikes.’ Very entertaining. (Until someone notifies the SEC and
they shut down the strategy!!),” the SEC order said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  