-- SEC Seeking Fair Value Disclosure From Banks on Structured Notes
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-04-17T16:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sec-seeking-fair-value-disclosure-from-banks-on-structured-notes.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is asking banks that issue structured notes to boost
disclosures to investors, including the banks’ own estimates for
the securities’ market value at the time of sale.  The regulator sought the changes in a  letter  to banks it
didn’t identify that was posted on its website April 13. The
agency also asked the issuers to explain how they set up a
secondary market for the notes, how they use the proceeds raised
from sales and how important the business is to their funding
needs.  The U.S. structured note industry, which sells bank bonds
bundled with derivatives for customized bets, has come under
scrutiny from regulators for the securities’ complexity and lack
of  transparency . Some notes have higher fees than their
potential returns. Banks sold $45.9 billion of SEC-registered
securities in 2011, down from a record $49.5 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The SEC finally understands these products,” said  Frank Partnoy , a University of San Diego law professor and former
Morgan Stanley derivatives structurer. “I’m very encouraged by
these questions that the SEC is asking.”  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment. The letter was sent by the Office of Capital Market
Trends with a request for a written reply within 10 days. The
office, created in July 2010 and headed by Amy Starr, is within
the Division of Corporation Finance.  If banks included the disclosures that the SEC wants,
demand for structured notes would suffer, Partnoy said.  ‘Completely Opaque’  “The secondary market for structured notes is completely
opaque, and people don’t have an accurate understanding how much
they are worth the day after you buy them,” he said in a
telephone interview.  In sale prospectuses for the securities, banks disclose
certain fees, such as those paid to distributors, though they
aren’t required to estimate the value of the products at
issuance.  “We believe issuers should consider prominently disclosing
the difference between the public offering price of the note and
the issuer or its affiliate’s estimate of the fair value,” the
SEC said in the letter.  The regulator also said it has observed that some banks
have used inflated values of securities on account statements
“for a limited period of time immediately following an
offering.” It asked banks to explain how that affects pricing
and trading.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority issued a notice
in  January  to guide firms about the supervision of sales of
“complex products,” citing some structured notes as examples.
As many as 10 states are also investigating how some of the
investments are being marketed, Ronak Patel, co-head of a
working group for the  North American Securities Administrators
Association , said in a Feb. 2 e-mail.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 