-- Sepura Surges on Demand for Tetra Digital Radios: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 2012-04-17T13:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sepura-surges-on-demand-for-tetra-digital-radios-london-mover.html
Sepura Plc (SEPU) , the U.K. company that
supplies radios to the majority of British police forces, rose
to the highest price in more than three years after saying full-
year earnings will exceed investor expectations.  The stock gained as much as 17 percent to 65.75 pence, the
highest since September 2008, and was up 12 percent at 1:56 p.m.
in  London . Sepura led the  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) , benefiting
 Henderson Global Investors , which owns more than 21 percent of
the shares, according to the company.  Earnings in the year ended March 30 were “comfortably
ahead” of investor expectations, with margins improved by
reduced product costs and operating expenses, Cambridge,
England-based Sepura said today in a statement. The company,
which held an initial public offering in 2007, switched
manufacturing partners last year.  Sepura has “reasonably strong revenue growth” from
existing businesses and has no plans for acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Gordon Watling said in a telephone interview.
The U.K. communications systems supplier, which competes with
 Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  and  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD) , is “not thinking” whether it may be purchased, he said.  Sepura claims market leadership in  Europe  for digital
devices that use Tetra, or terrestrial trunked radio. Its
products are used by Danish ambulance drivers and Mumbai Metro
staff, and in challenging environments from offshore wind farms
to a remote liquefied natural gas facility in Australia.  Beyond Public Safety  In the last quarter, the company delivered the first
1,350 of its STP8X radio model designed for use in hazardous
workplaces such as petrochemical plants. The GPS features of the
device include an automatic alarm to the control room if a
worker falls.  “The successful launch of the STP8X represents a major
milestone as Sepura expands into adjacent markets,” Watling
said today in the statement. The company said it expects revenue
as high as 83 million euros ($109 million).  Sepura named its first Tetra distributor in the U.S. on
April 13 after a 12-month Tetra trial in  Green Bay , Wisconsin,
that Kevin Graham, director of developing markets, said is an
“ideal springboard” for sales in the country. The radio
provider increased its share of revenue from countries outside
the U.K. to 81 percent last year from 73 percent, according to
data collected by Bloomberg.  Sepura is scheduled to report earnings on June 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Blanche Gatt at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  