-- Short Sales Surpass Foreclosures as Banks Agree to Deals
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-04-25T16:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/short-sales-surpass-foreclosures-as-banks-agree-to-deals.html
(Corrects second paragraph of story published April 17 to
show that short sales first exceeded foreclosures in November.)  The number of U.S. home short  sales 
surpassed foreclosure deals for the first time as banks became
more agreeable to selling houses for less than the amount owed
on their mortgages, according to  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)   Short sales accounted for 23.9 percent of home purchases in
January, the most recent month available, compared with 19.7
percent for sales of foreclosed homes, data compiled by the
Jacksonville, Florida-based company show. A year earlier, 16.3
percent of transactions were short sales and 24.9 percent
involved foreclosures. Short sales exceeded foreclosure deals
for the first time in November, according to the firm.  “It’s a fairly recent phenomenon that short sales have
been increasing,” Jonathon Weiner, a vice president in the
applied analytics division of Lender Processing Services, said
in a telephone interview. “Short sales should be the dominant
way of disposing of assets” in distress, he said.  Lenders are catching up to short sales after being slow to
provide the staffing and incentives necessary to complete the
deals, Weiner said. The transactions typically fetch a higher
price for banks than sales of homes that have gone through
foreclosure. In January, foreclosed homes sold for an average of
29 percent less than comparable non-distressed properties,
compared with a 23 percent discount for short sales, according
to Lender Processing Services. The gap has narrowed as short
sales become more common, Weiner said.  Distressed-Property Inventory  The growing percentage of short sales, which don’t require
going through the drawn-out foreclosure process, is a sign that
the U.S. is making progress in working through its inventory of
distressed properties, Weiner said. The increase in short sales
also may help values find a floor quicker.  “Our baseline scenario is that  home prices  will hit a
bottom at the end of this year,” he said.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  ordered loan servicers
to respond to all short-sale offers within 30 days, and approve
or reject them within 60 days, in an effort to expedite a
process that can take months longer than conventional home
sales, the agency said in a statement today.  The FHFA, which oversees mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , wants to improve the short-sale process “to
prevent foreclosure, keep homes occupied and help maintain
stable communities,” Edward J. DeMarco, the agency’s acting
director, said in the statement. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae
completed 125,456 short sales last year, the most recent period
for which figures are available.  Cash Incentives  Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
last year began giving cash inducements as high as $35,000 to
selected homeowners who agreed to a short sale as a way of
speeding up the process.  Bank of America Corp.  paid $19.9 million in the first two
months of this year for 22,534 homeowners to relocate after
short sales and deeds in lieu of foreclosure, when borrowers
agree to return the property deed in exchange for debt
forgiveness, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company said
March 16. Its short sales rose 31 percent in January and
February from a year earlier.  Banks have struggled to reduce losses from delinquent
mortgages. Almost 4.4 percent of homes with loans had received a
notice of  foreclosure  sale at the end of 2011, the 11th
consecutive quarter the rate has been higher than 4 percent,
according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Falling Foreclosures  Foreclosure  filings , including notices of defaults and bank
repossessions, fell 16 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier after lenders under legal scrutiny slowed actions
against delinquent homeowners, RealtyTrac Inc. reported April
12.  Lender Processing Services, a 2008 spinoff from title-
insurance company  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF) , counts short
sales by tallying mortgage and property transfer documents filed
with county recorders, Weiner said.  Other reports haven’t shown the same magnitude of short-
sale growth. The National Association of Realtors reported that
13 percent of transactions were short sales and 22 percent were
foreclosures in January. In February, short sales increased to
14 percent and foreclosure-related transactions declined to 20
percent, the group said March 21.  Showing an ‘Uptick’  The Realtors collect their data from transactions on the
Multiple Listing Service, a database of homes on the market, and
a survey of about 3,000 members, said  Walter Molony , a spokesman
for the association.  “The February data is showing a bit of an uptick,” he
said in an e-mail from  Washington . “We’re hearing the process
is going a bit more smoothly now, so that comes as no
surprise.”  The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
reported a preliminary 19,600 short sales in January, compared
with the Lender Processing Services tally of 48,721. An April 6
HUD report showed that the number of short sales rose 4.3
percent from a year earlier as the number of real estate owned,
or REO, sales -- another name for foreclosure sales -- fell 39
percent.  Before agreeing to accept a loss on a short sale, lenders
usually require homeowners to show evidence of hardship, such as
inability to afford their mortgage payments or the need to
relocate for a job, said Weiner of Lender Processing Services.  California, Arizona  Short sales outnumbered foreclosures in states with some of
the largest shares of homes facing foreclosure, such as  Arizona ,
 California ,  Florida ,  Nevada  and  New Jersey , Lender Processing
Services reported.  In New Jersey, short sales have exceeded REO deals every
month since June 2010. In January, short sales accounted for
more than 15 percent of the 3,033 New Jersey homes sold,
compared with 3.9 percent for foreclosures. It took 966 days for
banks to repossess a home in New Jersey, second only to  New
York , according to RealtyTrac. Both states require judicial
hearings for foreclosure approval.  In New York, where it takes 1,056 days to repossess a home,
7.9 percent of purchases in January were short sales while 2.3
percent involved bank-owned properties.  “In general, markets where larger incentives are provided
usually have extended foreclosure timelines, such as Florida,”
Tom Goyda, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said in an e-mail from
Ellisville,  Missouri . Wells Fargo, which doesn’t disclose its
short-sale totals, offers homeowners as much as $20,000 to
relocate, he said.  Florida Short Sales  In Florida, the number of short sales has exceeded
foreclosures since July, according to Lender Processing
Services. That’s about nine months after banks imposed a
moratorium on home seizures amid allegations they used improper
documentation and forged paperwork to claim title to properties
with delinquent mortgages. The five largest loan servicers,
including Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JPMorgan, agreed in
February to a $25 billion settlement of the allegations.  In California, which has the largest number of homes facing
foreclosure, short sales have outnumbered sales of bank-owned
homes since August. In January, 37.2 percent of homes sold in
the state were short sales compared with 25.8 percent for
foreclosures, according to Lender Processing Services.  Banks have sped up the short-sale approval process,
requiring less paperwork to prove hardship, especially for
homeowners who haven’t made a mortgage payment for months on
their primary residence, said Ethan Gregory, a broker with  First
Coast Realty Associates  in Jacksonville, Florida. Banks have
offered his clients as much as $13,000 to relocate, an incentive
that gets the homeowners engaged in selling the home, he said.  Banks “embraced it before the settlement, but the
settlement pushed them to do more streamlining,” said Gregory,
whose firm handles about 50 short sales a year. “They
understand it’s really the best exit for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  