-- Siemens Windmill Woes Clip Investor Return as Delays Persist
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-04-17T08:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/siemens-windmill-woes-clip-investors-returns-as-delays-increase.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Loescher  lent his face to a company advertising campaign
last month that promoted a greater focus on renewable energy.
Investors are still waiting for evidence the foray will pay off.  Siemens may have to lower its full-year profit goal when it
reports earnings next week. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predict net income of about 5.57 billion euros ($7.32 billion),
compared with Siemens’s own target of 6 billion euros. The
power-transmission unit may book a charge of 200 million euros
for last quarter, Andreas Willi, an analyst at JPMorgan, said.  Loescher’s bid to wean Siemens off nuclear power and
generate 40 billion euros in sales from environmental products
has suffered setbacks as the German engineering company
struggles to connect offshore wind parks to the electricity grid
and prices tumble for turbines. An earnings revision would deal
a blow to Loescher, who in five years built his reputation on
stabilizing Siemens’s historically volatile earnings.  “The industry and Siemens need to become more efficient,
cut costs, industrialize processes and try to manage capacity as
tightly as they can,” said Martin Prozesky, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in  London , who has a “market perform”
recommendation on the stock. “In wind, offshore is still the
best place to be.”  Declining Stock  Siemens fell as much as 1 percent in Frankfurt trading to
71.04 euros, its lowest price in almost four months. The stock
was down 0.5 percent at 10:50 a.m. The engineering company has a
market value of 65.3 billion euros.  Udo Niehage, who leads the transmission business, will
leave the company, Financial Times Deutschland reported today,
citing unidentified people familiar with the plan. Siemens will
cut its earnings guidance and make provisions against potential
losses from delays at the wind-park projects, the newspaper also
said.  Linking offshore wind farms to the power grid has been a
challenge for Siemens and competitors including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  because
of a shortage in suitable undersea cables, specialized personnel
and resources at grid operators who commission the connections,
said Fraser Johnston, the lead offshore wind analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Siemens has declined 25 percent in the past year, compared
with a 16 percent drop for Zurich-based ABB and a 37 percent
decline for  Alstom SA (ALO)  in Paris.  General Electric Co. (GE) , which
competes with Siemens in areas including transportation and
health-care equipment, has dropped 5.7 percent.  Siemens booked 203 million euros in charges in the prior
quarter at the power-transmission division amid delays
connecting offshore wind parks to the onshore power grid. The
company will unveil a reorganization of its renewable energy and
 power-grid  operations when it reports fiscal second-quarter
earnings on April 25, Euro am Sonntag reported April 6, citing
an interview with Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser.  Ambitious Targets  The Munich-based company may say net income in the three
months through March 31 fell to 1.24 billion euros from 2.79
billion euros, according to the median estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales probably rose 6.3 percent to 18.84
billion euros, the survey showed. Philipp Encz, a Siemens
spokesman, declined to comment ahead of the release.  Siemens has seen its profit target called into question
amid writedowns and an economy in  Europe  that is struggling to
recover. In January, Kaeser told the Wall Street Journal that
the company profit forecast for 2012 is “very ambitious.”  Loescher may also unveil charges at the diagnostics
business, for job cuts at its networks venture with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,
and for reductions at Osram, the lighting unit that Siemens
wants to spin off later this year. Nokia said on April 12 that
the network unit had a negative operating margin of about 5
percent in the first quarter, citing preliminary figures.  Underestimated Complexity  Siemens, which employs about 360,000 people globally,
cannot simply fire German employees or close sites in the
country because it’s bound to an agreement with trade unions
from 2010 that only permits cut jobs on a voluntary basis by
offering incentive packages.  The delays to connect the wind parks are affecting the
company’s transmission, renewable energy, and drive technologies
businesses, and may also hurt future sales of  wind turbines ,
said  Thomas Langer , an analyst at WestLB AG.  “Siemens underestimated the size and complexity of the
regulatory framework in offshore wind,´´  he said. ‘‘Loescher
has been very eager to lead in the German energy
transformation.´´ Langer has a ‘‘neutral’’ recommendation on
Siemens shares.  The wind power industry is struggling with low margins and
investment risks that are being exacerbated by cuts in European
subsidies, Felix Ferlemann, the head of Siemens’s wind-power
division, said at a conference in Copenhagen yesterday.  Nuclear Retreat  Loescher announced in September that Siemens would abandon
a planned return to the nuclear-power industry, following the
German government in its retreat from atomic energy in the wake
of the reactor meltdown last year in  Japan .  In his ad campaign to commemorate the first anniversary of
the catastrophe, Loescher said the energy switch would
ultimately be a success, while cautioning that it would require
‘‘tight’’ planning, relevant incentives, close coordination and
broad acceptance ‘‘everywhere in the country.’’  Siemens’s power-transmission subsidiary makes high-voltage
power systems, transformers, substations, inductors and
switchgear with about 20,000 employees at 51 sites. Siemens said
last year that it will reduce manufacturing at sites in  Germany ,
the U.K. and  France , without providing details. In recent years,
Siemens has bolstered its network of factories in lower-cost
countries including Russia, India and  China .  ‘‘Both renewable energy and power transmission are
suffering from intense price pressure,’’ said Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank. ‘‘ABB and Alstom both said
pricing in this area remains not satisfactory, so that theme is
here to stay for another couple of quarters.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  