-- Singapore Exports Unexpectedly Drop as Electronics Cool
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-04-17T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/singapore-exports-unexpectedly-drop-as-electronics-cool.html
Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly
dropped in March as shipments of electronics eased and
petrochemical sales fell amid a decline in demand from  China .  Non-oil domestic  exports  fell 4.3 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 30.4 percent increase in February, the
trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The median of
12 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 7.1 percent
gain.  Asian policy makers are juggling the need to damp
inflationary pressures while bolstering growth as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in China’s growth weigh on the global
economic outlook. After a growth rebound last quarter,
Singapore’s central bank said last week it will allow faster
gains in its currency, which may make exports less competitive,
even as  Indonesia  and  South Korea  kept  interest rates  unchanged.  “Being an externally driven economy, we expect Singapore’s
activity indicators to begin reflecting the trend in global lead
indicators, which have shown flattening momentum lately,”
Vincent Conti, a Singapore-based analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the release. “However,
we see this as a momentary consolidation of overall growth
rather than a slowdown, with a strong pickup likely to happen
particularly in the second half of the year.”  Singapore’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
contract manufacturer Venture Corp. rose 2.8 percent in March
from a year earlier, after climbing 23.3 percent the previous
month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, fell 7.8 percent. Petrochemicals exports
decreased 13 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments grew 43
percent after climbing 44.5 percent in February.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  slid a seasonally adjusted 16.8
percent last month from February, when they climbed a revised
7.2 percent, today’s report showed. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had predicted a 4.3 percent decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  