-- Sino-Forest Says Chan Resigns From Company He Co-Founded
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-17T21:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sino-forest-says-chan-resigns-from-company-he-founded.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree
plantation company that’s fending off fraud allegations, said
 Allen Chan  resigned from the company he co-founded in 1992.  Chan, who stepped aside as chairman and chief executive
officer in August, has “voluntarily” quit his non-executive
position as Chairman Emeritus, Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest said yesterday in a statement. Chief
Financial Officer David Horsley also resigned, Sino-Forest said,
and will remain an employee to help the company restructure.  Sino-Forest filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March, nine
months after the company was accused of fraud by short seller
Carson Block. A June 2 report by Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
alleged that Sino-Forest was a  Ponzi scheme  and had overstated
its timber assets.  The Muddy Waters report led to a 74 percent drop in Sino-
Forest’s Canadian share price before the Ontario Securities
Commission suspended trading in August amid investigations by
the Toronto-based market watchdog and federal police. Sino-
Forest, which had a market value of C$6.36 billion ($6.42
billion) in March 2011, has denied Block’s allegations.  The company also fired three vice presidents, Alfred Hung,
George Ho and Simon Yeung, and said Albert Ip, a former
executive, will no longer be employed as a consultant.  Regulatory Notices  The securities regulator has served Chan, Hung, Ho, Yeung,
Ip and Horsley with enforcement notices, the company said in an
April 9 statement. The notices are usually issued by the OSC
close to the end of an investigation and say that staff are
considering formal proceedings, Sino-Forest said.  Sino-Forest Chairman William Ardell said in February the
company hasn’t been able show it controls a purported 788,700
hectares (3,045 square miles) of timber. Ardell led a $50
million, eight-month probe by Sino-Forest directors that
concluded the company may never be able to disprove some of
Block’s allegations.  Sino-Forest’s application for protection from creditors was
part of an accord with bondholders to either sell the company to
a third party or undergo a restructuring that would give them
most of the remaining assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  