-- Sky Deutschland Shares Jump on Budesliga TV Rights Report
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-17T15:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sky-deutschland-shares-jump-on-budesliga-tv-rights-report.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  beat rivals
including  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  in an auction of broadcasting
rights for Germany’s Bundesliga soccer matches, expanding its
license to show the country’s most-watched sports through 2017.  The broadcaster controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.
retained the rights to show live pay-TV matches via cable and
satellite, and won additional licenses to beam them on the Web,
via mobile devices and Internet-based TV, the DFL league
association said today. The deal boosted the average annual
income from the German rights by 52 percent to a record 628
million euros ($825 million) for the four years through 2017.  “We didn’t expect results like this, it clearly exceeded
our expectations,” Christian Seifert, the league’s chief
executive officer, told a press conference in  Frankfurt . Sky’s
offer beat second-best bids by at least 20 percent in three of
the four categories it obtained, he said.  Sky Deutschland is relying on the rights to attract viewers
to help the company reach an operating profit next year. Sky’s
shares, which jumped as much as 27 percent today before the
announcement, erased some of the gains after DFL disclosed the
auction results and prices.  They traded 10 percent higher at
2.20 euros as of 4:43 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Live Coverage  Sky Deutschland, with its headquarters near Munich, will
pay 485.7 million euros per season, it said in a statement. The
rights also allow for live coverage of all matches in  Germany ’s
second-tier league.  Deutsche Telekom, which will be stripped of its rights to
show the matches over the Internet, now expects Sky Deutschland
to offer talks on how the Bonn-based phone company may continue
to show Bundesliga matches, said Christian Illek, head of
Deutsche Telekom’s German marketing.  “Of course we are disappointed, since we had a
comprehensive plan that would have benefited all soccer fans
across Germany,” Illek said on a conference call. Deutsche
Telekom “went to the limit” with its offer, he said.  The shares rose 1.4 percent to 8.67 euros.  Publisher  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  also won some rights to show
highlights of the matches on the Web and on wireless devices.  Sky Deutschland Chief Executive Officer  Brian Sullivan  is
keeping open the option of cooperating with other parties on the
broadcasting rights, according to spokesman Joerg Allgaeuer.  BSkyB Model  The broadcaster in February announced plans to raise 300
million euros by September to help fund its expansion. The
expenses for the broadcasting rights will be financed from the
company’s cash flow, Allgaeuer said. Sky Deutschland, betting on
additional subscribers to help cover the costs of the rights,
boosted its customer base to 3 million as the end of December.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K. pay-TV company
also partly owned by News Corp., has held exclusive rights to
 England ’s top soccer games since 1992. The company has more than
10 million subscribers and is one the most profitable businesses
of  News Corp. (NWSA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  