-- South Africa Yields Fall on Citigroup Index Inclusion
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-17T15:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/south-africa-yields-fall-on-citigroup-index-inclusion.html
South African government bond
yields fell the most in more than three years after Citigroup
Inc. said the debt may be included in its World Government Bond
Index.  The South African Government Bond Index met all
requirements for inclusion in the global gauge in April, and
will be included in October if it meets needs in May and June,
New York-based Citigroup said in an e-mailed statement. The
requirements are size,  credit quality  and a lack of barriers to
entry, it said.  Inclusion in the index, a first for an African country, may
fuel demand for South African bonds from investors who track the
gauge, said Malcolm Charles, who manages Investec Asset
Management’s 30 billion rand ($7.83 billion) South Africa bond
fund. South African  government bonds  have been part of the
JPMorgan EMBI indices for three years.  “Long-term it’s obviously very positive,” Charles said by
phone from  Cape Town . “It means the bonds will have an
underlying bid. We have been in the JPMorgan index, which is
exceptionally positive for the country, over the last three-odd
years and if we get into the Citibank one it will be very, very
positive.”  The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent notes due 2021 fell
21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage points, to 7.727 percent,
the lowest since Feb. 3. The decline was the most in a day since
Dec. 17, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Investment  Inclusion in the index would result in an inflow of as much
as $7.5 billion into  South Africa  as investors adjust their
portfolios,  Leon Myburgh , a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Citigroup, said in e-mailed comment.  Foreign investors owned 29 percent of South African local-
currency government debt at the end of 2011, according to
Treasury data.  Citigroup said 11 South African local-currency bonds with a
combined market value of $88 billion would be represented in the
index. The bonds would have a projected weighting of 0.44
percent. The average coupon rate for the 11 bonds is 8.45
percent, compared with 2.78 percent for the index overall, Coura Fall, an analyst at Citigroup, said by phone from Johannesburg.  About $1.5 to $2 trillion is believed to track the index,
Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in  London ,
said in an e-mailed note.  South Africa’s debt would offer the highest yield on the
index and may result in “further overweighting by even more
passive funds,” he said. “This is highly significant in our
view.”  Mexico Debt  Mexican government debt outperformed other emerging-market
bonds ahead of its inclusion in the index in October 2010,
Demetrios Efstathiou, chief strategist for emerging  Europe  at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in e-mailed comments.  A similar “outperformance of the South African market
should be expected in the near future, despite the historically
very high allocations by EM Real Money funds to South Africa
local bonds,” Efstathiou said.  Other  emerging markets  in the index include Malaysia,
Poland and  Singapore .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  