-- Spain’s Iberia Takes on Pilots With Plan to Cut Wage Bill by 20%
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-17T15:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-s-iberia-takes-on-pilots-with-plan-to-cut-wage-bill-by-20-.html
Spanish airline Iberia revealed a
plan to slash pilot pay by 62 million euros ($81 million) or
one-fifth while improving productivity by 25 percent as it seeks
to match profitability levels at sister company British Airways.  Iberia, which formed  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  with BA last year, aims to reduce pilot pay scales by
12 percent and extend the reduction to 20 percent with measures
including the elimination of inflation-linked raises, the
Madrid-based company said today in a statement. Maximum flying
hours will be lifted to 900 a year from 820-850 previously.  “Only pilots will be affected by the measures, since all
other employee groups reached agreements with the company
through negotiations,” said the carrier, which is already
suffering 30 days of air-crew strikes after forming low-cost
unit Iberia Express to take over mainly domestic flights. The
plan outlined today covers all routes, including long-haul ones.  Iberia is exploiting Spanish labor-law reforms introduced
in February that allow companies reporting losses or consecutive
sales declines to break collective-bargaining agreements. The
carrier had a 61 million-euro operating loss in 2011, compared
with a 592 million-euro profit at BA, with its lucrative routes
between the financial centers of London and  New York .  Loggerheads  “This battery of actions aimed at making Iberia profitable
is in line with what comparable airlines are doing and is
absolutely necessary to enable us to compete successfully in a
globalized market,” Jose Maria Fariza, the Iberia unit’s chief
financial officer, said in the statement.  Iberia and the Sepla pilot union have been at loggerheads
since plans for the discount unit were unveiled in October. The
labor group said when announcing the strikes last month that the
plan disregards current agreements.  Sepla should scrap further industrial action and negotiate
new contracts, Iberia said today, adding that it is open to
meetings any working day this week or next.  Union spokeswoman Ana Serrano wasn’t immediately available
for comment when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri on Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  