-- YPF Posts Record Plunge as Argentina Spurns Repsol Claim
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-18T20:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-vows-argentina-trade-war-as-repsol-seeks-10-5-billion.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
company, plunged the most on record in Buenos Aires and New York
after the government rejected Repsol  YPF SA (YPF) ’s demand for $10.5
billion in compensation for the unit’s nationalization.  Shares fell 29 percent to 77.05 pesos in Buenos Aires, the
most since 1994 when Bloomberg records begin. The company’s
American depositary receipts plunged a record 33 percent to
$13.12 as trading resumed today after a halt imposed April 16.  Argentina’s Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof rejected
Repsol’s compensation demand for its YPF unit and said the
government will rely on “solid data” to value its takeover of
51 percent of its shares. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  moved to seize YPF this week, saying the company hasn’t
invested enough in the South American country.  “Nobody knows how much the government plans to pay for the
shares and that’s making people nervous,” Juan Jose Vasquez, an
analyst at Bull Market Brokers SA, said by telephone from  Buenos
Aires . “Also, once the company is controlled by the state, its
purpose won’t be maximizing  shareholder value  anymore.”  The government will ensure the profitability of the company
“beyond Repsol’s expectations,” Kicillof, who Fernandez named
to help lead YPF April 16, said at a Senate hearing yesterday.
Repsol’s shares dropped the most in three years in  Madrid  today.  ‘Talked Recklessly’  “The numbers that some executives talked recklessly about
in valuing the company will be revised as we review the fine
print and the secret information managed by the company,”
Kicillof said, adding that YPF’s 2011 profit of 5.3 billion
pesos ($1.2 billion) won’t be used for dividends and may be
reinvested.  The appropriation damaged  Argentina ’s relations with Spain,
its biggest investor, and put in question the future of the
country’s largest taxpayer. Spain vowed to retaliate against
Argentina’s exporters and Repsol Chief Executive Officer  Antonio Brufau  said he will use all legal means to win full payment for
the oil producer.  The U.K. will work with Spain and other European Union
countries to ensure Argentina upholds commitments to promote
transparency and reduce protectionism, British Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Repsol fell 6.2 percent in Madrid, the most since February
2009, to close at 15.40 euros. That bought the loss in 2012 to
35 percent, the worst performance of the benchmark Euro Stoxx 50
index, which rose 0.5 percent since Dec. 31.  Negative Signal  “A takeover sends a very negative signal to international
investors and it could seriously harm the business environment
in Argentina,” European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said yesterday in Strasbourg,  France . “The measure
creates legal insecurity for all European Union and foreign
firms in the country.”  Trade between Argentina and the EU totaled about $26
billion last year, up from $21 billion in 2010, according to a
 report  by Argentina’s national statistics institute.  Spain  is
Argentina’s fifth-biggest destination for exports, after  Brazil ,
 China ,  Chile  and the U.S., the report said.  Fernandez said the price paid for YPF’s shares will be
determined by the  National Appraisal Tribunal , a government-
chartered body that assesses the value of nationalized goods.  “This will probably be a very cumbersome situation for
Repsol,” said Maximiliano Castillo, a former manager of macro-
economic analysis at Argentina’s central bank. “It’s a process
that could last years if there isn’t a political agreement
between both governments to speed it along.”  Market Value  YPF’s market capitalization tumbled 35 percent to 30.3
billion pesos this week following Fernandez’s announcement.
Trading in YPF’s American depositary receipts was halted on
April 16 in  New York  after plunging 11 percent to $19.50. The
securities are down from $34.68 at the end of 2011. Repsol’s
shares have tumbled 32 percent this year as Fernandez stepped up
pressure on its Argentine unit.  Repsol’s 57.4 percent stake in YPF was worth 4.1 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) at the end of last year, the Madrid-based
company said in an April 16 regulatory statement. The company is
valued at $18.3 billion according to the formula set out in its
bylaws, Brufau said.  Brufau said yesterday that Repsol had a written offer for
its YPF stake that  valued the company  at $15 billion to $18
billion before the seizure. The potential sale was torpedoed
because the Argentinean government refused to discuss it and the
investors wanted the blessing of officials.  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec, was the bidder, the Financial
Times reported today.  Senate Vote  The YPF proposal will be discussed in committee again today
before heading to a vote on the Senate floor next week. The bill
requires a two-thirds vote in both chambers of Congress to pass.  Fernandez justified the takeover by blaming Repsol for
insufficient investment in new oil production that’s forcing the
nation to import more energy. She may struggle to reverse that
trend as investors said the moves deter them from buying
Argentine assets.  “The message out of Argentina is very clear, and it’s
‘we’re going backwards,’” Peter Gaw, the head of oil, gas and
chemicals at Standard Chartered Bank, said in an interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “I think we’ll see a very stagnant period of
mergers and acquisitions in Argentina.”  The Spanish government will decide on measures affecting
Argentina’s trade and energy supplies as well as exerting
pressure through diplomatic channels, Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said today in a television interview. The cabinet
is due to meet next on April 20.  Meeting Postponed  The EU postponed a meeting with Argentine officials
scheduled for this month to weigh its response to the move,
European Commission spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen said.
Repsol’s first option for winning compensation may be an appeal
under an investment treaty between Spain and Argentina, the
commission said.  Argentina needs an estimated $25 billion a year during the
next 10 years to develop  South America ’s biggest shale field,
the Vaca Muerta, where YPF discovered reserves forecast to hold
as much as 23 billion barrels of oil equivalent.  Argentina’s oil reserves fell about 18 percent from 1998 to
2010, according to the Argentine Oil and Gas Institute. Price
caps on oil exports also made investments less attractive.  Repsol is responsible for about 54 percent of the country’s
decline in reserves and production since buying YPF in 1998,
according to a copy of the Argentine bill.  “We can’t give ourselves the luxury of hoping that a
multinational company will sit down with us and ask ‘what are
you going to do with your gas, with your oil production, with
your fuel prices?’” Kicillof said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  