-- Spain’s Wilting Economy Still Held in Franco’s Grip
-- B y   A n a   P a l a c i o
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-s-wilting-economy-still-held-in-franco-s-grip.html
Spain ’s economic woes are
triggering renewed fears over a potential default in the euro
area, and much of the blame belongs to labor laws that date back
to the dictatorship of General  Francisco Franco . Unless the
government succeeds in changing them, it’s hard to see the
country returning to healthy growth even if it manages to stay
solvent.  Spain is by now notorious for having the highest
 unemployment rate  in the European Union, especially among the
young -- every second Spaniard under the age of 25 is looking
for a job. It would be simplistic, of course, to attribute
Spain’s severe economic contraction and rampant unemployment to
any one cause, but the labor market is a useful place to start.
It has taken the financial crisis to force an ambitious attempt
to address the problem.  Franco’s camp introduced the foundations of the existing
 labor laws  in 1938, when the Spanish Civil War was still being
fought. The new legislation was heavily influenced by
Mussolini’s 1927  Carta del Lavoro , and was bolstered by
additions in the 1940s and ’60s and, toward the end of Franco’s
rule, in the ’70s. Remarkably, much of that legislation remains
in effect today.  Dysfunctional Market  The  International Monetary Fund  has described Spain’s
resulting labor market as ”dysfunctional.” The  World Economic
Forum ’s latest  Global Competitiveness Report  ranks Spain’s labor
market 134th out of 142 countries, pointing to labor-market
rigidities and the gap between wage setting and productivity
levels as an important cause of Spain’s slide down the overall
index in recent years.  Franco’s labor laws offered workers rock-solid  job security 
and strong collective-bargaining rights. These were critical
elements of welfare systems that were adopted by fascist -- or
national socialist -- regimes around  Europe , as they sought to
maintain social harmony in the absence of democracy. Changing
them has been a critical test of maturity for Spanish democracy
since its establishment in 1977, and successive administrations
have failed. Contrary to what you might expect, it’s the
political left that has been most opposed to changing laws that
were adopted during Franco’s fascist dictatorship.  Maintaining the status quo was understandable and even
laudable during Spain’s post-Franco transition, when the country
-- still fearful of slipping back into the deep divisions of the
civil war -- sought a consensus that would help to consolidate
democracy while the economy was weak and jobs were scarce.  Attempts at reform were made, but most were minimalist and
ad hoc, aimed at facilitating employment by indirect, partial
and even surreptitious measures. The strategy, until the first
conservative government under Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar
came to power in 1996, was to create a parallel labor market,
based on temporary contracts. These allowed employers to avoid
the rigidity of indefinite contracts, making it easier and
cheaper to fire employees by addressing issues such as
termination costs, restrictions and procedural duration, among
others.  The result  was a 73 percent increase in temporary
contracts from 1985 to 1993, according to Spain’s Annual
Statistics Review.  The Aznar administration made the first serious attempt to
synthesize temporary and indefinite contracts, reducing the cost
of dismissal and at the same time retaining stability of
employment. But the reforms that Spain’s current conservative
government has proposed are by far the most ambitious to date.
They should bring Spain closer to  Germany , and further from
 Greece .  Curbing Unions  The goal now is to create more flexibility in the labor
market, enabling enterprises to hire and fire more easily and so
better respond to the changes of the economic cycle. For the
first time, the reforms also address collective-bargaining
agreements that have caused the elimination of thousands of
jobs. The proposed changes would substantially curb union
bargaining power, giving priority to wage negotiation at the
level of companies, rather than industries.  Two pockets of resistance, both cultural, can be easily
identified. The first is public opinion, in whose perception
formal guarantees still take priority over opportunities. The
second is the political intransigence of the labor unions, as
they fight against the decline in their prominence as
indispensable interlocutors in the collective-bargaining
process. Their refusal to come to terms with the dictates of
21st-century economic realities has long kept hostage the
national debate over reform. But less than a fifth of Spanish
employees are affiliated with the major unions, and many
Spaniards question whether organized labor now represents the
workforce or their interests.  At the end of March, the unions called a general strike and
took to the streets to protest 27 billion euros ($35.5 billion)
of spending cuts and tax increases in the government’s freshly
unveiled 2012 budget, despite a reasonable economic consensus
that such austerity is essential. The alternative risks a
disorderly default and punitive  interest rates  that could
trigger a downward economic spiral and force Spain to leave the
euro.  Obviously, rigid labor laws are just one aspect of Spain’s
story. Complacent credit ratings, easy credit and extravagance
in the banking sector led to construction and property bubbles
that since burst, damaging the country’s economic framework. In
the absence of adjustment mechanisms to compensate for the lack
of exchange-rate flexibility, the strength of the euro also hurt
Spain’s competitiveness.  Spain’s recovery isn’t just about budget cuts and austerity
-- it’s about competitiveness. That means improving flexibility
and mobility in the economy, and coming to terms with the need
to modernize Spain’s job market and welfare system. We Spaniards
need to let go of our sense of entitlement to job security and
welfare, if we are to succeed in reviving the economy and
preserving the essence of our generous welfare system.  (Ana Palacio served as Spanish foreign minister in the
conservative government of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar. She
is also a former senior vice president at the  World Bank . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes 
and Obama’s  oil-speculation plan ;  Peter Orszag  on saving money
through  health-care reform ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Ann Romney’s
choices ; Clive Crook on  economic fairness ; William Pesek on
 China’s power shift ;  Roger Lowenstein  on  dodging Dodd-Frank .  To read other op-ed articles in this series about Europe's 
social contract:  Iain Begg  on the Danish flexicurity model; 
 Josef Joffe  on how all of Europe should learn from Germany's 
reforms;  Fredrik Erixon  on the last days of Europe's welfare 
states.  To contact the writer of this article: Ana Palacio at
 ana.palacio@palacioyasociados.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  