-- Spain Sells More Bills Than Scheduled as Yields Increase
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-17T16:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-sells-more-bills-than-scheduled-as-yields-increase.html
Spain ’s central bank chief said the
country risks missing deficit estimates unveiled last month just
hours after a successful bill sale dissipated some concerns that
the government may have to seek a bailout.  “The projected course of total revenues in the budget is
subject to downside risks,” Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez told a parliamentary committee today in
Madrid.  The comments may undermine the optimism sparked by Spain’s
successful bill auction just two hours previously. While 10-year
bonds rose today, the yield is still close to 6 percent amid
concern that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government will
struggle to rein in the  budget  deficit and shore up a banking
industry facing additional charges of 50 billion euros ($66
billion.)  Ordonez said revenue estimates should be “prudent” as he
confirmed the  economy  is now suffering its second recession
since 2009. The economy will shrink 1.8 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast today.  The government’s plan to raise 2.5 billion euros from a tax
amnesty is “particularly uncertain,” Ordonez told lawmakers in
a session to discuss the budget, which was approved by the
Cabinet on March 30 and is making its way through parliament.  Jobless Benefits  Spending linked to  unemployment benefits  may also be more
than forecast as the nation suffers the highest jobless rate in
the European Union, at almost 24 percent. If additional measures
are needed, indirect taxes should be increased and temporary tax
measures may have to be replaced by permanent ones, said
Ordonez, who was appointed by the former Socialist government
for a six-year term that ends this year.  Ordonez also said the decision by the government, which
came to power on Dec. 21, not to present the 2012 budget until
March 30 undermined confidence, as did slippage last year and
uncertainty over what the  deficit  goal for this year would be.  Borrowing costs have surged about 1 percentage point since
Rajoy said on March 2 the government would aim for a budget
shortfall of 5.8 percent of gross domestic product instead of
the 4.4 percent agreed with the European Union. A new goal of
5.3 percent was set by euro-region finance ministers on March
12.  ‘Enormous Worry’  “The doubts on the deficit goal created enormous worry as
well as the presentation of the budget three months afterward,
which was probably very justified, but the markets didn’t see it
as justified,” he said.  The IMF created news doubts about Spain’s current targets
today when it forecast a Spanish shortfall of 6 percent this
year and 5.7 percent in 2013, almost twice the 3 percent pledged
by the Rajoy government for next year.  Spanish bond yields, which rose as high as 6.156 percent
yesterday, the most since Dec. 1,  fell  to 5.89 percent after the
Treasury sold more bills than the 3 billion euros it targeted
for the auction.  Spain sold 12-month bills at 2.623 percent, up from 1.418
percent at the last auction on March 20, the Treasury said. The
Treasury also sold 18-month bills at 3.11 percent, compared with
1.711 percent last month.  Spain faces another test of  market sentiment  on April 19
when it seeks to sell 2.5 billion euros of two-year bonds and
its 10-year benchmark security.  Auction Results  “As far as this auction goes, not so bad but not good
enough, in my opinion, to provide the market with a sense of
optimism going into the bond auction on Thursday,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London .  Demand for the 12-month bills was 2.9 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.14 times last month. Demand for the longer
maturity notes rose to 3.77 times from 2.93.  Demand for Spanish debt has been underpinned by the
 European Central Bank ’s emergency three-year lending to banks at
tenders in December and February. Spanish banks’ average net
borrowings from the ECB surged almost 50 percent in March to
227.6 billion euros, central bank data showed last week, and
data from the Treasury show Spanish lenders piled up on the
nation’s debt in the three months through February.  ECB Support  Spanish officials have called for additional help from the
central bank, with Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria saying
today that a more “expansionary” policy to inject more
liquidity would be “desirable.” Jaime Garcia-Legaz, the deputy
minister for trade, called on April 13 for the ECB to restart
bond purchases.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos met ECB President  Mario Draghi  in  Frankfurt  today in a meeting that was also attended by
Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo and other members of the executive
board, the Spanish ministry said. It gave no details of what was
discussed in an e-mailed statement today.  Rajoy has repeatedly said that the country won’t need a
bailout and on April 13 said it was “not possible” for the EU
to rescue Spain. Soria raised the threat of a bailout again
today to justify the need for budget cuts.  “If we don’t meet the deficit targets they will stop
lending to us, and if no one lends to us, they will have to
rescue us, and because the government rules out the possibility
of a rescue and intervention, that’s why we’re doing reforms,”
he said in an interview with RNE radio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  