-- Spain’s Surging Bad Loans Cast New Doubts on Bank Cleanup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-18T10:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-s-surging-bad-loans-cast-new-doubts-on-bank-cleanup-plan.html
Spain ’s surging  bad loans  are
spurring doubt on whether the government can persuade investors
that it can clean up the country’s banks without further
damaging public finances.  Non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending
jumped to 8.16 percent in February, the highest level since
1994, from less than 1 percent in 2007, according to Bank of
Spain data published today. The ratio rose from 7.91 percent in
January as 3.8 billion euros of loans soured in February, a 110
percent increase from the same month a year ago. That takes the
total credit in the economy that the regulator lists as
“doubtful” to 143.8 billion euros.  Defaults are rising and  credit  is shrinking at a record
pace as 24 percent unemployment corrodes the quality of loans
built up in the country’s credit boom and saps the appetite of
banks to make new ones. Doubts about the extent of Spain’s non-
performing loans problem is hurting bank stocks and driving up
the government’s borrowing costs on investor concern that the
expense of propping up ailing lenders may add to the debt
burden.  “One of our concerns in Spain is to what extent contingent
liabilities could pass to the central government,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Munich-based
head of  portfolio management . Non-performing loans “will have
to rise when you take into account the  unemployment rate  and
what’s happening with the economy,” he said.  ‘Further Hole’  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is battling to convince
investors Spain’s finances are under control after his refusal
last month to meet deficit targets set by the European
Commission. By seeking to cut the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of
gross domestic product from 8.5 percent over two years, he risks
driving bad loans as the deepest austerity measures in three
decades push the economy back into a recession.  “A lot of our doubts are based on the grounds that non-
performing loans should increase,” said Tobias Blattner, an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in London, adding that he
expects  house prices  still may fall by as much as 20 percent.
“That could make a further hole in balance sheets of the
banks.”  Bank shares extended declines today after the bad-loan
figures were released.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
lender, fell as much as 3 percent and CaixaBank SA, the fourth
largest, dropped as much as 3.3 percent.  Bonds Rise  Spanish bonds rose for a second day as the extra yield that
investors demand to hold 10-year debt instead of German bunds
narrowed to 404.5 basis points from 413.7 basis points
yesterday.  Rajoy’s government announced plans in February to force
banks to take their share of costs of 50 billion euros ($65.6
billion) for building provisions and capital to make them
recognize losses on real estate piled up on their balance sheets
during the country’s housing bust.  The Bank of Spain said late yesterday that lenders will
take a total of 53.8 billion euros to meet the new requirements,
including 29.1 billion euros in provisions and 15.6 billion
euros to create capital buffers. While most companies would be
able to comply “without major difficulty,” the central bank
would  tighten its vigilance  over lenders that may struggle to
meet the requirements, it said.  Provisions  The plan implies a loss ratio for those assets of about 25
percent based on the fact that banks have already made
provisions of 50 billion euros against total real estate risk of
340 billion euros, said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in  Madrid .  Depending on how much the economy contracts and asset
prices fall, further provisions of as much as 40 billion euros
may be needed, said Daiwa’s Blattner.  “In light of the bleak profitability outlook for the
Spanish banking sector, we are concerned whether banks will be
able to put aside the provisions the government has requested,”
he said.  So far the government’s efforts to bolster confidence in
the banks has focused on making them recognize losses linked
mainly to real estate.  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , a Spanish
consumer bank  controlled  by Banco Santander SA, said April 12
that first-quarter profit fell 88 percent as it made provisions
to cover about half of the 1 billion euros in real estate
charges the company must make this year to comply with the
government’s order.  Other Loans  Still, Spain’s deteriorating economy means other classes of
loans apart from those linked to real estate are also at risk of
going sour, Blattner said.  The Bank of Spain, which says banks are burdened with about
176 billion euros of “troubled” real estate assets, lists
about 21 percent of the 298 billion euros of loans linked to
property developers as non-performing. The bad-loans ratio for
industry excluding construction has jumped to 5.4 percent from 1
percent in 2007, according to the Bank of Spain.  “The 50 billion euros of extra capital looks like it’s in
the ballpark,” said Bosomworth, referring to the government’s
cleanup plan. Still, the “balance of risks” suggests more
funds may be needed given what’s happening in the economy, he
said.  ECB Stability Facility  One option open to Spain should it need to recapitalize
banks further would be to take funds from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the euro-area’s temporary bailout fund, said
Daiwa’s Blattner.  That would come with a “certain stigma attached” because
it may signal the government has lost  market access , he said.
Spain can weather its troubles without a bailout and widening
bond spreads are a “warning shot” from investors,  Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary budget spokesman for German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Party, said by
telephone yesterday.  Spain has managed to stop the cleanup of the banking system
from hurting government finances by making the industry absorb
the cost by contributing more to the deposit guarantee fund. The
fund has helped to finance the state’s sale of failed lenders
including Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo and Unnim by covering
future losses for buyers.  Bankia Concerns  To be sure, investors have better information on the risks
facing Spanish banks as the industry has shrunk and the Bank of
Spain has made them unveil their real estate exposure, said
Nomura’s Quinn.  Bankia, a grouping of seven former savings banks with about
300 billion euros in assets, has become a focus of analyst
concerns about Spain’s banking system.  Deutsche Bank AG analyst Carlos Berastain said in an April
11 he was downgrading Bankia to sell from hold because of its
“very low” profitability and the weak solvency position of its
parent company. While Spanish banks face their “toughest year
to date” in terms of profitability, 2012 also may be the
“turning point” toward earnings that are more normal in 2013
on reduced needs to make impairments, Berastain wrote.  “Everyone, even the Eskimos, knows that bad loans in Spain
are going up,” said  Antonio Ramirez , a banking analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London . “The sovereign is affected
by the view in the markets that the banks are in difficulties
and in a circular loop the banks are affected by the market view
that the sovereign is weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  