-- Spain Sells More Bills Than Scheduled as Yields Increase
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-17T09:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-sells-more-bills-than-planned-as-yields-increase.html
Spain borrowing costs rose at a
sale of one-year and 18-month bills for the first time since
November as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  battles to convince
investors the country won’t need a bailout.  Spain sold 12-month bills at 2.623 percent, up from 1.418
percent at the last auction on March 20, the Bank of Spain said
in  Madrid  today. The Treasury also sold 18-month bills at 3.11
percent, compared with 1.711 percent last month. The total
amount sold was more than the 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) 
maximum target set for the auction.  Spanish bonds extended gains after the auction with the
yield the  10-year benchmark bond  falling 16 basis points to 5.91
percent. That yield rose as high as 6.156 percent yesterday, the
most since Dec. 1. Spain faces another test of  market sentiment 
on April 19 when it seeks to sell 2.5 billion euros of two-year
bonds and its 10-year benchmark security.  “As far as this auction goes, not so bad but not good
enough, in my opinion, to provide the market with a sense of
optimism going into the bond auction on Thursday,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London .  ECB Help  Demand for the 12-month bills was 2.9 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.14 times last month. Demand for the longer
maturity notes rose to 3.77 times from 2.93.  Demand for Spanish debt has been underpinned by the
 European Central Bank ’s emergency three-year lending to banks at
tenders in December and February. Spanish banks’ average net
borrowings from the ECB surged almost 50 percent in March to
227.6 billion euros, central bank data showed last week, and
data from the Treasury shows Spanish lenders piled up on the
nation’s debt in the three months through February.  Spanish officials have called for additional help from the
central bank, and Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is due to
meet ECB President  Mario Draghi  in  Frankfurt  today. Industry
Minister Jose Manuel Soria said today that a more
“expansionary” policy to inject more liquidity would be
“desirable,” after Jaime Garcia-Legaz, the deputy minister for
trade, called on April 13 for the ECB to restart bond purchases.  Revised Target  The central government faces 11.9 billion euros of bond
redemptions in April, 12.7 billion euros in July, and 20.2
billion euros in October, Treasury data show.  Spain ’s 10-year borrowing costs have jumped more than one
percentage point since Rajoy said on March 2 that the nation
won’t meet a budget deficit target for this year of 4.4 percent
of gross domestic product set by the previous administration and
the European Union. Rajoy convinced euro-region peers to relax
the goal to 5.3 percent as the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy is forecast to contract 1.7 percent in 2012.  Rajoy has repeatedly said that the country won’t need a
bailout and on April 13 said it was “not possible” for the EU
to rescue Spain. Soria raised the threat of a bailout again
today to justify the need for budget cuts.  ECB Divided  “If we don’t meet the deficit targets they will stop
lending to us, and if no one lends to us, they will have to
rescue us, and because the government rules out the possibility
of a rescue and intervention, that’s why we’re doing reforms,”
he said in an interview with RNE radio.  ECB officials are divided over the steps to tame the crisis
and help Spain. While Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
signaled on April 11 the bank may start buying Spanish bonds,
his Dutch colleague Klaas Knot said on April 13 that the ECB is
“very far” from reactivating a policy that failed to stop a
selloff in Spanish bonds in November.  `Buy Time'  Spain needs more external financial help to “buy time”
for its government to implement reforms,  HSBC Holdings Plc’s
Madhur Jha said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  yesterday.  “People are beginning to realize the more and more
austerity you impose on an economy, the worse it becomes in
terms of growth and also in terms of debt sustainability,” she
said.  Rajoy yesterday said that there is no alternative to
austerity. “Budget discipline and the rationalization of the
public sector are good and necessary reforms,” Rajoy said
during a conference in Madrid. “Furthermore, they’ll lead to a
reduction in the spread between Spain’s borrowing costs and
others’ and they will normalize access to funding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  