-- Spain Has Enough Excess Land for 4 Million New Homes, Acuna Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-04-17T08:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spain-has-enough-excess-land-for-4-million-new-homes-acuna-says.html
Spain  has enough land approved for
development to build 4 million homes and an existing supply of
residences that will take about 10 years to sell, according to
R.R. de Acuna & Asociados.  There are currently 2 million unsold homes in Spain, the
Madrid-based property adviser said in a report published today.
In a typical year, there is demand for 200,000 to 250,000
properties, the company estimates.  “Land continues to be the biggest threat for Spanish
lenders,” Fernando Rodriguez de Acuna Martinez, a partner at
Acuna & Asociados, said by telephone yesterday. “An important
part won’t be developed in the next decade, which means the
price of that land today is just symbolic or zero.”  Spanish lenders have taken on  298.3 billion  euros of loans
to developers and real estate assets onto their balance sheets
to cancel debt after a decade-long property boom ended in 2008,
according to data published by the Bank of Spain. Since the
market’s peak in 2007, the average price of urban land has
dropped 36 percent to 182.5 euros ($240) a square meter,
according to data from the  Ministry of Infrastructure .  Asking prices for homes have fallen by an average of about
30 percent during that time, according to a March 1 report by
Fotocasa.es, a real-estate website, and the IESE Business
School.  Home prices  will fall a further 20 percent over the next
four to five years and land will be sold at an average discount
of at least 65 percent, according to Acuna.  ‘No Need’  “There is no need whatsoever to use the developed land to
build even more homes because current oversupply will not be
absorbed for another 7 years in metropolitan areas and as much
as 13 years in coastal areas,” Acuna said.  Spain built on average 675,000 homes a year from 1997 to
2006, more than  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. combined, according
to a report by a unit of Spanish savings bank Cajamar.  Excess supply, lack of demand and the depreciation of real
estate assets has created “zombie developers” that can no
longer be refinanced and may default, Acuna said in the report.
That may result in losses of 92 billion euros for lenders, the
company estimates. Lenders have already provisioned for about 32
billion euros of that and will have to face an extra 60 billion
euros of losses from developers alone over the next four to five
years, Acuna said.  The cost to the public of overhauling the industry has been
10 billion euros in the form of share purchases from the
government bailout funds known as the FROB. Banks have made
provisions for a potential 105 billion euros of writedowns since
the market crashed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 