-- Spanish Banks Gorging on Sovereign Bonds Shifts Risk
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-04-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/spanish-banks-gorging-on-sovereign-bonds-shifts-risk-to-taxpayer.html
Spanish, Italian and Portuguese
banks are loading up on bonds issued by their own governments, a
move that shifts more of the risk of sovereign default to
European taxpayers from private creditors.  Holdings of Spanish government debt by lenders based in the
country jumped 26 percent in two months, to 220 billion euros
($289 billion) at the end of January, data from  Spain’s treasury 
show. Italian banks increased ownership of their nation’s
sovereign bonds by 31 percent to 267 billion euros in the three
months ended in February, according to  Bank of Italy  data.  German and French banks, meanwhile, have cut holdings of
those countries’ bonds, as well as Irish and Greek debt, by as
much as  50 percent  since 2010 in some cases. That leaves
domestic firms on the hook for a restructuring such as  Greece ’s
last month and their main financier, the  European Central Bank ,
facing losses. Like Greece, governments would have to rescue
their lenders with funds borrowed from the European Union.  “The more banks stop cross-border lending, the more the
ECB steps in to do the financing,” said Guntram Wolff, deputy
director of Bruegel, a Brussels-based research institute. “So
the exposure of the core countries to the periphery is shifting
from the private to the public sector.”  ECB Lending  The jump in sovereign-debt holdings by Spanish and Italian
banks has been fueled by the ECB’s 1 trillion-euro long-term
refinancing operation, or LTRO, initiated in December, to
provide liquidity to the region’s lenders. Encouraged by their
governments to take the money and buy bonds, banks borrowed 489
billion euros on Dec. 21 and 530 billion euros on Feb. 29.  For lenders in so-called peripheral countries --  Spain ,
Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Italy -- profit also was an
inducement: They could borrow at 1 percent to buy  government
bonds  yielding between 6 percent and 13 percent.  Lenders in those five countries have taken about 715
billion euros from the ECB through emergency programs, including
the LTRO, according to the most recent data provided by the
central banks of those nations. Irish and Greek lenders have
borrowed an additional 83 billion euros from their central
banks, using collateral that isn’t accepted by the ECB.  The bond purchases helped bring down borrowing costs at
first. The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond dropped below
5 percent in January from more than 6.5 percent in November.
Concerns that a deepening recession will lead the government to
default on its bonds have driven  yields  back to 6 percent and
the cost of insuring Spanish debt to levels that prompted other
European countries to seek bailouts.  Ireland, Portugal  Irish banks increased ownership of that nation’s sovereign
debt by 21 percent in the three months ended in February,
according to the Central Bank of Ireland.  Government-bond holdings by Portuguese banks jumped 15
percent to 30 billion euros in the same period, according to ECB
data. While the central bank doesn’t provide a breakdown of the
holdings by country, most debt sold by  Portugal  in recent months
has been snapped up by its own lenders, according to two primary
dealers who serve as middlemen in the sales and who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  French and German banks bought the sovereign debt of other
European countries last decade as the region’s financial sector
became more integrated and interest rates declined. That process
has been fragmented by the debt crisis.  Since 2010, banks in France and  Germany  have retreated,
cutting lending to the governments of Spain, Portugal, Ireland
and Greece 42 percent, according to data compiled by the  Bank
for International Settlements . Dumping Italian sovereign bonds
began more recently, with German lenders reducing their Italian
holdings 13 percent in the second and third quarters of 2011,
BIS data show. French banks shrunk their holdings of  Italian
government debt  about 25 percent in the third quarter.  Debt Relief  While French and German banks lost money on Greece’s
restructuring last month, a delay of more than a year allowed a
similar shift of risk to the public sector. When the exchange
took place, the debt relief was capped at 59 billion euros
because fewer bonds were held by the private sector, including
banks outside the country. If Greece had defaulted in 2010, the
reduction could have been as much as 232 billion euros.  Greece had to borrow an additional 49 billion euros from
the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU to recapitalize Greek
banks that couldn’t handle losses on their sovereign-debt
holdings during the restructuring.  “If there’s a private-sector restructuring of Portuguese
sovereign debt, then Portugal’s banks will need a bailout like
Greek banks did,” Dimitri Papadimitriou, president of the Levy
Economics Institute at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson,  New
York , said in an interview.  Regulatory Pressure  In Spain, stronger banks such as  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the
country’s largest lender, can handle losses from their sovereign
holdings, while weaker savings institutions stung by soured real
estate loans will need help, Papadimitriou said. Italian banks
probably are buying more of their country’s debt because they
can sell it to retail customers who still have an appetite for
the securities, he said.  Lenders in peripheral countries are facing pressure from
regulators and the ECB to buy government debt, according to two
executives and a banking supervisor who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. German and
French regulators, meanwhile, have said they asked banks to cut
lending to those nations.  “As German banks reduce their exposure and the domestic
banks pick up the slack, credit is becoming national again,”
said Michael Dawson-Kropf, a Frankfurt-based senior director at
 Fitch Ratings . “But in most cases, like Ireland, there aren’t
enough domestic deposits to do that, so they need external
financing.”  ‘Backdoor Exposure’  That’s when the ECB and other public lenders step in,
creating a “backdoor exposure” for wealthier nations such as
Germany,  France  and the Netherlands, said  Sean Egan , president
of Egan-Jones Ratings Co. in Haverford,  Pennsylvania .  “Private-sector banks offloading their obligations to the
public sector doesn’t get the German taxpayer off the hook,”
Egan said. His firm downgraded Germany’s sovereign credit to A+
in January, four levels below the top rating, amid worries that
the country will have to rescue other EU nations.  Before the 2008 crisis,  banks in Ireland  held almost no
Irish government debt. They owned about 20 percent of that
nation’s sovereign bonds as of Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by the Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance . In the meantime, the Irish government has pumped 62
billion euros into its banks to cover losses on real estate
loans and now owns most of the banking system.  Tied at Hips  “The Irish government and the banks are tied at the
hips,” said Constantin Gurdgiev, a finance lecturer at Trinity
College in Dublin. “Banks get money from the government, which
turns around and borrows from the banks. But how long can this
game go on?”  Portuguese banks’ ownership of that country’s sovereign
bonds jumped to 12 percent at the end of 2011 from 5 percent in
2007, according to  IIF  data. Spanish banks’ share of their
government’s debt rose to 35 percent from 24 percent.  Meanwhile, foreign banks’ holdings of Spanish government
debt dropped to 64 percent at the end of September from 74
percent a year earlier, IIF data show. In Ireland, the share
declined to 23 percent from 27 percent, and in Portugal it fell
to 19 percent from 26 percent.  ‘National Fragmentation’  “This national fragmentation of credit is beginning to
undo the financial integration that was one of the biggest
benefits of the monetary union,” said Hung Tran, deputy
managing director of the IIF, which represents more than 400
banks worldwide. “It’s not reducing the vulnerability of the
banking system to the sovereign risk either.”  The ECB’s emergency-lending programs can provide indirect
support for governments, “but only if sovereigns are perceived
by markets to be going in the right direction,” David Mackie,
chief European economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an
April 10 note to investors.  “If there are doubts about the path ahead for sovereigns,
then longer-term financing for banks will not necessarily
provide much support as domestic banks may be reluctant to buy
and other holders of sovereign debt may be keen to sell,” wrote
Mackie, who is based in  London .  Spain, Portugal,  Italy , Ireland and Greece relied on banks
in countries with stronger economies to finance their budget
deficits for a long time, said Jan Hagen, a banking professor at
Berlin’s European School of Management and Technology. With
those lenders now weakened by losses and pressed to reduce risk,
governments will struggle to finance themselves as the rest of
the world stays away, he said.  “Governments loved the banking sector’s growth in the last
two decades because they could borrow so easily,” Hagen said.
“It was like a drug addiction. But like all addictions, it
probably will end in a bad way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  