-- State Street Profit Declines 6.6% as Costs Rise
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-17T20:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/state-street-profit-declines-6-6-on-low-interest-rates.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, said first-quarter profit fell 6.6 percent
as expenses rose more than twice as fast as revenue.  State Street’s net income on an operating basis decreased
to $410 million, or 84 cents a share, from $439 million, or 88
cents, a year earlier, the Boston-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding certain items, 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg  estimated  State Street to earn of 87 cents a share on
average. Rival  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  overcame higher expenses to
report a 6.8 percent increase in net income.  State Street’s compensation costs are “driving the miss,”
compared to analysts’ estimates, Logan Purk, an equity analyst
at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an interview. “That
could make some investors pause, but they are in a multiyear
plan to reduce costs.”  State Street’s expenses on an operating basis climbed 6.9
percent to $1.8 billion, driven by a 9.2 percent jump in
compensation-related costs. Chief Executive Joseph Hooley, who
has cut jobs and made acquisitions in an effort to counter the
impact from  interest rates  near zero, said the company is on
track to reach a goal for $94 million in annual pretax expense
savings this year.  “We remain committed to managing expenses carefully and
continue to expect our compensation-to-revenue ratio to decline
in 2012,” Hooley said in the statement. That forecast assumes a
“modest” increase in revenue on an operating basis, he said.  State Street rose 2 percent to $44.55 at the close in New
York trading. Northern Trust gained 1.5 percent to $46.87. The
companies have gained 11 percent and 18 percent, respectively,
this year, compared with a 17 percent increase in the 20-company
 Standard & Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody banks.  Revenue and Assets  State Street’s operating revenue increased 3.1 percent from
a year ago to $2.4 billion as assets under custody rose by 1.3
percent to $16.9 trillion, boosted by $233 billion in new
custody assets won in the first quarter.  The amount of money State Street invests for clients
decreased 6 percent to $1.99 trillion, helping to keep
investment management fees unchanged at $236 million. Fees from
 securities lending  rose 47 percent to $97 million.  The  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global stocks declined 3 percent in
the 12 months through March 31.  “Asset valuations compared to last year are still down
somewhat,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis-based analyst for Guggenheim
Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Northern Trust, based in  Chicago , said net income increased
to $161.2 million, or 66 cents a share, from $151 million, or 61
cents a share, a year earlier. Profit matched the 66-cent
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Northern Trust  Northern Trust outperformed State Street as its assets grew
faster. Custody assets increased 5.5 percent and the money the
firm invests for clients by 8.2 percent, helping fee income to
rise by 12 percent. Total revenue increased 7.5 percent, while
expenses jumped 11 percent.  Northern Trust, unlike its larger rivals, hasn’t been hit
with lawsuits over its pricing of foreign-exchange transactions.
State Street and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. face allegations
from  California , New York and other states that they defrauded
public pension funds by overcharging for a service known as
indirect foreign exchange, or standing instruction.  State Street’s net income fell to $417 million, or 85 cents
a share, from $466 million, or 93 cents a share, a year earlier.
State Street’s operating profit excludes money earned from the
sale or maturing of bonds whose value was written down in May
2009, which the company records as “discount accretion” within
net interest income.  Fed Report  Net income was reduced by 3 cents a share by pretax
acquisition and restructuring costs and by 2 cents a share for
litigation-related settlements in the first quarter, according
to the statement, which didn’t provide further details about the
settlements.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said in March that State Street
was the second-strongest among the 19 largest U.S. banks when
the Fed tested their ability to withstand a recession under
current capital plans.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
largest custody bank, was the strongest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  