-- Sub-Saharan Africa to Grow 5.4% on Oil Output, IMF Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sub-saharan-africa-to-grow-5-4-on-oil-output-imf-says.html
Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s economy will
probably expand 5.4 percent this year as rising commodity prices
and increased oil production help to offset a slowdown in
Europe, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Growth is set to accelerate from 5.1 percent in 2011 and
compares with 5.5 percent estimated in January, the Washington-
based lender said in its World Economic Outlook report today.
The IMF raised its growth forecast for South Africa, the
region’s largest economy, to 2.7 percent for this year from 2.5
percent.  Higher commodity prices and increased oil production are
muting the impact of the European debt crisis, helping sub-
Saharan Africa grow the fastest after Asian  developing
countries . African nations are also reducing their dependence on
 Europe , which is set to contract 0.3 percent this year, by
selling exports to other  emerging markets , according to the IMF.  “Sub-Saharan Africa has seen only small downward revisions
to its growth projections,” the IMF said. “Strong terms of
trade and increased diversification toward fast-growing emerging
markets have helped support the region.”  Exports to euro-area nations dropped to about 20 percent of
total shipments from about 40 percent in the 1990s, the IMF
said. The price of oil has climbed 16 percent in the past six
months, reaching as high as $109.77 a barrel in  New York  in
February. The UBS Bloomberg commodities index that tracks prices
for metals and agricultural goods has increased 2.3 percent this
year.  South Africa  South Africa  is more exposed to a slowdown in Europe, which
buys about a third of the nation’s manufactured exports,
according to the IMF. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan , who cut
this year’s growth forecast to 2.7 percent from 3.4 percent,
said yesterday the European crisis continues to threaten growth.  Further  interest rate  cuts may be necessary in South Africa
if there’s a “protracted slowdown,” the IMF said. The central
bank has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 5.5 percent, the
lowest level in more than 30 years, since November 2010 to help
support the economy even as inflation exceeded the 3 percent to
6 percent target.  Slower growth in South Africa may undermine the outlook for
the region, the IMF said.  “Adverse shocks affecting South Africa can quickly spread
to neighboring economies, through their effect on migrant
workers’ incomes, trade, regional investment, and finance,” the
IMF said.  Rising oil output in  Nigeria  and Angola will bolster growth
in Africa’s largest crude producers, the IMF said. Nigeria, the
second-largest economy in the region, will probably expand 7.1
percent this year, compared with 7.2 percent in 2011, while
Angolan growth is set to accelerate to 9.7 percent from 3.4
percent.  Inflation in sub-Saharan Africa will probably accelerate to
an average 9.6 percent this year from 8.2 percent in 2011, led
by East African nations where a drought and food shortages have
driven prices higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  