-- Sweden Urges More Backing for IMF After Pledging $10 Billion
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-04-17T11:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/sweden-urges-more-backing-for-imf-after-pledging-10-billion.html
Sweden pledged $10 billion to the
 International Monetary Fund  and urged other nations such as the
U.K. to step up and help in efforts to shield the global economy
against any deepening of Europe’s debt crisis.  Others should also declare how much they’re willing to
contribute before meetings this week in Washington of the IMF,
 World Bank  and the Group of 20 members, Finance Minister Anders Borg told reporters today in Stockholm.  “We’re prepared to contribute to the International
Monetary Fund $10 billion; that’s significantly more than our
quota,” he said. He urged “similar statements from other
countries and that’s primarily from other big economies like
 Great Britain  but also other European economies that can make
pledges that contribute to so that we, together, get a raised
capitalization.”  Japan , the world’s third-largest economy, today pledged $60
billion to the fund as it became the largest donor yet outside
Europe to respond to Managing Director  Christine Lagarde ’s
campaign to raise resources for the second time in three years.  Sweden may boost its contribution to $15 billion depending
on how much other nations commit, Borg said. Sweden’s central
bank Governor Stefan Ingves said in December that the country
may contribute as much as 100 billion kronor ($15 billion) to
boost the IMF rescue toolkit.  “We will have a discussion around how big undertakings
others are prepared to make also during the months after the
summits because that’s how thing normally turn out,” Borg said.  The IMF needs an extra $400 billion in reserves to create a
global “firewall” against financial risk, Lagarde said in an
interview with newspaper Le Monde published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  