-- Swiss Re Confirms Targets, Sees Improving Business Margins
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-04-17T08:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/swiss-re-confirms-targets-sees-improvement-in-business-margins.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, confirmed its financial targets and expects
margins to improve at its two main reinsurance businesses.  New business is set to boost margins at its life and health
unit, the Zurich-based company said today as it holds an
investor day in  London . Swiss Re also expects “a further
firming of the reinsurance cycle” in property and casualty.  Chief Executive Officer Michel Lies said “ample capacity
for new business opportunities in developed and emerging
markets” will help the firm meet its targets. Swiss Re, which
provided goals for individual units, is targeting an average
annual increase in earnings per share of 10 percent until 2015
and a return on equity averaging 700 basis points above the
risk-free yield of a five-year U.S. Treasury bond. A basis point
is one-hundredth of a percent.  “The detailed explanation by Swiss Re for the individual
business segments including newly the concrete figures and
targets are to be welcomed,” said Georg Marti, an analyst with
Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich. “It increases transparency.”  Swiss Re fell 0.6 percent to 54.30 Swiss francs as of 10:50
a.m. in Zurich. The stock traded without the right to the
company’s 2011 dividend of 3 francs.  Target Returns  The reinsurer is targeting a return on equity of between 10
percent and 15 percent at its non-life reinsurance unit with the
same range for its corporate solutions business, which sells
direct insurance to companies. The life and health return-on-
equity goal is 7 percent to 9 percent, Swiss Re said.  “We must improve overall returns,” said Chief Financial
Officer  George Quinn  on a conference call. The company wants to
achieve this with a “far more active management of capital
allocation,” he said.  Swiss Re plans to double the size of its corporate
solutions business by 2015, Quinn said. The unit had premium
volume of nearly $2 billion at the end of last year and a market
share of 1 percent.  Swiss Re will restate its figures under a new structure,
which provides a breakdown for its reinsurance units, corporate
solutions and Admin Re. The reinsurer will release first-quarter
earnings on May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  