-- Syria Attacks Persist as UN Starts to Monitor Truce
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-04-17T14:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/syria-attacks-persist-as-un-starts-to-monitor-truce.html
Syrian government forces pounded
towns in the north and the south, as United Nations observers
began their mission to monitor a cease-fire that aims to end 13
months of conflict.  Artillery shells and mortar rounds slammed into the town of
Busr al-Hareer in Daraa province, killing three people and
injuring 16 others, Al Jazeera television said, citing
activists. At least 30 homes caught fire, it reported. Syrian
security forces killed 39 people today, mainly in the northern
province of Idlib,  Al Arabiya  reported, citing activists. About
55 people were killed yesterday, the Local Coordination
Committees opposition group said in an e-mailed statement.  The violence persisted as an advance team of six UN
observers, led by Moroccan Colonel Ahmed Himmiche, began
preparations for monitoring the cease-fire. A further 25
observers are due to follow in the next few days, according to
Ahmad Fawzi, spokesman for UN special envoy  Kofi Annan .  The observers are due to monitor the six-point cease-fire
intended to end a conflict that has killed more than 9,000
people since March last year and increasingly divided the
country along sectarian lines. The plan, drafted by Annan and
accepted by President Bashar al-Assad and the main opposition
groups, required a cessation of violence from April 12. Both
sides have accused the other of violating it.  ‘Maintain Pressure’   The international community must increase sanctions on the
Syrian government to force it to accept the cease-fire that it
has flouted, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said.  “We must maintain pressure on the Syrian regime: that
means strengthening sanctions,” he said at the start of a 58-
country “Friends of  Syria ” meeting in Paris today.  The 22-member  Arab League  was due today to hold a meeting
attended by Annan in the Qatari capital, Doha, to discuss the
situation in Syria, Al Arabiya reported.  Annan’s peace plan has won the backing of Russia and  China ,
two countries that had vetoed earlier efforts by the U.S. and
its European and Arab allies to pass a Security Council
resolution calling for Assad to cede power.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said today the
cease-fire remains “fragile,” with government troops reacting
to “provocations” from the opposition, which has been
receiving arms shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  