-- U.K. Commercial Property Values Fall for Fifth Straight Month
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-04-17T14:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-k-commercial-property-values-fall-for-fifth-straight-month.html
U.K. commercial real estate values
fell for the fifth straight month in March as the country’s
economic woes crimped returns, Investment Property Databank Ltd.
said.  The average value of stores, offices and warehouses
declined 0.3 percent last month from February, IPD said in a
statement today. Retail properties led the drop, declining 0.5
percent. Total return, which combines the change in property
values and rental income, rose 0.2 percent from a month ago.  The U.K. economy probably just avoided a technical
recession of two consecutive quarters of falling economic output
by growing 0.1 percent in the first quarter, the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said on April 5.
Lenders are reluctant to provide loans for real estate purchases
and have been selling assets to shrink their balance sheets amid
stricter capital standards.  “The demand for secondary quality U.K. commercial property
is greatly hampered because of a lack of debt to fund
acquisitions,” Deutsche Bank said in a note today. “We expect
the current two-tier market to continue with the valuation of
secondary quality property continuing to deteriorate.”  The outcome for retail in March was the worst since May
2009 as “poor performance and yet more administrations impacted
on values,” Phil Tily, a managing director at London-based IPD,
said in the statement.  “Only Central  London  standard retail and London retail
warehouses saw any positive growth,” Tily said. “Regional
shopping centers and high street retail saw the steepest falls
in value.”  Editors: Jeff St.Onge,  Andrew Blackman .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 