-- U.K. Inflation Accelerates for First Time in Six Months
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-17T09:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-k-inflation-accelerates-for-first-time-in-six-months-1-.html
U.K. inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated in March for the first time in six months, driven by
prices for food, clothing and recreation and culture.  Consumer prices rose 3.5 percent from a year earlier, up
from 3.4 percent in February, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in London. The reading was higher than the 3.4
percent median forecast of 37 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Divisions have emerged at the Bank of England as a jump in
energy prices threatens to stoke an inflation rate in its third
year above target, with policy makers  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale  warning that price gains may slow less quickly than
expected. The Monetary Policy Committee maintained its
quantitative-easing program at 325 billion pounds ($517 billion)
this month. It publishes minutes of the decision tomorrow.  “There seems to be a little bit of payback from the
previous couple of months’ brisker growth,” said Philip Rush,
an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “I don’t
think the MPC will be particularly happy to see inflation moving
further north of their target, but at the same time, I don’t
think they’ll be overly concerned about that. I don’t think the
surprise is enough to really influence the QE debate.”  The pound extended gains against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.5965 as of 10:00 a.m. in London, up
0.4 percent on the day.  From the previous month, consumer prices rose 0.3 percent
in March, the same as the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 32 economists. The increase was driven by clothing and
footwear prices and road fuel costs. Domestic gas and
electricity prices fell as suppliers reduced tariffs.  Core Inflation  Core annual inflation, which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, accelerated to 2.5 percent from 2.4
percent. Retail-price inflation, a measure used in wage
negotiations, slowed to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent. The
retail-price index excluding mortgage-interest payments gained
3.7 percent, down from a 3.8 percent increase the previous
month.  In February, the  Bank of England  forecast inflation will
slow to its 2 percent goal by year-end as Europe’s debt crisis
and a public-spending squeeze at home constrain growth.  While policy makers  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  kept up
their push for more stimulus last month, Dale and Weale have
warned of the threat from  oil prices , which have gained almost
20 percent since early October. Prices for gas and diesel fuel
both rose to record levels in March, the statistics office said.  ‘Obvious Worry’  Dale, the central bank’s chief economist, said on March 20
that an “obvious worry” is tension in the Middle East that
“could put further upward pressure on oil prices.” Weale has
said there may be “more persistence” to inflation.  Inflation is also proving a concern for euro-area policy
makers. The  European Central Bank  held its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent on April 4 and President  Mario Draghi  said
that there are near-term “upside” price risks.  Euro-area consumer prices rose an annual 2.7 percent in
March, exceeding an initial estimate of 2.6 percent, according
to data from the European Union’s statistics office today.  The U.K. central bank’s 50 billion-pound round of bond
purchases announced on Feb. 9 will be completed in early May,
when the bank will release the results of its quarterly
forecasting round.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
company, on March 20 reported stronger sales growth as customers
sought bargains in the post-holiday clearance and responded to a
new marketing campaign. Sales at stores open at least a year
rose 2.4 percent in the eight weeks ended March 3, the London-
based retailer said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  