-- U.K. Presses China for Truth, Justice in Heywood Death Probe
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   R o b   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-18T02:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-k-presses-china-for-truth-justice-in-heywood-death-probe.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government called on  China  to ensure that its probe into the
death of British businessman Neil Heywood uncovers the truth and
justice is done.  Heywood, 41, died in Chongqing on Nov. 14. Chinese
authorities said April 10 that Gu Kailai, the wife of former
Chongqing Communist Party Secretary Bo Xilai, is suspected of
murdering Heywood. Gu, along with her son, Bo Guagua, had a
“conflict over economic interests” with Heywood, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported the same day.  The U.K. has asked China to investigate the circumstances
of the death, after originally being told Heywood died from
alcohol poisoning. Heywood’s death has touched off the biggest
political upheaval in China since the 1989 Tiananmen Square
student protests and comes ahead of a once-a-decade Communist
Party leadership transition later this year.  “We now wish to see the conclusion of a full investigation
that observes due process, is free from political interference,
exposes the truth behind this tragic case and ensures that
justice is done,” British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
in a written statement to Parliament in London yesterday.  Raised With Chinese  Cameron raised the matter at a meeting with Chinese
Politburo member Li Changchun at his central London office
yesterday. Cameron told Li he welcomed the investigation and
that the U.K. is ready to help, the premier’s office said in an
e-mailed statement. Li told him “the case was being examined by
the judiciary in full accordance with the rule of law.”  In a commentary released late last night, Xinhua said the
Bo probe “serves as a declaration to all Party members that no
matter what position one holds, Party members shall never place
themselves over Party discipline and the law.”  The commentary said the party’s  Central Committee  will
“thoroughly investigate related events and release information
in a timely manner.”  Under the investigation, police in China are investigating
a Chongqing official who allegedly helped arrange and then cover
up Heywood’s murder, the Financial Times reported yesterday,
citing “officials and insiders familiar with the
investigation,” whom it did not identify.  Provided Poison  The report said that Xia Zeliang, identified as the
Communist party secretary of Chongqing’s Nan’an district,
allegedly provided the poison to kill Heywood and deployed staff
from him district to guard the area. Nan’an is the location of
the hotel where Heywood was killed, the Financial Times said.  Hague later told lawmakers in Parliament the British
government will pursue the case “extremely carefully but
vigorously.” He said he planned to hold his own talks with Li.  Hague said in his written statement that Britain “will
continue to engage with the Chinese authorities on the progress
of the investigation and we stand ready to provide any
assistance necessary.”  Foreign Office “officials will remain in close touch with
Mr. Heywood’s family as this investigation proceeds.” Heywood’s
Chinese wife holds a valid U.K. visa, Hague said.  Hague said a junior Foreign Office minister, Jeremy Browne,
who visited Chongqing and met  Bo Xilai  on Nov. 16, was unaware
of the case as “ministers are not routinely told about the
death of British nationals or other consular cases as they are
so numerous.”  The foreign secretary said diplomats were first made aware
on Jan. 18 of rumors within the British expatriate community in
China that there might have been suspicious circumstances
surrounding Heywood’s death. He said he first instructed British
diplomats to call on China to investigate on Feb. 7 and listed
four occasions in February and March when U.K. officials raised
the issue with the Chinese authorities.  Bo was suspended from his top Communist Party positions on
suspicion of committing “serious discipline violations,”
Xinhua said April 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  