-- U.K. Shale Fracking Can Resume Provided Risks Minimized
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-04-17T09:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-k-shale-fracking-can-resume-provided-risks-minimized-1-.html
Shale gas fracking operations
should be allowed to resume in the U.K. as long as “robust”
measures are adopted to safeguard against future risks, an
independent report recommended today.  Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. suspended operations in the
northwest of the country last year after causing two minor
earthquakes. Operations can continue as long as precautions are
taken, according to the report commissioned by the Department of
Energy and Climate Change.  Hydraulic fracturing, a process using water, sand and
chemicals to open fissures in rocks and release natural gas, has
made the U.S the world’s largest natural-gas producer while
raising concerns that the technique pollutes drinking water and
causes earthquakes.  France  was the first country in the world to
outlaw hydraulic fracturing of shale rocks last July.  Cuadrilla released a report in November saying that
fracking probably caused the quakes. The first tremor was on
April 1 and measured magnitude 2.3 on the Richter scale. A
weaker quake of 1.5 was recorded in May. Earthquakes of
magnitude 3.9 or less on the scale are considered minor or
micro, while anything under 4.9 is described as light and is
unlikely to cause major damage.  ‘Cautious Continuation’  “The authors of this report see no reason why Cuadrilla
Resources should not be allowed to proceed with their shale gas
exploration activities and recommend cautious continuation of
hydraulic fracture operations,” today’s report said.  The experts recommended magnitude 0.5 as the maximum
threshold when operations should be stopped and remedial action
taken. That compares with an initial proposal of magnitude 1.7.
Other recommendations include injecting small amounts of water
before undertaking a full-scale fracking operation as well as
monitoring.  Seismic hazards elsewhere in the U.K. and  Northern Ireland 
should be assessed before drilling starts, Peter Styles, a
professor at Keele University, Brian Baptie of the British
Geological Society and fracking expert Christopher Green said in
the report.  Riverstone Holdings LLC-backed Cuadrilla estimates there
are 200 trillion cubic feet of gas in place in the Bowland shale
near the seaside city of Blackpool. The British Geological
Survey  estimated in 2010  that recoverable resources could be
about 150 billion cubic meters, enough shale gas to supply the
U.K. for two years.  IGas Estimate  Other companies with shale assets include  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS) ,
which is drilling in Cheshire in northwest  England . Earlier this
month, IGas said it may double the 4.6 trillion cubic feet
estimate of its shale gas resource.  Supporters of shale gas say the U.K. can’t afford to
overlook its potential. The North Sea fields discovered in the
1970s that made the U.K. self-sufficient are running dry and the
country imported more than half its gas supplies last year.  Environmentalists argue that onshore gas drilling will ruin
landscapes and the report doesn’t take into account sub-surface
damage, which could cause wells to leak.  “If we allow this to happen, we will witness the total
industrialization of the British countryside and the destruction
of the ecosystems we rely on,” Elsie Walker, an activist at
Frack Off, which campaigns against unconventional drilling, said
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Not Possible’  It is “not possible to state categorically that no further
earthquakes will be experienced during a similar treatment in a
nearby well,” according to the report.  While numerical estimates of the maximum magnitude of a
potential earthquake “should be treated with caution,”
experience at coal-mining sites in the U.K. suggests a tremor
would not exceed magnitude 3, they said, providing a realistic
upper limit. It would happen two and three kilometres (1.9
miles) below ground and would be unlikely to cause structural
damage, they added.  The report will now go out to public consultation before a
final decision is taken by the government. Cuadrilla said in
December that it wanted to use fracking techniques at three
wells in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  