-- Panetta Seeks $1.3 Billion a Year From Allies for Afghan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-04-18T14:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-seeks-1-3-billion-from-nato-allies-for-afghan-force.html
The U.S. will urge NATO allies to
pledge as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) a year to help
 Afghanistan  pay for its security forces as alliance combat
operations wind down before ending in 2014, a U.S. defense
official said.  The U.S. is making progress in getting commitments and will
seek to line up more pledges at meetings of allied defense and
foreign ministers in Brussels today and tomorrow, according to
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because no
decision has been made. The official declined to say how much
money has been offered.  The U.S. estimates the cost of maintaining the Afghan army
and police at $4 billion to $6 billion a year, depending on the
size of the force. The goal is to raise the 1 billion euros a
year from allies to supplement funding from the U.S. and the
Afghan government as the coalition draws down its forces.  Members of the 28-nation alliance will shoulder a “fair
share” of the costs,  North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters before
the meeting. “It’s a good deal to finance the Afghan security
forces politically, because we will then give the defense of
Afghanistan a strong Afghan face, and economically, because it
is less expensive to finance Afghan security forces than to
deploy foreign troops in Afghanistan.”  Afghan soldiers and police officers totaled about 337,000
in mid-March and are scheduled to reach 352,000 this year. The
coalition has agreed with Afghan leaders to begin paring the
force after 2014 to about 230,000.  International Commitment  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  are attending the two-day Brussels consultations
to prepare for a NATO summit in Chicago next month. No concrete
sums of money will be pledged today, Rasmussen said.  Today and tomorrow “are not pledging conferences,”
Rasmussen told reporters. “I would not expect concrete
announcements at this meeting, nor is the Chicago summit a
pledging conference. But I would expect a clear picture of the
size, the structure and the cost of a long-term sustainable
Afghan security force.”  Rasmussen said that about $4 billion annually for
sustaining the Afghan security forces has been endorsed by
Afghan authorities and the international community. “That’s our
planning basis, though no formal final decision has been made
yet,” he said.  ‘Positive Attitude’  “I sense that there is a positive attitude toward
international financing of the Afghan security forces, people
realize that a bill of that size goes well beyond the financial
capability of the Afghan government,” he said.  In the latest incident that may strain relations between
coalition forces and Afghan officials and citizens, the Pentagon
said today it would investigate photos published by the Los
Angeles Times that the newspaper said showed U.S. troops
“grinning and mugging” as they held up body parts of dead
Afghan insurgents.  “Secretary Panetta strongly rejects the conduct depicted
in these two-year-old photographs,” Pentagon spokesman  George
Little  said in a statement. “These images by no means represent
the values or professionalism of the vast majority of U.S.
troops serving in Afghanistan today.”  Tensions have been exacerbated in the past by the murder in
March of 17 Afghan civilians, for which U.S. Army Staff Sergeant
Robert Bales faces charges, following the burning of Korans at
an American base and a video that showed U.S. Marines urinating
on the bodies of Afghans they had killed.  Chicago Summit  On the agenda at the May 20-21  Chicago summit  will be the
pace for shifting security responsibility to Afghan forces in
advance of the planned departure of most coalition troops by the
end of 2014.  Defense ministers will also consult on the alliance’s need
for technologies and weapons systems over the next 10 years as
the U.S. and European nations wrestle with tight budgets. The
goal is to pool resources and share capabilities such as
airlift, munitions, intelligence and surveillance, missile
defense and cybersecurity.  Rasmussen said the summit will discuss progress on NATO
missile defense.  In  Chicago  “our ambition is to declare an interim missile
defense capability. Today we made clear that we are all
determined to make that happen,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  