-- U.S. March Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-04-17T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-march-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Industrial Production  and Capacity Utilization report for March,
released Tuesday by the Federal Reserve:  Industrial production was unchanged in March for a second
month but rose at an annual rate of 5.4 percent in the first
quarter of 2012. Manufacturing output declined 0.2 percent in
March but jumped 10.4 percent at an annual rate in the first
quarter.  The gain in manufacturing output in the first quarter
was broadly based:  Even excluding motor vehicles and parts,
which jumped at an annual rate of nearly 40 percent,
manufacturing output moved up at an annual rate of 8.3 percent
and output for all but a few major industries increased 5
percent or more.  In March, production at mines rose 0.2 percent
and the output of utilities gained 1.5 percent.  For the
quarter, however, the output of utilities dropped at an annual
rate of 13.8 percent, largely as a result of unseasonably warm
temperatures over the past several months, while the output of
mining fell 5.4 percent.  At 96.6 percent of its 2007 average,
total industrial production for March was 3.8 percent above its
year-earlier level.  The rate of capacity utilization for total
industry edged down to 78.6 percent, a rate 2.1 percentage
points above its level from a year earlier but 1.7 percentage
points below its long-run (1972-2011) average.  Market Groups  The production of  consumer goods  fell 0.2 percent in March;
for the first quarter, output moved up at an annual rate of 2.4
percent.  In March, the index for durable consumer goods
decreased 0.5 percent, primarily as a result of declines in
automotive products and in appliances, furniture, and carpeting.
Even so, the output of durable consumer goods increased at an
annual rate of 17.6 percent in the first quarter.  The
production of nondurable consumer goods decreased 0.2 percent in
March; the output of non-energy nondurable consumer goods edged
down 0.1 percent--all of its major components except
miscellaneous consumer nondurables decreased--while the index
for consumer energy products declined 0.3 percent.  The production of business equipment moved up 0.2 percent
in March, its smallest gain since June 2011; from July 2011
through February 2012, this index had advanced more than 1
percent per month on average.  In March, gains in transit
equipment and in industrial and other equipment more than offset
a pullback of 0.9 percent in the production of information
processing equipment.  In the first quarter, the output of
business equipment advanced at an annual rate of 15.9 percent.  The index for defense and space equipment declined 0.7
percent in March after having gained 2.0 percent in February.
This category posted an increase of 5.1 percent at an annual
rate in the first quarter.  The production of construction supplies fell 1.3 percent in
March after having advanced 1.9 percent in February.  For the
first quarter, construction supplies recorded an increase of
11.5 percent at an annual rate, its largest gain in nearly two
years; nevertheless, production remained about 20 percent below
its pre-recession level.  The index for business supplies moved
up 0.2 percent in March after being unchanged in February.  The output of materials to be further processed in the
industrial sector rose 0.2 percent in March and increased at an
annual rate of 5.1 percent in the first quarter.  The index for
durable materials was  down 0.3 percent in March, its first
decrease since April 2011:  The output of consumer parts was
unchanged  and the production of equipment parts moved up 0.4
percent, but the index for other durable materials fell  0.9
percent.  Consumer parts posted an increase of 34.7 percent in
the first quarter, its largest advance since the second quarter
of 2010.  The production of nondurable materials edged up 0.1
percent in March; a gain in chemical materials was mostly offset
by a loss in paper materials.  The output index for energy
materials rose 0.8 percent after three months of declines.  Industry Groups  Manufacturing output declined 0.2 percent in March but
increased at an annual rate of 10.4 percent in the first
quarter, the largest gain since the second quarter of 2010.
Capacity utilization for manufacturing in March moved down 0.2
percentage point to 77.8 percent, a rate 14.0 percentage points
above its trough in June 2009 but still 1.0 percentage point
below its long-run average.  Within manufacturing, the output of durable goods declined
0.2 percent in March after having gained 1.2 percent in
February.  Among durables, the largest decreases in March were
posted by nonmetallic mineral products, primary metals, and
furniture and related products while moderate gains were
recorded by wood products, machinery, motor vehicles and parts,
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  For the first quarter as a
whole, durable goods manufacturing increased at an annual rate
of 15.6 percent, with large gains for all of its major
components.  The production of nondurable goods decreased 0.2 percent in
March, but output increased at an annual rate of 5.7 percent in
the first quarter, with increases for every major industry
group.  Among the major components of nondurables, only the
indexes for textile and product mills and for chemical products
moved up in March; the largest decreases were in apparel and
leather, in printing and related support, and in petroleum and
coal products.  Mining production edged up 0.2 percent in March after
having dropped 4.0 percent in February.  Capacity utilization in
mining inched up to 87.5 percent in March and was 0.2 percentage
point above its long-run average.  The output of utilities
increased 1.5 percent after having risen only 0.1 percent in
February.  The operating rate for utilities in March improved to
73.1 percent but still remained more than 4.5 percentage points
below its average during 2011.  Capacity utilization rates in March at industries grouped
by stage of process were as follows:  At the  crude stage,
utilization increased 0.3 percentage point to 86.5 percent, a
rate 0.2 percentage point above  its long-run average; at the
primary and semifinished stages, utilization was unchanged at
75.7 percent, a  rate 5.4 percentage points below its long-run
average; and at the finished stage, utilization slipped 0.3
percentage point, to 78.5 percent, a rate 1.3 percentage points
above its long-run average.  Notice  Revision of Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  The  Federal Reserve  Board issued its annual revision to the
index of industrial production (IP) and the related measures of
capacity utilization at noon EDT on March 30, 2012.  The revised
IP indexes incorporated detailed data from the 2010 Annual
Survey of Manufactures, conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau.
Annual data from the U.S. Geological Survey regarding metallic
and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels) for 2010 were also
incorporated.  The update included revisions to the monthly
indicator and to seasonal factors for each industry.  In
addition, the estimation methods for some series have changed.
Modifications to the methods for estimating the output of an
industry did affect the index from 1972 to the present.  Capacity and capacity utilization were revised to
incorporate data through the fourth quarter of 2011 from the
Census Bureau’s Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity, which covers
manufacturing, along with new data on capacity from the  U.S.
Geological Survey , the  Department of Energy , and other
organizations.  The revision is available on the Board’s website at
www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17.  Further information on the
revision can be obtained from the Board’s Industrial Output
Section (telephone number 202-452-3197).  Explanatory Note  The Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization
statistical release, which is published around the middle of the
month, reports measures of output, capacity, and capacity
utilization in manufacturing, mining, and the electric and gas
utilities industries.  More detailed descriptions of industrial
production and capacity utilization are available on the Board’s
website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17. In addition, the
website includes files containing data shown in the release,
more detailed series that are published in a monthly supplement
to the G.17, and historical data.  Instructions on searching for
and downloading specific series are provided as well.  Release Schedule
At 9:15 a.m. on  2012: January 18, February 15, March 16, April 17, May 16, June
15, July 17, August 15, September 14, October 16, November 16,
and December 14. 