-- U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Decrease Following Spanish Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-17T21:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-credit-default-swaps-decrease-following-spanish-bond-sale.html
A  gauge  of U.S. company credit risk
fell for a second day as Spanish bonds gained after the nation
sold a two-part debt offering and the  International Monetary
Fund  raised economic growth forecasts.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 3 basis points to a mid-price of 98.4
basis points as of 5:03 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, decreased
after Spain sold 12- and 18-month bills, a day after borrowing
costs climbed to the highest level this year. The IMF increased
its outlook for global growth in 2012 to 3.5 percent from 3.3
percent and lifted its forecast for the U.S. expansion to 2.1
percent from 1.8 percent.  The market is “breathing a sigh of relief,” according to
 Michael Kraft , senior portfolio manager at Vanderbilt Avenue
Asset Management LLC. “ Europe  is feeling a little better (i.e.
Spain’s auction went reasonably well), the improved IMF growth
forecast and general optimism regarding corporate earnings” are
pushing the index tighter, he wrote in an e-mail.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 1.36 basis points to 28.75
basis points. The measure falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  Hartford Financial  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The cost to protect insurers’ debt from default for five
years declined. Credit-default swaps on  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG)  fell 12 basis points to 235 basis points as
of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The contracts eased after
 Allianz SE (ALV) , Hartford’s No. 3 shareholder, endorsed the U.S.
company’s plan to scale back its business.  “We are very supportive of the actions the management team
is taking to position the company for long-term success and
deliver greater value to shareholders,” Allianz Chief Executive
Officer Michael Diekmann said of Hartford today in a statement
from the U.S. firm. Hartford CEO Liam McGee is shrinking the
firm as he fends off calls from his biggest shareholder,
billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , to break the
company in two.  Credit-default swaps tied to Travelers Cos. eased 5.3 basis
points to 79.5, and those on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  declined 7.9
basis points to 93.5, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  