-- Corn, Wheat, Cotton Planting Ahead of Average, USDA Says
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-04-17T20:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-corn-wheat-cotton-planting-ahead-of-average-usda-says.html
U.S. corn, spring-wheat and cotton
planting was ahead of the prior five-year average after
unusually warm March weather and April rains improved soil
conditions, the government said.  About 17 percent of the corn crop, the world’s biggest, was
planted as of April 15, up from 7 percent a week earlier and 5
percent a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
today in a  report . The average was 5 percent at this time of
year from 2007 to 2011.  “Early planting progress and beneficial weather is always
viewed by the trade as negative” for prices,  Tim Hannagan , a
senior grain analyst for PFG Best Inc. in  Chicago , said in an e-
mail. “Early in means early out, with key yield development for
corn ahead of the July heat and dryness.”  The report was issued after the close of trading on the
Chicago Board of Trade, where corn futures for July delivery
fell 1 percent to $6.0725 a bushel. The most-active contract has
dropped 5.7 percent this month on speculation that rapid U.S.
planting will boost yields. The report was delayed by a day,
after an electrical fire yesterday in one of the USDA’s main
Washington offices caused a  power failure .  Farmers are expected to increase corn sowing by 4.3 percent
to 95.864 million acres this year, the most since 1937, the USDA
said on March 30, after surveying grower.  About 30 percent of the corn-producing region has dry
subsoil, down from 78 percent last week, after some fields
received more than twice the normal amount of rainfall, Mike Tannura, the president of T-Storm Weather LLC in Chicago, said
in a report today.  Wheat Crops  About 37 percent of the spring-wheat  crop  was seeded as of
April 15, up from 5 percent a year earlier, the department said.
The average for the date for the previous five years is 9
percent.  The winter-wheat crop was in better condition than a year
earlier, as above-normal rains in parts of the southern Great
Plains and the Midwest during the past month improved yield
potential, Tannura said  An estimated 64 percent of the crop was in good or
excellent  condition , up from 61 percent a week earlier, the USDA
said. During the same week last year, 36 percent had the top
ratings.  The U.S. winter-wheat crop was valued at $10.185 billion
last year, or about 71 percent of the total wheat harvest,
according to USDA figures. The grain, used to make bread and
all-purpose flour, is planted in September and goes dormant in
winter. The crop resumes growth in spring and is harvested
between May and July.  Cotton planting  was 13 percent completed, compared with 9
percent a week earlier and 9 percent on average the prior five
years, the USDA said. Rice  planting  in the top six producing
states was 56 percent complete, up from 37 percent a week
earlier and 29 percent on average from 2007-2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 