-- U.S. Eases Some Myanmar Sanctions on Financial Transactions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-17T19:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-eases-some-myanmar-sanctions-on-financial-transactions-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said
today it will ease some sanctions on Myanmar by authorizing
financial transactions that support humanitarian, religious and
other nonprofit activities in the country.  The decision follows Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s
April 4 announcement that the Obama administration would relax
certain sanctions on the country to encourage economic
modernization and political reform, and take steps toward
appointing an ambassador. Those moves are part of a push by the
Obama administration, the U.K. and other European countries to
reward and encourage Myanmar’s ruling junta as it makes
tentative steps toward democracy.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  said April 13 during a
visit to Myanmar that the European Union should suspend, and not
abolish, sanctions apart from an arms embargo at an April 23
meeting. It was the first visit to Myanmar by a British leader
since at least 1948, when the Southeast Asian nation, then known
as  Burma , gained independence from the U.K.  Clinton made her announcement three days after opposition
leader  Aung San Suu Kyi , a Nobel Peace Prize winner known in
Myanmar simply as “The Lady,” led her National League for
Democracy party to victory for 43 of 44 seats it contested in
by-elections. The military junta kept Suu Kyi under house arrest
for 15 years.  President  Thein Sein ’s ruling party and the military still
control more than 80 percent of parliamentary seats.  U.S. Waiver  The U.S. waiver announced today covers democracy and good-
governance projects, activities geared to meeting “basic human
needs,” sporting and educational activities and religious
activities.  Restrictions now in place ban U.S. citizens from making new
investments or exporting financial services to the country.
Imports of Burmese products and services are also forbidden, and
senior Burmese officials are barred from entering the U.S. if
they are believed to be guilty of public corruption, human
rights violations or having impeded Burma’s democracy.  Clinton said April 4 that sanctions and prohibitions will
stay in place on individuals and institutions that remain “on
the wrong side of these historic reform efforts.”  The Obama administration will facilitate travel to the U.S.
for “select government officials and parliamentarians,”
Clinton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  