-- U.S. Treasury’s Brainard Says IMF Talks to Address Europe Risks
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-17T20:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-treasury-s-brainard-says-imf-talks-to-address-europe-risks.html
The U.S. Treasury’s top
international official said discussions at the International
Monetary Fund meetings this weekend will focus in part on the
challenges  Europe  faces and efforts to mitigate the crisis.  “We will continue to engage with our European partners to
ensure that they are alert to ongoing risks and prepared to work
together to help support countries as they implement reforms to
navigate these difficult trade-offs between austerity and
growth,”  Lael Brainard , the Treasury Department’s
undersecretary for international affairs, said at a press
briefing in Washington today.  Europe’s two-year debt crisis reignited this month as
Italian borrowing costs rose and Spain’s 10-year bond yield
approached the level at which Greece, Ireland and Portugal
required bailouts. The IMF, which is seeking to boost its
lending capacity from around $380 billion to shield the global
economy from the European crisis, garnered fresh pledges of cash
from  Japan  to  Denmark .  “The U.S. will continue to support our euro area partners,
through “central bank swap lines,” Brainard said. “We do not
intend to seek additional IMF resources.”  Spain’s central bank chief today said the country risks
missing deficit estimates unveiled last month just hours after a
successful bill sale dissipated some concerns that the
government may have to seek a bailout. Bank of Spain Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez told a parliamentary committee
today that uncertainty over the deficit goal hurt confidence.  In the U.S., the recovery “continues to gather strength
despite adverse shocks,” Brainard said. Still, “sharp
increases in  oil prices ” present a risk.  The process of correcting the misalignment of  China ’s
exchange rate remains incomplete,” and the U.S. will discuss
the exchange-rate at the IMF spring meetings, Brainard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  