-- U.S. Farmer Group CHS Seeks Brazil Port to Boost Exports
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-04-17T14:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-farmer-group-chs-seeks-brazil-port-to-boost-exports.html
CHS Inc., the largest U.S. grain-
marketing cooperative, plans to invest about $250 million in the
next three years to expand in regions including  Brazil  and the
U.S. Northwest to meet rising demand overseas.  CHS, owned by 1,100 farmer cooperatives and 60,000 growers,
plans to buy a port terminal in northern Brazil and build out
assets inland in the next couple of years, CHS Chief Executive
Officer Carl Casale said. The Inver Grove Heights, Minnesota-
based company plans to expand capacity at the Kalama,
Washington, port terminal, which is part of a joint venture with
Cargill Inc., to increase shipments to  Asia .  “Our customers have expectations that you have to have
global sourcing so we can be in the market 365 days,” Casale
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Increasingly, our
business is going to become more export-oriented.”  CHS is mirroring the strategy of U.S. competitors  Archer
Daniels Midland Co.  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  by trying to expand sales in
developing nations. ADM has partnered with Singapore-based
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  in  China  and Bunge has bought an
edible oils and fats business in  India .  U.S. grain exports made up 24 percent of CHS’s sales of
$36.9 billion in fiscal 2011. Global growth is a key to ensure
that its farmers can keep pace with larger rivals as demand
increases faster overseas than in the U.S., Casale said.  “Our job is to make sure we create the infrastructure that
adds value to our owners’ products and allows them to compete
globally,” said Casale, who traveled to Africa last week and is
heading to Brazil this week.  Global Operations  CHS buys and exports grains and oilseeds from the U.S.,
Brazil and countries in the Black Sea region such as Russia,
Ukraine and Romania. It has grain offices in  Hong Kong  and
Shanghai to serve Pacific Rim clients and refines petroleum and
supplies renewable fuels.  Recent consolidation among commodity processors is
“validation” of growth in the agricultural industry, Casale
said.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the largest publicly traded
commodity supplier, said on March 20 it agreed to buy Regina,
Saskatchewan-based grain handler  Viterra Inc. (VT)  for C$6.1 billion
($6.16 billion) to add elevators and port terminals in Canada
and Australia.  Gavilon Group LLC, based in Omaha, Nebraska, has drawn
interest from suitors including Bunge and Glencore as the
closely held grain handler weighs a sale that could fetch as
much as $5 billion, people familiar with the matter said last
month.  Casale declined to comment on whether it’s interested in
acquiring Gavilon or if CHS has been approached by overseas
suitors. In February, CHS completed the purchase of Ashdod,
Israel-based Solbar Industries Ltd., a maker of soy ingredients,
for about $150 million including equity and debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  