-- U.S. House Members Use Committee Positions to Finance Campaigns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-04-17T04:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-house-members-use-committee-positions-to-finance-campaigns.html
U.S. House members facing primary
contests against a fellow lawmaker are getting campaign money
from industries they oversee in their committee assignments.  Republican Representative  John Mica  of  Florida  had more
than twice as much to spend than Representative Sandy Adams at
the beginning of this month in part because of donations from
industries affected by his position as chairman of the House
Transportation Committee. They are running against each other
for the Republican nomination in a newly drawn district after
the 2010 Census.  California  Democrat Howard Berman, a member of the House
Judiciary subcommittee that writes copyright laws, has received
more donations from the movie, broadcasting and technology
industries than any other source in his intraparty race against
Representative  Brad Sherman .  Campaign filings with the Federal Election Commission
detail the contributions for incumbent-versus-incumbent races
that come from industries affected by decisions made by the
committees on which the lawmakers serve.  “Those who control the levers of power on congressional
committees are first in line for support,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
contributions. “It’s a very clear correlation.”  Transportation PACs  Mica, 69, had $1.2 million in his campaign bank account
through March 31 as he raised $1.2 million for his re-election.
He was helped by $242,300 from transportation political action
committees, more than one-third of all his PAC donations,
according to FEC filings and the Center for Responsive Politics.  “If you’re chairman of a major committee, people within
your jurisdiction are going to be attracted to support you,”
said former U.S. Transportation Secretary James Burnley, a
partner in the law and lobbying firm Venable LLP, whose clients
include AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines .  Mica “has developed deep and broad subject-matter
enterprise” in transportation and had many years to build
relationships with industry representatives, Burnley said.  Adams, 55, raised $730,703 through March 31, lent her
campaign $100,000 and had $459,305 in cash on hand. She raised
$15,000 from transportation PACs.  In California, Berman, 71, a member of the subcommittee on
intellectual property, competition and the Internet, received
more than $115,000 in donations from communications and
technology company PACs, his biggest source of industry
donations.  Insurance, Real Estate  Fellow Democrat Sherman, 57, is a member of the House
Financial Services Committee and has received almost $150,000
from the financial, insurance and real estate industry PACs, his
top source of money.  Through March 31, Berman raised $3 million and had $2.5
million in the bank. Sherman received $2 million, including a
$250,000 personal loan, and reported $4.1 million in cash on
hand.  In a primary between freshman Republicans in  Arizona , Ben Quayle raised $1.3 million, while David Schweikert received $1.2
million. Quayle entered April with more in the bank, $972,000 to
$812,000.  The son of former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle, the 35-
year-old congressman received $5,000 donations from former
Treasury Secretary John Snow and  Stephen Feinberg , who runs the
New York-based private-equity firm Cerberus Capital Management
LP. He received $1,000 from  Washington  lobbyist  Charlie Black ,
an adviser to Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  Eight-Term Democrats  Schweikert, 50, a member of the Financial Services
Committee, raised $245,800 from financial, insurance and real
estate PACs through March 31 while Quayle brought in $40,800.  Representatives Steve Rothman and Bill Pascrell of New
Jersey, both eight-term Democrats, each raised more than $1
million for their re-election campaigns, including more than
$500,000 apiece from January to March.  Pascrell, 75, a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee, took in $1.4 million, while Rothman, 59, who sits on
the Appropriations Committee, which writes the spending bills,
received $1.1 million.  Both men received donations in the last three months from
 General Electric Co. (GE) , based in Fairfield, Connecticut, and
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Jennifer Whitlow, a Lockheed Martin spokeswoman, declined
to comment. A General Electric spokesman, Gary Sheffer, said
most of the donations were made before redistricting.  -- Editors: Laurie Asseo, Don Frederick  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 