-- U.S. Bancorp Targeted by Fair-Housing Organization
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-04-17T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-bancorp-targeted-by-fair-housing-organization.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s fifth-
largest lender by deposits, is the target of a discrimination
complaint from a nonprofit group that receives funds from the
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  The National Fair Housing Alliance’s complaint to be filed
with HUD is the result of “an undercover investigation” into
how U.S. lenders maintain bank-owned properties in black and
Latino neighborhoods, the group said in a statement. Cedric
Ricks, a spokesman for the NFHA, declined to comment.  “We have not received a single detail on any of the
properties in the complaint,” Tom Joyce, a spokesman for
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, said in an e-mail. “When we do
own a property, we have a strong and comprehensive process in
place to regularly inspect and maintain properties to marketing
standard where we have legal access, regardless of their
location.”  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. mortgage lender, is
facing a U.S. probe over claims it neglects bank-owned homes in
minority communities, a person briefed on the matter said last
week. That case was also brought to HUD by the NFHA. The Obama
administration has boosted scrutiny of banks to discourage loan
discrimination after the housing bust led to record defaults.  U.S. Bancorp is scheduled to report first-quarter  results 
tomorrow before the start of New York trading. The NFHA said it
plans to hold a conference call about its U.S. Bancorp complaint
tomorrow at noon New York time. Its investigation was supported
by a HUD grant, the NFHA said.  Tiffany Thomas Smith, a spokeswoman for HUD, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  