-- U.S. Bancorp Jumps on ‘Once in a Lifetime’ Servicing Chance
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-04-17T20:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-bancorp-jumps-on-once-in-a-lifetime-chance-for-servicing.html
U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s fifth-
largest lender by deposits, said it is pouncing on the
opportunity to expand mortgage operations after the retreat of
rivals including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “We see a market shift you only get once in a lifetime,
and intend to enjoy it now,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis  said today in a conference call. “Because the market, the
dynamics have changed, we’ll continue to enjoy even greater
growth than maybe we might’ve thought.”  Davis, who has run U.S. Bancorp since 2006 and hasn’t ever
reported a quarterly loss, reinvested capital during the
financial crisis as larger banks were saddled with surging loan
losses. The Minneapolis-based lender has been building its
mortgage-servicing business, while Bank of America said last
year it will handle billing and collection on fewer home loans
and sell some rights to competitors.  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  has “gained so much credibility throughout
the crisis and the credit cycle that when they go into something
you can sleep pretty well feeling that they’re going to do it in
a prudent fashion,” said Scott Siefers, an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York.  Minnesota’s largest lender serviced $200.2 billion of
residential  mortgage loans  for others at March 31, up from
$191.1 billion at Dec. 31 and $173.9 billion at the end of 2010.
Bank of America’s servicing portfolio fell to $1.76 trillion at
the end of 2011 from $2.06 trillion in 2010, according to the
lender’s annual report, and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s dropped 1.2
percent to $356.4 billion.  Taking Market Share  “We’re taking it from some of the larger guys ahead of
us,” Davis said on the  conference call . “I don’t have to name
names. You know who’s in it big and who’s growing, and you know
who’s either backing down or not very present. We’re getting it
from there.”  Servicers collect payments from borrowers and pass them on
to mortgage lenders or investors, minus fees. They also handle
foreclosures when borrowers don’t pay. The value of the rights
depends largely on the expected life of the mortgage, which ends
when a borrower pays off the loan, refinances or defaults. When
rates drop and more borrowers refinance, mortgage-servicing
rights decline.  With  interest rates  near record lows and demand for loans
increasing, U.S. Bancorp has “upside on every single
cylinder,” Davis said. “If you like what you see, wait until
things get better.”  Net Income Increases  Davis said “exceptionally strong” mortgage banking drove
an increase in fees in the first quarter this year. Mortgage
banking revenue more than doubled to $452 million in the period
from $199 million last year, according to a statement today. A
19 percent increase in residential mortgages helped raise total
loans to $210.2 billion from $197.6 billion last year.  U.S. Bancorp said today first-quarter net income rose 28
percent to $1.34 billion, or 67 cents a share, beating the 64-
cent average estimate of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The lender’s shares rose 39 cents, or 1.3 percent, to close
at $31.55 in  New York  trading. The stock has gained 17 percent
this year, compared with a 23 percent increase in the KBW Bank
Index of 24 U.S. lenders.  “They don’t have any legacy issues that they’re contending
with,” Siefers said. “As long as you don’t have that legacy
baggage, you go in with the upper hand with some flexibility
that others may lack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  