-- U.S. Sues Apple For eBook Pricing as Three Firms Settle
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-17T10:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/u-s-sues-apple-for-ebook-pricing-as-three-firms-settle.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s best defense against
accusations it conspired to fix e-book prices may turn on its
absence from meetings in Manhattan restaurants where publishing
executives allegedly worked out the scheme.  The maker of the iPad will need to show it negotiated
pricing arrangements separately with each of the five publishers
named in the Justice Department’s lawsuit, avoiding group
gatherings such as those in The Chef’s Wine Cellar at Picholine
described in the government’s complaint, antitrust lawyers said.  “If Apple agreed with each single publisher and can show
it talked to them individually and didn’t suggest they collude,
then those agreements would be legal,” said  Herbert Hovenkamp ,
a professor and antitrust specialist at the University of Iowa
College of Law in Iowa City. “If Apple in fact orchestrated the
agreements, then I don’t think it has a defense.”  The antitrust suit filed last week by the U.S.  Justice
Department  is already reshaping the fast-growing market for e-
books. Settlements with three of the publishers will allow
retailers to return to setting their own prices after their
agreements with Apple shifted pricing power to book producers.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which opened the digital books market in
2007 with $9.99 titles for its Kindle e-reader, may be the
biggest beneficiary of the suit and settlements.  As the world’s largest online retailer, Amazon can afford
to sell e-books at a loss to gain market share, said Michael Norris, an analyst for Simba Information Inc., a Stamford,
Connecticut-based researcher. Amazon said last week it plans to
drop e-book prices again.  Market Share  The Seattle-based company is the largest U.S. seller of
digital books with about 60 percent market share, followed by
 Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  with about 30 percent and Apple with about
10 percent, according to Mark Harding, an analyst at JMP
Securities in  New York .  E-book discounting may erode Barnes & Noble’s market share,
said  Michael Souers , a retail analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in
New York. New York-based Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S.
bookstore chain, has been losing money on developing and
marketing its Nook e-reader and is less able to subsidize e-book
sales, Souers said.  Meanwhile, book publishers are likely to see smaller sales
and margins with the return of aggressive e-book discounts, said
 Tom Forte , an Internet analyst with Telsey Advisory Group in New
York.  Amazon shares are little changed from before the Justice
Department sued on April 11, while Barnes & Noble fell almost 10
percent. Apple shares have declined almost 7 percent amid
speculation that demand for the iPad may wane.  Alleged Conspiracy  The Justice Department complaint portrays Apple’s deals
with the publishers as a conspiracy that raised prices and hurt
consumers. At Apple’s suggestion, the publishers agreed to raise
retail prices and give Cupertino, California-based Apple a
30 percent cut, according to the complaint. Amazon was
eventually forced to fall in line.  “Conspiracy to raise prices, especially among competitors,
is the essence of the most evil thing we have in antitrust,”
said  Robert Lande , executive director of the American Antitrust
Institute.  Comments cited in the complaint by Apple’s late co-founder,
Steve Jobs, indicate that’s exactly what he was thinking about,
said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust law professor at  Howard
University  in  Washington .  “Throw in with Apple and see if we can all make a go of
this to create a real mainstream e-books market at $12.99 and
$14.99,” the complaint quotes Jobs as saying.  ‘Not True’  Natalie Kerris , an Apple spokeswoman, said the government’s
accusation of collusion “is simply not true.”  “The launch of the iBookstore in 2010 fostered innovation
and competition, breaking Amazon’s monopolistic grip on the
publishing industry,” she said. “Just as we’ve allowed
developers to set prices on the App Store, publishers set prices
on the iBookstore.”  Apple, in court papers filed in a private antitrust case,
contends its agreement with each publisher to serve as a
distribution agent was negotiated separately. Each set its own
prices without Apple’s interference, the company said in the
filing in federal court in  Manhattan .  “It would be a perverse use of antitrust law to condemn
Apple for successfully entering a market with an innovative new
product,” Apple said in the filing, seeking to throw out the
lawsuit.  Disruptive Player  Apple has a track record of being a disruptive player when
it enters new markets, working independently and driving hard
bargains to secure content and service for its devices. When it
created the iTunes store in 2001, Apple pushed music companies
to sell all songs as singles for 99 cents, something not all
labels wanted to do. Apple also extracted service revenue from
AT&T in exchange for giving it the first iPhone, something
unheard of at the time.  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Macmillan, which is a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, have also denied
wrongdoing and vowed to fight the government’s accusations.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster, Lagardère SCA’s Hachette Book
Group and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, agreed to settlements,
saying they denied liability but wanted to avoid protracted
litigation.  Daniel Wall, an antitrust lawyer for Latham & Watkins LLP
in  San Francisco , said Apple can argue it was providing an
alternative to the near monopoly Amazon won with low margins and
deep discounts. Amazon had 90 percent e-books market before the
pricing model changed, according to Harding.  ‘Another Business Option’  “Apple offered a new model, another business option,”
said Wall, who represents Apple on other matters but isn’t
involved in the e-books case. “I don’t think there’s anything
wrong with Apple saying ‘If you don’t like Amazon’s model, sign
up for mine.’ That’s competition.”  E-books is the fastest growing category within the
$27 billion book-publishing business, according to a Bloomberg
Industry report. Revenue from e-books doubled last year to
$1.9 billion, according to preliminary estimates from the
Association of American Publishers.  The publishers’ distribution contracts with Apple
guaranteed they would lower the retail price of any e-book in
Apple’s iBook store to match the lowest price offered by any
other retailer, according to the Justice Department lawsuit.  These price guarantees, which ensure a company can’t be
undersold by its rivals, are known as most-favored-nation
clauses and can signal uncompetitive behavior, according to
Steve Salop, professor of economics and law at Georgetown
University Law Center.  Successful Challenges  Such clauses have been successfully challenged by the U.S.
in cases against companies including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Westinghouse Electric Co., and Delta Dental Insurance Co., an
insurer and service provider, Salop said. In 2010, the Justice
Department sued Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan for allegedly
entering most-favored-nation agreements that raised hospital
prices. The case is pending.  The publishers’ legal ground may be shakier Apple’s
because, almost simultaneously, they entered into similar
contracts with the iPad maker that allowed them to raise prices,
said University of Iowa’s Hovenkamp. Under a 1939 U.S.  Supreme
Court  decision involving movie tickets, now known as the
Interstate Circuit Doctrine, collusion can be proven by
circumstantial evidence when it’s clear that without the
agreement of the group, each firm would be acting against its
own interest, he said.  Joint Action  The Justice Department, citing internal e-mails and
conversations, claimed the publishers forged the new pricing
agreements with Apple only when they were confident they could
act jointly.  The publishers may argue that Amazon’s low prices would
have cut the number of printed books and bookstores, hurting
consumers with a loss of variety and output, Georgetown Law
Center’s Salop said.  Lande, of the American Antitrust Institute, said even so,
price-fixing conspiracies can’t be used to solve an industry’s
problems. Even if Amazon engaged in so-called predatory pricing
by selling below cost, the solution is to go to court or appeal
to Congress, Lande said.  “You are not allowed to break the antitrust laws,” he
said.  The Supreme Court has held in a landmark case involving the
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., that “ruinous competition” doesn’t
justify price fixing, Hovenkamp said.  ‘Less Money’  “The publishers were worried about making less money on
hard copy books,” said Howard University’s Gavil. “But there
are no rules of competition that say they were entitled to
continue making the same profits on their hard copy books as
they had in the past.”  The suit was filed in Manhattan, where U.S. District Judge
Denise Cote is supervising pretrial proceedings in a group of at
least 27 antitrust suits by private parties against Apple and
the publishers.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-2826, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 