-- Lufthansa Struggles to Dump BMIbaby to Complete IAG Deal
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-17T07:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/lufthansa-struggles-to-dump-bmibaby-unit-as-iag-deal-nears-close.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is struggling
to offload discount airline BMIbaby, potentially reducing
proceeds from the sale of its entire U.K. business to British
Airways parent IAG.  German turnaround specialist  Intro Aviation GmbH , which had
expressed an interest in BMIbaby, has ended talks, Managing
Director  Peter Oncken  said in a e-mail. Charter carrier ACL has
also dropped plans to make a bid, said a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified discussing private talks.  IAG, or  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ,
agreed in December to pay 172.5 million pounds ($274 million)
for BMI, while negotiating a “significant” discount should
Lufthansa fail to find a home for the no-frills operation. The
acquisition won European Union clearance on March 30, and
London-based IAG is aiming to complete it by April 20.  “BMIbaby is not a very attractive asset,” said  Joe Gill ,
an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, who follows low-
cost carriers. “It’s getting flame-grilled at the moment
because the market in northern  England  is incredibly
competitive.”  BMI said March 5 that two parties were in the running to
take over its discount arm, one of them an EU-based airline
group operating in several countries, the other a U.K.-based
company. Both parties aimed to keep BMI’s bases, it said, adding
that a deal would be signed with one “in the next few weeks.”  ‘Redundant’  “Lufthansa rejected a non-binding offer from us, rendering
further discussions redundant,” Oncken, who founded Intro with
German retail entrepreneur  Hans Rudolf Wohrl , said in an e-
emailed response to questions, adding that his company could
resume talks with IAG after the takeover.  Like Intro, Dublin-based ACL signed an agreement allowing
it to examine BMIbaby’s books, but isn’t currently considering
an approach, according to the person familiar with its plans.
Calls to the company weren’t returned.  BMI spokeswoman Katherine Hill said talks remain
“ongoing” with potential buyers for BMIbaby, which has its
main base at East Midlands airport between the English cities of
Derby and Nottingham, reiterating comments from British Airways
last week. Claudia Lange, a spokeswoman for the German company,
referred all enquiries to BMI.  Offer Terms  Interest in BMIbaby has waned because of the terms on offer
from Cologne-based Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline,
which would have to pay for the low-cost unit to be taken off
its hands, according to another person close to the talks.  BMIbaby competes with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and closely-held
Jet2.com at its main East Midlands base, and also overlaps with
Ryanair, the region’s top discount airline, in Birmingham. Both
rivals, together with carriers including  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , also have
bases in cities as little as 50 miles to the north.  Ryanair, EasyJet, charter carrier Monarch Airlines and
 Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) , Britain’s biggest domestic operator, all said
they’re not interested in bidding.  The discount carrier’s fleet of  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 single-aisle
jets is leased and the planes have an average age of 16 years,
according to data from aviation consultant Ascend.  BMI is also continuing with efforts to sell its Aberdeen,
Scotland-based Regional division before the deal with IAG is
tied up, spokeswoman Hill said. The company said Feb. 1 that it
had reached a deal to sell the unit to an unidentified U.K.
buyer, though BMI Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Prock-Schauer
said last month in an e-mail to staff that the process had been
delayed because the bidder had not met “funding requirements.”  British Airways said last week that it may cut 1,200 jobs
at BMI, or 44 percent of the workforce, in the wake of the
acquisition. Most of that reduction will be at the unit’s  Castle
Donington  headquarters, close to East Midlands airport.  IAG spokeswoman Lorena Monsalves said by telephone that the
company is still working toward a completion date of April 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  