-- Universal Music’s Purchase of EMI Backed by Two Trade Unions
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/music-industry-unions-back-umg-s-emi-purchase-in-ftc-letter-1-.html
Universal Music Group Inc.’s
proposed purchase of  EMI Group (EMIS) ’s recorded music business could
be good for  music industry  workers, according to two trade
unions that praised Universal’s track record on labor
agreements.  The unions, which represent musicians and recording
artists, made the comments in letters to U.S. Federal Trade
Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz obtained by Bloomberg News.
They urged the merger be approved if the FTC gives credence to
Universal’s commitments to rebuild the 114-year-old U.K. record
label.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell London-based
EMI’s publishing unit to  Sony Corp. (6758)  and its recorded music
business to  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal, the world’s biggest record
company, for a total of $4.1 billion. The proposed breakup of
London-based EMI, which owns Abbey Road Studios, sells Beatles
albums and publishes songs by the late  Amy Winehouse , ended a
nine-month bidding war.  Universal’s “compliance with and respect for its
collective bargaining agreements has been positive when compared
to its peer companies,” said the American Federation of
Musicians in an April 12 letter to Leibowitz. “Sustaining the
EMI legacy” under Universal’s oversight “would appear to
benefit AMF recording musicians.”  Commitment to Music  The Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of
Television and Radio Artists, which recently merged into a
single group known as SAG-AFTRA representing more than 150,000
members, said Universal has shown commitment to the music
industry, investing in new artists and innovative musical
genres, in a separate letter with the same date.  “For EMI to be left to further drift into oblivion, or for
EMI to be acquired and sold off in pieces by capital investment
speculators with no appreciation for, or commitment to, artists
who fuel the recording industry, would ill serve the industry,”
SAG-AFTRA said.  Universal is “committed to reinvesting in EMI to create
even more opportunities for new and established artists, expand
the marketplace with more music and support new digital
services,” the company said in an e-mailed statement in which
it welcomed the unions’ support.  Mitch Katz, a spokesman, confirmed the FTC received the
letter from the American Federation of Musicians. Kim Roberts
Hedgpeth, co-national executive director of SAG-AFTRA, confirmed
by e-mail he had also written to Liebowitz.  Citigroup Seizure  Citigroup, the New York-based lender, seized EMI in
February 2011 after investor  Guy Hands , founder of U.K. private
equity firm Terra Ferma Capital Partners, fell out of compliance
with loan covenants.  Warner Music Group, owned by billionaire Len Blavatnik’s
Access Industries Holdings Inc., failed in its bid to buy EMI
and opposes the sale, Warner board member Edgar Bronfman Jr.
said earlier this year.  Washington-based public advocacy group Public Knowledge
last month urged the FTC to carefully scrutinize the transaction
to see whether it hurts competition in the music industry. The
sale of EMI assets would reduce the number of major record
labels from four to three and could put control of the emergence
of new distribution options for the entire industry in UMG’s
hands,  Public Knowledge  said March 7.  The sale of EMI is also being scrutinized by European
authorities, which last month extended their review to Sept. 6
following a request by the companies.  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  is also probing
the planned purchase of EMI, two people familiar with the
situation told Bloomberg News last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  