-- Velarde Says Peru Rates Neutral as Economic Growth Picks Up
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-04-17T19:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/velarde-says-peru-rates-neutral-as-economic-growth-picks-up-1-.html
Peru ’s central bank President Julio Velarde said the country’s benchmark  interest rate  is in line
with a neutral monetary policy stance as faster growth is having
little impact on inflation.  The bank’s rate is “very close to neutral,” Velarde said
today in an interview in London. “We don’t see demand pressures
on inflation.”  Economic expansion will accelerate in the second half of
the year from the first six months, Velarde said, after growth
reached a six-month high in February. Business sentiment, which
climbed to a one-year high in February, according to the bank,
will remain “on the optimistic side,” he said.  The central bank kept its key interest rate at 4.25 percent
on April 12 citing indicators showing that economic growth has
stabilized after easing to a two-year low in the fourth quarter.  Gross domestic product probably expanded at an annual rate
of 5.5 percent to 6 percent in the first quarter after a boom in
construction and imports of capital goods led to higher-than-
expected growth of 7.2 percent in February, Finance Minister
Miguel Castilla said in an interview today in  London . Economic
expansion in March may be “a little bit below 7 percent,”
Castilla said.  The government may wait until next year to sell bonds to
finance the 2013 budget, after covering this year’s needs with a
$1.1 billion overseas issue Jan. 25, Castilla said. For this
year the government will prioritize local issues of short-
duration securities, such as Treasury bills, he said.  ‘Strong Tremors’  The Peruvian sol was little changed at 2.6565 per  U.S.
dollar  at today’s close, from 2.6560 yesterday, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 5.32 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis still represents a potential
threat to Peru’s economy, Velarde said.  “We’ll probably have some strong tremors for the rest of
the year from Europe and of course you have the problem of the
 Middle East  and in connection with that the price of oil,” he
said.  The Andean nation’s annual inflation rate will slow to
between 2.4 percent and 2.6 percent this year from 4.7 percent
in 2011, Velarde told reporters in London yesterday. The central
bank targets inflation in a range of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Wage Growth  The risks to global demand posed by Europe’s sovereign debt
turmoil may persuade Peru’s central bank to keep rates on hold
through 2014, said  Pedro Tuesta , a senior Latin America
economist at 4Cast Inc. Still, policy makers will have to act if
local demand pressures build amid a “huge” growth in wages, he
said.  In Lima, average monthly pay rose 13 percent to 1,324 soles
($498) in March from the same month a year earlier while the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.7 percent from 9.4 percent, the
national statistics agency said yesterday.  “Domestic demand is outpacing economic growth, even with
manufacturing growing at low rates because of weaker exports,”
Tuesta said in a phone interview from  Washington . “That’s why
inflation is going to be much more stubborn than the central
bank believes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 