-- LVMH Said to Eye Douglas as Talks Over Buyout Drag On
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-04-18T09:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/lvmh-said-to-eye-douglas-as-talks-over-buyout-drag-on.html
Bernard Arnault  may be prepared to
discuss a deal with  Douglas Holding AG (DOU)  as the German perfume and
makeup retailer’s negotiations with private equity firms falter,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Douglas and Arnault’s  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
have made preliminary contact, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private. There have been no
formal discussions because Douglas’s Kreke family would prefer
to take the company private and buy out other shareholders with
the help of financial investors, they said.  Talks with  BC Partners  Holdings Ltd., Apax Partners LLP and
Permira Advisers LLP to delist the company have stumbled
recently amid doubts about the support of Douglas’s two other
biggest shareholders and the performance of the company’s book
unit, the people said.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which runs European retailers
Marionnaud and Superdrug, is another potential trade buyer that
could reap cost savings with Douglas, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the process is private. LVMH,
based in Paris, owns the Sephora chain of cosmetics stores.  “A strategic buyer makes sense,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , an
analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie., in a phone interview. “It
would make it easier to restructure the company in a family
environment. It’s not clear in what direction Douglas wants to
go, but it’s certainly an additional opportunity.”  Douglas shares rose as much as 3.5 percent to 35.39 euros
in Frankfurt trading and were up 2.6 percent by 10:47 a.m. local
time, valuing the Hagen-based company at 1.4 billion euros ($1.8
billion).  Douglas has more than 1,100 perfume stores in 18 European
countries, according to its website. It also owns the Thalia
bookstore chain and jewelry, fashion and sweets stores.  Douglas Shareholders  The Kreke family controls 12.7 percent of Douglas,  Europe ’s
largest retailer of makeup and perfume. Henning Kreke is chief
executive officer and Joern Kreke is chairman. Dr. Oetker Group,
a German foodmaker that holds 25.8 percent, and Erwin Mueller,
who owns almost 11 percent and has options for another 15
percent, haven’t said publicly whether they are willing to sell
their stakes to Kreke and the private equity firms.  Spokesmen for Douglas, LVMH, Hutchison, Dr. Oetker,
Mueller, BC Partners, Apax and Permira declined to comment.  Henning Kreke told shareholders on March 21 that he won’t
exclude delisting its “undervalued” stock and confirmed talks
with financial investors, saying the outcome remains completely
open. The Kreke family would prefer a deal with financial
investors because they could continue running the company they
founded, the people said.  Douglas stock has  jumped  more than 37 percent since the
Wall Street Journal reported on Jan. 12 that the three buyout
firms were in talks with the Kreke family about taking it
private.  Douglas forecasts that sales this fiscal year will total
3.4 billion euros, with earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization falling to within a range of 200
million euros to 250 million euros because of restructuring
costs at its Thalia bookstore unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  