-- Washington Stuck Fighting Wrong Health-Care Battle
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/washington-stuck-fighting-wrong-health-care-battle.html
While  Washington  wonks continue to
bicker over health policy, positive change is occurring outside
the Beltway.  Last week, the Altarum Institute, a research organization
based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan ,  reported  that the moderation in
the growth of health-care costs we have seen over the past few
years is continuing: Total health spending rose by less than 4
percent from February 2011 to February 2012. And it’s
encouraging to see the progress that doctors, hospitals and
other providers are making to improve the value of care -- by
cutting back on unnecessary procedures, for example, expanding
their use of  information technology , and switching from fee-for-
service to compensation schemes aimed at maximizing the quality
of treatment.  Instead of examining these changes and finding ways to
encourage them, the Washington policy discussion continues to
demonstrate its ability to, well, it’s not clear exactly what it
does. The most senseless bloviating recently came from Charles Blahous, a senior research fellow at  George Mason University , in
Arlington,  Virginia , and a former official in the George W. Bush
White House. He  claims to have shown  that the 2010 health-care
reform act will substantially increase the  budget deficit ,
despite official estimates to the contrary. The Washington Post
decided this warranted prominent coverage.  What Blahous actually did was play a trick. His analysis
begins with the observation that Medicare Part A, which covers
hospital inpatient care, is prohibited from making benefit
payments in excess of incoming revenue once its trust fund is
exhausted. He therefore argues that the health reform act is
best compared to a world in which any benefit costs above
incoming revenue are simply cut off after the trust-fund
exhaustion date. Then, he argues that since the health-care
reform act extends the life of the trust fund, it allows more
Medicare benefits to be paid in the future. Presto, the law
increases the deficit by raising Medicare benefits.  Double Standard  Yet Blahous only partially adopts his own novel approach.
When discussing the nation’s fiscal outlook, he writes of the
“federal government’s untenable long-term fiscal outlook under
current law.” But the long-term deficit projections are so dire
primarily because we assume that benefits will continue to be
paid in full even after the Medicare and Social Security trust
funds are exhausted. If no benefits beyond incoming revenue can
be paid after the trust funds are exhausted, then the fiscal
outlook really isn’t untenable.  You  can’t adopt  one perspective to argue we have a massive
long-term deficit and then another to argue that the health bill
expands the deficit.  While we’re at it, since Blahous is enthralled with basing
his deficit projections on such a strict interpretation of the
law, he is being far too modest. The government is not legally
allowed to issue any debt above the statutory limit, so Blahous
should have assumed the deficit would disappear when we reach
that limit at or around the beginning of next year.  (In case there’s any doubt about his disingenuousness,
Blahous subsequently  defended  his article by claiming that it
was subject to a “double-blind peer review process, which means
that I did not know who was reviewing the paper, and the
reviewers did not know who had written it.” Yet the text of the
paper itself, at footnote 26, states that the author is one of
the public Medicare trustees. There are only two, and as any
competent reviewer would have known, the probability that the
other trustee,  Robert Reischauer , would have written it is
effectively zero.)  Another study receiving some recent attention is a much
more serious one -- which is why it didn’t get a whole lot of
attention. Joseph Doyle, a professor of economics at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and his co-authors
examined whether high-cost hospitals in  New York  deliver better
care than low-cost ones do. The design of  their study  is clever,
and the authors conclude that the higher-cost hospitals have
lower mortality rates. This challenges an array of evidence,
most associated with researchers at  Dartmouth College ,
suggesting that higher costs don’t mean higher quality.  The Doyle study, though, included emergency patients only,
and not all of them. As a result, it examined only about 5
percent of the admissions (who account for less than 10 percent
of total costs) at the relevant hospitals. Furthermore, as the
authors note, even for that 5 percent of admissions, there
appeared to be no additional benefit to higher spending at the
hospitals whose costs were in the top 15 percent of all
hospitals in their sample. The conclusion from the Doyle study
is thus not, as some in Washington have argued, that there are
no opportunities for lowering costs without impairing quality.
It’s only that for certain types of emergency care, higher-cost
hospitals seem to deliver better results -- and only up to a
point.  This brings us back to the progress being made beyond the
Beltway toward a better combination of cost and quality in
health care. Consistent with other evidence that points to a
deceleration in cost pressures is a Congressional Budget Office
 report  earlier this month showing that Medicare spending has
risen less than 3 percent over the past year.  In a future column, I will explore the debate over whether
this slowdown is purely temporary. On the one hand, the Great
Recession has restrained health-care spending. On the other,
many changes in health-care delivery -- for instance, the recent
decision by nine physician groups to eliminate 45  unnecessary
tests  and procedures -- suggests the slowdown is at least partly
structural. The question then becomes how to continue it. That’s
what Washington should be debating.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  simplifying your taxes 
and Obama’s  oil-speculation plan ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Ann
Romney’s choices ; Clive Crook on  economic fairness ; William
Pesek on  China’s power shift ;  Roger Lowenstein  on  dodging Dodd-
Frank ; Ana Palacio on  Spain’s outdated labor laws .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  