-- Weighing the Hazards in High-Yield Bonds
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-04-17T20:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/weighing-the-hazards-in-high-yield-bonds.html
     With savings accounts and high-quality bonds offering
miniscule rates of return, many investors are widening their
search for income-producing investments. Among the
most popular moves: buying junk.  Despite the unsavory nickname, junk bonds -- more
formally known as high-yield bonds -- are seen as pure gold by
many yield prospectors. During the first quarter of
2012, investors plowed $31 billion into high-yield bond
funds, according to research firm EPFR Global. That exceeds
any other category and is almost four times the global demand
for junk-bond funds in all of 2011.  The appeal is obvious: generous payouts at a time when
most other fixed-income options aren't even matching the
inflation rate. “Clients are essentially trying to replace the
income they used to get from their government bonds,” says
Hans Olsen, head of investment strategy in the Americas for
Barclays Wealth. BlackRock’s $14.3 billion IShares iBoxx High
Yield Corporate Bond Fund, the world’s largest junk-bond
exchange-traded fund, offers a yield of more than 7 percent.  Replacing super-safe income sources with junk bonds means
adopting a very different risk profile. “The market’s kind of
tricky now,” says Robert Levine, a veteran junk-bond trader
who wrote the forthcoming book “How to Make Money with Junk
Bonds.”  “Everyone is recommending junk bonds,” he adds, but
they require extra research and care. “It’s not a no-brainer.”  False Security  Investors looking at trends in the high-yield debt market
today might get a false sense of security. Finances at
indebted companies are improving, and defaults on loans are
low. Moody's says global speculative-grade debt defaulted at a
rate of 2.3 percent over the past 12 months, down from last
year's first quarter reading of 2.6 percent. The ratings
company expects the rate to rise to 3 percent by year-end.  Even with a forecasted increase, default rates are low.
In other words, the biggest risk in junk bonds isn’t that
they’re junk. Yes, a new recession or financial crisis could
scare investors and bankrupt more junk-status companies. Such
a jolt, however, would need to be severe to seriously
undermine the case for high-yield. BlackRock estimated last
month that default rates would need to triple to justify
current yields.  Instead, the biggest risk facing junk bonds may be simply
that they’re too popular. In recent years the prices of many
bonds have been bid up to extremely high levels (hence all
those low yields). If and when interest rates rise, bond
prices -- including those of junk bonds -- could take a
tumble.  Rate Risk  Interest rate risk hasn’t troubled investors much since
the Federal Reserve slashed rates in 2007 and 2008. To further
stimulate the economy, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke has promised
to keep rates low through 2014.  Bond markets don’t always follow the Fed in lock
step, and significant improvement in the economy could send
overall interest rates higher and bond prices lower. It’s
already happened in a small way: The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose as high as 2.4 percent in March from 1.88
percent at the end of 2011. After several years in the
basement, “interest rates have nowhere to go but up,” says
Paul Jacobs, a financial planner at Palisades Hudson Financial
Group.  It’s true that high-yield investors need to worry less
about rising interest rates than other fixed-income investors.
That's because a high-yield bond's value is greatly determined
by the creditworthiness of the company issuing it. Low-quality
junk bonds will rise and fall on bankruptcy rumors, not
interest rate trends. Levine notes, however, that because of
all the interest in junk bonds, the highest-quality junk bonds
are already trading extremely close to Treasuries.  Investors can try to buy protection against interest rate
risk via lower-quality junk bonds, i.e., those issued by the
most troubled companies, which must in turn pay the highest
yield. Of course, that heightens the credit risk since these
low-quality junk bonds are the most likely to default. (In
reality, individuals almost always trust fund managers to make
buying decisions on individual bonds. It’s both difficult and
foolish for nonprofessionals to buy individual bonds, advisers
say, so they recommend mutual funds or exchange-traded funds.)  Floating-Rate Loans  Because of high-yield bonds’ recent popularity and the
threat of higher interest rates, some investors are looking
even farther afield for income. George Rusnak, national
director of fixed income at Wells Fargo Private Bank, touts
the advantages of floating-rate bank loans, which benefit from
rising interest rates and inflation while providing income.
Palisades Hudson's Jacobs agrees, recommending the Fidelity
Floating Rate High Income Fund to clients. It has yielded 3.4
percent over the past 12 months. (Expenses are 0.71 percent.)  Another option is to lighten up bond exposure and buy
stocks. That’s a “tough sell” to many clients still stung by
the market downturn of 2007 to 2009, says David Joy, chief
market strategist at Ameriprise Financial. The advantage of
high-yield bonds is that they have about half the volatility
of stocks, he adds.  As with any investment, high-yield bond’s popularity
could be its downfall -- eventually. “There is a lot of money
rushing into this space right now,” Jacobs says. “As quickly
as it came in, you could see that money flow out."
 