-- Where in the World Loomis Sayles Sees Value
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-04-17T19:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/where-in-the-world-loomis-sayles-sees-value.html
     During tricky times in the bond market, the team at Loomis
Sayles, renowned for their mastery of the unconventional, is a
top-notch tour guide. The $19 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund
and $13 billion Loomis Sayles Strategic Income operate with
long leashes that allow them to sniff around just about
anywhere: Junk bonds, foreign issues, convertible
bonds, preferreds and dividend-paying stocks can all be added
to the portfolios to augment the conventional stuff.  That flexibility gives them a yield edge: The 5.9 percent
yield at Strategic Income is double the payout for the
benchmark bond index, the Barclay’s Aggregate U.S. Bond Index.
The 5.6 percent yield of the retail shares for Loomis Sayles
Bond is also well above the sub-3 percent income payout for
the index over the past year. The funds have done well over
the long run as well. For the past decade, the 11 percent
annualized return at both funds ranks in the top 10 percent of
similar funds, according to Morningstar.  To be sure, the U.S. Treasuries and high-grade corporate
issues that the benchmark bond index gorges on provide ballast
during rocky markets. To add some incremental yield in today’s
low-rate world, though, requires stepping outside the indexing
box. In fact, in Loomis Sayles's case, it increasingly means
stepping out of conventional bonds and focusing more on
higher-yielding stocks.  Outside the Box  Neither Loomis Sayles portfolio will win any index
look-alike contests compared with peers. For starters, the
funds currently do not own any U.S. Treasuries. Nada. By
comparison, 35 percent of the Barclays Aggregate index is tied
to Treasuries. “There’s just no return there,” says Kathleen
Gaffney, a co-manager of both funds since 1996, alluding to
the less than 2 percent yield on a 10-year Treasury. “And
there is tremendous amount of risk with Treasuries once yields
start to rise.”  Gaffney is quick to point out that the inevitable rise in
yields may not happen this year, or even next. And she
acknowledges the obvious: Forsaking Treasuries certainly
didn’t pay off last year, especially in the risk-off
environment of the third quarter. Both funds lagged the
Barclays index in 2011 by about 3 percentage points. But
Loomis Sayles has always kept its focus firmly on the long
term at the price of being smacked around over shorter
periods.  “Now is the time to get prepared for rising rates,” says
Gaffney. “We want to earn yield today, but we are looking for
bonds that can go up in price when yields rise.”  Oh Canada  That puts the kibosh on U.S. Treasuries, the most
rate-sensitive of investments. (When yields rise, the price of
conventional high-quality bonds falls. Total return is the
combination of yield plus the change in the underlying price
of a portfolio’s bonds.)  Both funds have 15 percent or so of assets in foreign
government bonds, with Canada the largest country allocation.
Overall, both funds have about one-third of assets in
non-dollar currencies. “If inflation becomes an issue and the
U.S. dollar weakens, foreign currency investments will give us
the opportunity for higher total returns,” says Gaffney. The
Barclays Aggregate index invests solely in U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds.  The bulk of the two go-anywhere Loomis Sayles funds is in
corporate bonds. Unlike the Barclays Aggregate index, which by
mandate sticks to investment grade issues, Loomis Sayles has
built a decided tilt in lower-quality bonds. Nearly half of
Strategic Income’s bond portfolio is invested in
below-investment grade or unrated issues; at Loomis Sayles
Bond the junk/unrated stake is near 30 percent.  That’s in keeping with the team’s focus on bonds that can
make money even when rates rise. Junk bonds tend to be more
sensitive to what’s happening in the economy than to the
direction of interest rates. If rates begin to rise because of
sustained economic growth, that’s good news for junk bond
issuers who should have an easier time making good on
payments.  The funds also have another 8 percent of assets tucked
into convertible bonds that, like standard junk issues, are
less rate-sensitive. They “give us the opportunity for price
appreciation when rates rise,” says Gaffney.  Stocking Up  The Loomis Sayles team is also adding equities. Strategic
Income’s 16 percent stake in dividend-paying common stock is a
record for the fund. It also has another 3 percent in
preferred stock.  Top five holdings at both funds include Intel’s common
stock, which has a 2.9 percent dividend yield. Spain’s
Telefonica S.A., with a 13.9 percent yield, is the
second-largest holding in Strategic Income. Like many
Euro-based investments, it has been pulled down by the debt
crisis, but Gaffney says the team is cherry-picking European
companies in telecom and utilities industries for their
recession resilience and solid fundamentals.  “We’re looking at large-cap, global companies that can
increase their market share and where we expect earnings to
grow, and therefore dividends to grow as well,” says the
manager. That’s a recipe for both strong income today and
strong total returns over time. Even when rates rise.
 