-- Wilson Says Greedy People, Altruistic Groups Win
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/wilson-says-greedy-people-altruistic-groups-win.html
“We have created a Stars Wars
civilization, with Stone Age emotions, medieval institutions and
godlike technology,” says Edward O. Wilson, and that’s a
dangerous combination.  In his most recent book, “The Social Conquest of Earth,”
Wilson argues that it’s science, rather than religion or
philosophy, that will help us understand human nature and create
a more rational future.  Ant specialist, passionate conservationist, professor
emeritus at Harvard and Pulitzer Prize-winning author of more
than 20 books, Wilson also shows that group-selection rather
than kin-selection is the evolutionary principle at work in
altruism.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: You say religion is a product of natural
selection -- how does that work?  Wilson: Religious beliefs evolved by group-selection, tribe
competing against tribe, and the illogic of religions is not a
weakness but their essential strength.  Organized religion -- with creation stories at the center
-- is where all the trouble comes from. Each tribe considers its
own creation story superior, which makes them the chosen people.  Evangelicals for whom the Bible is their creation story
can’t accept evolution. Two thirds of Muslims refuse to believe
in evolution as well.  Lundborg: You created a paradigm shift in evolution theory
from kin-selection to group-selection. What was the response?  Wilson: I fluttered the dovecote. In 2010, my two Harvard
mathematician colleagues and I dismantled kin-selection theory,
which was the reigning theory of the origin of altruism at the
time.  We have not had a single direct challenge to the
mathematical proof of it, and we have not had a single
challenge, even though they’re fussing about it, to my
biological argument that it has to be group-selection.  Lundborg: You were a proponent for a time, so what changed
your mind?  Wilson: I used kin-selection as one key idea in the 1970’s.
It seemed Newtonian to me, in that you could explain a lot with
a simple formula. But, as I discovered, there was a wrong
assumption at its basis.  Basically, it’s a question of probability and outcome.  Lundborg: Your theory says altruistic groups and selfish
individuals prosper -- can you explain?  Wilson: Competing is intense among humans, and within a
group, selfish individuals always win. But in contests between
groups, groups of altruists always beat groups of selfish
individuals.  Wall Street  Lundborg: What about  Wall Street ?  Wilson: If you have an organization composed of people just
looking after themselves, taking from the group’s production for
themselves, it will lose against companies that are better
organized.  Companies that are willing to share, to withhold in order
to further the growth of the company, willing to try to get a
better atmosphere through a demonstration of democratic
principles, fairness and cooperation, a better product, those
will win in the end.  Lundborg: Are you a pessimist regarding endless human
conflict?  Wilson: Not really. We’re not perfectible -- only social
conservatives believe that we are.  The only way to be perfect is to be completely
individualistic or completely robotically social -- solitary
individuals versus ants.  Once we see there’s no stable solution, we can resort more
confidently to reason and reaching agreements, even though we
still dislike each other.  Sin and Virtue  Lundborg: You say “Individual selection is responsible for
much of what we call sin, while group-selection is responsible
for the greater part of virtue.” So human beings are doomed to
feel stressed forever?  Wilson: We’re always conflicted and the product of that is
what we call conscience. The failure of it, probably due to a
brain defect, is psychopathic, and about 2 or 3 percent of the
population can’t feel empathy.  Lundborg: Do you think world leaders are mainly
psychopaths?  Psychopathic Leaders  Wilson: Sure. How can you be a full-blown, aggressive
dictator like Stalin or Hitler without being a psychopath?  Lundborg: What about the evolutionary paradox in humans
destroying their own biosphere?  Wilson: Humans succeeded by destroying nature -- it’s been
a human advantage since the late Paleolithic to destroy
environments.  That’s been our problem, and, though we’re still doing huge
damage, I’m optimistic since the world has become aware of the
harm we’re doing.  Lundborg: Can humans change fast enough to avoid the
biodiversity crisis?  Wilson: To succeed, we have to telescope it and personalize
it as much as we can. We need to get to know the species that
are on the brink of extinction, and see what’s happening to
them.  Lundborg: Sports are clearly a tribal activity, with nearly
naked maidens cheering on the conquering heroes.  Wilson: Sports are ritualized warfare. Team sports are
simple, understandable and inspire deep loyalty.  There is a score at the end, cheering and whomping on the
back, odd costumes, painted faces, which is pretty similar to
Papuan natives going out with spears on one of their
confrontations, except they do it for real.  Lundborg: Why do we like belonging to our tribes so much?  Wilson: The other thing that’s peculiar among humans is the
fact that we’re so intensely interested in each another, the
reading of intentionality, facial expressions, words, body
language.  It’s highly developed in humans, from hunter-gatherers to
boards of billion dollar companies -- they’re just sitting
around gossiping and evaluating other people. It’s known as
social intelligence.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  Information about saving the biosphere:
 http://www.eowilson.org .  Today’s Muse highlights include a  review  of “White House
Burning,” and executive staff  salaries  at the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 