-- Worst Africa Currency Seen Losing 9% by Standard Bank on Imports
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-04-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/worst-africa-currency-seen-losing-9-by-standard-bank-on-imports.html
Ghana ’s cedi, the worst-performing
African currency, is poised to drop another 9.2 percent this
year as rising imports and looming elections sap confidence,
Standard Bank Group Ltd., the continent’s biggest lender.  The currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer
will probably sink to 2 per dollar after closing at a 19-year
low of 1.8170 yesterday, Stephen Bailey-Smith, an emerging-
market strategist at the group’s investment arm, Standard Bank
Plc in  London , said in e-mailed comments to Bloomberg.  “There is a lack of confidence in the cedi due to
overheating import demand and some nerves around being long a
local currency into an election,” Bailey-Smith said.  While Ghana’s economy expanded 14.4 percent in 2011 spurred
by oil production, demand for dollars by local producers to buy
equipment and raw materials has sent the currency tumbling.
Presidential and parliamentary elections scheduled for December
are limiting investor inflows on concern of potential violence
and increased government spending, according to  Standard Bank .  The  Bank of Ghana  has raised its benchmark interest rate
twice in the past three months to 14.5 percent to stem the
currency’s depreciation. Governor Kwesi Amissah-Arthur said
April 13 the declining cedi is a “major source of concern”
that requires “decisive policy measures to stem the trend.”  While higher  interest rates  will help to “slow import
demand somewhat,” it won’t be enough to stop the depreciation,
according to Bailey-Smith.  Negative Psychology  “The best method to restore cedi confidence is via higher
interest rates, but as the examples of Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania
and Nigeria have taught us, Ghana may still have some way to go
to adequately switch the negative  market psychology ,” he said.  The cedi declined for a second day yesterday, dropping 0.7
percent to percent to 1.8170 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  President John Atta Mills is vying for a second term in
office against opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo. His ruling
National Democratic Congress will also seek to hold on to its
parliamentary majority.  Foreign reserves declined to $4.6 billion in March, from
$5.4 billion in December, according to the Bank of Ghana.  The  Finance Ministry  expects 9.4 percent growth in the
economy this year after oil production for export began at the
Jubilee oil field in 2010.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 