-- Yahoo Rises as First-Quarter Sales Fuel Turnaround Optimism
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-18T22:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/yahoo-sales-earnings-beat-estimates-in-advertising-expansion.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  rose the most in almost
four months after reporting first-quarter sales that topped
estimates, fueling optimism that a turnaround effort by Chief
Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  may take hold.  Revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner sites, rose 1
percent to $1.08 billion, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said
in a statement yesterday. That compared with $1.06 billion, the
average of analysts’ predictions compiled by Bloomberg, and is
the first  increase  since the third quarter of 2008.  Thompson benefited from growth in the U.S. online-ad
market, which grew 23 percent in the period as corporations
devoted more marketing dollars to the Web, according to
EMarketer Inc. Since taking over as CEO of the top U.S. Web
portal in January, Thompson has announced job cuts and a
reorganization in his drive to lift profit, reverse a sales
slump and lure back users lost to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  “It was a good first start,” said Ronald Josey, an
analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in New York, who rates the stock a
hold and doesn’t own it. “It’s going to take some time.”  Sales and profit this quarter may also exceed estimates.
Revenue will be $1.03 billion to $1.14 billion, Yahoo said. That
compares with $1.08 billion projected by analysts.  Income from operations in the second quarter will be $115
million to $195 million, Yahoo said, compared with the average
$164.1 million forecast compiled by Bloomberg.  Display Ads  Search-advertising revenue, excluding sales passed on to
partners, increased 8 percent to $384 million, compared with a 4
percent decline for display, the category that includes banners,
boxes and videos adorning Web pages.  Display advertising should return to growth in the current
period, Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse said in an interview.  First-quarter profit, excluding some items, was 24 cents,
beating the average 17-cent analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income attributable to the company rose 28
percent to $286.3 million, or 23 cents a share, from $223
million, or 17 cents, a year earlier.  Yahoo shares rose 3.2 percent to $15.49. The  stock  has
declined 4 percent this year.  Alibaba, Yahoo Japan  The company is benefitting from its stakes in Asian
companies, including  China ’s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and
Yahoo Japan Corp. On a  call with analysts  yesterday, Thompson
said Yahoo is pursuing discussions with Alibaba about monetizing
a portion of its stake. Returning capital to shareholders would
be a top priority if there is a deal with Alibaba, he said.  Yahoo is focusing on Alibaba because the parties haven’t
been able to overcome differences over the valuation for the
Yahoo Japan stake, Thompson said.  Thompson, formerly the president of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal
unit, earlier this month announced Yahoo would cut about 2,000
jobs. Last week, he outlined a restructuring plan that organizes
the company around three areas, including consumers, geographic
regions and technology. The consumer division will focus on
media, commerce and so-called connections, which include Web
search and e-mail, Thompson said.  “The announcements we’ve made over the last several weeks
represent the first steps in executing on our plans to get back
to our core businesses,” Thompson said yesterday. “We’re
putting in place a more focused organizational structure.”  Focusing the Business  Those efforts also include “shutting down” or
“transitioning” about 50 properties, Thompson said. He said he
will focus engineering on Yahoo’s own businesses instead of
theoretical science or platforms for other publishers.  “It sounds like he wants to really refocus on the core,
get the costs much more in line with revenue expectations,”
said Benjamin Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA
Inc. in  New York . He has a neutral rating on the stock and
doesn’t own it.  Thompson said Yahoo has been hampered by a lack of
innovation because of the company’s complexity. Still, he said
Yahoo’s assets give it opportunities to grow and that it doesn’t
need to “reinvent” itself.  Thompson also is grappling with a planned proxy fight by
investor  Third Point  LLC, which owns about 5.8 percent of the
company. The investment firm is trying to get four nominees,
including Third Point CEO  Daniel Loeb , onto Yahoo’s board.  Yahoo added three new independent directors last month,
after failing to reach an agreement with Third Point to put some
of the investor’s picks on the board. Third Point, which had
 wanted  the company to address topics that included display
advertising and management in connection with first-quarter
results, said the company needs to do more to drive growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 