-- Hydroelectric Power Seen Expanding 15% From Upgrading U.S. Dams
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-17T18:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/hydroelectric-power-seen-expanding-15-from-upgrading-u-s-dams.html
Overhauling dams built for flood
control and irrigation may generate 12 gigawatts of electricity
in the U.S. without  carbon emissions , increasing water power
capacity 15 percent, the Energy Department said in a report.  Agency researchers analyzed 54,391 of the more than 80,000
dams in the U.S. that now lack equipment to produce power,
compared with 2,500 that generate electricity, according to the
report released today by the agency.  Expanding hydroelectric capacity can “help diversify our
energy mix, create jobs and reduce carbon pollution
nationwide,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in a statement.  President  Barack Obama  has set a goal of producing 80
percent of the U.S. electricity from clean-energy resources by
2035. Using existing dams to increase hydroelectric power is
quicker and cheaper than building dams, according to the report.  Dams on major U.S. waterways such as the Mississippi, Ohio,
Alabama and Arkansas rivers and their tributaries have the
greatest potential for added power generation, according to the
report. The dams are run by the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers.  “Putting turbines on existing dams is going to be less
harmful than building new dams,” said John Seebach, senior
director for rivers management at American Rivers, a Washington-
based group.  The U.S. hydroelectric industry is lobbying to extend a tax
credit that expires at the end of 2013. Doubt about the tax
break’s future is already slowing development for projects that
require long lead times, industry officials say, echoing an
argument used by wind- and solar-energy producers that are also
looking to extend subsidies.  Hydropower accounted for 6 percent of total U.S.
electricity in 2011, and about 63 percent of the power from
renewable sources. More than half of U.S. hydropower is
generated in Washington state, Oregon and  California , according
to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  