-- Yen, Real Tumble on Prospects of Action by Central Banks
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-18T21:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/yen-remains-lower-on-global-stock-rally-before-u-s-jobs-data.html
The yen dropped for a second day
against most of its major counterparts after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
suggested more stimulus may be needed even as global economic
growth accelerates.  Brazil’s real slid amid bets the central bank will cut
 interest rates  by 75 basis points today. The dollar reached a
one-week high versus the yen as Bank of  Japan  Deputy Governor
 Kiyohiko Nishimura  said policy makers are ready to implement
additional easing.  Canada ’s dollar climbed against commodity-
exporter peers on higher growth forecasts, while the pound rose
after policy maker  Adam Posen  ended a push for more stimulus.  “It hasn’t been risk-on, risk-off the past couple of days
as we’ve gotten to see some fundamental divergence; just look at
the Canadian dollar pulling away on the crosses,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New
York, referring to trades not involving the  U.S. dollar .
“Stronger growth means the yen is an underperformer, provided
financial markets are reasonably steady.”  The yen declined 0.5 percent to 106.63 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time after falling 0.4 percent yesterday. Japan’s
currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 81.26 per dollar and touched
81.57, the weakest level since April 10. The euro was little
changed at $1.3123.  The Japanese currency fell the most against the pound after
Nishimura said it’s vital to support upward momentum toward an
economic recovery. The BOJ is “committed to implementing
additional easing measures, if deemed necessary,” he said in a
speech in Okayama, western Japan.  Asset-Purchase Fund  Nishimura’s comments fueled speculation the central bank
will expand its asset-purchase fund for the second time in three
months at its April 27 meeting.  The yen was the biggest loser over the past three months
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes, dropping 6.7 percent. The dollar
fell 1.1 percent, while the euro gained 0.2 percent.  Brazil ’s real tumbled 0.9 percent to 1.8786 per dollar and
touched 1.8839, the weakest level this year, as investors
speculated policy makers may keep cutting the benchmark rate at
today’s policy meeting.  Traders are speculating central bank President Alexandre Tombini will reduce the rate by 0.75 percentage point, to 9
percent, according to futures yields.  Bank of Canada  The  Bank of Canada  said today in its Monetary Policy Report
that growth will be stronger than it forecast earlier as
diminished risks from  Europe  and the U.S. boost consumer and
business confidence.  “Every central bank is starting to look at their policy,
looking through their base-case scenario for growth rather than
the risk-case scenario because issues in Europe have been
dramatically reduced,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  Canada’s policy makers kept their benchmark interest rate
at 1 percent yesterday for a 13th meeting yesterday while saying
that a policy-rate increase “may become appropriate” as the
economy recovers.  Trading in Canadian interest-rate futures rose to a record
yesterday. The daily volume of Canadian bankers’ acceptance
contracts, used by money managers to speculate and hedge against
interest-rate fluctuations, was 302,371, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, strengthened
0.4 percent to 81.98 yen. It gained 0.5 percent to 80.88 cents
per  New Zealand dollar  and advanced 0.2 percent to C$1.0267 to
the Australian currency. The loonie was 0.1 percent weaker
against the greenback at 99.12 cents following yesterday’s
biggest intraday gain since November.  Volatility Increases  The implied volatility of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies rose for the first time in six days, breaking
the longest streak of declines since December, according to the
JPMorgan Volatility Index. The aggregate gauge rose 0.4 percent
to 9.77 percent. The 10-year average is 10.6 percent.  Higher volatility makes investments in currencies of
nations with higher benchmark rates less attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The pound advanced for a second day versus the euro after
minutes of the  Bank of England ’s April 4-5 meeting published
today showed Posen joined the majority of the nine-member
 Monetary Policy  Committee in seeking no change to the 325
billion-pound ($517 billion) asset-purchase target.  ‘Hawkish Side’  “Our economists thought it was on the hawkish side,
especially because we had uber-dove Posen hold his call for
further easing,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “The shift from 7-2 to 8-1 is
important.”  Sterling gained 0.6 percent to 81.90 per euro after
appreciating to 81.74 pence, the strongest level since August
2010. The currency rose 0.6 percent to $1.6023.  Sweden’s krona strengthened after the nation’s Riksbank
kept its key interest rate unchanged amid signs the largest
Nordic economy will avoid a recession. The repo rate was held at
1.5 percent, after two cuts since December.  The krona advanced 0.4 percent to 8.8533 per euro and
gained 0.4 percent to 6.7457 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  