-- Tyson, Cargill Hurt by ‘Pink Slime’ Ahead Grilling Season
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-04-18T22:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-17/tyson-cargill-hurt-by-pink-slime-ahead-grilling-season.html
The consumer backlash against a
meat product made from leftovers and treated with chemicals is
making a bad situation worse for Cargill Inc. and  Tyson Foods
Inc. (TSN)  ahead of the beef industry’s peak sales period.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery-store chain, last
month stopped buying ground beef containing what processors call
lean, finely textured beef, while  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said it
would offer customers meat without the additive.  Lower demand for the product -- dubbed “pink slime” by
critics -- has prompted Cargill, the biggest U.S. beef
processor, to scale back output of the lean meat at four plants.
Tyson says beef supply will decline. The companies, already
dealing with higher cattle costs, may start labeling ground beef
with the product as the industry tries to win back shoppers’s
confidence ahead of the U.S. summer grilling season.  “If demand remains lackluster, it will impact beef
processors’ profitability,”  Farha Aslam , an analyst at Stephens
Inc. in New York who has a hold rating on Tyson shares, said in
an interview on April 10.  Ground-beef sales, including trimmings, fell 11 percent to
37.7 million pounds in March, the smallest amount sold for that
month in 10 years, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
wholesale data compiled by Bloomberg. Packers saw prices for
wholesale choice beef fall 7.8 percent in March, the most since
October 2008, USDA data shows.  Shrinking Herds  Even before lean, finely textured beef became a live issue
for the meat industry last month, the U.S. beef industry was
paying more for corn used to feed cattle while prices of the
animals rose after a drought in the southwest U.S. shrank herds.  U.S. processors on average have lost money on the cattle
they slaughtered since September, according to Stephens. Losses
per head have averaged $82.14 this year, the investment bank
estimates.  Cargill, the biggest closely held U.S. company according to
Forbes, said April 10 that fiscal third-quarter profit at its
meat unit was “well below” last year’s record earnings.
 Michael Martin , a spokesman for Cargill, said the company
doesn’t discuss profits or margins.  Tyson’s  beef business  saw operating income fall 73 percent
to $31 million on sales of $3.47 billion in the quarter ended
Dec. 31. The Springdale, Arkansas-based company, which is the
largest beef processor after Cargill, said Feb. 3 that beef
margins would “recover” in the six months through September.
The recent furor has delayed that recovery, Aslam said.  Beef Margins  Vincent Andrews, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York,
cut his full-year earnings estimate by 5 cents to $1.85 a share,
partly because of the pressure on beef margins from the
controversy. Andrews also reduced his projection for operating
profit at Tyson’s beef business by 53 percent to $87 million for
the year through September, he said in a note yesterday.  Tyson fell 0.4 percent to $18.03 at the close in  New York .
It has  dropped  13 percent this year while the Standard and
Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index has climbed 4.8 percent.  Tyson said April 2 it doesn’t expect any plant closures
following the decline in demand for lean, finely textured beef,
also known as LFTB. While Tyson doesn’t make the product, it
sells trimmings to processors who do.  Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, declined to comment on
the impact on Tyson’s earnings and referred to Chief Operating
Officer Jim Lochner’s March 27 comments that the bad publicity
had “an impact negatively on ground-beef demand, which will
recover I think quite quickly.”  Warm Weather  To be sure, U.S. beef consumption has been in decline for
several years, according to the USDA, albeit at a slower pace
than March sales data suggests. Americans will on average eat
55.4 pounds of beef in 2012, down 3.3 percent from last year,
according to USDA estimates. Consumers have opted for cheaper
cuts and reduced restaurant visits, said Heather Jones, an
analyst for BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond Virginia.  The early arrival of warm weather across the U.S. this year
may be a boon to margins in Tyson’s beef unit, said Ann Gurkin,
an analyst at Davenport & Co. who’s also based in Richmond.
Jones and Gurkin both recommend buying Tyson shares.  Cargill, Tyson and the USDA say the lean, finely textured
beef is safe. The additive is treated with ammonium hydroxide,
or sometimes citric acid, during its production to kill
pathogens. Centrifuges separate the fat, yielding 94 percent to
97 percent lean meat, according to Beef Products Inc., the
biggest producer.  Burger King  The additive may be part of as many as 20 billion meals
each year, Dakota Dunes, South Dakota-based Beef Products says
on its website. The product represents about 3 percent of U.S.
beef supply, according to BMO Capital Markets.  The debate surrounding LFTB isn’t new. McDonald’s Corp.,
the world’s largest fast food chain, and Burger King Holdings
Inc. stopped serving burgers with the additive in 2011. Critics
such as celebrity chef  Jamie Oliver  say the lean meat is
unappetizing because it’s made of inferior cuts and is
chemically treated.  Scrutiny intensified in the last month after an online
petition was started to have the product banned from the federal
school lunch program. A March 7 ABC News television report
questioned its use. Beef Products temporarily closed three
plants and ground-beef maker AFA Foods sought bankruptcy court
protection, citing media coverage.  ‘Critical’ Period  The USDA agreed last month to allow schools to choose the
beef served in cafeterias following public pressure. The issue
of LFTB reached “fever pitch,” Cargill said March 15.  U.S. beef-processor margins are likely to stay negative at
least through September because the industry’s problems have
been “magnified” by the decline in the use of the lean meat,
said Glynn Tonsor, assistant professor in the department of
agricultural economics at  Kansas State University  in  Manhattan .  Lower LFTB use will increase costs as processors switch to
more expensive cuts for ground beef, he said. U.S. beef supply
is expected to drop 4.4 percent in 2012, the  USDA  said April 10.  Cargill is now hand-trimming meat that previously would
have been mechanically processed to produce LFTB. Hand-trimming
is less efficient because it captures less lean beef, Martin
said.  July 4  The weeks after Easter Sunday are “critical” for Tyson
and its competitors as the U.S. grilling season -- loosely
defined as the period between Memorial Day in May and Labor Day
in September -- approaches, Stephens’s Aslam said.  U.S. beef sales are highest during the week of July 4,
followed by Labor Day and Memorial Day, according to the
 National Cattlemen’s Beef Association . During the week of the
U.S. Independence Day holiday, Americans buy about $400 million
of beef, 25 percent more than in an average week, with ground
beef the top selling beef item, the industry group estimates.  “We are hopeful that ground beef demand will rebound as
the summer grilling season begins over the next several weeks,”
said Martin, the Cargill spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  