-- ‘Avengers’ Has 2nd-Best Single-Day Gross of $80.5 Million
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-05T17:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/-avengers-has-second-best-single-day-gross-of-80-5-million.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Marvel’s The
Avengers” earned $80.5 million yesterday in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, making it the second-biggest single-day gross in box-
office history, according to  Hollywood.com  Box-Office.  The superhero film featuring Iron Man, Thor and the Hulk is
expected to earn between $150 million and a weekend record of
$170 million, according to analysts’ estimates.  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2” holds
the single-day record at $91.1 million, box-officer tracker
Hollywood.com said.  The movie “will certainly wind up in the top five openings
of all-time and could exceed ‘Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows: Part 2’ and take the crown for the biggest opening
weekend of all-time,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of the
box-office unit of Hollywood.com, in an e-mail. Disney’s mark
may not be challenged until “The Amazing Spider-Man” and “The
Dark Knight Rises” open in July.  He said “Avengers” may best the last “Harry Potter”
based on Friday receipts, even after the midnight showings only
tallied $18.7 million. He said IMAX Corp. may have accounted for
8 percent of that total, with showings “virtually sold out” in
all locations.  Previous Movies  “The Avengers” is benefiting from the popularity of
previous movies based on the characters, including Robert Downey Jr.’s two “Iron Man” movies. The film already had taken in
$304 million outside the U.S. and Canada as of yesterday, Disney
said in an e-mailed statement.  In the film, Marvel’s superheroes unite to battle an army
led by Loki, the evil god of Norse mythology. In addition to
Downey, the cast includes  Scarlett Johansson ,  Jeremy Renner  and
Samuel L. Jackson.  The movie received an A+ CinemaScore, which is an exit-
polling service that asks moviegoers what they thought of the
film, Dergarabedian said. Such a rating is quite rare, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net  