-- Mohammed’s Day-Long Hearing Signals Long Road to Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-06T15:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/accused-sept-11-planner-faces-victim-families-at-hearing.html
The second attempt to prosecute Khalid Sheikh Mohammed on charges he orchestrated the Sept. 11 
attacks got off to a slow start as defense assaults on the
tribunal’s integrity and the judge’s competence may foreshadow a
years-long legal slog aimed at justice for almost 3,000 victims.  The arraignment yesterday at a naval base in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, of Mohammed and four codefendants stretched from morning
to late night as the five men deferred entering pleas while
delaying proceedings through prayer, silence, outbursts and an
attempt to display injuries allegedly suffered in custody. Their
lawyers repeatedly sought to argue about the legality of the
military commission and its implementation.  Several of them asked for trial to begin in May 2013, while
military prosecutors said they would be ready by Aug. 1 of this
year. The judge scheduled the next hearing, on preliminary
motions, for mid-June.  The government is seeking to convict the five men for their
roles in a conspiracy that used hijacked passenger planes to
destroy the World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and damage the
Pentagon. Mohammed, with a long reddish beard and wearing a
white tunic and turban, looked down and away when the judge
spoke to him. He refused to answer questions during the court
appearance, his first since 2008.  “He’s deeply concerned about the fairness of the
proceeding,” Mohammed’s lawyer, David Nevin, told the judge,
U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl. “If the court addresses him and
he declines to communicate with the court, it reflects a choice
on his part.”  ‘Frustrate the Commission’  Pohl said he wouldn’t allow Mohammed “to frustrate the
commission going forward” and threatened to enter pleas to the
charges on the defendants’ behalf. Eventually, the five men
deferred entering their pleas. In doing so, they preserved the
right to file subsequent legal motions otherwise barred under
military rules.  Lawyer James Connell said today at a press conference in
Cuba that the defense team planned to use the legal proceedings
to elicit a “full airing of the torture years.” The defense
intends to wage “peaceful resistance to an unjust system.”  The defense plans “to assert every single right,” Walter
Ruiz, another lawyer for the defendants, said at the press
conference. The obligation of the defense “is to hold our
government’s feet to the fire.”  Fight Any Attempt  Prosecutors said today they will fight any attempt to focus
the proceedings on torture or what the defense said was
interference with their right to defend their clients.  “That’s not justice,” if the defendants go free for a
crime that killed thousands because of their subsequent
treatment, Army Brigadier General Mark Martins, the chief
prosecutor, said. He predicted the case will be a long road.  “I’m getting ready for hundreds of motions,” he said.
“We’ve got to do this methodically and patiently.”  Mohammed, who has claimed that he organized the Sept. 11
attacks and was the operations chief for the terrorist group al-
Qaeda under  Osama bin Laden , previously attempted to plead
guilty in 2008. Earlier charges against him were withdrawn after
President  Barack Obama  sought to move the case to U.S. District
Court in New York. The administration returned the matter to the
military in 2011.  During the hearing’s morning session, the judge brought a
translator into the courtroom in response to the defendants’
refusal to follow the proceedings through headphones.  While Pohl was going through the formality of asking the
lawyers to detail their qualifications, defendant Ramzi bin al Shibh stood up, pointed to the judge and said “the right time
is now” to address the defendants’ concerns, “not tomorrow.”  Death Threats  Bin al Shibh said he wanted to talk about death threats the
defendants had allegedly received at the camp. In fractured
English, he sought to equate the Guantanamo prison camp to  Libya 
under its late dictator,  Muammar Qaddafi .  At one point, another defendant, Walid bin Attash, stood
and kneeled as if in prayer. Mohammed and Ali Abdul Aziz Ali,
also charged in the case, did so also, with Mohammed later
reading from what appeared to be a prayer book.  Pohl asked the defendants if they understood their rights
to have lawyers and that they could seek different attorneys.  “The accused refused to answer,” Pohl said, memorializing
their silence for the record.  Responding to the frequent interjections from defense
lawyers asking to discuss the treatment of their clients, Pohl
said he would consider “appropriate” issues after dealing with
required preliminary matters. Attorneys for the defendants
protested that they aren’t permitted confidential consultations
with their clients.  Dress More Modestly  Defense lawyer Cheryl Borman said during the hearing that
women on the prosecution team should dress more modestly so the
defendants could look in their direction without “fear of
committing a sin under their faith.” Borman was wearing Muslim
attire, including a black hijab.  Martins, the chief prosecutor, defended his team’s 
professionalism. Most of the women were in military uniforms 
that had skirts.  Much of the afternoon session was spent with defense
lawyers questioning Pohl as to whether he should be disqualified.  Mohammed watched closely as his lawyer peppered the judge
with questions. With a slight grin, he turned his head from left
to right as Nevin asked Pohl about his beliefs, experience,
background, judicial philosophy and whether he thought a
military judge should be presiding over the case.  Challenging the Judge  The judge said he recently read, “The Black Banners: The
 Inside Story  of 9/11 and the War Against al-Qaeda,” a book by
an ex-Federal Bureau of Investigation agent who questioned the
effectiveness of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques.
Nevin asked Pohl if he had opinions on the issue, which will
probably come up at trial. Pohl said that was “irrelevant.”  “I will apply the law as I believe it is, regardless of
personal beliefs of what I think it should be,” said Pohl  Borman, who represents Bin Attash, directly suggested Pohl
was unqualified. She asked him whether he ever presided over a
case with more than one defendant or ever litigated a case with
more than 20,000 documents.  “I’m asking about your qualifications to handle complex
litigation,” she told Pohl. He declined to answer, saying he
didn’t consider the question relevant.  Mohammed, born in the Baluchistan region of  Pakistan  along
the Iran border, grew up in  Kuwait . He is accused of proposing
what became the Sept. 11 operation to bin Laden in 1996 and
training hijackers to hide knives in carry-on bags before
boarding the planes.  Slit Throats  Under his direction, the hijackers learned how to slit the
throats of passengers by practicing on sheep, goats and camels,
the government claimed.  A U.S. charging document said codefendant bin al Shibh
wired $2,708 to one hijacker, and in late August 2001 sent a
message to Mohammed that the hijackers’ leader, Mohammed Atta,
had chosen Sept. 11 for the date of the attacks.  Mohammed, who was captured in a 2003 raid in Pakistan, is
charged with Bin Attash, Aziz Ali, Bin al Shibh and Mustafa Ahmed Adam al-Hawsawi for planning the attacks that used three
jetliners on targets in  New York  and  Washington , and a fourth,
United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed in Shanksville,
 Pennsylvania , after passengers fought back against the hijackers.  The five are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The charges
include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in
violation of the law of war and attacking civilians.  The men may face execution if convicted.  Water-Boarding  Mohammed was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until
2006, and then sent to Camp Delta, the detention facility at
Guantanamo Bay that now holds 169 suspected terrorists.  The CIA has acknowledged that he was one of three al-Qaeda
operatives who were “waterboarded.” He underwent the procedure,
which simulates drowning, 183 times, according to government
documents. The U.S. has since banned the practice, which critics
such as  Human Rights Watch  call a form of torture.  By early evening at yesterday’s hearing, Bin Attash tried
to show the judge alleged injuries suffered while in custody.  Pohl rejected his attempt, telling him, “You will put your
shirt on or you’ll be escorted.”  The accused men delayed proceedings until late in the night
by insisting that 87 pages of charges be read aloud, a step that
is usually bypassed. The need for a translation of the charges
into Arabic made the process even longer.  “In my 12 years of being a judge, this is the first time
I’ve had the charges read,” Pohl said.  At the end of the proceeding, Bin al Shibh noticed two
relatives of Sept. 11 victims staring at him from the visitors’
booth. He turned toward them, smiled and nodded, and gave them a
thumbs-up. One of them quietly cursed in reply.  William Hennessey, a lawyer for Bin Attash, disputed
accounts that Bin al Shibh gave a thumbs-up to the relatives.
Instead, he said today it was a thumbs-up and smile to his
translator, who was sitting near the gallery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
Or  mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 