-- Accused 9/11 Planner Faces Victim Families in Cuba
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/accused-9-11-planner-faces-victim-families-in-cuba.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the accused
mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on New York and
 Washington , is set to appear before a military judge at a U.S.
naval base in Cuba for his arraignment on terrorism charges.  Prosecutors are seeking to convict Mohammed, who is to
enter court today for the first time since 2008, and four others
for their roles in a conspiracy that used hijacked passenger
planes to destroy the World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and damage
the Pentagon, killing almost 3,000 people.  Family members of several victims traveled to the base in
Guantanamo Bay, including Cliff Russell, whose brother, Stephen,
a firefighter, was killed when the twin towers collapsed. He
said yesterday that the accused terrorists should be sentenced
to death.  “I’d like them all killed,” said Russell, who is a union
engineer and lives in Queens,  New York .  The judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, is to ask the
defendants today whether they understand the charges and want
legal representation, said James Connell, a lawyer for Ali Abdul
Aziz Ali, a Pakistani accused of helping finance the attacks.
Defense motions may also be heard, he said.  The defendants are unlikely to enter a plea at the hearing,
and a trial may be a year away.  In dueling press conferences last night in Cuba, Connell
and the chief prosecutor debated the fairness of the process.  ‘Blight on America’  “Military commissions have long been a blight on America’s
international reputation and her commitment to the rule of law,
and tomorrow’s hearing continues that tradition,” said Connell.
Army Brigadier General Mark Martins defended the system as
ensuring justice while protecting “lawful sources and methods”
used to guard against future attacks.  “Our nation’s secrets are not going to be an open book,”
Martins said. “But we are also committed to justice.”  Mohammed, who has claimed that he organized the Sept. 11
attacks and was the operations chief for al-Qaeda under  Osama bin Laden , previously sought to plead guilty in 2008. Earlier
charges against him were withdrawn after President  Barack Obama 
sought to move the case to U.S. District Court in New York.  The administration returned the matter to the military in
2011. The charges were referred to the tribunal last month.  Mohammed, born in the Baluchistan region of Pakistan along
the Iran border, grew up in  Kuwait . He is accused of proposing
the operation to bin Laden in 1996 and training hijackers to
hide knives in carry-on bags before boarding the planes. Under
his direction, the hijackers learned how to slit the throats of
passengers by practicing on sheep, goats and camels, the
government claimed.  Charging Document  A U.S. charging document said codefendant Ramzi Binalshibh
wired $2,708 to one hijacker, and in late August 2001 sent a
message to Mohammed that the hijackers’ leader, Mohammed Atta,
had chosen Sept. 11 for the date of the attacks.  Mohammed, who was captured in a 2003 raid in  Pakistan , is
charged with Aziz Ali, Walid Muhammad Salih Mubarak Bin Attash,
Mustafa Ahmed Adam al-Hawsawi and Binalshibh for planning and
carrying out the attacks that used three jetliners on targets in
New York and Washington, and a fourth, United Airlines Flight 93,
which crashed in Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , after passengers
fought back against the hijackers.  The five are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The charges
include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in
violation of the law of war and attacking civilians.  The men may face execution if convicted.  Claimed Pearl Murder  Mohammed has also said he personally killed Wall Street
Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was decapitated in Pakistan
in 2002. The confession came at a military hearing at Guantanamo
Bay in March 2007. He hasn’t been charged in the Pearl case.  Mohammed was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until
2006, and then sent to Camp Delta, the detention facility at
Guantanamo Bay that now holds 169 suspected terrorists.  The CIA has acknowledged that Mohammed was one of three al-
Qaeda operatives who were “waterboarded.” He underwent the
procedure, which simulates drowning, 183 times, according to
government documents. The U.S. has since banned the practice,
which critics such as  Human Rights Watch  call a form of torture.  Use of evidence obtained as a result may be a focal point
of defense objections as the trial moves forward.  Lawyers for the five men have filed motions seeking both
access to their clients without government monitoring, and
public dissemination of statements defendants make in court.  Plans for a closed-door meeting yesterday with the judge
and lawyers were scrapped after defense attorneys insisted a
transcript of the session be made public, Connell said.  Tara Henwood-Butzbaugh, a relative of a Sept. 11 victim,
said yesterday that she traveled to Guantanamo Bay to “bear
witness to the process and to seek justice for my brother,”
John Christopher Henwood, a bond trader at  Cantor Fitzgerald  who
worked on the 105th floor of 1 World Trade Center.  “I have every confidence in the system,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 