-- Apple Wins Ruling, Sanctions in Samsung Infringement Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-06T08:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/apple-wins-ruling-sanctions-in-samsung-infringement-lawsuit.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , sanctioned by
a U.S. judge for failing to produce source code, said a ruling
last week barring some evidence isn’t central to its defense
against Apple Inc. in a patent-infringement lawsuit  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal wrote in his May 4
ruling that Samsung “plainly violated” a court order requiring
it to turn over code to Apple, and ruled that Samsung won’t be
able to offer evidence in the case about its efforts to “design
around” three patents at issue in the case.  In its lawsuit, Apple claims that Samsung’s 4G smartphone
and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer infringe its patents. In
December, U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
ruled against Apple’s request to block Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung from selling that phone and tablet in the U.S. That
order followed an Australian court ruling lifting an injunction
on the tablet there.  Samsung, which was the world’s largest seller of
smartphones last year, and Cupertino, California-based Apple
have filed at least 30 lawsuits against each other on four
continents since April 2011.  In his ruling, Grewal said producing source code in patent
litigation is “disruptive, expensive, and fraught with
monumental opportunities to screw up.” Still, under federal law
there is no exception to the requirement, especially when a
defendant in a patent suit challenges the opposition’s failure
to analyze the accused product’s source code, the judge said.  Samsung Comments  “The court’s decision is on just one of the many motions
made by both companies in the process of the lawsuit,” Samsung
said today in an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg inquiry. “It
is not related to a final ruling on the patent-infringement case
and Samsung Electronics will continue to actively seek to secure
 patent rights ,”  Grewal said he focused on Samsung’s so-called design-around
source code developed for products with the “specific intent”
of avoiding Apple’s patent claims. The ruling targets that code
because “by their very nature design-arounds impact key
questions of liability, damages and injunctive relief,” Grewal
wrote.  “They are inevitably designed with substantial input from
counsel for the specific purpose of distinguishing other
products at issue,” Grewal wrote. “In short, they matter. A
lot.”  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Apple said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “This kind of blatant
copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s intellectual
property when companies steal our ideas.”  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-01846,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  