-- Arsenal’s Champions League Hopes Hurt by 3-3 Tie With Norwich
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-05T14:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/arsenal-s-champions-league-hopes-hurt-by-3-3-tie-with-norwich.html
Norwich rallied for a 3-3 tie at
Arsenal in English soccer’s Premier League, hurting the Gunners’
chances of automatic qualification for the  Champions League .  Steve Morrison scored in the 85th minute to give Norwich
the away draw at Emirates Stadium. It came five minutes after
Robin van Persie’s second goal put Arsenal in front.  The tie leaves Arsenal in third place at 67 points with one
game left. Tottenham and Newcastle are both two points behind
heading into their games. The top three teams in the standings
automatically qualify for Europe’s elite Champions League, while
fourth place enters a playoff.  Arsenal needed just 66 seconds to take the lead as  Yossi Benayoun , celebrating his 32nd birthday, curled a shot into the
top corner from the left side of the penalty area.  Norwich pulled even in the 12th minute when Arsenal
goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny wasn’t able to hold onto West
Hoolahan’s shot. The visitors took the lead 15 minutes later as
Grant Holt’s kick deflected in off Kieran Gibbs for his 14th
goal of the season.  Van Persie tied the game with a 72nd-minute volley and gave
Arsenal the lead eight minutes later with his league-leading
30th goal of the season. Morrison then tied the score with five
minutes left.  Arsenal had a late penalty claim denied after van Persie
appeared to be pushed into the goal by Kyle Naughton as he was
about to tap the ball in. Norwich goalkeeper John Ruddy then
made several saves to preserve the draw.  In tomorrow’s games, Tottenham visits  Aston Villa ,
Newcastle hosts first-place Manchester City and  Manchester
United , which is second behind City on goal difference, hosts
Swansea. Also, West Brom is at Bolton, Sunderland visits Fulham,
QPR hosts Stoke and relegated Wolverhampton is home for Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 