-- Australia Budget to Put Fiscal Settings on Right Path, Wong Says
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-05-05T02:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/australia-budget-to-put-fiscal-settings-on-right-path-wong-says.html
Australia  will get its fiscal settings
right by returning the budget to surplus, improving its
sustainability in the face of global economic woes, Finance
Minister  Penny Wong  said.  “Building budget surpluses and taking decisions to improve
the sustainability of the budget are critical to ensuring
support for generations to come,” Wong said in an opinion piece
published in the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper today. “A
surplus positions the nation well and sends a strong message of
confidence to investors both domestically and overseas.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is set to unveil a budget on
May 8 that seeks to end four years of deficits as support for
her government has fallen to near-record lows in opinion polls.
The budget comes as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia yesterday cut
growth and inflation forecasts amid slowing inflation, three
days after slashing its key rate by half a percentage point to a
two-year low.  In a bid to cut spending, Australia’s Defense Force
announced this week it will delay buying fighter jets, helping
the government add about A$1.6 billion in its 2012-2013 budget.  Gillard plans to cut 40 jobs from her own office, the
Australian newspaper reported on May 3.  Right Mix  “You’ve got to work out what the right mix is and what’s
best for Australian households and we believe a surplus is the
best thing for Australian households and Australian
businesses,” Wong said in an interview with  Sky News  today.  A surplus “continues to give the Reserve Bank room to move
on  interest rates , just as the Bank has done recently,” she
said. “A surplus also recognizes a lot of the underlying
strength in the economy as is exemplified by the investment
figures and gives us a buffer in what is an uncertain world. So,
for those reasons, a surplus is the right thing to do.”  Support for Gillard’s  Labor Party , which faces elections by
the end of 2013, slumped to within a percentage point of a
record low in an opinion poll published May 1. Labor holds power
in the 150-seat lower house with the backing of independent and
minor party lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  