-- Berkshire’s Rose Turns to Manufacturing as Coal ‘Traumatized’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-05T14:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/berkshire-s-rose-turns-to-manufacturing-as-coal-traumatized-.html
Matt Rose , chief executive officer of
 Warren Buffett ’s railroad, said he is counting on deliveries of
manufactured goods to build the business after coal shipments
declined amid reduced demand from power plants.  “The coal markets have been traumatized with low natural
gas prices and very mild weather,” the CEO of Burlington
Northern Santa Fe said today in an interview in Omaha, Nebraska,
site of the annual meeting for Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
“Coal is the one storm cloud that we’re dealing with.”  BNSF contributed $701 million to first-quarter earnings,
compared with $607 million a year earlier, as shipments of
consumer goods and industrial products rose, Berkshire said
yesterday. It may take until next year or 2014 for the business
to return to its peak, which was 2006, Rose said.  Natural-gas drillers have been using hydraulic fracturing,
or “fracking,” and other technology to develop gas in shale
fields from  Texas  to Pennsylvania. The new sources have driven
down the price and made coal a less attractive alternative.  “What we’re going to miss in our coal business, we’re
going to have to pick it up in our manufacturing business,”
Rose said. “We should be able to do that” as housing
construction and auto production rebound in the U.S.  Rose, 53, became CEO in 2000 and joined Berkshire when
Buffett bought the Fort Worth, Texas-based railroad in 2010 in
his biggest takeover. The railroad CEO said the shift to
extracting energy from shale deposits has created other
opportunities for his company.  “Everything to do with drilling, horizontal drilling,
frack sand, pipe, oil, it’s phenomenal,” Rose said. “We’re
seeing strong double-digit type growth in all those markets.”  BNSF is the second-biggest U.S. railroad, behind Union
Pacific Corp., and operates a network concentrated west of the
Mississippi River.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in Omaha,  Nebraska , at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  