-- Berkshire’s Combs, Weschler Get $1 Million Pay, Incentive
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-06T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/berkshire-s-combs-weschler-get-1-million-salaries-incentives.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  investment
managers Todd Combs and Ted Weschler receive $1 million salaries
and can earn more if their bets beat the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, Chairman  Warren Buffett  said.  The stock-pickers get 10 percent of the amount by which
their portfolios outperform the benchmark on a three-year
rolling basis, Buffett, 81, told shareholders yesterday at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha, Nebraska.  “These two are perfect,” Buffett said. “They have every
incentive to operate in a collaborative way” because part of
each one’s pay is determined by the performance of the other.  Buffett is ceding portions of Berkshire’s $120 billion
stock-and-bond portfolio to former hedge-fund managers Combs and
Weschler as his company prepares for an eventual change of
leadership. Combs joined Berkshire more than two years ago and
registered gains with bets in 2011 on MasterCard Inc. and  Dollar
General Corp. (DG)  Weschler’s hiring was announced in September.  “The market is up so it makes everybody look smarter,”
Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick said in an interview before
the meeting. “At first glance it looks like the two of them are
doing very well.”  The  S&P 500 Index  advanced 8.9 percent this year and 2.6
percent in the last 12 months. Berkshire, where Buffett is
chairman and chief executive officer, has gained 6.3 percent
since Dec. 31 and 2.2 percent over the last year.  MasterCard, Dollar General  Buffett, who built Berkshire with stock bets on companies
including Washington Post Co. and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , has said he
will continue to make the biggest investments. The assets under
management by Combs and Weschler were increased by $1 billion to
$2.75 billion each, Buffett said yesterday.  A stake in  MasterCard (MA) , the world’s second-biggest payments
network, was acquired by Combs at an average cost of about
$246.74 a share in January and April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock ended May 4 at $439.69. Combs paid an
average price of $32.07 apiece for 4.5 million shares of Dollar
General in the three months ended in August. The discount
retailer traded for $47.56 on May 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  