-- Berkshire Profit Doubles as Buffett Prepares for Meeting
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/berkshire-says-profit-doubles-as-buffett-prepares-for-meeting.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s first-
quarter profit doubled as insurance units and derivative bets
posted better results, the company said yesterday as it prepares
for Chairman  Warren Buffett ’s annual meeting.  Net income climbed to $3.25 billion, or $1,966 a share,
from $1.51 billion, or $917, a year earlier, when the company
faced claims from an earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , Berkshire
said yesterday a statement.  Buffett will take questions from analysts, journalists and
investors today at the meeting, a forum he uses to opine on the
economy and capital deployment. The funds available to Buffett
increased in the first quarter as his insurance units were
spared losses on natural disasters.  There weren’t “any catastrophe losses that were of note,
outside of some tornado activity” in the first quarter,  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis ,
said in a phone interview before results were announced.
Worldwide, claims from natural disasters were “nothing like we
had last year with Japan,” he said.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose in
the quarter to $176 billion from $164.9 billion at the end of
2011. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s Class A shares have
risen 6.3 percent this year, trailing the 8.9 percent gain in
the S&P 500.  The value of the equity portfolio climbed to $89.1 billion
from  $77 billion  on Dec. 31 as American Express Co.,  Wells Fargo
& Co ., International Business Machines Corp. and  Munich Re 
rallied. Berkshire spent $3.4 billion on equities and sold $820
million in the quarter, the company said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. The company bought fixed-maturity securities for $2.1
billion and sold $1.1 billion of the assets.  Farm Products  Buffett, 81, also encourages deals by some subordinates,
including Victor Mancinelli, the chief executive officer of CTB
Inc. The farm-products subsidiary yesterday announced an
agreement to buy Meyn Holding BV of the Netherlands to expand
into  slaughtering  and packaging equipment for chickens.  Among Buffett’s largest bets since last year’s meeting in
Omaha were the purchase of the IBM stake for more than $10
billion and a $5 billion investment in Bank of America Corp.
Buffett pays for many of his deals with funds held by insurance
units such as Geico and National Indemnity.  The insurance segment posted an underwriting profit of $54
million compared with a loss of $821 million a year earlier,
Berkshire said. The company had “no significant losses” from
catastrophes in the three months ended March 31, compared with
$1.1 billion after tax a year earlier, according to the filing.  Derivative Bets  The gain from equity-index puts rose to $689 million in the
three months ended March 31 from $223 million a year earlier.
Gains from credit-default contracts, in which Buffett bets on
the ability of borrowers to repay debt, increased to $340
million from $70 million.  Buffett, also Berkshire’s CEO and largest  shareholder , sold
equity derivatives to undisclosed buyers for $4.9 billion in
2006 and 2007, when markets were near their peaks. Liabilities
on the bullish bets narrow when four equity benchmarks rise. The
 S&P 500   climbed 12 percent  in the three months ended March 31
while another benchmark covered by the contracts, the Nikkei 225
Stock Average, surged 19 percent.  First-quarter results include a $337 million impairment
related to bonds of Texas Competitive Electric Holdings, a unit
of Energy Future Holdings Corp. Berkshire wrote down holdings
tied to Energy Future by $390 million last year and $1 billion
in 2010 and may record further losses, Buffett said in February.  Succession Planning  Buffett, who hired former hedge-fund managers Todd Combs
and Ted Weschler in the last two years to help oversee
investments, is under pressure to demonstrate Berkshire is
prepared for a transition in leadership. Buffett told investors
in his annual letter in February that the company’s board had
picked his eventual successor as CEO.  Buffett didn’t identify who it was or a timeline for the
switch. He also said there are “two superb back-up
candidates.”  The CEO said April 17 that he has stage 1 prostate cancer
that is “not remotely life-threatening or even debilitating in
any meaningful way.” Buffett plans to begin a two-month
treatment of daily radiation in July. The regimen will restrict
his travel during the period and not otherwise change his daily
routine, said Buffett.  Berkshire said yesterday that Burlington Northern  Santa Fe 
contributed $701 million to earnings, compared with $607 million
a year earlier, as shipments of  consumer goods  and industrial
products rose. The railroad said in a separate filing that it
will pay a $750 million distribution to its parent this month.  Berkshire paid $26.5 billion in 2010 for the 77.5 percent
of the railroad it didn’t already own. Buffett is “on the
prowl” for large acquisitions after record earnings at
Berkshire’s railroad and energy units helped boost the company’s
 cash hoard  to $37.3 billion at the end of 2011, the billionaire
investor said in the letter. The cash pile climbed to $37.8
billion as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  