-- Buffett Shuns Super PAC Contributions While Backing Obama
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-05-06T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/buffett-shuns-super-pac-contribution-while-supporting-obama.html
Warren Buffett , the world’s third-
richest man and a supporter of President  Barack Obama , faulted
campaign-finance rules that allow unlimited contributions and
said he won’t donate to a super political action committee.  “I don’t want to see democracy go in that direction,”
Buffett said yesterday at the annual shareholders meeting of his
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in Omaha,  Nebraska . “You have to take a
stand some place.”  Super PACs can accept unlimited corporate, union and
individual donations. They were made possible by the U.S.
Supreme Court’s 2010  Citizens United  ruling that removed limits
on corporate and union election spending.  The super PACs are barred from making donations to
candidates, and can spend money independently of the campaigns.
Supporters of both Obama and Republican front-runner  Mitt Romney 
have created super PACs in an attempt to influence this year’s
U.S. presidential election.  Buffett, 81, is a Democrat who has championed causes like
abortion rights and the estate tax through his career, and last
year he pressed for tax increases on the wealthy. Obama has been
pushing for a “Buffett rule,” setting a minimum federal tax
rate of 30 percent for households making more than $2 million a
year. Republicans have blocked the measure.  “Under the Buffett rule we would have a minimum tax only
for these very, very high earners that would restore their rate
to back what it was in 1992,” Buffett said at yesterday’s
meeting. “It would affect very, very few people.”  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
took questions at the meeting along with Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 88. Buffett was asked if he should mute his political
views, prompting applause from some in the crowd at Omaha’s
CenturyLink Center.  “When Charlie and I took this job, we did not decide to
put our citizenship in a blind trust,” Buffett said.  Munger said Buffett’s role in the tax-police debate “has
reduced my popularity around my country club.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  