-- Canada Dollar Drops Most This Year on Economic Outlook
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/canada-dollar-drops-most-this-year-on-economic-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar had the biggest weekly
drop in almost five months on signs a faltering U.S. economic
recovery will sap demand for the nation’s exports.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened
yesterday after U.S. jobs growth in April trailed forecasts. It
erased gains from a rally last week following Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney ’s April 24 speech to parliament that an
increase in  interest rates  may be necessary to contain
inflation. The nation’s unemployment rate increased last month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
25 economists before the May 11 Statistics Canada report.  “We saw positions being unwound from investors who went
long following Carney’s hawkish talk -- that had precipitated
the gains earlier this week and last week,” Blake Jespersen,
director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets unit, said in an interview. The Canadian
dollar came under “considerable selling pressure.” A long
position is a bet that an asset will increase in value.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, weakened 1.6
percent this week to 99.61 cents per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto, the
biggest drop since the five days ended Dec. 16. It touched 98
cents on April 27, the strongest since September. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0039.  Bonds Rally  Government bonds  rose, pushing the 10-year yield down 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 2.02 percent. The
price of the 2.75 percent bonds due in June 2022 added C$1.46 to
C$106.65.  Two-year government bond yields have  climbed  29 basis
points this year to 1.25 percent on the nation’s growth
prospects relative to other Group of Seven countries.  The probability the bank of Canada will raise interest
rates by September fell to less than half, down from two-thirds
at the start of the week, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on overnight index swaps.  Futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar compared
with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 70,223 on May
1, compared with net longs of 44,224 a week earlier.  Jobs Data  Weaker-than-forecast jobs growth data yesterday pointed to
a recovery that may be losing momentum in the U.S., destination
of three-quarters of Canada’s products. Crude oil, the biggest
Canadian export, fell below $100 a barrel for the first time
since February.  “The U.S. employment report suggested weak growth
momentum, but with declining unemployment, that will handcuff
Federal Reserve doves, who might respond with quantitative
easing” said  Greg Anderson , the North American head of G-10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “As a result,
commodities tanked and the Canadian dollar went with it.”  Canada’s Ivey purchasing managers’ index fell last month to
the lowest level since July, adding to evidence the nation’s
economy is growing more slowly than projected by the central
bank.  The  index  dropped to 52.7 in April on a seasonally adjusted
basis, following a March reading of 63.5, according to a
statement by the University of Western Ontario business school.
Readings greater than 50 indicate government and company
purchases advanced. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast a reading of 61, based on the median of 13 estimates.  Growth View  The world’s 10th largest economy will grow at a 2.5 percent
annualized pace this quarter, up from a January estimate of 1.8
percent, the  Bank of Canada  said in an April 18 quarterly policy
report. Inflation will average 2 percent through June, higher
than a previous estimate of 1.5 percent.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls climbed 115,000, the smallest gain in
six months, after a revised 154,000 rise in March that was more
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median estimate of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 160,000 advance. The jobless rate
fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent.  Canada’s jobless rate reached 7.3 percent in April,
according to a Bloomberg News survey, up from 7.2 percent the
previous month. Employment increased by 10,000, based on a
separate survey, versus an increase of 82,300 in March.  The loonie, which traded as low as C$1.0319 in January,
will weaken to parity with its U.S. counterpart by the end of
June before strengthening to 98 cents at year-end, according to
the median of 39 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  