-- Celpa Said to Seek 650 Million-Real Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-05-07T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/celpa-said-to-seek-650-million-real-bond-sale.html
Brazilian utility  Centrais Eletricas
do Para SA (CELP3)  will seek to sell 650 million reais ($337 million) of
bonds as part of a plan to recover from bankruptcy, said a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The bonds would yield 15 percent a year and could be
converted into stock in the future, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the plan isn’t public yet. A
meeting with creditors to discuss the plan will be held within
120 days, Celpa said in an e-mailed statement on May 4, without
providing details.  Celpa’s bankruptcy has led its parent  Rede Energia SA (REDE4)  to
seek to renegotiate dollar-bond terms after the securities
plunged and  Fitch Ratings  cut the company’s credit rating to one
level above default. Fitch trimmed Rede Energia’s grade two
levels to C from CCC on March 9, saying Celpa’s bankruptcy will
likely prevent the parent from accessing the credit needed to
roll over short-term debt.  Fitch cut Celpa’s credit grade to D from B- after it filed
for bankruptcy on Feb. 28.  The Brazilian government is not planning to take control of
Celpa to help investors, Energy Minister Edison Lobao said March
13. The government would only step in to help ensure power
distribution if necessary, Lobao said. State-run  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , known as Eletrobras, won’t rescue the
Rede Energia companies, Chief Financial Officer Armando Casado
de Araujo said April 19.  Bonds Plummet  About 66 percent of Celpa is owned by Rede Energia, while
Eletrobras holds about 35 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rede Energia’s perpetual bonds have tumbled 34.6 cents
since Feb. 27, the day before Celpa sought relief from
creditors, to 48.9 cents on the dollar on May 4, according to Trace, the
bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Celpa’s dollar bonds due in 2016 have slumped 57.25
cents over the same period to 47 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  