-- Chelsea Beats Liverpool to Win Fourth F.A. Cup in Six Seasons
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-05T19:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/chelsea-beats-liverpool-to-win-fourth-f-a-cup-in-six-seasons.html
Chelsea defeated Liverpool 2-1 to win
English soccer’s F.A. Cup for the fourth time in six seasons.  Ramires and  Didier Drogba  scored at Wembley Stadium in
London as Chelsea captured England’s top club competition for
the seventh time.  “This is what we play for, it was a great performance,”
Chelsea captain  John Terry  told ITV. “People have slated us,
saying we’re too old, past it, not together. But when the chips
are down, we come together and we’ve done that superbly.”  It was a record fourth F.A. Cup final in which Drogba has
scored. The Ivorian now has eight goals in eight career games at
Wembley.  “I don’t know what it is,” Drogba told ESPN when asked
about his Wembley scoring record. “I’m here to finish and score
goals and when I have the chances I try to make them.”  Andy Carroll came off the bench to score for Liverpool. The
striker thought he tied the game with a late header that was
knocked away by goalkeeper  Petr Cech  but the score wasn’t given.
Television replays were inconclusive as to whether the ball had
completely crossed the goalline.  “I thought it was over the line,” Carroll told ITV. “We
were unlucky. We had a few chances but couldn’t put them away.”  Chelsea took the lead in the 11th minute as  Juan Mata  sent
a pass to Ramires, who beat  Jose Enrique  down the right side and
fired a shot between Pepe Reina and the near post.  Drogba doubled the lead in the 52nd minute as he took a
ball from  Frank Lampard  at the edge of the area and sent a shot
to the far post past Reina.  No Goal  Carroll came on in the 55th minute and tied the score nine
minutes later. Jose Bosingwa’s clearing attempt hit  Stewart Downing  and the ball went to Carroll, who worked himself around
Terry to blast a shot by Cech.  Controversy arose with eight minutes left when Carroll’s
header was knocked onto the underside of the crossbar by a
lunging Cech before being cleared away. The Liverpool players
argued the ball had crossed the line, though referee Phil Dowd
and his linesman didn’t give the goal.  “I don’t think it was over the line,” Cech told ITV. “If
the ball was behind the line I couldn’t have kept it out. I’m
100 percent sure it was not in.”  Carroll then had one last chance in injury time but his
shot from close range was blocked by Terry.  Champions League Final  The victory keeps the Blues in line for two trophies this
season as they face  Bayern Munich  in the  Champions League  final
on May 19.  “It’s a completely different game, but it can only help
that we won today,” Lampard told ESPN.  Chelsea interim manager Roberto Di Matteo, who replaced the
fired Andre Villas-Boas in March, joins former teammate Gianluca Vialli in winning the F.A. Cup as both a player and manager with
the Blues. He’s the 16th person to accomplish the double.  “It’s quite a unique situation to win the F.A. Cup as
player and also coach the team and win it,” Di Matteo told
ESPN. “I feel honored.”  Liverpool was trying to win its second domestic trophy of
the season after capturing the League Cup in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 