-- Chen Deal Highlights Stakes in U.S.-China Relationship
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-05T02:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/chen-deal-highlights-stakes-in-u-s-china-relationship.html
China ’s commitment to allow dissident
 Chen Guangcheng  to go to the U.S. resolved a conflict that
threatened to sour ties and demonstrated how the Sino-American
relationship is increasingly driven by intertwined economic and
security interests.  After a week of diplomatic tension, the U.S. and China
forged a solution that promises to enable the blind legal
activist to leave China with his family in order to become a
visiting scholar at  New York University .  The ability to manage a high-profile human-rights dispute,
one of the most incendiary topics between the U.S. and China,
reflects the large and growing stake the two countries have in
economic cooperation. China now holds $1.18 trillion of  U.S.
government debt , ahead of the second-largest foreign creditor,
 Japan , with $1.1 trillion,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Both sides have been bending over backward to handle a
sensitive case in a way designed to minimize the impact on the
bilateral relationship,” said Stapleton Roy, the U.S.
ambassador to China from 1991 to 1995.  Regardless of differences over issues that range from
China’s support for Syria’s regime to U.S. pronouncements on the
disputed and oil-rich South China Sea, “both sides believe it
to be in the best interests of both countries to keep the U.S.-
China relationship developing in a positive manner,” Roy said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  Clinton’s Role  The crisis erupted days before Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  arrived in
Beijing for two days of annual negotiations on economic and
strategic issues. Both sides insulated those talks from the
diplomatic crisis even as Clinton was in frequent contact with
her diplomats about Chen, according to U.S. officials who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  “We cannot allow disagreements to derail our relationship
or hold back our cooperation on a broad range of matters,”
Clinton said yesterday, at the close of the annual Strategic and
Economic Dialogue, which officials call the S&ED.  “You have to look at the trend lines, not just the
headlines,” she said. “And that is especially true in the
China-U.S. relationship. The trend is clear. Our countries are
growing more interdependent and so we need to build a resilient
relationship that allows both of us to thrive and meet our
regional and global responsibilities without unhealthy
competition, rivalry or conflict.”  The relatively quick resolution demonstrates the importance
each country places on its relationship with the other, said
 Chris Johnson , a senior adviser at the Washington-based Center
for Strategic and International Studies and a former China
analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency.  Back From Brink  “Both sides looked over the edge yesterday and decided it
was time to turn the wheel back from the cliff,” Johnson said
in a telephone interview.  Even during the human-rights dispute, Chinese and U.S.
negotiators managed to arrive at some significant agreements,
including an increase in the level foreign stakeholders can own
in securities firms, he said.  “That’s very helpful to the Goldman Sachs of the world,”
Johnson said.  Chen, an iconic figure in China, was imprisoned for more
than four years after representing villagers who opposed forced
abortions and sterilizations. He was then held under house
arrest without charges until he escaped in late April and made
his way to Beijing. Embassy diplomats helped him evade Chinese
security and reach the safety of the U.S. embassy.  ‘Proper Channels’  The outline of the NYU arrangement emerged after Chen left
the embassy and then changed his mind about a previous deal for
him to remain in China and study law, saying he feared for his
family’s safety.  New York  University confirmed by e-mail yesterday that Chen
was invited to become a visiting scholar. If Chen “wants to
study abroad, he can, like any Chinese citizen, go through
proper channels and relevant departments and procedures
according to law,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said,
according to a statement issued yesterday.  Republicans blasted President  Barack Obama  for the
administration’s handling of the issue, with Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  calling Chen’s departure from
the embassy “a dark day for freedom.” The prospect of Chen’s
departure to the U.S. -- if China promptly follows though on its
commitment -- may help limit any political damage to Obama, with
Republican lawmakers threatening a probe of whether Chen was
pressured to leave the embassy.  Chinese Follow-Through  “While China has reportedly agreed to let Chen leave, U.S.
officials must not assume that Beijing will actually allow this
to happen,” Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida
Republican and the chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, said in a statement yesterday.  The U.S. expects Chinese authorities will “expeditiously
process his applications,” State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said in a statement yesterday. She said that
Chen can be accompanied by his wife and two children.  State Department officials refused to discuss what
guarantees, if any, they got from the Chinese. There has also
been no discussion about whether Chinese authorities would
permit Chen to return, said a U.S. official who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity because the diplomatic talks
were confidential.  U.S. officials are in regular touch with Chen now, a second
U.S. official said. Ambassador  Gary Locke  spoke with Chen for
half an hour May 2, and Chen met with embassy personnel at the
hospital, the official said. Chen is pleased with his hospital
care, the official said.  Haircuts, Clothes  Chen’s children, who were being treated for fevers, were
given haircuts and new clothes, the official said. The diplomats
brought presents for his son as it was his birthday, and the
hospital staff brought a cake, the official said.  Jeffrey Bader, the Obama administration’s former senior
director for  Asia  at the National Security Council, said the
resolution underscored the maturity and strength of the
relationship.  “The fact that you can have an S&ED that was substantive
and produced results -- at a time when this episode was
occurring and was an enormous distraction -- testifies to the
value of the mechanism of the SE&D and the state of the
relationship,” Bader said in a telephone interview. Personal
relationships built by Clinton and Geithner with Chinese
officials also helped, he said.  Economic Ties  Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  told Geithner that the two
nations should further strengthen macroeconomic policy
coordination to promote economic growth, according to China’s
Xinhua news agency.  Bilateral ties have been transformed over the 23 years
since the Tiananmen protests, with the surge in China’s economic
and political importance and the end of the  Cold War  between the
U.S. and the former  Soviet Union .  U.S. exports to China, now the third-largest destination
abroad for American goods, have soared to $104 billion from $5.8
billion in 1989. The importance of the American market to China
is reflected in China’s $295 billion  trade surplus  with with the
U.S. last year, compared with a $6.2 billion surplus in 1989,
according to U.S. Commerce Department data.  China surpassed  Canada  as the top buyer of U.S. farm goods
in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, with purchases totaling $19.9
billion, up almost $5 billion from the previous year. China’s
imports accounted for about 14 percent of the $137.4 billion in
U.S. agricultural goods shipped overseas, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . About 75 percent of China’s purchases
were soybeans and cotton, the USDA said.  ‘Difficult Things’  Beyond the economy, the expanding bilateral engagement
includes issues from Iran,  Syria  and freedom of the seas to
intellectual property rights, trade, investment, and cyber crime
and espionage.  Bader said the agreements emerging on securities firms and
state-owned enterprises “are all important issues that we’ve
been raising and they go to the interdependence of the two
economies,” Bader said.  “It shows we can do important business when there are
difficult things at stake,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  