-- Clinton in Bangladesh to Push Security, Trade and Democracy
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-05T14:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/clinton-visits-bangladesh-to-develop-partnership-for-peace.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  began a series of meetings in Bangladesh today to 
boost cooperation over security and trade and press concerns 
about political unrest and the harassment of opposition activists.  Clinton’s visit, the first by a top U.S. diplomat since
2003, comes at a sensitive moment in the polarized politics of
the south Asian nation. More than 20 opposition leaders have
disappeared this year, according to local human rights groups.
In the last two weeks, the capital Dhaka has been rocked by
protests, explosions and a police roundup of activists.  Clinton is meeting both Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed
and opposition leader Khaleda Zia, archrivals who have
alternated in power over the last two decades. The opposition
 Bangladesh  National Party and ruling Awami League party have
accused each other of abducting former BNP lawmaker Ilyas Ali,
who disappeared April 17. Five people have died in clashes
between protesters and police since then, though the opposition
suspended its strikes during Clinton’s visit.  In talks with Foreign Minister Dipu Moni, Clinton discussed 
the killing of a prominent labor organizer and disappearance of 
a former opposition lawmaker, calling for "thorough, independent"
investigations. “In a strong democracy everybody has to be rowing
in the same direction. You’re going to make progress together 
or you’re going to run into very turbulent waters,” she said.  Clinton signed an agreement to establish regular dialogue
on strategic cooperation, and her visit is intended to
underscore U.S. commitment to security and counterterrorism
cooperation with Bangladesh, which is strategically located
between  China  and  India .  Independent Investigation  In her talks with officials and civil society activists,
Clinton is expected to raise concerns about the disappearance of
opposition leaders and press for tolerance and civil rights.
State Department officials said Clinton’s visit is an
opportunity to show the government and the 160 million
Bangladeshis that the U.S. is a reliable partner in efforts to
build a peaceful, prosperous democracy.  Tomorrow, Clinton will meet with  Muhammad Yunus , a Nobel
Peace Prize winner, to signal support for the development
pioneer who last year was forced by his government to retire
from Grameen Bank, the microcredit lending institution he
founded.  Emerging Power  Bangladesh, which Goldman Sachs has named among the “Next
11” countries with high potential to become one of the world’s
largest economies this century, will be seeking better terms for
trade to help pull its struggling economy out of poverty. Moni
urged Clinton to help lower U.S. tariffs and quotas on
Bangladeshi apparel imports as the two countries negotiate a
trade and investment framework agreement.  The U.S. grants duty-free access for African and Caribbean
garments to its market and has low tariffs on Chinese apparel.
Bangladesh, the world’s second-largest apparel-maker after China
and an important apparel supplier to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
Tommy Hilfiger Corp., pays an average 15.3 percent tariff on its
garment exports to the U.S. Bangladesh exported $5.1 billion in
goods, mostly apparel, to the U.S. last year.  The two sides are also discussing a framework to improve
legal protections for U.S. companies investing in Bangladesh,
such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which supplies about half of the
country’s natural gas and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which is exploring for
gas in the  Bay of Bengal .  The U.S. announced in January it would offer nearly $1
billion in aid to Bangladesh over the next five years.  Clinton’s visit tomorrow to Yunus, the 71-year-old Nobel
Peace laureate and a longtime friend of Clinton and former
President  Bill Clinton , will cast a spotlight on his ouster from
Grameen Bank, which his supporters say was politically
motivated. Yunus had tried to form a political party in 2007.  Clinton will conclude her visit with a town-hall style
meeting with youth leaders and civil society groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Dhaka at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  