-- Comcast to Sell ‘Substantial’ Equity Stake in A&E
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/comcast-to-sell-substantial-equity-stake-in-a-e.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal 
entertainment business exercised an option to sell a
“substantial” portion of its equity in A&E Television
Networks, owner of the Lifetime and History cable channels.  NBC Universal, which owns 15.8 percent of the A&E joint
venture with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Hearst Corp., exercised its
option on March 26, Philadelphia-based Comcast said yesterday in
a regulatory  filing . A&E will redeem the equity under an
existing shareholder agreement. Financial terms weren’t
revealed.  Comcast, owner of the biggest U.S. cable system, expects
the deal to be completed in the second half of the year, after
the three companies agree on the value of NBC’s stake. When NBC
Universal, Disney and Hearst merged the Lifetime and A&E cable
channels in 2009, the companies said the accord included a
provision for New York-based NBC to leave the partnership if it
chooses and for Disney and Hearst to become 50-50 owners.  John Demming, a spokesman for Comcast, declined to comment.
 Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-based Disney,
and Abby Alderman, a spokeswoman for closely held Hearst in New
York, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  “Under the terms of our existing shareholder agreement,
NBC Universal is required to provide a last dollar guarantee of
indebtedness that A&E Television Networks may incur to finance
the purchase of NBCUniversal’s equity interest,” Comcast said
in the filing.  Popular Networks  A&E Television Networks, based in New York and overseen by
President and Chief Executive Officer Abbe Raven, includes some
of the most-watched U.S. cable channels, including A&E, Lifetime
and History. The company also owns Military History and Crime &
Investigation Network.  The A&E and Lifetime Television channels are among the most
widely distributed on U.S. cable television, reaching 99 million
homes each, according to Disney’s latest annual report.  Disney’s cable networks, including ESPN and Disney Channel,
contributed 46 percent of the company’s revenue and 70 percent
of profit in  fiscal  2011. Hearst owns 20 percent of ESPN.  NBC’s cable unit operates the USA Network, the most-watched
U.S. entertainment cable channel, as well as E!, Bravo, Style
Network, Syfy, Weather Channel, CNBC, Golf Channel, NBC Sports
Network and the women’s-oriented Oxygen network.  Comcast slid 3 percent to $29.45 and while Disney fell 2
percent to $42.93 yesterday at the close of  trading  in  New York .
Comcast has gained 24 percent this year, while Disney has
climbed 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  