-- Consumer Confidence Gains as Taiwan, U.S. Rise in Nielsen Survey
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-05-05T16:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/consumer-confidence-gains-as-taiwan-u-s-rise-in-nielsen-survey.html
Global  consumer confidence  rose in the
first quarter as improvements in the  U.S. economy  and continued
growth in Asian markets brought sentiment levels to the highest
level since the global recession began, according to a survey by
 Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)   Nielsen, a global information and measurement company, said
its index of consumer confidence rose five points in the period
to 94. The company surveyed more than 28,000 online customers in
56 countries from Feb. 10 to Feb. 27, with sentiment increasing
in 38 of those markets compared to the three months through
December, according to an e-mailed statement.  North America  rose eight points to 92 in the period, its
highest level since the quarter ended September 2007, as job
prospects and confidence on personal finances improved.  Europe 
is the most pessimistic region at 72 points, though confidence
increased in 16 out of 27 markets there, and Asia-Pacific
continues to be the most optimistic area at 103 points.  “Households around the world experienced a brighter
situation in terms of jobs and personal finances last quarter,
especially in the U.S. and  Asia ,”  Venkatesh Bala , chief
economist at Nielsen’s Cambridge Group unit, said in a
statement. “Underlying economic conditions however are still
fragile and fluid in many parts of the world which could affect
confidence and spending momentum in the next quarter.”  Europe’s financial crisis widened between “debt ridden
southern nations” and the strengthening central and northern
countries, Nielsen said. The U.K., at six points, recorded the
joint fifth highest global increase, despite falling into its
first double dip recession since the 1970s during the quarter.  Greece, Italy Suffer  Greece , Italy, Spain and France recorded their lowest
confidence levels as employment prospects fell, while Hungary is
the most pessimistic country in the world at 32 points. The
biggest confidence fall in the first quarter was in Australia
which fell eight points as banks increased mortgage interest
rates.  At the other end of the index,  India  is the most optimistic
country in the world with a reading of 123, and Taiwan had the
biggest gain in the quarter at 13 points to reach 84.  The survey, established in 2004, has a maximum margin of
error of plus or minus 0.6 percent, it said. Scores above and
below a baseline of 100 show degrees of optimism and pessimism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  