-- Dewey Said to Warn Employees Law Firm May Ultimately Shut
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/dewey-leboeuf-said-to-tell-employees-it-may-eventually-close.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the  law firm 
trying to stay out of bankruptcy as it collects bills to pay
creditors, told employees it eventually may have to close if it
can’t resolve its financial difficulties, a person familiar with
the matter said.  Dewey, based in  New York , told employees yesterday it was
distributing the letter to comply with  labor laws  that require
60 days notice of large-scale layoffs, said the person, who
didn’t want to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  “Although we continue to pursue various avenues, it is
possible that adverse developments could ultimately result in
the closure of the firm, which would result in the termination
of your employment,” the firm said in the notice, according to
the person.  “Accordingly, in order to give you as much advance notice
as possible, and to comply with any legal obligations that we
may have, this letter will serve as conditional advance notice
under the Federal Worker Adjustment Retraining and Notification
Act,” known as WARN, according to the letter.  Dewey is under orders from bankers to collect as much money
owed to the firm as possible after the departure of about 90
partners and the ouster of Chairman Steven Davis, according to
another person familiar with Dewey’s finances. The banks are
reluctant to put the firm into bankruptcy as that might make it
harder to collect the bills, that person said.  Credit Line  By last month, the New York-based law firm had drawn about
$75 million of a $100 million  credit line  from banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , this person said.  Lenders were considering a 120-day extension of the credit
line until a possible combination of the firm with Greenberg
Traurig LLP fell through, the person said.  Angelo Kakolyris, a Dewey spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail after regular business hours yesterday
seeking comment on the letter to employees.  Dewey was the 11th-largest U.S. law firm with 1,300 lawyers
after a merger during the 2007 recession. American Lawyer’s 2012
rankings puts the firm in 28th place, with revenue of $782
million for 2011 and 1,040 lawyers.  Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae merged in
October 2007. The marriage produced an international firm with
offices in 25 cities and revenue of more than $900 million.
LeBoeuf Lamb Chairman Davis took the helm and was ousted this
year after a probe into possible wrongdoing at the firm was
begun, Dewey disclosed in an earlier memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  