-- EU to Show Flexibility on Budget-Deficit Rules, Rehn Says
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-05-05T19:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/eu-to-show-flexibility-in-enforcing-rules-rehn-says.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  indicated the EU would show
flexibility in enforcing the bloc’s deficit rules as nations
across the region struggle to spur growth as they cut debt.  With economies from Spain to the Netherlands sliding into
recession, elections tomorrow in France and Greece may highlight
concerns that German-led budget cuts aimed at taming the debt
crisis could falter.  Francois Hollande , the frontrunner in
France’s presidential race, has called for more focus on growth
in the region’s fiscal pact, while polls in Greece show many
voters favor anti-bailout groups promising an end to austerity.  “The pact entails considerable scope for judgment, based
on economic analysis and its legal provisions, when it comes to
its concrete application,” Rehn said today at an event
sponsored by the  Institute for European Studies  in Brussels. The
pact ’’implies differentiation among the member states according
to their fiscal space and macroeconomic conditions.’’  Spain , with  Europe ’s highest jobless rate, and the
Netherlands are among EU countries laboring to meet their
deficit commitments under the pact amid a slump across the
region. The euro area’s manufacturing industry shrank the most
in almost three years in April and unemployment is at the
highest since the euro was introduced, data showed this week.  Worsening Prospects  The worsening prospects for the economy pushed the euro to
its biggest weekly drop against the dollar in almost a month.
The European currency fell 1.3 percent to $1.3084 yesterday in
 New York , down from $1.3255 a week earlier.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said two days
ago that the economic outlook has become “more uncertain” as
the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 1
percent. Draghi is calling for a “growth compact” to go
alongside the fiscal accord agreed to by the 17 euro nations.  Hollande, the Socialist challenger who is leading
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion polls, has said he
will seek to add growth and investment measures to the fiscal
treaty. Hollande also is calling for the  European Investment
Bank  to be given a bigger role in spurring public spending.  Rehn, who has urged a capital boost for the EIB, said this
and other proposals to spur investment could be combined in an
“investment pact,” which would also include so-called project
bonds to fund infrastructure spending, supporting green
technologies and using the EU’s budget to co-finance efforts.  ’’We need to enhance public investment and use it in a
smart way to unlock further private investment,’’ Rehn said in
the text of his speech. “While the single market remains our
main growth engine, this kind of investment pact could provide
necessary additional fuel for the engine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  