-- Euro Drops as Slowing Growth and Elections Damp Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/euro-drops-as-slowing-growth-and-elections-damp-demand.html
The euro slid versus the dollar by the
most in almost a month and reached an 11-week low against the
yen after further slowing in the region’s economies and before
national elections that may result in leadership changes.  The yen rose versus all of its 16 most-traded peers,
gaining for a second week versus the greenback, as a smaller-
than-forecast payrolls gain in the U.S. and recessions in the
U.K. and Spain increased demand for haven assets.  New Zealand ’s
dollar dropped the most among major currencies as the nation’s
unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed.  “There’s mounting signs of sluggish global growth, and as
a result we’re seeing a lot of these growth currencies suffer
the biggest losses this week,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of Western Union Co. “If we continue to see political
uncertainties in  Europe  linger, that’s something that could cap
the euro’s upside.”  The euro dropped 1.3 percent to $1.3084 yesterday in New
York, from $1.3255 a week earlier. It was the biggest loss since
the five days ended April 6. The 17-nation currency fell 1.8
percent to 104.49 yen and reached 104.40, the weakest level
since Feb. 17.  Japan ’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 79.85 per
dollar. It touched 79.64 yen, the strongest since Feb. 21.  Stocks and commodities dropped as risk appetite shrank. The
MSCI World Index declined 2.6 percent, and crude oil for June
delivery plunged 6.1 percent to $98.49 a barrel, dropping below
$100 for the first time since Feb. 13.  The New Zealand and Australian dollars were the biggest
losers among major currencies.  Kiwi Tumbles  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, dropped after the
 unemployment rate  rose to 6.7 percent in the first quarter. The
kiwi tumbled 3.3 percent to 79.55 U.S. cents and touched 79.38
yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 17.  The Aussie dollar weakened the most since September against
the yen after the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  lowered its
 overnight cash rate  target to 3.75 percent from 4.25 percent,
the deepest cut in three years. The Aussie fell 3.3 percent to
81.31 yen in the biggest weekly loss since the five days ended
Sept. 23. It depreciated 2.8 percent to $1.0182.  Futures traders bet on the  U.S. dollar  to rise versus its
major peers for the first time since April 3. The difference in
the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators
on a rise in the dollar versus those on a loss -- so-called net
longs -- was 17,592 May 1, compared with net shorts of 38,416 a
week earlier, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.  U.S. Employment  The yen climbed yesterday as government data showed U.S.
nonfarm payrolls added 115,000 jobs, after a revised increase of
154,000 in March. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
was for 160,000. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent, from
8.2 percent.  “The headline employment report wasn’t great, but I don’t
think it’s going to change the foreign-exchange market’s very
narrow ranges,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
currency strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “It does
seem like the  U.S. economy  slowed down a bit from the winter,
but it’s not to the point where it’s necessarily going to change
key variables like whether the Fed is going to change
policies.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the
central bank is “prepared to do more” if necessary to boost
the economy. He spoke at a press conference after his  Federal
Open Market Committee  refrained at a two-day meeting from new
stimulus moves and said in a statement the economy has been
expanding moderately.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
try to stimulate economic growth by lowering borrowing costs.
The  Dollar Index  fell 14 percent during that period amid concern
the effort was debasing the dollar.  The euro weakened versus the yen and dollar as a final
composite index for the region based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing dropped to 46.7 in April
from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit Economics said
yesterday. It trailed an initial estimate of 47.4 on April 23. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Spain ’s  gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, the same as in the previous three months, marking
the nation’s second recession since 2009, the Madrid-based
National Statistics Institute said on April 30. Data last week
showed Britain’s economy re-entered a recession last quarter.  ‘More Uncertain’  While the  European Central Bank  still expects a gradual
economic recovery this year, the outlook has become “more
uncertain,” President Mario Draghi said this week. The ECB kept
its main  refinancing rate  at a record low 1 percent this week.  France and  Greece  hold elections this weekend, spurring
bets that efforts to resolve Europe’s debt crisis may falter.
French voters cast ballots in the final round of the country’s
presidential race, and Greeks will decide on a new parliament.  “There’s so many political events going through the
weekend and into next week that it’s keeping people nervous
about being long euros,” said David Mann, regional head of
research for the Americas at Standard Chartered Plc in  New York .
Long positions are bets a currency or security will gain.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist challenger who is leading
French President Nicolas Sarkozy in opinion polls, has called
for a re-negotiation of the budget pact crafted by European
leaders in March, saying it needs more emphasis on growth.  In Greece, neither of two major political parties that have
supported the nation’s international bailouts -- New Democracy
and Socialist Pasok -- is likely to win an outright majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  