-- Greece Votes in Elections With Euro Future at Stake
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-06T12:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/greece-votes-in-elections-with-euro-future-at-stake.html
Greeks are voting today in national
elections that may determine whether the country has a future in
the euro area.  A total of 9.85 million Greeks, including 360,000 new
voters, are eligible to participate. Voting began at 7 a.m. and
ends at 7 p.m.  Athens  time with the first exit polls expected
then.  Greeks are casting ballots for the first time since the
country became a byword for the  European debt crisis , with polls
showing many voters spurning the two main parties, socialist
Pasok and New Democracy, in favor of anti-bailout groups
promising an end to austerity. An inconclusive outcome to the
election could mean political instability that endangers bailout
funds and, ultimately, membership of the euro.  “I used to vote for Pasok but this time I voted for the
communists,” George Nikolaos, 45, a construction worker, said
in an interview after voting in central Athens. “We need a
change away from Pasok and New Democracy to deal with the
economic crisis.”  Polls suggest conservative  New Democracy  will place first,
though without enough support to rule outright. That would leave
party leader Antonis Samaras with the option of teaming up with
Pasok in order to govern. The two parties, which have alternated
in power since 1974, were partners in the outgoing caretaker
government of Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , which secured a
second rescue package earlier this year, saving Greece from
financial collapse. An Interior Ministry spokeswoman said there
weren’t any official voter turnout figures at 3 p.m. local time
in Athens.  Vote Decides Euro  Former Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos , Pasok’s
leader, told supporters at a May 4 rally that today’s vote
“will determine if we stay in  Europe  and the euro, if we move
down a difficult but safe road.” The alternative would be to
“embark on adventures that take us many decades back, leading
the country to bankruptcy and mass poverty.”  Under the terms of that 130 billion-euro ($170 billion)
package, which was accompanied by the biggest debt restructuring
ever, international lenders expect to hear in June how  Greece 
will achieve 11.6 billion euros of savings for 2013 and 2014.  Greece Need Stability  Samaras, 60, has appealed for support that will give him an
outright victory so he can renegotiate terms for the European
Union and International Monetary Fund bailout. He has promised
tax cuts for businesses to boost growth and to reduce waste in
the public sector. A New Democracy win would ensure the
stability the country needs, he said.  “Today the Greek people are voting for the future of their
children,” Samaras said after voting in town of Pylos in
southwest Greece. “They are voting for stability, growth,
security and justice.”  The election will measure the Greek public’s resolve to
continue the reforms that the EU and IMF say are imperative.
Greece’s economy will shrink for a fifth year in 2012 under the
weight of pension and wage cuts and higher sales taxes.  While polls show most people don’t want to leave the euro
or the EU, analysts and economists warn that support for anti-
bailout parties could tilt the balance in favor of rejecting the
rescue terms and threaten Greece’s membership in the euro.  A Greek exit would reignite concerns about the fate of
other members of the euro area which face low growth and high
debt and deficits.  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on May 3 that
a Greek exit would spark a ratings review of all euro-area
nations, with Cyprus, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain 
probably downgraded on the risk of “contagion to banks, bond
markets and capital flight.”  Rebuild Economy  Greece must choose between “an organized and painstaking
effort to reconstruct the economy within the euro area,” or
“regressing decades socially and economically, which would
eventually lead the country out of the euro area and the
European Union,”  Bank of Greece (TELL)  Governor  George Provopoulos 
said on April 24.  Prime Minister Papademos, speaking after he voted in
Athens, said the election result will determine “the course of
Greece in the next decades.”  Polls suggest as many as 10 parties may enter Parliament,
underscoring fatigue over austerity and frustration with the
politicians responsible for implementing it. Unemployment is
almost 22 percent and for those under the age of 24 it’s almost
51 percent.  Crime, Immigration  Rising crime and illegal immigration have dominated the
campaign alongside the economy, spurring support for groups like
the anti-immigrant  Golden Dawn , which may win seats at the
federal level for the first time, and the nationalist
Independent Greeks.  Final opinion polls on April 20 showed New Democracy and
Pasok with about 45 percent of the total vote, with anti-bailout
parties on both the left and right running with nearly the same
level of support.  The  Greek economy  has shrunk more than 13 percent since the
last election in October 2009, when former Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s Pasok unseated New Democracy only to find the
country’s debt had been understated. Greece’s election is being
held two years after the government negotiated its first, 110
billion-euro package, from the EU and the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 Ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  