-- Japan Enters Nuclear Recess After Sole Working Reactor Shut Down
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-06T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/japan-to-be-nuclear-power-free-as-sole-working-reactor-shuts.html
Japan  began a recess from nuclear-
generated electricity, its first in more than four decades,
after its sole operating power reactor was halted for scheduled
maintenance.  Hokkaido  Electric Power (9501)  Co.’s Tomari No. 3 reactor in
northern Japan stopped generating electricity at 11:03 p.m. on
the night of May 5, and fission ceased at 4 a.m. yesterday, said
Satoshi Takada, a spokesman for the utility.  Shutting down the 912-megawatt Tomari unit leaves Japan
without an operating power reactor for the first time since May
1970, as plant operators carry out mandatory maintenance or
additional safety checks following the Fukushima disaster. The
country’s 50 nuclear plants provided 30 percent of its
electricity prior to March 11, 2011.  The utilities powering the world’s third-biggest economy
have been forced to turn to coal, oil and gas-fired plants to
keep factories, offices and households supplied with electricity.
Buying and importing those fuels is driving up costs and may
lead to higher electric bills and a further drag on an economy
that’s contracted in three of the past four years.  Japan may “momentarily” be without atomic power, the
Mainichi newspaper cited Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  as saying
on April 15 after he failed to get agreement from local
authorities that reactors at the Ohi plant of  Kansai Electric 
passed safety tests and should resume.  Nuclear Opponents Protest  Opponents of nuclear energy gathered in several Japanese
cities on May 5, with organizers saying about 5,500 demonstrated
in Tokyo against any restart of power reactors, local media
including the Asahi newspaper reported. Public broadcaster NHK
showed footage of an anti-nuclear march in the capital.  The Ohi atomic plant is located about 95 kilometers (59
miles) northeast of Osaka, the nation’s second-biggest
metropolitan area. It helps power the Kansai area of western
Japan that’s about the size of Belgium, has an economy worth $1
trillion -- similar in size to Mexico’s -- and is home to the
cities of  Osaka  and Kyoto as well as the factories of Sharp Corp.
and Panasonic Corp.  Record LNG Imports  Japan’s 10 regional power utilities bought record amounts
of liquefied natural gas last year to replace nuclear, or 52.9
million metric tons of LNG in the fiscal year ended in March, up
27 percent from a year earlier, according to data from the
Federation of Electric Power Companies.  Use of petroleum, which includes crude and fuel oil, more
than doubled to 23.3 million kiloliters (147 million barrels),
according to the federation’s data. Petroleum consumption was
the highest in at least 10 years.  Fuel costs at the nine regional utilities that have atomic
plants -- Okinawa Electric Power Co. is the exception -- may
more than double to about 7 trillion yen ($87.7 billion) in the
year ending March 2013 if reactors remain shut, according to an
April 9 report by the industry ministry.  Kansai Electric (9503) ’s fuel
bills may rise by 800 billion yen to about 1.1 trillion yen, it
said.  Kansai Electric’s output without nuclear power may be 16.3
percent short of peak demand this summer if Japan experiences a
heat wave similar to the one in 2010, according to the
government’s April 23 forecast.  Dealing With Shortages  Osaka-based confectioner Ezaki Glico Co. may shift plants
producing ice cream and snacks to night operation and introduce
co-generation electricity equipment if faced with power
shortages this year, the Yomiuri newspaper reported yesterday.
Shikoku Railway Co., which runs trains on the smallest of
Japan’s four main islands, may reduce service and use more
diesel locomotives, the paper said.  The utility would need to turn on half of its 11 reactors
to avoid the shortages forecast under the government’s worst
case scenario, according to Tomoko Murakami, a Tokyo-based
nuclear analyst at the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.
Restarting that number of reactors is very unlikely, she said
last month.  The Ohi reactors would be the first to come back online
since Japan adopted so-called nuclear stress tests or computer
simulations to assess each plant’s ability to withstand
earthquakes, tsunamis and to supply backup power to keep reactor
cooling systems running.  Power companies usually take about 10 days to start an
idled reactor, according to Tomoe Sugimori, a spokeswoman for
Kansai Electric.  The failure of backup power at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station on March 11 last year caused the
worst atomic accident since Chernobyl in 1986, and radiation
fallout that forced the evacuation of about 160,000 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  