-- Job Gains Trailing Forecasts Add to U.S. Slowdown Concern
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/job-gains-trailing-forecasts-add-to-u-s-slowdown-concern.html
American employers in April added the
fewest number of jobs in six months and wages stagnated, adding
to concern the almost three-year-old economic expansion is
cooling.  The 115,000 increase in payrolls was less than forecast and
followed a revised 154,000 gain in March that was larger than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed yesterday
in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 160,000 advance. Unemployment fell to a three-year
low of 8.1 percent as people left the labor force.  “Employers are hiring, they’re just hiring at a very
modest rate,” said Jonas Prising, president of the Americas at
Milwaukee-based ManpowerGroup, a provider of temporary workers.
“The current growth rate of employment is probably consistent”
with economic growth of 2 percent, he said.  A slowdown in hiring, along with wage gains that are
failing to keep pace with inflation, may make it difficult for
consumers to boost their spending, which accounts for 70 percent
of the world’s largest economy. The figures also represent a
challenge for President  Barack Obama , who was attacked by
Republican opponent  Mitt Romney ’s campaign for his “failed
economic record.”  The April increase in payrolls leaves the labor market 5
million jobs short of the 8.8 million lost as a result of the
18-month recession.  Stocks slumped yesterday, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to its worst week of the year. The  S&P 500  dropped 1.6
percent to 1,369.10 at the close in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.88 percent from 1.93
percent late the prior day.  Small Businesses  Weakening  consumer confidence  is depressing sales at
businesses like Tops American Grill, Bakery & Bar in
Schenectady, New York. Evan Christou, the owner, said he would
need to see a significant increase in sales for a sustained
period before adding to his staff of 42 employees.  “We’re kind of consolidating and multitasking,” said
Christou, 49. “In this market, it’s pretty much a wait-and-see
attitude.”  Transportation and warehousing, government agencies and
construction were among the areas cutting jobs in April, while
factories added the fewest workers in five months, yesterday’s
report showed. Bloomberg survey estimates for total payrolls
ranged from increases of 89,000 to 210,000 after a previously
reported 120,000 rise in March.  Private Payrolls  Private payrolls during Obama’s term in office turned to
positive from negative in April, with a net gain of 35,000.
Overall payrolls remain lower than when Obama was inaugurated
because there are 607,000 fewer government workers, including
federal, state and local employees.  Edward LaHaie, 52, of Powder Springs,  Georgia , got a job in
April as a regional sales manager for Rawal Devices Inc., a
maker of control systems for industrial and commercial air
conditioners. He had been out of work since November when he
lost a similar sales job.  “There are always opportunities for someone who has
skills,” he said. “It took a little longer than I would have
liked. I was unemployed for 170 days and I counted every one of
them.”  The data came a day before Obama formally opened his re-
election campaign with rallies in the swing states of Ohio and
 Virginia . Romney has made the president’s stewardship of the
economy a point of attack and polls show voters are focused on
jobs and growth.  Romney Criticism  “From green jobs that never materialized to an
 unemployment rate  that has remained above 8 percent for 39
straight months, President Obama’s rhetoric simply doesn’t match
with his failed economic record,” Andrea Saul, a Romney
campaign spokeswoman, said in a statement yesterday.  Alan Krueger, chairman of Obama’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , focused on 26 consecutive months of private job
growth. April “provides further evidence that the economy is
continuing to heal from the worst economic downturn since the
Great Depression,” he said in a statement.  The Obama campaign is pointing to a revival in the  auto
industry  to support his record.  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker controlled by Fiat SpA,
said it will accelerate the addition of 1,100 jobs and a third
crew of workers by hiring them in November, pulling ahead plans
for increasing production in early 2013.  Economists pointed to some bright spots in the report.
Payroll gains for the prior two months were revised higher by a
total of 53,000 jobs. Some of the slowdown may reflect unusually
warm weather that boosted hiring early in the year.  Pulled Forward  “It’s very possible that hiring was pulled forward” due to
a mild January and February, said Christophe Barraud, an
economist and strategist at Market Securities Paris LLP, who
correctly forecast April payrolls. “This report is not good,
but we have to wait for the next one to see if the real trend is
actually decelerating.”  The unemployment rate was forecast to hold at 8.2 percent,
according to the survey median. It has exceeded 8 percent since
February 2009, the longest such stretch since monthly records
began in 1948.  The  participation  rate, which indicates the share of
working-age people in the  labor force , fell to 63.6 percent, the
lowest since December 1981, from 63.8 percent.  The report also showed a drop in long-term unemployed
Americans. The number of people out of work for 27 weeks or
longer fell as a percentage of all jobless, to 41.3 percent.  Financial Analyst  Among those still looking for work is David Bouchey, of
Aurora,  Colorado , who lost his job as a financial analyst in
2007. He said he thought his years of experience and three post-
graduate degrees would land him a job.  “I’m overqualified for almost every job I apply for,”
said Bouchey, 54. He, his wife and two sons live on about $1,000
a month in public assistance. “I never thought the economy
would be this bad.”  Average hourly earnings were $23.38 in April, little
changed from the month before, the jobs report showed. It was
the first time without an increase since August. Earnings rose
1.8 percent from April 2011, matching January’s 12-month
increase as the smallest in a year. The average work week for
all workers held at 34.5 hours.  Faster economic growth would help lay the groundwork for
more hiring. The economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate
in the first quarter after a 3 percent pace the prior three
months, according to Commerce Department data.  Consumer spending 
grew 2.9 percent, the most in more than a year.  Europe’s Jobless  The U.S. labor market is still faring better than some of
the other major economies. Joblessness in the 17-nation euro
area increased to 10.9 percent in March, the highest since April
1997, from 10.8 percent a month earlier.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, is among firms taking note.  “During the quarter, the most positive news has come from
the U.S. where indications of economic rebound are evident,”
Scott Davis, chief executive officer of UPS, said on an April 26
conference call. “Retail sales have grown faster than expected
and the employment environment has improved. On the other hand,
economies in other parts of the world continue to face
challenges.”  To provide some fuel for the economy, Federal Reserve
policy makers last month repeated their plan to hold borrowing
costs low through late 2014 to spur growth.  Fed Outlook  “The unemployment rate has declined but remains
elevated,” Fed policy makers said in an April 25 statement. The
group “expects economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up gradually,” and “anticipates that
the unemployment rate will decline gradually.”  Factory payrolls  increased by 16,000, the smallest in five
months. Construction companies cut jobs for a third straight
month. Retailers added 29,300 employees, almost recouping losses
in the prior two months. Employment gains at service-providers
were the weakest since August. Government payrolls declined for
the seventh month in the last eight.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- held at 14.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  