-- Obama Opens Campaign Attacking Romney’s View of Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/obama-opens-campaign-in-swing-states-with-emphasis-on-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  began his re-
election bid criticizing  Mitt Romney  by name, assailing the
Republican presidential candidate’s economic policies and
portraying himself as the protector of the middle class.  At rallies in the swing states of Ohio and  Virginia  that
officially marked the start of his campaign, Democrat Obama said
Romney would be a “rubber stamp” for congressional Republicans
who want to gut education, pare Medicare and rewind economic and
regulatory policies to those in place before the worst recession
in generations.  Romney and the Republicans “think the same bad ideas will
lead to a different result,” Obama told a crowd of supporters
in Richmond. “I’m here to say that we were there, we remember,
and we are not going back. We are moving this country forward.”  In the back-to-back speeches, Obama emphasized the populist
economic themes he first outlined in a speech last December in
Osawatomie,  Kansas . The economy will be the dominant issue in
the November election and Obama is seeking to make the case that
while the recovery has been uneven, the U.S. is making progress.  Obama addressed supporters a day after the Labor Department
reported U.S. employers added fewer workers than forecast in
April. While the jobless rate fell to 8.1 percent, it was
largely because people left the  labor force .  The political impact of economic data over the next six
months will be heightened as voters begin paying closer
attention to the presidential race and the candidates seek to
sharpen the focus on their prescriptions to revive growth.  “There have been disappointments, but we didn’t quit,”
Obama, 50, said. “Together, we are fighting our way back.”  Close Race  Both campaigns are preparing for a close election. The most
recent Gallup daily tracking poll, completed May 4, shows the
race essentially tied, with Obama getting support from 46
percent of those polled and Romney getting 45 percent. The
margin of error is plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Romney, 65, a former  Massachusetts  governor, doesn’t have
any scheduled public appearances this weekend. He will follow
the president in both states this week, holding a town hall
meeting May 7 in  Cleveland  and delivering the commencement
address at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Virginia, on May 12.  Romney Campaign  Romney’s spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said in response to
Obama’s speeches that Americans are struggling to find jobs and
pay their bills because of the president’s policies.  “While President Obama all but ignored his record over
three and a half years in office, the American people won’t,”
she said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s events were billed as Obama’s formal entry into
campaign mode even though he has been speaking at fundraisers
and giving addresses on policies that fit within his re-election
message. Unlike presidential policy speeches, yesterday’s
rallies featured campaign signs, videos and electronic message
boards that told supporters how to get involved with the
campaign.  First lady  Michelle Obama  introduced her husband at both
rallies, recounting how she grew up in a working class family
that struggled to send her to college and that the president was
raised by a single mother.  “We’re here because of the values we believe it,” she
said in Columbus.  She and Obama both urged the audience to register to vote
and get involved in the campaign.  ‘Still About Hope’  Obama said when people ask about the re-election campaign,
“You tell them it’s still about hope, it’s still about
change.”  Also unlike official presidential speeches, Obama took
direct aim at his presumed November opponent.  He described Romney as a patriotic American who has been a
successful businessman and the governor of Massachusetts.  “But I think he has drawn the wrong lessons from those
experiences,” Obama said. “He sincerely believes that if CEOs
and wealthy investors like him make money the rest of us will
automatically prosper as well.”  In a dig at Romney for a comment the Republican made last
year while campaigning in  Iowa , Obama said, “corporations
aren’t people, people are people.”  Obama sought to tie Romney to Republicans in Congress, who
polls show are viewed unfavorably by Americans, and the policies
of former Republican President  George W. Bush , which he said led
to the financial crisis triggered by the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers  in 2008.  ‘Rubber Stamp’  Congressional Republicans “have insisted that we go right
back to the policies that created this mess,” Obama said in
Ohio. “After a long and spirited primary, Republicans in
Congress have found a nominee for president who has promised to
rubber stamp this agenda if he gets a chance.”  Obama  won  Ohio and Virginia in 2008, and he made his fourth
visit of the year to each state yesterday. Obama’s 2008 victory
in Virginia, with 52.6 percent of the vote, was the first by a
Democratic presidential candidate since  Lyndon Johnson  in 1964.
The state has 13 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to
win the White House.  Ohio , which has 18 electoral votes, has been a bellwether
in presidential politics and no Republican has been elected
president without a victory there. Obama won the state four
years ago with 51.3 percent of the vote.  Swing States  Both states have jobless rates below the national average.
Ohio’s jobless rate in March was 7.5 percent, from a high of
10.6 percent in January 2010. It was 8.6 percent when Obama took
office. Virginia has also seen an improving jobs picture, with
the  unemployment rate  at 5.6 percent from a high of 7.3 percent
in January 2010.  Romney has closed in on Obama in Ohio. Obama led Romney by
2 percentage points in the state, 44 percent to 42 percent, in
an April 25 to May 1 poll by  Quinnipiac University  found. That
is within the poll’s 2.9 percentage point margin of error. A
Quinnipiac poll in March showed Obama led Romney by 6 points
there.  Obama continues to have an advantage over Romney in
Virginia. A Washington Post poll found Obama leading in the
state with support from 51 percent of registered voters,
compared with 44 percent for Romney. Obama led Romney by wide
margins among black voters, women and young people, the Post
poll showed.  The survey was conducted April 28 to May 2 and has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Richmond at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  