-- Thomas Cook Agrees on $2.3 Billion Refinancing Package
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-05-05T09:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/thomas-cook-agrees-1-4-billion-pounds-refinancing-package.html
Thomas Cook  Group Plc, the 170-year-
old U.K. tour operator that secured an emergency loan to
survive, agreed to a new financing package with lenders and said
it’s in talks to sell aircraft as part of a recovery plan.  The 1.4 billion-pound ($2.3 billion) refinancing extends
the maturity of borrowings until May 31, 2015 and provides
“further stability” to the business, the company said in a
statement today. Thomas Cook also said a strategic review has
been completed.  “This bank agreement, together with these actions, places
Thomas Cook on a much firmer footing,” Chairman Frank Meysman
said in the statement.  Meysman said the search for a permanent chief executive
officer to replace interim leader Sam Weihagen is “progressing
well.” The holiday company is also selling assets, including an
Indian unit, after posting an annual loss of 521 million pounds
and suffering a drop in bookings in the U.K. and elsewhere in
northern  Europe .  Thomas Cook said it’s in advanced negotiations on the sale
and leaseback of between 17 to 19 aircraft and has also received
a “good level” of interest in its Indian business.  Three months after former CEO Manny Fontenla-Novoa stepped
down, banks agreed in November to provide a 200 million-pound
loan to the tour operator. The latest financial package has
revised financial covenants offering greater flexibility, it
said.  The 1.4 billion-pound package comprises of a 150 million-
pound amortising  term loan , an 850 million-pound revolving
credit, the 200 million-pound liquidity facility agreed in
November, and a 200 million-pound bonding and guarantee credit
line, according to the statement.  “The terms will be amended to extend the maturity on all
these facilities until May, 31, 2015 with no fixed repayments,”
the company added. Thomas Cook will also keep proceeds from some
asset sales to “increase liquidity,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  