-- Toyota Gets Most Florida, New York Acceleration Claims Dismissed
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/toyota-gets-most-florida-new-york-acceleration-claims-dismissed.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won dismissal of
most claims by Florida and New York car owners who contended the
company drove down the value of their vehicles by failing to
disclose or fix defects related to sudden acceleration.  Florida plaintiffs can’t sue Toyota for economic loss if
they didn’t experience an actual “sudden unintended
acceleration” event, said U.S. District Judge James Selna in
 Santa Ana ,  California , making final a tentative ruling from
April. New York plaintiffs are cut out if they didn’t experience
such an event or didn’t have a measurable loss when trying to
sell or trade in their vehicles, Selna said.  Yesterday’s ruling will affect “most economic loss
claims” in those states, said  Carl Tobias , law professor at the
 University of Richmond  in  Virginia . “It might also make
assembling a class more difficult as there would be
significantly fewer eligible parties.”  The decision may eliminate millions of vehicle owners from
the litigation, lawyers for Tokyo-based Toyota and the
plaintiffs said at an April 23 hearing. Selna had earlier
decided that California plaintiffs could sue over economic loss
even if they didn’t experience an episode of unintended
acceleration. Selna also ruled in June that vehicle owners in
other states couldn’t use California law to pursue their claims.  ‘Ticking Time Bombs’  “We are disappointed that Judge Selna requires class
members to drive ticking time bombs before they can sue,”  Steve
Berman , a lead lawyer for plaintiffs claiming economic loss,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “Given the thousands of crashes,
hundreds of deaths, Toyota’s inability to fix the cars, we don’t
believe courts in  New York  or Florida would agree. They have not
been presented with this issue and we intend to present it to
the highest courts of these states.”  A Toyota representative had no immediate comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  The decision doesn’t affect claims by plaintiffs in other
states or those alleging personal injuries or deaths caused by
sudden-acceleration episodes.  Selna, who is overseeing most federal sudden-acceleration
claims, has set three trials in 2013 in his court.  Utah Crash  The first, set for Feb. 19, 2013, will cover claims by the
families of two people who were killed in a crash in  Utah  in
2010. He also scheduled the first trial over claims of economic
loss tied to unintended acceleration for July 2013 and a second
wrongful-death case for November 2013.  Selna said in June that he probably would limit the
economic loss trial to claims from car owners in three states.
Plaintiffs’ lawyers were seeking to include cases from
California, New York and  Florida , which, according to arguments
before the judge, have more liberal consumer laws. The Toyota
City, Japan-based company’s lawyers were seeking to include
cases from states with less consumer-friendly laws, such as
Georgia, Ohio and  Illinois .  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled at least 8
million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of defects
and incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The
recalls set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims of
injuries and deaths.  Bellwether Trials  The three cases were selected for bellwether trials, which
will be used by the court and lawyers for both sides to test
evidence and liability theories before moving on to other
trials, limiting future litigation and helping the judge decide
whether to grant the cases class-action status. Selna has been
overseeing the lawsuits for evidence-gathering and pre-trial
rulings.  Toyota lawyer Cari Dawson argued at the April 23 hearing
that New York, Florida and a majority of the states in the U.S.
have laws that require that there be “a manifestation of
defects” claimed in lawsuits.  “Courts have held that being compensated for defects that
are not manifested is speculative, unfair and bad economics,”
Dawson told the judge, who heard oral arguments over his April
20 tentative ruling. She said that plaintiffs do not have a
right to sue “for a harm that may never occur.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in federal court in  San Diego  at
 Callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  