-- Planned Parenthood Texas Funding Ban Set Aside Again
-- B y   D a v i d   E .   R o v e l l a
-- 2012-05-06T00:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/planned-parenthood-texas-funding-ban-set-aside-again.html
A federal appeals court reinstated an
order blocking  Texas  from enforcing a rule that would keep
Planned Parenthood-affiliated groups from taking part in a
state-funded women’s health program.  The organizations sued Texas April 11 to block the
regulation, which bars the state from contracting with entities
affiliated with abortion providers. It was designed to exclude
the operators of 49 health centers from the program after April
30. Planned Parenthood argued the rule is unconstitutional.  A federal judge in Austin blocked the rule in part due to
the “potential for immediate loss of access to necessary
medical services by several thousand Texas women.” The state
appealed, claiming “irreparable harm” if the stay remained in
force. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans , after acceding
to the request, yesterday reinstated the injunction, saying in a
filing that Texas omitted facts that  call “into question” its
claim of emergency.  The case pits Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
against President  Barack Obama , a Democrat. Perry pledged
earlier this year to replace almost $30 million in federal funds
for the women’s health program that the Obama administration cut
off because of the state ban. Obama has said Texas can’t block
federally approved organizations such as Planned Parenthood from
participating in programs underwritten by Medicaid, which pays
for  health services  for the poor.  The appeals court, which didn’t rule on the merits of the
case, ordered oral arguments on the injunction for early June.  Half of Program  The nonprofit  Planned Parenthood  organizations care for
almost half of the state program’s 130,000 participants. A call
to Perry’s office after regular business hours seeking comment
on the ruling wasn’t immediately returned.  Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman for Perry, said last month
that the appeal by state Attorney General  Greg Abbott  will
“defend the will of Texans and our state law, which prohibits
taxpayer funds from supporting abortion providers and affiliates
in the Women’s Health Program.”  In their complaint, Planned Parenthood argued that women in
Texas are finding it difficult to get care at its health centers
and alternative providers, and that without the injunction,
patients would be forced to go without preventative care,
resulting in increased risks of undiagnosed cancer, sexually
transmitted illnesses and unplanned pregnancies.  Tens of Thousands  “The only irreparable harm in this entire situation would
be inflicted on the low-income Texas women who rely in the
Women’s Health Program for their basic, preventive health
care,” said Rochelle Tafolla of Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast
in an e-mailed statement.  Cecile Richards , president of Planned Parenthood Federation
of America, said when the injunction was handed down by the
Austin court that tens of thousands of Texas women enrolled in
the state’s Women’s Health Program rely on Planned Parenthood
for cancer screenings, annual exams, and access to  birth control .  “For many women, we are the only doctor’s visit they will
have this year,” Richards said. “This ruling affirms what
women have known all along: Politics simply doesn’t have a place
in women’s health.”  The district court case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo
County Texas v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Texas (Austin). The appeals court case is Planned
Parenthood of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-50377, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David E. Rovella in  New York  at
   drovella@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net . 