-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Falls to 3-Month Low on Jobs Datas
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/treasury-10-year-yield-falls-to-3-month-low-on-jobs-datas.html
Treasuries rose for the seventh week,
the longest stretch since 2008, as employers in the U.S. added
fewer jobs than forecast amid speculation the Federal Reserve
may consider additional stimulus measures to boost the economy.  Treasury  10-year yields  fell to a three-month low as
payrolls added the least jobs in six months to fuel concern the
U.S. economic recovery is faltering. Yields fell before
elections in Europe that may result in leadership changes and
inflame the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The U.S. will sell
$72 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “Yields are reflecting a fair amount of concern for
growth, in both the U.S. and abroad,” said  Jay Mueller , who
manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Capital Management in
 Milwaukee . “We had unrealistically strong data for months and
now we are paying for it. Weak growth, Fed policy and weakness
in Europe are keeping yields low.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  this week fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.88 percent in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yesterday it touched
1.87 percent, the lowest since Feb. 3.  The weekly drop in yield matches the longest run since the
seven weeks ended Dec. 19, 2008, at the height of the financial
crisis.  The 10-year yield will “rest” below 2 percent for the
next 45 days,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest mutual
fund at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in an interview yesterday with Ken Prewitt
and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  Inflation Prospects  U.S. employers added 115,000 jobs in April after a revised
increase of 154,000 positions in the previous month, the Labor
Department reported yesterday in  Washington . The median forecast
of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase
of 160,000. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent.  Average hourly earnings for the 12 months ended April rose
1.8 percent, the Labor Department said. The measure has averaged
1.9 percent for the previous two years, compared with a 2.9
percent average for three years ended April 2010.  Bond traders have priced in an average  rate of inflation  of
2.2 percent for the next 10 years, as measured by the difference
between 10-year yields on Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities and regular U.S. government securities, a difference
known as the break-even inflation rate. The median forecast
shown by the spread is 2.3 percent during the past 10 years.  ‘No Wage Growth’  “Inflation concern is moot at this point,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of Treasury trading in New
York at CIBC World Markets Corp. “There is absolutely no wage
growth. How do you get inflation if people can’t pay for higher
prices? You don’t.”  The gap between Treasury yields for two- and 10-year
securities has narrowed to 1.63 percentage points, the smallest
in seven months, from 2.09 percentage points on Oct. 27, as
investors have become increasingly skeptical about the economy’s
ability to sustain growth without Fed support.  Valuation measures show investors are paying a premium to
own the safety of U.S. government securities. The so-called  term
premium  model created by economists at the  Federal Reserve  was
negative 0.72 percent yesterday, down from negative 0.26 percent
on March 29 and near the record low of 0.79 percent reached Feb.
2. The average is positive 0.53 percent for the past decade. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Lack of ‘Traction’  Treasuries of all maturities have returned 2.3 percent
including reinvested interest between March 20, when the 10-year
note yield reached its high for the year of 2.4 percent, and May
3, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Stock Index fell by 1 percent during the
same period.  Volatility as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
MOVE index fell to 62.90 on April 30, the lowest since June
2007, indicating the market isn’t betting on a significant rise
in yields in the near term.  While the Fed refrained at a two-day meeting last week from
new actions to boost the economy, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
it’s “prepared to do more” if necessary. The Fed bought $2.3
trillion of bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing, or QE,
from December 2008 to June 2011 to lower borrowing costs.  “You’ve got this economy that can’t get any sustained
period of traction,” said Mitchell Stapley, the  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan-based chief fixed-income officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management. “You’ve got more of the same coming, an increased
potential of QE3 or something like that.”  Treasury Auctions  The U.S. will issue $32 billion in three-year notes, $24
billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in 30-year bonds on
three consecutive days beginning May 8, the same amounts sold in
each so-called refunding month since November 2010. The Treasury
delayed decisions on whether to sell floating-rate securities
and bills with negative yields at government auctions for the
first time.  The jobs data came a day after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  index  of U.S. service industries, which account for
almost 90 percent of the  U.S. economy , decreased to 53.5 in
April from 56 a month earlier. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
measure was projected to decline to 55.3, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  France, Greece  Joblessness in the 17-nation euro area increased to 10.9
percent in March, the highest since April 1997, from 10.8
percent a month earlier, data showed this week.  Euro-region services and manufacturing output contracted
more than initially estimated in April, a composite measure
showed yesterday, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump.  “We still have elections in  Europe  this weekend,” said
Richard Schlanger, vice president at Pioneer Investments in
 Boston . “The market can’t move a lot.”  Francois Hollande , the Socialist challenger for the French
presidency who is leading incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  in opinion
polls, has called for a re-negotiation of the budget pact has
criticized Europe’s German-led austerity push and argued for the
renegotiation of the region’s fiscal compact.  Greece , which
completed the largest debt restructuring in history this year,
also holds an election on May 6.  The vote in Greece may amplify the mutiny against the wage
and spending cuts and tax increases that are conditions for
drawing on financial aid and staying in the currency.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending May 1, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 144,756 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 12,334 contracts, or
8 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  