-- Wal-Mart May Have Botched Mexico Probe, Buffett Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-05T18:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-05/wal-mart-may-have-mishandled-mexico-bribe-probe-buffett-says.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett , whose
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is among  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc.’s largest
shareholders, said the retailer may have botched how it dealt
with allegations that the company bribed Mexican officials.  “It looks like they may well have made a mistake in how
that was handled,” Buffett, 81, told shareholders today at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said April 21 it
had started a probe into its Mexican operations after the New
York Times reported that executives bribed officials to fast-
forward expansion. The U.S.  Justice Department  is also
investigating, people familiar with the matter have said.  Buffett, whose company  owned  39 million Wal-Mart shares, or
more than 1 percent of the retailer at Dec. 31, has been
outspoken on corporate governance in the past, using the annual
meeting, his shareholder letter and public appearances to offer
views on management practices. He’s recently criticized  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ)  for lapses and has said companies that undergo
scandals can be resilient.  Buffett, who called the Wal-Mart investigation “a huge
diversion of management time,” said that the probe is unlikely
to have a long-term effect on the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company’s financial strength.  “I don’t think the earning power of Wal-Mart five years
from now will be materially affected by the outcome of this
situation,” Buffett said. “It may result in a significant
fine, but I don’t think it changes the fundamental dynamic.”  Wal-Mart has  declined  6 percent to $58.70 since April 20,
the last trading day before the Times’ story was published.  Two-Hour Negotiation  Buffett has done business with Wal-Mart for more than a
decade, and has cited the company as a model of accounting and
management. He agreed to lend the retailer $125 million in 2002,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time, and has
shared his opinions with Wal-Mart managers during their weekly
sales meeting in Bentonville.  In 2003, Buffett bought Wal-Mart’s food distribution unit
for about $1.5 billion. McLane Co., which delivers food and
alcoholic beverages to drug stores,  convenience stores  and
warehouse outlets, still counts Wal-Mart among its largest
customers. The retailer contributed about 30 percent of McLane’s
$33.3 billion in revenues last year, according to Berkshire’s
annual report.  Buffett said in a 2004  letter  to investors that he bought
McLane after a two-hour negotiation and without any due
diligence. “We knew everything would be exactly as Wal-Mart
said it would be,” Buffett wrote. “And it was.”  ’Too Many Mistakes’  Another Berkshire holding, Johnson & Johnson, was ordered
last month to pay more than $1.1 billion in fines after an
Arkansas jury found the firm misled doctors and patients about
the risks of antipsychotic medication Risperdal. The  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based maker of health-care products has
also struggled with recalls of artificial hip implants and over-
the-counter medicines. Berkshire  sold  8.4 million J&J shares in
the fourth quarter of 2011, leaving it with a 29 million share
stake at Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing.  “It’s still got a lot of wonderful products and it’s got a
wonderful balance sheet and all of that, but there have been too
many mistakes made at Johnson & Johnson,” Buffett told CNBC in
a Feb. 27 interview, adding they “clearly haven’t lived up to
their own standards.”  The investor has said that strong companies that run into
difficulties, such as Toyota Motor Corp., can eventually
recover. The automaker recalled more than 8 million vehicles in
2009 and 2010 after reports of unintended acceleration.  David Sokol  “If you look at any of the great companies at one time or
another they have had a setback,” Buffett said at a May 2, 2010
press conference in Omaha. “Toyota will be a major auto company
far beyond my lifetime.”  Buffett was pushed to apologize at last year’s meeting for
his oversight of  David Sokol , a former Berkshire manager who
invested in a firm he pitched as a buyout candidate. Sokol, 55,
once considered a possible successor to Buffett, was accused by
Berkshire of violating its insider-trading policies and left the
company in April 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  