-- ‘Merchant of Death’ Viktor Bout Awaits Ruling on Solitary Confinement
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-02-10T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/-merchant-of-death-viktor-bout-awaits-ruling-on-solitary-confinement.html
International arms dealer  Viktor Bout , convicted of trying to sell weapons to terrorists, must
wait at least another week before learning whether a judge will
order a change in his confinement at a federal jail.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin called a hearing today
in  Manhattan  after Bout’s lawyer complained that his client was
being held under unduly harsh conditions at the Metropolitan
Correctional Center, where he has been in solitary confinement
for 14 months. Scheindlin told prosecutors and defense lawyers
to submit their arguments in the next week.  “Do I have the power to order a move if conditions are
inappropriate?” Scheindlin asked prosecutors. “That’s the
ultimate question.”  Bout, 45, a former Soviet air force officer once called the
“merchant of death” by a co-defendant, was convicted of
conspiracy last year for attempting to sell arms to two men
posing as members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.  He faces a minimum of 25 years in prison when he’s
sentenced March 12.  Defense attorney Albert Dayan told the judge that Bout has
been confined for 14 months in a small cell without fresh air or
natural light.  No Threat  “He doesn’t pose a threat to anyone,” Dayan said.
“Keeping anyone in such conditions causes irreparable harm.”  At a hearing Feb. 8, Scheindlin said the conditions of
Bout’s confinement seemed “harsh,” “brutal,” and
“unnecessary.” She echoed those remarks today.  “He’s a businessman, he’s an arms dealer,” Scheindlin
said. “I’ve never heard any evidence he was involved in
violence.”  Warden Suzanne Hastings told Scheindlin that she “took
great offense” at the claim that conditions were inappropriate.  Scheindlin asked for evidence showing that Bout’s
confinement in solitary is needed to protect guards, other
prisoners and Bout himself.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  