-- Aaron’s Chairman Says He’s Ready to Sell at Right Price
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-02-10T21:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/aaron-s-chairman-says-he-s-ready-to-sell-at-right-price.html
Aaron’s Inc. (AAN)  Chairman R. Charles Loudermilk Sr., who founded the rent-to-own furniture chain,
said he is considering selling his shares and would support a
sale of the company at the right price.  There have been queries from interested buyers and such
overtures have increased in recent months, Loudermilk, who is 84
years old and holds 6.5 percent of outstanding shares, said
yesterday in an interview.  Aaron’s slid  2.8 percent to $27.96 at 4 p.m.  New York  time
after jumping as much as 11 percent earlier, the most since
April. Aaron’s “is not interviewing investment banks,” Chief
Financial Officer Gilbert Danielson said yesterday in a
statement in response to a query.  Loudermilk  founded Aaron’s in 1955 , and it now has more
than 1,800 company-operated and franchised stores in the U.S.
and  Canada . Its market capitalization was $2.2 billion as of
yesterday.  His son Robert C. “Robin” Loudermilk stepped down as
chief executive officer and president of the company for
personal health reasons in November, and no other family members
are involved in the business. The company’s interim CEO is Ron Allen, a member of Aaron’s board of directors since 1997 and the
former CEO of Delta Air Lines Inc.  “Although we haven’t grown recently like I like, we still
have grown and we’re still very profitable,” the senior
Loudermilk said today on an earnings conference call.  Different Look  “Since my son is out of the business and I’m 84, I would
look at the company differently as to the maintaining of the
stock,” Loudermilk said.  He added that he doesn’t have immediate plans to sell “a
large amount of stock right now” and that “the future of the
company is very, very bright.” Danielson said today that the
senior Loudermilk was referring only to his own shares, and that
Aaron’s management is focused on the long term.  Asked by analysts whether Aaron’s would repurchase
Loudermilk’s shares should he decide to sell, Allen said the
company has some buyback authorization remaining under a current
repurchase plan and has “cash resources to buy more back” if
it chose to.  Loudermilk didn’t comment on today’s call about whether
there is interest from possible buyers beyond saying, “If a
sizeable offer comes in, it’s my obligation to take it to the
board.”  Loudermilk’s Stake  Loudermilk had for years owned a controlling voting
interest in Aaron’s and held more than 60 percent of the
company’s Class A stock as recently as 2010.  In December 2010, the company converted common shares into
A shares and renamed the A shares as common stock. By January
2011, Loudermilk’s stake was 8.8 percent of common stock, or
7.03 million shares. He has since sold about a third of it to
reduce his stake to  4.89 million shares  as of his most recent
regulatory filing dated July 2011.  Aaron’s reported adjusted fourth-quarter earnings yesterday
of 43 cents a share, which matched the average of six analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Full-year net income was $113.8
million on revenue of $2.02 billion. The company forecast 2012
revenue of $2.15 billion and reaffirmed its guidance for
earnings of $1.88 to $2.04 a share  Loudermilk, who was raised in a shotgun-style house in
Atlanta and grew up wearing unclaimed clothes from his uncle’s
dry-cleaning business, set Aaron’s apart from other rent-to-own
chains by not requiring a credit check, offering payment plans
ranging from 6 to 24 months and allowing customers to return
furniture at any time.  Aaron’s offers goods ranging from computers to
refrigerators and sofas, and has an auto-tire and wheel unit
called  Rimco . Competitors include  Rent-A-Center Inc. (RCII) , which owns
and operates more than 3,000 stores.  In 2008,  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Cort
Business Services unit bought Aaron’s corporate furniture
division for $72 million in cash. Loudermilk said he initially
approached Buffett about buying Cort from Berkshire but Buffett
declined to sell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 