-- Absa Profit Rises 19% on Retail Bank Growth, Cost Controls
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-02-10T09:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/absa-group-full-year-headline-profit-rises-to-9-72-billion-rand.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said full-year profit increased
19 percent on improved income from  consumer banking  and lower
costs.  Net income climbed to 9.67 billion rand ($1.27 billion)
from 8.12 billion rand a year earlier, Johannesburg-based Absa
said today in a statement. Earnings per share excluding one-time
items rose to 13.55 rand, beating the 13.26-rand median  estimate 
of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bad loans as a percentage
of total lending shrank to 1.01 percent, and that ratio should
shrink below 1 percent in 2012, the bank said.  Absa, South  Africa ’s largest retail lender, has been trying
to contain the cost of implementing technology systems as it
integrates operations with Barclays across Africa. Along with
rivals  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  and Standard Bank Group Africa Ltd., Absa
wants to boost profit by tapping into the continent’s 1 billion
people as economic growth outpaces developed regions.  The bank’s 1.32 percent return on assets was “pleasing,”
though the credit-loss ratio remains too high due to older bad
loans, said Johann Scholtz, an analyst at Afrifocus Securities
in  Cape Town , who gives Absa his only “buy” rating among  South
Africa ’s four largest lenders. His  recommendations  on Absa
produced the best total returns in the past year.  The  stock  rose 0.9 percent to a record high of 151.88 rand
and was up 0.3 percent to 150.91 rand as of 10:24 a.m. in
Johannesburg trading.  “Improved non-interest revenue growth, lower credit
losses, better cost containment and a wider net interest margin
were the primary reasons for Absa’s headline earnings growth,”
the lender said. “Management is committed to keeping cost
growth below revenue growth again this year.”  Dividend Increase  The firm boosted its final  dividend  by 70 percent to 3.92
rand a share, increasing the year’s total payout by 50 percent
to 6.84 rand. Absa is confident its dividend levels are
sustainable, financial director David Hodnett said on a
conference call.  “I’m surprised by the timing and the mechanism chosen to
return surplus capital,” given that local regulators haven’t
decided on how South African banks should approach international
Basel III capital rules, Afrifocus’s Scholtz said. A one-time
special dividend would have given Absa more flexibility, he
said.  Absa is unlikely to boost lending in the coming year given
the bank’s limited risk appetite, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Louis von Zeuner said on the call.  Absa shares have gained 7 percent in 2012. It’s the second-
worst performing stock on the six-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index (JBNKS)  this year after Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  