-- Adele Heads for Glory as Tarnished Grammys Struggle: Mark Beech
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/adele-set-for-glory-as-tarnished-grammys-face-grim-last-hurrah-mark-beech.html
It’s relatively safe to make some
predictions for tomorrow’s Grammy ceremony in  Los Angeles :  1. Adele will carry off the lioness’s share of top awards.  2. She will actually be singing.  3.  Kanye West  will be mightily mad whatever happens.  4. The Rev.  Jesse Jackson  will be pretty annoyed too.  5. The losers will drown their sorrows, as will many music
executives. The Grammys are struggling to stay relevant as the
whole shebang resembles a last hurrah for the record industry.  Adele is up for six awards and has the edge thanks to the
quality of “21,” which has scooped up commercial and critical
honors and should bag Album of the Year. This isn’t to write off
Bruno Mars and Foo Fighters, who have six nominations too and
will be unlucky to come away totally empty-handed. They are
joined in the best-album fight by Lady Gaga and Rihanna, though
the bets are against either of the dance divas winning.  “Rolling In the Deep” should bag the Song of the Year
(for songwriting), Record of the Year or maybe both for Adele.
Her “Someone Like You” is up for Best Pop Solo Performance.  Adele’s performance at the Grammys (and  Brit Awards  on Feb.
21) wasn’t certain because she had throat surgery last year. Now
she’s tweeting again, on song and on  Twitter : “Singing at the
Grammys. It’s been so long I started to forget I was a singer! I
can’t wait, speak soon xx.”  Petulant West  West is nominated for seven awards, more than anyone else,
yet he is passed over on the best-album list for “My Beautiful
Dark Twisted Fantasy.” His petulant storms of ego in victory
speeches can be amusing or embarrassing. He is touching on the
long-running complaint that black artists are often relegated to
the rap or R&B sections.  Cue the entry of the Rev. Jackson, who’s angry at the
decision to cut the number of awards to 78 from 109, with Latin
Jazz and the gender-based vocal awards scrapped.  To most people this reduction surely makes sense: The
Grammys were devalued by confusing, overlapping categories. It
was getting to the stage that there would soon be one for best
flame-throwing bodice (Lady Gaga) or best bandana-in-guitar-
performance (the Edge). Even now there are multiple prizes for
gospel and Christian music as well as awards for regional
Mexican and New Age releases.  Beach Boys  The Rev. Jackson would do better to protest at favoritism
by members of the U.S. Recording Academy. Alison Krauss has 26
Grammys, Pat Metheny 18 and Chick Corea 16. The Beach Boys won
none. (No bad feelings: They have a lifetime-achievement award,
and surviving members are reuniting for the show before a 50th
anniversary tour.)  Grammy backslapping will continue as long as a big win
boosts sales. Yet the phonograph statuettes are looking
increasingly tarnished and dated. Few shops sell CD singles and
downloads are everywhere. Internet piracy leeches still more
revenue. Some acts are coming to rely on T-shirt sales and
ringtones rather than music.  The Grammys are harder to predict than the Oscars. Last
year’s win for alternative act  Arcade Fire  gives hope to a band
like Wilco, nominated for best rock album with the exceptional
“The Whole Love.” And Bon Iver should be named Best New Artist
to remind us that there is justice in this world.  All CDs are at prices from about $13 in the U.S. or 9
pounds in the U.K. Download rates vary across services.  The 54th Grammy ceremony takes place on Feb. 12 at Staples
Center in Los Angeles.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 