-- Mark Madoff’s Ex-Wife Tells Court Trustee Picard’s Lawsuit Is Time-Barred
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-23T17:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/madoff-trustee-seeks-to-pursue-386-million-lawsuit-against-mets-owners.html
The late Mark Madoff’s ex-wife,
Susan Elkin, challenged a bid by the liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm to name her in an amended complaint against the
family, saying his effort to recover money is “time-barred” as
it was received beyond the six years allowed by  New York  law.  Mark Madoff, the convicted confidence man’s son, married
Elkin in 1989. The couple divorced in 2000, more than eight
years before Madoff’s 2008 arrest and his firm’s bankruptcy,
Elkin said yesterday in a bankruptcy court filing in  Manhattan .  The Madoff trustee,  Irving Picard , knew of the marriage and
can’t “plausibly claim,” as he has tried to do, that he would
have named her in the original complaint if he hadn’t mistaken
her identity, she said.  “The trustee and his counsel knew long before the filing
of the initial complaint that Ms. Elkin had been married to Mark
Madoff, knew that her husband had supported her, and knew that
he had done so with earnings from” the Madoff firm, she said.  Picard in 2009 sued the Madoff family, including  Andrew Madoff , Mark’s brother, for $198 million, alleging they used the
firm as a “family piggy bank.” He later increased the amount
he sought. Mark Madoff committed suicide in December 2010.  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark
Madoff’s estate, has said the lawsuit is “wholly without
merit.” Picard’s spokeswoman, Amanda Remus, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Elkin’s filing.  Picard’s Practice  According to Elkin, Picard decided not to sue her
originally, consistent with his practice of “limiting claims
against innocent persons to transfers made within the six-year
reachback period.”  In 2008, Picard sued Elkin and her two children by Mark,
challenging gifts to the children from  Bernard Madoff  and his
wife, Ruth, she said. The gifts were made during the six years
before the bankruptcy filing, she said.  Picard hasn’t alleged she knew of the  Ponzi scheme , Elkin
said.  Mark Madoff’s widow, Stephanie; and Andrew Madoff’s ex-
wife, Deborah, separately filed similar arguments yesterday.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North
Carolina.  The case is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 09-01503, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 