-- AEP Cuts Amount of Coal-Fired Power Generation It Will Shut
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-02-10T20:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/aep-reduces-coal-fired-plants-it-will-shut-because-of-epa-rules.html
American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , the
largest U.S. coal user, reduced by 13 percent the amount of
coal-fired power generation it will shut, saying customers in
the state of Kentucky may provide the $940 million it needs to
keep one of the plants operating.  The company plans to close electricity plants with about
5,138 megawatts of capacity, Chief Executive Officer Nick Akins
said at an investor conference in  New York  today. The Columbus,
Ohio-based company said in June that new U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency rules would force it to retire as much as
5,909 megawatts of capacity.  The difference stems from the company’s decision in
December to seek a 31 percent rate increase to pay for
environmental equipment needed to keep its Big Sandy Unit 2 in
 Kentucky  operating, Akins said later in an interview. State
regulators have indicated American Electric may be able to
recover from customers the almost $1 billion needed to keep the
unit operating, he said.  A U.S. air-pollution rule to reduce power-plant emissions
that cross state lines was halted by a federal court last year.
Separate regulations to cut mercury pollution are scheduled to
go into effect in 2015.  FirstEnergy Retirements  Akins has asked for more time to phase in the regulations
and in  Nov. 30 testimony  to federal energy regulators said the
company would have to spend $6.7 billion in the next three years
to comply with the rules.  American Electric plans to shut  power plants  that generate
about 2,600 megawatts and sell electricity at state-regulated
rates, plus another 2,538 megawatts owned by a unit that sells
power at wholesale-market rates, Akins said.  The company in a  Dec. 7 presentation  listed 12 units with
expected retirement in 2014 that are owned by its utility
subsidiaries. Akins, in the interview, declined to say which are
critical to preventing blackouts or recovering from them,
conditions that may allow plants to operate another year or two
under waivers.  Cost to refit coal-burning plants that American Electric
expects to keep operating will be less than previously estimated
because standards for particulate matter such as soot and vapor
won’t be as rigorous as expected, Akins said.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) , an Akron-Ohio based utility owner, has
announced it will shut 3,349 megawatts of coal-fired power
plants this year.  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , the fourth-largest U.S. coal producer by
market value, said today it expects demand for the fuel will
decline by 50 million tons or more this year as mild weather and
low natural-gas prices curb use by power companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  