-- AES Gener Plans $572 Million Solar Energy Project in Chile
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-02-10T13:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/aes-gener-plans-572-million-solar-energy-project-in-chile-1-.html
AES Gener SA (GENER)  plans to build a $572
million solar farm in northern  Chile  as it seeks to boost
electricity supply to copper miners in the Atacama Desert.  AES, a unit of Arlington, Virginia-based  AES Corp. (AES) , the
U.S. power producer with operations in 28 countries, is seeking
a permit to build the farm in Chile’s Antofagasta region where
BHP Billiton Ltd. and state-owned Codelco operate copper mines,
the company said in a Chilean regulatory filing today.  BHP, Anglo American Plc and other mining companies will
invest almost $80 billion in Chile through 2013 to overcome a
global copper shortage, boosting the need for energy in the
Atacama Desert. AES supplies about a third of the energy in
northern Chile.  Chile is considering a  law  that would set  Latin America ’s
highest renewable energy goal and spur $10 billion of
investments in clean power projects, reducing the nation’s
reliance on hydroelectric dams. The lower house is evaluating a
bill that would require Chile to get 20 percent of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020, up from 5 percent,
which is scheduled to increase to 10 percent in 2024.  AES Gener plans to invest $2.5 billion in Chile over the
next five years to boost power supplies in the South American
country that imports most of its fossil fuel needs.  Demersol Chile II Spa is seeking a permit to build a $32
million solar farm in the Atacama region, where Teck Resources
Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. plan new mines, the company said in
a filing yesterday.  Energias Renovables Fotones de Chile Ltda. also seeks a
permit to build a $400 million, 180-megawatt solar farm,
according to a Jan. 31 study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  