-- Alberta Counts on Oil to Close Budget Gap Ahead of Election
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/alberta-counts-on-oil-to-close-budget-gap-ahead-of-election.html
Alberta,  Canada ’s third-largest
economy, is counting on rising  oil prices  to pay for more
spending on education and health care as the government
maintains its current  tax rate  ahead of a provincial election.  The western province, which is home to the world’s third-
largest oil reserves, forecast a shortfall of C$886 million
($890 million) in the fiscal year ending March 31, returning to
surplus the next year, Finance Minister Ron Liepert said
yesterday. The economy is forecast to grow 3.8 percent in 2012.  “Considering the impact the global economic slowdown is
having in other jurisdictions, Albertans are very fortunate to
be experiencing such growth,” Liepert said in a speech to
lawmakers. The government is planning no new taxes or increases
to current tax rates, he said.  Alberta, which relies on royalties and taxation of its oil
and natural gas industry for about one-third of its revenue, has
one of the fastest-growing economies and populations in Canada.
With  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and rivals making
investments of about C$20 billion annually in the  oil sands , the
government is struggling to keep up with maintaining and
expanding hospitals, universities and roads.  “Government and politics today is all about allocation of
resources and squabbling over those resources,” said Keith
Brownsey, associate professor at Mount Royal University in
Calgary. “They want to portray themselves as good managers and
that they’re cautious with our money. But they need to have a
steadier stream of revenue than what they have now with oil.”  Oil Prices  The finance ministry projects an average price of $99.25 a
barrel for West Texas Intermediate crude in fiscal 2012-13,
rising to $106.25 the following year. Crude for March delivery
yesterday gained $1.13 to $99.84 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement in three weeks.
Prices averaged $95.11 last year. Natural gas will average C$3 a
gigajoule, the finance ministry estimates. Natural gas for March
delivery rose 2.9 cents, or 1.2 percent, to settle at $2.477 per
million British thermal units on the New York Mercantile
Exchange yesterday.  Higher oil prices have helped boost profit for Alberta-
based  oil companies . Suncor on Jan. 31 said fourth-quarter net
income rose 14 percent to C$1.43 billion. Canada’s daily oil-
sands output is expected to more than double to 3.5 million
barrels in 2025, from 1.4 million in 2010, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Premier Alison Redford, who took over as provincial leader
in October, holds 67 of the 83 seats in the provincial
legislature. She must call an election by 2013 and will probably
ask voters to go to the polls as early as this spring, Mount
Royal University’s Brownsey said.  Boosting Spending  Alberta will spend C$16.5 billion in public infrastructure
over the next three years, including boosting outlays on
highways, schools and municipal public transportation. The
operating budget for healthcare will increase 7.9 percent to
C$15.9 billion in fiscal 2012-13.  The western province has C$14.3 billion in outstanding
bonds, according to Bloomberg data. The provincial treasury is
scheduled to pay back about C$2.1 billion this year. There will
be no new borrowing this year,  finance ministry  spokeswoman
Robyn Cochrane said as the province plans to cover the shortfall
by drawing down reserves.  The government said it will review its dependence on energy
revenue, a plan the Calgary Chamber of Commerce applauded. “The
province relies too heavily on volatile royalty revenue,” said
Ben Brunnen, the group’s chief economist, in  a statement. 
“Alberta needs a new fiscal framework that caps the amount of
resource revenue used, restructures the Sustainability Fund, and
commits to real savings into the Heritage and Savings Trust
Fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at   or
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   or  dscanlan@bloomberg.net  