-- Alcatel-Lucent Joins Ericsson, Kodak in Trying to Milk Cash From Patents
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-10T13:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/alcatel-patent-deal-to-deliver-several-hundred-million-euros.html
Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , the latest
technology company to announce plans to make money from its
patents, may generate several hundred million euros this year
alone from its trove of 29,000 rights, Chief Financial Officer
Paul Tufano said in an interview today.  France ’s largest telecommunications-equipment maker is
offering access to its patents through a licensing syndicate.
Asked whether the deal with  RPX Corp (RPXC) . would generate a few
hundred million euros, Tufano said: “More than that.”  After consuming about 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) in
cash over five years since the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and
Lucent Technologies, the Paris-based company is following rivals
such as  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  to set up a licensing strategy as spending
by phone operators on network gears slows.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  could
generate 500 million euros to 1 billion euros in revenue in 2012
from the patents, according to four analysts.  “Licensing is a hot trend in the tech sector right now,
but if these numbers turn out to be true, then maybe Alcatel
should stop everything else and do only licensing,” said  Thomas Langer  of WestLB Equity Markets in Dusseldorf,  Germany .  Simon Poulter, a spokesman for  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , declined to
comment on the revenue projections.  Google Inc. bid $12.5 billion last year for Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. as part of a growing trend of technology
companies buying patents to defend themselves again
intellectual-property suits.  Voice Recognition  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , the photography pioneer that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  last month, is seeking to license its
brand to other camera makers as it exits the market in the first
half of 2012.  Alcatel does not plan to sell its patent portfolio, which
includes voice-recognition and videoconferencing technology,
Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen said on a conference call.
“By syndicating the patent portfolio, we found a creative way
to extract value without weakening ownership.”  Asset disposal has been part of the CEO’s turnaround plan
for the company. Verwaayen, who took over in 2008, has sold a
stake in the aerospace manufacturer Thales. Alcatel-Lucent this
month completed a $1.5 billion transaction to sell its Genesys
call-center software unit to Permira Advisers LLP.  Alcatel-Lucent rose 12 percent to 1.69 euros as of 2:21
p.m. in Paris trading. The stock jumped as much as 22 percent
earlier today, the most since October 2008, after the gear maker
forecast higher profit margins and positive cash generation in
2012.  Last year marked the end of Verwaayen’s three-year strategy
to return the company to a profit. Alcatel reported its first
full-year net profit in six years, though it has pushed back to
2012 its goal of generating positive  cash flow .  Alcatel Chairman Philippe Camus praised Verwaayen in a Nov.
18 statement, after the Wall Street Journal reported that the
company’s board was facing investor pressure to replace the CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  