-- Amyris Drops Most Since 2010 IPO on Production Cut: Dallas Mover
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-02-10T21:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/amyris-drops-most-since-2010-ipo-on-production-cut-dallas-mover.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , the U.S. biofuel
company that’s 21 percent owned by Total SA, fell the most ever
after it cut its production plans and said it won’t have
positive cash flow this year.  Amyris dropped 28 percent to $6.99 at the close in  New
York , the most since it began trading in September 2010.  Amyris will focus on finishing its  Paraiso  factory in
 Brazil  and won’t complete an expansion project at an existing
plant in  Spain , Chief Executive Officer John Melo said yesterday
in a call with investors.  Without the additional capacity from the Spanish plant,
Amyris won’t be able to meet an earlier production forecast of
40 million liters (10.6 million gallons) to 50 million liters of
farnesene this year, Melo said. Amyris processes plant sugars
into farnesene, which can be refined into transportation fuels
and specialty chemicals.  “We are focusing on operational quality versus production
quantity,” Melo said on the call.  The lower capacity means the company is “no longer
forecasting positive  cash flow  from operations in 2012,” he
said.  Amyris is also planning to raise about $30 million to $60
million in additional equity financing from investors that have
been involved since before the company went public, according to
a  filing . The funding round will be complete “in the coming
weeks,” Melo said.  Scaling Up  There’s “no reason to build two or three big plants if you
can’t scale up to one, so scaling back production targets makes
sense,” Jeff Osborne, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
New York, said in an e-mail today.  The lower forecast makes it “a challenge for investors to
have faith they can produce at high volume,” said Osborne, who
rates Amyris “hold.”  Amyris was downgraded today to “hold” from “buy” by
 Vishal Shah , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New York, who
has a target price of $9 a share.  Michael Cox, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co.,
downgraded the shares Feb. 8 to “neutral” from “overweight”
with a target price is $11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  