-- Anvil Reaches Deal With Congo’s Gecamines on $1.3 Billion Minmetals Offer
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-10T23:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/anvil-reaches-deal-with-congo-s-gecamines-on-1-3-billion-minmetals-offer.html
Anvil Mining Ltd. (AVM) , which produces
copper in  Africa , said a takeover by  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) 
can proceed after the  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s state-owned
miner agreed not to oppose the deal.  Anvil and Gecamines came to terms for revised commercial
agreements for two Congo copper projects, Perth, Australia-based
Anvil said yesterday in a statement. Anvil has agreed to pay
Gecamines $55 million, it said.  The accords “include confirmation that Anvil’s title to
the Kinsevere and Mutoshi projects is valid and in good
standing, agreement that all claims and historic allegations of
breach are cured,” the company said.  Minmetals said in September it had agreed to acquire Anvil
for C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) in cash. In October, Anvil said
Gecamines was seeking a review of the financial terms of a lease
agreement for the Kinsevere project and the joint venture
agreement for Mutoshi project before allowing Minmetals’ offer
to proceed.  The Hong Kong-based company rose as much as 8.6 percent on
Feb. 8 after Congo Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said in an
interview the parties may resolve issues stalling the deal.  China  Minmetals Group, China’s biggest metals trader and
Minmetals’ biggest shareholder, has approved the bid based on
yesterday’s agreements with Gecamines, Minmetals said in a
separate statement.  Kinsevere, Mutoshi  Anvil owns 95 percent of Kinsevere through a Congolese
unit, which in turn holds a minerals lease from Gecamines. Anvil
owns 70 percent of Mutoshi through a local subsidiary and the
remainder is held by Gecamines.  Anvil has agreed to negotiate with Gecamines to replace
current agreements for the Mutoshi project, it said. Anvil will
also pay Gecamines $35 per ton for new copper reserves
discovered at Kinsevere.  “It’s satisfying for us and for all parties,” Gecamines
Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Kalej said yesterday by phone from
 Cape Town . “It is the fruit of good negotiations that were
conducted in a professional manner and all was concluded in the
interest of both parties.”  Anvil rose 1.5 percent to close at C$7.96 in Toronto
yesterday.  The shares  have gained 8.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  