-- Apollo Global Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls 66% on Market Swings
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-10T21:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/apollo-global-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-66-on-market-swings.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private equity firm that went public last year, said fourth-
quarter profit fell 66 percent as market swings hurt its private
equity holdings.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to its initial public
offering, declined to $302 million, 80 cents a share, from
$881.8 million, or $2.52, a year earlier, New York-based Apollo
said today in a statement. The shares fell the most in almost
two months.  Apollo joins  KKR & Co . and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in reporting
lower profit as market volatility eroded investment income.
Apollo, led by Chief Executive Officer  Leon Black , is seeking
investment opportunities outside of its traditional leveraged-
buyout business to reduce its ties to volatile private equity
earnings.  The firm’s economic net income doesn’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The net gain under
those standards shrank to $10.9 million, or 5 cents a share, in
the quarter from $206.3 million, or $1.77, a year earlier.  Apollo fell 6.1 percent to close at $14.40 in New York
trading, the biggest full-day decline since Dec. 16. The shares
have fallen 24 percent from their March 29 IPO price of $19.
Black said this month his firm had “miserable” timing for its
offering as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled market
volatility.  Predictable Profits  Like their competitors at Blackstone and KKR, Black and co-
founders  Joshua Harris  and Marc Rowan have expanded the firm’s
portfolio with credit investments and real estate purchases.
Those businesses tend to deliver more predictable profits than
private equity.  Earnings from private equity investments, Apollo’s biggest
business by assets, fell 70 percent to $232.4 million for the
quarter, while profits in its capital markets division rose 8.6
percent to $139.6 million for the three months ended Dec. 31
compared to the same period last year. The economic net loss in
the real estate business widened to $15.4 million from $14
million.  While declining values in Apollo’s private equity holdings
hurt earnings, the buyout unit drove the company’s 46-cents a
share payout to shareholders. Apollo funded the distribution
through sales of portfolio companies as well as a dividend from
chemical company LyondellBasell Industries NV.  Assets Rise  The acquisition of Gulf Stream Asset Management LLC in the
fourth quarter and new deposits at the  capital markets  unit
fueled an increase in assets under management. Assets rose 16
percent in the three months to $75.2 billion as of December 31.
Apollo raised about $259 million for its private equity unit
during the quarter.  Apollo agreed in December to buy Stone Tower Capital LLC,
adding $17 billion in credit assets and making capital markets
its biggest business unit, with about $39 billion under
management. Citigroup Inc. raised a $436.7 million
collateralized loan obligation for Apollo, four people with
knowledge of the deal said this month.  “We don’t think it’s a particularly good time to do
buyouts because putting equity at the bottom of a leveraged
 capital structure  in an uncertain macro environment isn’t an
attractive risk-reward,” Sanjay Patel, head of Apollo’s
international private equity unit, said in November at the Super
Investor conference in Paris.  Caesars, Realogy  Private equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 to 20 percent of profit from investments.  Founded in 1990, Apollo participated in some of the biggest
deals of the leveraged-buyout peak, including the 2007
acquisition of real estate group Realogy Corp. and the 2008
takeover of casino company  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , then
known as Harrah’s.  Caesars raised $16.3 million on Feb. 8, selling less than 2
percent of its shares in an IPO. Apollo and TPG Capital, which
led the buyout in 2008, didn’t plan to sell shares in the
offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  