-- Apple Makes Inroads Into U.S. Government as Air Force May Buy 18,000 IPads
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-02-10T21:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/apple-makes-inroads-into-u-s-government-as-air-force-weighs-18-000-ipads.html
The U.S.  Air Force  may buy as many
as 18,000 iPad2s in what would be one of the military’s biggest
orders of computer tablets, accelerating  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s inroads
into the federal government.  The service’s Air Mobility Command plans to issue a request
for proposals to buy between 63 and 18,000 “iPad 2, Brand Name
or Equal devices” to lighten the load of flight crews,
according to a notice posted on the Federal Business
Opportunities website.  The goal is to replace the bag of manuals and navigation
charts weighing as much as 40 pounds that are carried by pilots
and navigators, said Captain Kathleen Ferrero, a spokeswoman for
the command.  “The airline industry is way ahead of us on this,” she
said in a telephone interview. “Most, if not all of the major
airliners are already switching to tablets.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has been eating away
at Waterloo, Ontario-based  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s market
share in the federal government market.  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  last year announced a
plan to let its employees use iPhones and iPads to conduct
official work on the agency’s network. The National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration this week said it would supply
employees with iPhones, the latest government organization to
drop RIM’s BlackBerry.  RIM Market Share  Other military branches have also begun buying phones and
tablets running Apple’s iOS and  Mountain View , California-based
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating systems.  The Army has purchased about 1,300 various mobile devices
as part of a pilot program called Connecting Soldiers to Digital
Applications, according to Mike McCarthy, who helps oversee the
service’s program. About 50 Android-based tablets will accompany
troops deploying to  Afghanistan  this summer, McCarthy said.  RIM’s share of the global smartphone market slid to 8.2
percent in the fourth quarter from 14 percent a year earlier,
while Apple’s share rose to 24 percent from 16 percent in the
same period, according to research firm IDC of Framingham,
 Massachusetts .  Apple led the global tablet market with a 58 percent share
in the fourth quarter, down from 68 percent in the year-ago
period, according to Strategy Analytics, a Boston-based, market-
research firm.  Apple rose 25 cents to $493.42 in Nasdaq trading after
reaching a record high of $497.62 earlier today. RIM fell 46
cents, or 2.9 percent, to $15.44 in Nasdaq trading.  Other Devices  RIM’s BlackBerry may be joined by other mobile devices with
certification to access the Pentagon’s sensitive and classified
networks.  The  National Institute of Standards and Technology , which
is part of the Commerce Department and develops security
standards for the U.S. government, is reviewing an application
from Apple to validate encryption on the iPhone and iPad,
according to Evelyn Brown, an agency spokeswoman.  Government mobile devices that hold, process or transmit
encrypted information must employ hardware and software that
meet federal standards, she said. When the agency may decide on
Apple’s application is unknown, she said.  Ferrero, the Air Force command spokeswoman, said she
expects the request to be released in the next week or two and
that it is open to tablets other than Apple’s.  Among the other tablets on the market are the BlackBerry
PlayBook made by RIM,  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc (MMI) .’s Xoom,
the Galaxy Tab made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Barnes &
Noble Inc .’s Nook.  `Unmatched' Security  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment
on the government market.  RIM has more than 1 million government customers in  North
America  who rely on the “unmatched” security of the BlackBerry
platform, Marisa Conway, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “The BlackBerry PlayBook remains the only tablet
certified for use by U.S. government agencies.”  Air Mobility Command, based at Scott Air Force Base,
 Illinois , provides transport and refueling services to the U.S.
military around the world using C-5, C-17 and C-130 cargo planes
and KC-10 and KC-135 tankers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  