-- Apple Sues Motorola Mobility to Block Patent Claims in Germany
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/apple-sues-motorola-mobility-to-block-claims-in-germany.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sued  Motorola Mobility
Inc. (MMI)  in a bid to block Motorola’s patent infringement claims
against Apple in Germany.  Apple, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
San Diego, said Motorola’s German suit is based on claims
that Apple’s use of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  components in the iPhone4S
violates Motorola’s European patent. The German suit, Apple
claims, is a breach of a patent-licensing agreement between
Motorola and Qualcomm.  “As a Qualcomm customer, Apple is a third-party
beneficiary of that contract,” Apple said in the complaint.
Apple asked the court to block Motorola’s suit in Germany.  Motorola Mobility Holdings is a maker of handsets and set-
top box devices that work with televisions based in
Libertyville,  Illinois . The company has won two rulings against
Apple in Germany, and yesterday failed to win a third in a 
patent case involving the use of mathematical sequences in 
mobile telecommunications.  The Regional Court in Mannheim rejected the suit, ruling
Motorola Mobility didn’t show that Apple is violating the
patent. More cases between the two are pending in German courts,
including a bid by Motorola Mobility to enforce its first win
from December, which forced Apple to briefly remove some older
iPhones and iPad models from its online store in Germany last
week.  Google Acquisition  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest Internet-search company,
is competing with Cupertino, California-based Apple and trying
to lessen its dependence on search-related advertising for
growth with a push into consumer electronics through a $12.5
billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings. That deal
hasn’t yet closed.  Motorola, in a statement, said it declined to comment about
details of the litigation, adding “we will continue to
vigorously protect our intellectual property.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Mobility Inc., 12-
CV-0355, U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
( San Diego ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  