-- Arab League May Seek UN Vote on Syria That Russia Can’t Veto
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-10T18:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/arab-league-may-seek-general-assembly-vote-on-syria-that-russia-can-t-veto.html
The Arab League may seek approval in
the United Nations’ 193-member General Assembly of its plan for
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step aside, after  Russia 
vetoed the initiative in the Security Council, UN diplomats
said.  The 22-member League, which has suspended Syria and imposed
economic sanctions on the country, is looking for fresh ways to
intensify pressure on Assad and may seek a vote in the General
Assembly by Feb. 17, according to two senior UN diplomats, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because plans haven’t been made
final.  Failure by the UN’s decision-making body to deliver
international condemnation of Assad’s deadly crackdown on
protesters has left his neighbors and their Western allies with
dwindling options on how to end a conflict that the UN estimates
has killed more than 5,400 people since it began in March last
year.  The  Arab League  plans to meet on Feb. 12 in Cairo to
discuss next steps. No official was made available in the Arab
League office in  New York  to respond to questions about plans at
the UN.  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay, the
official estimating the growing number of deaths in Syria, will
brief the General Assembly on Feb. 13 on developments in the
country. She is advocating that the Security Council authorize
an investigation of whether Assad and other Syria leaders should
face war crimes prosecution for using military forces to thwart
the popular uprising against the regime.  ‘Very Strong Message’  “We believe, and we’ve said it and we’ll keep repeating
it, that the case of Syria belongs in the  International Criminal
Court ,” her spokesman, Rupert Colville, said today in Geneva.
“This would give a very, very strong message to those running
the show.”  Syria government forces have killed more than 300 people in
the city of Homs since Feb. 3,  Human Rights Watch  said
yesterday, calling for the regime to stop shelling residential
areas.  “No adequate medical assistance is available to the
victims due to a blockade of the city by government forces and
fear of arrest if treated at government-controlled hospitals,”
Human Rights Watch said on its website, citing eyewitnesses.  Resolutions passed in the General Assembly, where every
member state has one vote and no vetoes apply, have less
standing because they are non-binding. Only the 15-member
 Security Council  can authorize sanctions and even military
action, as happened with  Libya .  Human Rights Violations  On Dec. 19, the General Assembly passed, with 133 votes in
favor, a condemnation of human rights violations by Assad’s
security forces. Among the 11 votes in opposition was  Iran ,
Syria’s last steadfast ally in the  Middle East . Russia was among
43 nations abstaining.  A similar show of support for the Arab League peace plan --
more than a two-thirds majority -- would highlight Russia’s
isolation in the international community, according to the
diplomats who are involved in the discussions. It also would lay
the groundwork for a new resolution at the Security Council to
approve a joint UN and Arab League monitoring mission tied to
political benchmarks set out by the regional body, they said.  A Jan. 22 Arab League plan called for Assad to hand power
to a deputy within two months. For Russia, which sells weapons
to  Syria  and has a naval base there, that was an endorsement of
regime change and formed the basis of its veto of a Feb. 4 draft
resolution that “fully supports” political transition in
Syria.  Civil War  With the collapse of efforts at the UN to end the bloodshed
in Syria, Assad’s security forces have continued killing
civilians, raising the prospect of civil war as the opposition
arms itself in the effort to forcibly end his rule.  In the city of Aleppo, at least 28 people have been killed
and 175 wounded in bombs targeting a military security branch
and police headquarters, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency
reported today.  Efforts are under way outside of the UN for ways to tackle
the spiraling violence the Syria. Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  is in  Washington  to consult Feb. 13 with U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on efforts to organize a
‘Friends of Syria’’ group, a coalition of countries that support
the idea of a democratic Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  