-- Marathoners Sprint to Races Outside New York as Entrance Fee Reaches $255
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-10T05:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/marathoners-sprint-to-races-outside-new-york-as-entrance-fee-reaches-255.html
Danielle Gall, a member of the  New
York  Road Runners, can’t convince herself to run in the
organization’s flagship race. The  New York City Marathon  has
gotten too expensive.  “I just can’t stomach paying that much,” Gall said of the
race, which raised the price $60, to $255, for U.S. residents
and $63, to $347, for international runners, citing increased
costs. “I’m afraid it’s becoming an elitist sport that nobody
can afford.”  Gall, a 40-year-old Manhattan physical therapist who has
run the race five times, plans to register for the California
International Marathon in December. She’s doing that even though
her qualifying time of 1 hour, 31 minutes, 2 seconds in last
year’s NYC Half Marathon gives her automatic entry into the
longer New York event.  More marathoners like Gall might soon revolt against
marquee races if prices continue to increase, said Rick Nealis,
race director of the  Marine Corps Marathon  in Arlington,
Virginia. He said runners may instead choose his race, with what
he says is a cheapest-in-the-U.S. price of $92.  “I’m concerned about the sport,” Nealis, a 58-year-old
former Marine, said in a telephone interview. “When are we
going to price ourselves to the point where people stop
coming?”  Tad Scepaniak, a real estate consultant from Atlanta,
entered the lottery for the 2012 New York marathon when it
opened on Jan. 2, calling it a “once in a lifetime” race. That
doesn’t mean he wants to get picked.  ‘Through the Roof’  Last week, Scepaniak, who has run three 26.2-mile races in
the past two years, also signed up for the  Chicago  Marathon,
which costs $105 less than New York’s $255 entry fee.  “It’s excessive,” Scepaniak, 37, said of the New York
race. “Especially for a race that size, with 45,000 people, it
seems excessive for what you get out of it.”  Nealis’s Marine Corps Marathon is the fourth-most attended
race in the U.S., with 30,000 runners registering last year.
Only New York, Chicago and Boston attract more. It’s also the
country’s only marathon with all entry fees below $100,
according to Nealis.  “I’m against taking these prices through the roof,”
Nealis said.  Richard Finn, a spokesman for the New York Road Runners,
said the price increase was necessary to pay for staging costs,
including service charges by the city’s police department. In
previous years, the city covered those costs.  Television Deal  About a week after the price increase  was revealed , the New
York Road Runners announced that the Nov. 4 race will be carried
on ESPN2, which reaches almost every household with cable or
satellite television, and on ABC’s affiliate in the New York
area.  Finn said he wasn’t permitted to disclose financial terms
of the  five-year accord  with the Walt Disney Co.-owned networks.
He said the pact won’t offset the increased costs of staging the
race.  “This isn’t an NFL-type of a deal,” he said, comparing it
to the  National Football League ’s $1.9 billion annual agreement
with ESPN. “It’s a big deal in terms of the exposure, but it’s
not big when it comes to our bank account.”  As Nealis prepares for a possible influx of new runners to
his Marine Corps race when registration opens March 7, marathon
directors in Chicago and Philadelphia are also watching the
effect of New York’s increase.  ‘Happy Beneficiary’  “I was surprised that it was such a high price,”
Philadelphia race director Melanie Johnson said. “You’re going
to have some people who don’t want to pay that. We are always
very happy to be the beneficiary.”  The Philadelphia marathon will be run Nov. 18, two weeks
after the New York race.  So far, the price hasn’t kept runners away from New York,
one of the five  World Marathon Majors  along with Boston,
Chicago,  London  and Berlin. New York benefits from being a
“bucket list” race, Finn said.  Eleven days after registration opened for the New York race
on Jan. 2, 50,000 entries had been submitted for its annual
lottery selection system, a total that took 38 days longer to
reach a year earlier.  “The demand and the interest and the allure of running New
York is as strong, if not maybe stronger than last year,” Finn
said. “This price increase doesn’t seem to have turned away
people.”  Demand Up  The demand to run marathons is also increasing, according
to  statistics  from Running USA, a  Colorado Springs , Colorado-
based organization that tracks road-race participation. In 2010,
a record 507,000 runners finished 26.2-mile races, up from
303,000 a decade earlier. Participation numbers for 2011 aren’t
yet available.  The Chicago Marathon, which raised its 2012 registration
cost $5 to $150 for U.S. residents, Feb. 6 sold out of 45,000
slots for the Oct. 7 race in a record six days. It took 31 days
in 2011, said race director Carey Pinkowski, 53.  “We’ve been delivering a great value for our participants,
but all cities are having challenges with budgets,” said
Pinkowski, who is in his 22nd year as the race’s director.
“Race directors are feeling the squeeze and that cost has to be
passed along to the event.”  Before New York raised its price, the  Boston Marathon  had
upped its registration this year by $20 to $150 a year after the
world’s oldest annual marathon sold out in a record eight hours.
Unlike most marathons, including New York, general entry runners
are required to qualify for  Boston , which will be held April 16.  Runners’ willingness to pay higher prices doesn’t make it
right to charge more, Nealis said. The average income of runners
who enter races and train year-round is $75,000, according to a
2011 Running USA survey.  “It shouldn’t be something we take for granted,” he said.
“As a runner, it’s almost like you’re stealing from a family
member. It seems like people are filling their coffers. I’ve got
to believe that the runners are going to eventually revolt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  