-- Argentine Consumer Prices Rose Most in Almost Two Years
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-10T20:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/argentine-consumer-prices-rose-most-in-almost-two-years-1-.html
Argentina ’s  consumer prices  rose the
most in almost two years in January, led by an increase in
leisure and transportation costs, the national statistics agency
said.  Inflation in  South America ’s second-biggest economy
accelerated to 0.9 percent from December, the fastest pace since
March 2010, when prices rose 1.1 percent. Consumer  prices  rose
9.7 percent in January from a year earlier, the Buenos Aires-
based agency said today.  Leisure costs, which include tourism and entertainment,
rose 2.5 percent in the month, while transportation rose 1.9
percent, fueled by an increase in subway rates. About 22 percent
of the December increase in the index resulted from a 127
percent increase in Buenos Aires subway fares that was ordered
by the government of the, the agency said.  Economists and politicians have questioned official
inflation and gross domestic product reports since January 2007,
when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  changed personnel at the
statistics agency to what he said aimed to “improve
operations.”  On Feb. 1, the  International Monetary Fund  criticized
Argentina’s “absence of progress” in improving statistics and
said it needs to take steps to ensure it meets “the obligations
of all member countries to provide accurate data” within 180
days.  Opposition lawmakers said on Feb. 8 that prices rose 1.9
percent last month, based on estimates of private economists
they didn’t identify.  Early last year, Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo
Moreno imposed fines of as much as 500,000 pesos ($115,000) on
researchers for reporting that prices were rising faster than
officially reported. Ecolatina and Orlando Ferreres & Asociados
were among those sanctioned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  