-- Harper Says Canada Committed to Selling More Oil to China
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-02-10T16:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/harper-says-he-s-committed-to-diversifing-oil-sales-toward-china.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said he is committed to diversifying  energy exports  to
countries such as  China , while pledging to press Beijing on
human rights as he forges ahead with deeper economic ties.  Harper told a business dinner in Guangzhou he would push
for the construction of new infrastructure needed to ship the
country’s oil to China, as part of efforts to take the  economic
partnership  to “the next level.”  Canada, holder of the world’s third largest oil reserves,
is seeking to reduce its reliance on the U.S. after President
 Barack Obama  rejected  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP)  $7 billion Keystone XL
pipeline to ship Canadian oil to the Gulf Coast. Canada sends 99
percent of its oil exports to the U.S.  “We want to sell our energy to people who want to buy our
energy,” Harper said at the dinner. “It’s that simple.”  Harper said his country’s quest for new markets won’t
curtail its willingness to raise human rights issues with China.  “In relations between China and Canada, you should expect
us to continue to raise issues of fundamental freedoms and human
rights and to be a vocal advocate for these just as we will be
an effective partner in our growing and mutually beneficial
economic relationship,” Harper said.  ‘Responsible’ Citizen  Harper also urged China to be a “responsible” global
citizen on security issues. While Harper didn’t mention  Syria ,
the Canadian government has said it’s “disappointed” with
China’s decision this week to block United Nations action on
Syria amid President Bashar al-Assad’s violent crackdown on the
opposition movement.  “Canadians also demand that their government be a
responsible global citizen in dealing with the peace and
security challenges that confront the world and, wherever we can
urge other governments, including global actors like China, to
do the same,” Harper said.  Harper, who is on a four-day visit to China, has concluded
a foreign investment-protection agreement and opened China to
Canadian uranium exports as part of measures to bolster business
and political relations between the two countries. The Canadian
leader met Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , President  Hu Jintao , and
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  during the Beijing leg of the trip.  Lagged Behind  Canada has lagged behind other countries in developing
trade links with  Asia , and hasn’t signed a free trade agreement
with any country in the region. Canadian exports to China
totaled 1.8 percent of shipments abroad in 2006. That figure has
since risen to 3.7 percent through the first 11 months of 2011,
according to  Industry Canada .  The government last month began hearings on a proposed
pipeline by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to move crude from Alberta’s oil sands
to British Columbia’s coast, where it could be shipped to Asian
markets. The pipeline has become a flashpoint with
environmentalists, and Harper has said his government will
review regulatory-approval rules for new energy projects so they
can be concluded more quickly. That will include looking more
closely into complaints that “foreign” environmental groups
are seeking to overload the regulatory process, according to
Harper.  “Our government is committed to ensuring that Canada has
the infrastructure necessary to move our energy resources to
those diversified markets,” Harper said. “Will we uphold our
responsibility to put the interests of Canadians ahead of
foreign money and influence that seek to obstruct development in
 Canada .”  Harper today met with Communist Party Secretary Wang Yang
in Guangzhou. Tomorrow, he flies inland to the municipality of
Chongqing, where he will meet local Party officials, and visit
the city’s port and zoo, before departing for Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  