-- Harper’s Courting of China Wins Praise From Canada Companies
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-02-10T11:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/harper-courts-china-for-canadian-companies.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who irked business leaders with his criticism of China
when he took power six years ago, is now winning plaudits for
seeking deeper ties with  Asia ’s biggest economy.  Harper, halfway through a four-day visit to China, has
concluded a foreign investment-protection agreement and opened
China to Canadian uranium exports as part of measures to bolster
business and political relations between the two countries. The
Canadian leader met Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , President  Hu Jintao , and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  during the Beijing leg of
the trip.  “We couldn’t deliver Canadian uranium here until this
agreement was signed so it opens the door for us to do that,”
said  Cameco Corp. (CCO)  Chief Executive Officer Tim Gitzel, one of a
delegation of more than 40 Canadian executives on the trip.
Cameco, based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, is the world’s largest
uranium producer.  Harper, traveling to China for the second time since 2009,
is seeking to attract Chinese investment in Canada’s natural
resources and sell more oil to Asia, while winning business for
Canadian companies such as  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s
biggest insurer.  Business Speech  In a speech today at a business dinner in Guangzhou, Harper
said he is committed to “profoundly” diversifying the
country’s energy exports and will facilitate construction of new
infrastructure needed to ship the country’s oil to China.  Canada, which holds the world’s third largest oil reserves,
is seeking to reduce its reliance on the U.S., after President
Barack Obama rejected TransCanada Corp.’s $7 billion Keystone XL
pipeline to ship Canadian oil to the Gulf Coast. Canada sends 99
percent of its oil exports to the U.S.  “We want to sell our energy to people who want to buy our
energy,” Harper said at a dinner organized by regional Canadian
chambers of commerce in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong, the
nation’s most populous province. “It’s that simple.”  Harper, though, said his country’s quest for new markets
won’t curtail its willingness to raise human rights issues with
 China .  Fundamental Freedoms  “In relations between China and Canada, you should expect
us to continue to raise issues of fundamental freedoms and human
rights and to be a vocal advocate for these just as we will be
an effective partner in our growing and mutually beneficial
economic relationship,” Harper said.  On the first day of his trip, Harper urged Wen to approve
proposed investments by Manulife and Toronto-based  Bank of Nova
Scotia  as part of a broader effort to win greater access for
Canadian companies, said a person familiar with the talks.  Harper’s lobbying on specific deals should yield dividends,
said  John Manley , president of the Canadian Council of Chief
Executives. “This is a country in which government assistance
is very valuable in getting things done,” said Manley, a former
deputy prime minister, referring to China.  The countries also announced the conclusion of talks on a
pact aimed at shielding companies from discriminatory practices
and enhancing mechanisms for settling disputes. The two sides
will perform a legal review of the deal before signing it.  Geo-Strategic Positioning  “ Canada  has the resources, technological sophistication,
and geo-strategic positioning to complement China’s economic
growth strategy,” Harper told a business audience in Beijing
yesterday after meeting Hu and Li. “And China’s growth, in
turn, complements our determination to diversify our export
markets.”  The two countries announced a pact that will give Canadian
uranium producers more access to China’s civilian nuclear power
industry, according to a joint statement released by Harper’s
office. No details of the agreement were provided.  Harper also reached agreements to cooperate in areas such
as  air travel , energy, food inspections and fisheries, while
paving the way for two giant pandas to spend a decade at zoos in
Toronto and Calgary.  Possible Free Trade  After agreeing to the investment-protection pact, Premier
Wen called for discussions on a possible  free trade  agreement,
the Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 8. He said China is “ready
to expand imports of energy and resource products from Canada”
and boost cooperation in areas including renewable energy and
the peaceful use of nuclear power, according to Xinhua.  The two countries will seek “exploratory discussions” to
deepen economic and trade ties after a joint working group study
is completed in May, according to a joint statement issued
yesterday.  Economic ties between China and Canada, which holds the
world’s third-largest oil reserves, have been lopsided. Canadian
direct investment in China was C$4.8 billion ($4.8 billion) in
2010, less than 1 percent of Canada’s total, and about one-third
the level of investment in Canada by Chinese firms, Statistics
Canada data show. With 99 percent of oil exports going to the
U.S., Canada’s trade deficit with China was C$147.5 billion from
2006 to 2010,  Industry Canada  says.  Relations Cooled  Relations between Canada and China cooled in 2006 after
Harper criticized China’s human-rights record, telling reporters
that promoting trade shouldn’t require the government “to sell
out important Canadian values.” A year later, new foreign
investment rules, which put additional scrutiny on state-owned
entities, raised questions about whether Canada was targeting
China. Harper then chose to skip the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  The relationship began to improve in 2009 with trips to
China by Canadian officials including Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney .  “The prime minister’s support for broadening the trade
relationship with China is very positive,” Patrick Daniel,
chief executive of Calgary-based  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , said in Beijing
at a business conference attended by Harper. Enbridge is
Canada’s largest oil pipeline company.  Improved relations between the Canadian and Chinese
government will help business, said Pierre Beaudoin, chief
executive of Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   ‘Always Helpful’  “Any discussions that can give support to transactions we
would have in aerospace or in the train business is always
helpful support because the infrastructure business like the
train business is government related,” Beaudoin told reporters
Feb. 8 in Beijing. Bombardier is a plane and train manufacturer.  “Whenever we have discussions on transactions, it’s always
important to have the support of your government and I think
that’s what the trade mission is doing.”  Gitzel said yesterday’s pact will allow the company to move
ahead with supply agreements signed in 2010 to sell about 52
million pounds of uranium for Chinese reactors. China is showing
“strong growth” in nuclear-reactor construction, Gitzel said
in a separate interview with Bloomberg.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, is seeking to
secure uranium supplies as it builds additional reactors. There
are 434 operable reactors around the world and 61 under
construction, according to the  World Nuclear Association . China
is building 26, plans to construct another 51 and has proposed
120 others, according to the association.  The two countries yesterday announced an agreement to
reduce restrictions on air travel that will allow more
flexibility in pricing and let  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  ship
freight to the U.S. through Canada, according to the statement.
Canada and China also agreed to update their  tax treaty  to
reduce rates of withholding taxes that apply to cross-border
payments and eliminate double taxation for individuals and
companies.  China also pledged to work with Canada to resolve
agriculture market access issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  