-- Mars Can Triple Africa Cocoa Yields Within 7 Years, Shapiro Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-10T18:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/mars-can-triple-africa-cocoa-yields-within-7-years-shapiro-says.html
Mars Inc., the maker of M&M’s and
Snickers bars, can triple yields at  Ivory Coast  cocoa farms
within seven years, said Howard-Yana Shapiro, the company’s
global director of plant science and external research.  Farmers produce an average 400 kilograms (882 pounds) of
cocoa per hectare (2.47 acres), and “we’re sure we can lift
yields to 1,500 to 2,000 kilograms in five to seven years,”
Shapiro said in an interview in Geneva this week.  Mars is teaching farmers in Ivory Coast how to better take
care of their crops, as well as supplying higher-yielding cacao
cultivars that can be grafted on existing root stock, said
Shapiro, who was attending a conference on feeding the world in
2050.  Cocoa use is growing 2 percent a year, and Mars is
investing in production to secure long-term supply, Shapiro
said. World cocoa grinding probably rose 4.1 percent to 3.87
million tons in 2010-11, double the amount processed 25 years
ago, data from the International Cocoa Organization show.  “We want to be in business in 50 years,” Shapiro said.
“It’s building the supply, not controlling the supply. We buy
in the open market.”  McLean, Virginia-based Mars has been buying Ivory Coast
cocoa beans for 65 years, Shapiro said, adding yields probably
declined over that period.  The company released the preliminary sequence of the cacao
genome, or a map of the plant’s genetics, in 2010 together with
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  and International Business
Machines Corp.  Based on the work, West African cacao breeders “are
releasing new cultures at a breakneck pace,” Shapiro said.
“It’s changing the way we think about cocoa production, from
the gene to the bean.”  Replacing Trees  Mars is working with Ivory Coast farmers to replace part of
their cacao trees every year, the director said. The food
company brought in teams from  Indonesia  to demonstrate the
technique, he said.  The farmers working with Mars are replacing about 15
percent of their stock with the new cultivars per year, Shapiro
said, adding plantations typically have about 11,000 trees per
hectare.  “By 2020 we’ll have changed 150 million trees, that’s
probably about a sixth of trees in Cote d-Ivoire,” Shapiro
said, using the coutnry’s local name. “Not every farmer will
adapt. The early adopters will get the yield increases.”  Mars is also training farmers on how to use fertilizers,
Shapiro said. Nutrients nitrogen and potassium are needed
because the soil in West Africa, which didn’t have glaciers and
lacked volcanic activity, “is worn out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  