-- Asian Stocks Gain for Eighth Week on U.S. Jobless, Greece Pact
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-02-10T23:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/asian-stocks-gain-for-eighth-week-on-u-s-jobless-report-greece-austerity.html
Asian  stocks  rose for an eighth week,
with the regional index capping its longest streak of weekly
advances since 2005, after the U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly
dropped and Greek political leaders struck a deal on a package
of austerity measures.  Li & Fung Ltd. , the world’s biggest supplier to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., gained 2.9 percent this week in  Hong Kong .  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest carmaker by market value, climbed
5.6 percent in  Tokyo . Tohoku Electric Power Co. surged 29
percent after resuming operation of a unit damaged by Japan’s
March earthquake. Cosco Pacific Ltd., the terminal arm of
 China ’s biggest shipping group, rose 5.2 percent in Hong Kong
after a gauge of cargo rates snapped its seven-week decline.  “You had increases in most equity markets across  Europe 
and a very small increase in the U.S. It’s a good point for
Asia,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment
markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management,
which oversees about $150 billion. “ Greece  reached some sort of
agreement, but it’s still up for negotiation whether the rest of
the European authorities will accept that agreement.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index climbed 0.4 percent to 124.85
this week, extending its winning streak to the longest since
December 2005, after both the unemployment rate and jobless
claims unexpectedly dropped in the U.S.  European finance chiefs’ refusal to deliver the bailout
reflects frustration with Greece’s bickering politicians and the
prospect that they may again backtrack on austerity measures not
yet passed into law. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  agreed with
political parties on budget cuts required for the 130-billion-
euro ($172 billion) financing package. The deal has yet to be
voted on.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 1.3 percent, while
the broader Topix Index advanced 2.4 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index climbed 1.1 percent this week and the China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.9 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index rose 1.4 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  added
0.1 percent, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.1
percent.  Last week’s (Feb. 3) U.S. Labor Department announcement
that the  jobless rate  fell to a three-year low of 8.3 percent in
January sent stocks higher. Also, the government on Feb. 9
showed the number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments unexpectedly declined last week,
indicating the labor market recovery is gaining traction.  Exporters  Li & Fung , which generates 65 percent of sales in the U.S.,
gained 2.9 percent to HK$17.86 this week in Hong Kong. Toyota,
which gets more than 70 percent of its revenue overseas, jumped
5.6 percent to 3,060 yen in Tokyo. Man Wah Holdings Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based exporter of sofas, jumped 29 percent as it canceled
repurchased shares.  Among the MSCI Asia index’s 10 industry groups,  utilities 
gained the most in the benchmark this week.  Tohoku Electric (9506) 
surged 29 percent to 920 yen in Tokyo, leading power companies
higher, after saying it resumed commercial operation ahead of
schedule at the Sendai No. 4 thermal unit, damaged by Japan’s
earthquake. Separately, the utility said it restarted a Niigata
thermal power plant, which was automatically halted by a faulty
pressure transmitter on Feb. 8.  Kansai Electric  Power Co. soared 13 percent to 1,351 yen
this week as the Yomiuri newspaper reported on Feb. 9 a
government nuclear safety agency’s approval is near on reactors
run by the utility. The agency submitted a final draft of an
evaluation report that approves stress test results for the No.
3 and 4 reactors at the Oi nuclear power plant run by Kansai
Electric.  Shippers Rally  This week, the  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a gauge of cargo rates,
jumped 7.4 percent, snapping its seven week losing streak. Cosco
Pacific jumped 5.2 percent to HK$12.10 in Hong Kong.  Nippon
Yusen K.K. (9101)  and  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) , Japan’s two biggest
shipping lines by sales, both rose at least 4.6 percent in Tokyo
this week.  Shipping companies also got a boost after carriers
announced plans to raise Asia-U.S. cargo rates for the second
time this year. Members of the Transpacific Stabilization
Agreement yesterday said they would seek a $300 increase per 40-
foot box next month after “successfully” pushing through a
boost in January.  The benchmark Asian index gained 9.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with 6.8 percent advances by both
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Stocks on the Asian gauge were valued at 14 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600. More than half of the
companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  that reported earnings
since Jan. 9 missed estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  