-- Global Stocks Decline the Most This Year as Commodities, Euro Post Losses
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-10T21:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/asia-stocks-south-korean-won-decline.html
Global stocks fell the most this
year, commodities slid and the euro weakened as a plan to help
Greece avoid default threatened to unravel and U.S.  consumer
confidence  trailed estimates. Treasuries and costs to protect
European debt rose.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  lost 1.3 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 0.7 percent
from a seven-month high, paring a drop of as much as 1.1
percent, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 89.23 points.
The S&P GSCI Index dropped 0.9 percent as 21 of its 24
commodities fell. The euro sank 0.9 percent to $1.3172 after
touching a two-month high yesterday. Ten-year Treasury yields
slid seven basis points to 1.97 percent, as Spain’s 10-year rate
rose 13 basis points to 5.30 percent. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments
climbed 8 basis points to 330.  The  S&P 500  snapped a streak of five straight weekly gains,
the longest rally in more than a year. George Karatzaferis, the
leader of one of  Greece ’s coalition parties, said the road map
proposed for the nation is wrong and he can’t vote for the
accord as is. Greek lawmakers must pass the latest austerity
package and identify more spending cuts before euro-area
governments endorse a second bailout, Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker said.  “The Greek economy is in real trouble,” David Kelly, who
helps oversee $394 billion as chief market strategist for
JPMorgan Funds in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s deeply frustrating to watch this very narrow-minded,
linear view of how to solve a budget problem. The best way to
solve a budget problem is to get an economy growing. That’s what
they should be doing in Greece. Instead, they are forcing Greece
into further austerity even though the country is in deep
recession.”  Talks Fail  Emergency talks of euro-area finance chiefs broke up late
last night with Juncker saying Greece must turn its budget cuts
into law, identify 325 million euros more in spending reductions
and have major party leaders sign up to the program so they
don’t reconsider after upcoming elections. Another extraordinary
meeting was set for Feb. 15.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin today that Greece is missing its debt-cutting targets,
according to two people who took part in the meeting.  ‘Blind to Risks’  “Markets have been a little blind to the risks still
remaining in the system,”  Philippe Gijsels , head of research at
BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets, said in a phone interview
from Brussels. “The Greece solution has been promised for a
while, but they cannot get their bits together.”  Today’s drop erased a 0.5 percent advance in the S&P 500
over the previous four days. All 10 of the main industry groups
retreated, with commodity producers, industrial companies and
financial firms losing at least 0.8 percent to lead declines in
the S&P 500.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , DuPont Co., Hewlett-Packard Co. and
Bank of America lost more than 1.3 percent to lead declines in
29 of 30 stocks in the Dow, which trimmed losses after sinking
as much as 147 points.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  rallied 18 percent, the most since its
initial public offering in May, after the biggest professional-
networking website reporting quarterly sales that more than
doubled and forecast increased 2012 revenue.  Benchmark U.S. stock indexes fell to their lows of the
session after consumer confidence declined more than forecast.
The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan preliminary  index of
sentiment dropped to 72.5 from 75 in January. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for 74.8. The gauge
averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  The U.S.  trade deficit  widened 3.7 percent in December to
$48.8 billion, government data showed.  Rally Halted  The political dissension in Greece halted a rally that
yesterday sent the  Dow (INDU)  average to its highest since 2008, the
Nasdaq Composite Index to its best level in 11 years and the S&P
GSCI to the strongest since August. Italian 10-year bond yields
yesterday retreated to their lowest level since October and the
euro traded for the most against the dollar since Dec. 12.
Resolution of the aid talks are needed to allow Greece to make a
14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20 and easy concern that
the region’s crisis will spread to other nations including
Italy, Spain and Portugal.  The rally in riskier assets, which this week sent the  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  into a  bull market  gain of 20 percent
from last year’s low, was fueled by improving U.S. economic data
and earnings as well as optimism Europe was containing the debt
crisis after its central bank provided emergency cash to
lenders. The U.S. jobless rate reported last week unexpectedly
declined to an almost three-year low of 8.3 percent and earnings
have topped analyst estimates at about 70 percent of the 331
companies in the S&P 500 that released results since Jan. 9.  ‘One Important Risk’  “We see a moderate recovery, as we have seen for a while
at the  Federal Reserve ,” Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S.
central bank, told the National Association of Homebuilders in
Orlando, Florida. “There are some risks to the recovery.
Certainly one important risk relates to the whole set of issues
concerning Europe and the fiscal, sovereign and banking issues
there. That has the potential to create uncertainty and
volatility in our financial markets.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  declined 0.9 percent today,
extending this week’s drop to 1.3 percent. HSBC Holdings Plc and
BNP Paribas paced losses that sent banks to the biggest decline
among 19 groups. Cable & Wireless Communications Plc slid 17
percent in  London  as the company cut guidance for its Panama and
Caribbean units.  SSAB (SSABA) , a Swedish steelmaker, sank about 7
percent after reporting a loss. Alcatel-Lucent, France’s largest
telecommunications-equipment supplier, surged 12 percent after
forecasting higher profit margins.  Italian Lenders Downgraded  After European markets closed, S&P cut the credit ratings
of 34 of the 37 Italian banks it rates. UniCredit SpA, Italy’s
biggest lender, had its grade lowered to BBB+/A-2 from A/A-1
following last month’s sovereign downgrade. The outlook is
negative.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA, the second- and third-largest banks, were also
downgraded as S&P revised of the banking industry country risk
assessment, or BICRA, to group 4 from group 3.  Copper dropped the most in two months, losing 2.9 percent
to $3.862 a pound. Exports of goods from  China , the biggest
buyer of the metal, fell for the first time in more than two
years in January, the customs bureau reported. Gold for April
delivery declined 0.9 percent to $1,725.30 an ounce.  Brent crude was down 0.9 percent to $117.47 a barrel,
ending the longest streak of gains for the March futures
contract since October 2009. West Texas crude traded in New York
fell from a three-week high, sliding 1.2 percent to $98.67.  Energy Demand  The International Energy Agency cut its 2012 global oil
demand forecast for a sixth month as a “darkening” economic
outlook reduced prospects for growth. Worldwide crude
consumption will increase by 800,000 barrels a day to 89.9
million barrels, from 89.1 million last year, the IEA predicted
in its monthly oil market report today. That’s 300,000 less than
its previous estimate. The agency cut its forecast after a
“sharp deterioration” of economic growth projections by the
 International Monetary Fund  last month to 3.3 percent from a
September forecast of 4 percent.  German 10-year bonds rose for the first time in four days,
driving the yield down 11 basis points to 1.91 percent. The
extra yield investors demand to hold similar-maturity Spanish
debt instead of bunds increased 23 basis points to 3.40
percentage points, while Greek securities due in October 2022
dropped, sending the yield 26 basis points higher to 31.31
percent  The 17-nation euro depreciated 0.8 percent versus the yen,
retreating from a two month high, as it weakened versus 10 of 16
major peers. The  U.S. dollar  strengthened against all 16 major
counterparts except the yen. The Australian dollar dropped 1.2
percent against the U.S. dollar after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia cut its forecasts for growth and inflation this year,
boosting scope for policy makers to reduce  interest rates .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 1.9 percent, the most
since November on a closing basis. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  sank 2.3 percent as the nation’s customs
bureau said exports fell and imports slid more than forecast in
January, the first declines in two years, after a weeklong
holiday disrupted trade and commodity prices dropped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  