-- Australian Central Bank Says Slower Growth, Inflation Boost Rate-Cut Scope
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-10T01:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/australia-central-bank-says-slower-growth-inflation-boost-rate-cut-scope.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
lowered its forecasts for growth and inflation this year,
enabling policy makers to reduce the benchmark interest rate
should the economy weaken significantly.  “Inflation is forecast to remain around the midpoint of
the target range for most of the next couple of years,” the
central bank said today in its quarterly monetary policy
statement. The outlook for consumer prices provides “scope for
easier monetary policy should demand conditions weaken
materially,” it said.  The RBA sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent. Consumer prices will rise
3 percent in the year through to the fourth quarter, less than a
previous prediction of 3.25 percent, the central bank said,
while underlying inflation is predicted to be unchanged at 2.75
percent. The estimates are based on the overnight cash rate
target remaining at its current level of 4.25 percent, it said.  The revision would still put this year's growth higher than 
the 3 percent average in the decade through Sept. 30, 
underscoring RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 's decision to hold rates
earlier this week as a mining boom helps the nation withstand a
European slump. While non-mining industries have weakened as a 
strengthening currency hurt manufacturers, the central bank said 
the resource sector is underpinning ``rapid'' business investment
and ``moderate'' hiring.  ‘Looks Reluctant’  The RBA “looks reluctant to cut further unless there’s
signs of renewed deterioration in global credit conditions and
growth prospects,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic
and fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney.
“Developments globally and improvements there largely drove the
steady rate decision” this week, she said.  The local currency weakened after the central bank
statement, trading at $1.0749 at 12:34 p.m. in Sydney from
$1.0768 before the release.  The central bank said its forecasts are based on a local
currency fetching $1.07, stronger than its previous assumption
of $1.03. Australia recorded its weakest annual job growth in 19
years in 2011, even as unemployment held at 5.2 percent in
December. The statistics bureau releases its January jobs data
on Feb. 16.  Two-Speed Economy  “It remains difficult to judge the net impact on the
economy of, on the one hand, a once-in-a-century investment boom
in the resources sector and, on the other, a high real  exchange
rate ,” the RBA said today. The prolonged strong currency means
“a number of businesses are reassessing their business models
and medium-term prospects,” it said.  In today’s report, the RBA said its liaison suggests some
firms are looking for greater certainty about the economic
environment before hiring additional workers.  “Employment growth is expected to remain fairly subdued in
the near term, with a further small increase in the unemployment
rate forecast over 2012, before the unemployment rate declines
again,” the central bank said.  At the same time, it noted the approval of a $34 billion
project to transport liquefied natural gas from the Browse Basin
off the coast of Western  Australia  to the northern city of
Darwin meant a pipeline of about A$180 billion ($193 billion) in
LNG projects is now approved or under construction.  Aussie’s Strength  The resource boom and the highest borrowing costs among
major developed nations have spurred a 5.7 percent increase in
the Australian dollar this year. It soared to $1.0845 this week
after the central bank defied the forecasts of 24 of 27
economists for a rate cut.  In other areas, the central bank said retail spending
remained subdued and property was weak. Turnover rates in the
housing market are “around the lowest they have been over the
past two decades,” it said.  Stevens lowered borrowing costs in November a quarter
percentage point to 4.5 percent and again in December to 4.25
percent to help boost demand. The RBA unexpectedly held the
benchmark Feb. 7 as signs mount that  Europe  is beginning to
contain its sovereign-debt crisis and the U.S. recovery is
gaining strength.  While Europe’s economy appears to be in recession, “there
has been a general improvement in sentiment over the past month
or so following further measures by the  European Central Bank 
and European governments,” the RBA said.  Greek Turmoil  Greece ’s government reached a deal on austerity measures
required for a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) financing
package, according to a statement yesterday from the press
office of the country’s prime minister.  European stocks rose for the first time in four days and
the euro reached a two-month high against the dollar as the
accord in  Athens  spurred optimism.  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt yesterday left the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent. President
 Mario Draghi  said at a press conference that surveys confirm
tentative signs of stabilization in the euro-area economy.  The RBA noted that the turmoil in international financial
markets, driven by Europe, “have had an effect in Australia,
where there has been a step-up in the banks’ overall cost of
funding relative to the cash rate.”  In the U.S., the number of Americans filing first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments unexpectedly declined
in the latest reported week, indicating the labor market
recovery is gaining traction.  U.S. Recovery  Another report yesterday showed that U.S. consumer
confidence rose to the highest level in a year, signaling that
improving job prospects may boost the household spending that
makes up 70 percent of the economy. The easing of dismissals is
moving in tandem with a drop in the  unemployment rate , which
fell in January to a three-year low of 8.3 percent.  The recent improvement in sentiment has boosted the
commodity prices that drive Australia’s economy.  “The price of  iron ore  has picked up, reflecting ongoing
strength in Chinese demand, although global steel production has
softened,” the RBA said today.  China ’s central bank cut lenders’ reserve requirements in
December for the first time in three years to boost credit amid
moderating overseas sales. The People’s Bank of China this week
pledged to ensure loans for first-home buyers as a crackdown on
speculation threatens to trigger a slump in the  property market .  “Growth in China has moderated, as was intended by the
Chinese authorities, and is now running at a more sustainable
pace,” Australia’s central bank said today of the country’s
biggest trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  