-- Australia Seeks A$3 Billion From Telstra, Optus Broadband Spectrum Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-10T03:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/australia-expects-to-raise-a-3-billion-from-telstra-optus-spectrum-sales.html
Australia expects to get about A$3
billion ($3.2 billion) in the next four years from the renewal
of mobile phone spectrum to providers including  Telstra Corp. (TLS) ,
Optus and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Operators in the highest-priced part of the spectrum will
 pay  A$1.23 a megahertz per person in a given area for 15-year
permits, the office of Communications Minister Stephen Conroy
said on its website. The price for services in the 800 megahertz
band, used to provide smartphone data, is 16 percent less than
suggested in a  draft  decision last year.  Access to prime mobile airwaves is highly valued by phone
companies as consumers switch to wireless  connections  and drop
fixed-line services. Spectrum that allows companies to run
lucrative services such as smartphone data sells for several
hundred times the value of lower-ranking bandwidth.  “This renewal process will ensure an appropriate financial
return to the taxpayer, while providing certainty to industry
and consumers,” Conroy said in the statement.  The price expected by  Australia ’s government compares with
recent auctions of the 800 megahertz band which raised 2.96
billion euros ($3.93 billion) in  Italy , 3.57 billion euros in
 Germany , and 2.64 billion euros in  France . Those countries have
three to four times Australia’s  population  of 22.8 million.  Megahertz are a measure of the frequency of electromagnetic
waves such as radio. Lower frequencies such as the 800 megahertz
band have wavelengths that allow them to bend more easily around
obstructions such as buildings in urban areas.  Telstra, Optus  The A$1.23 per megahertz per person cost of the 800
megahertz band compares with 0.214 Australian cents for the
higher-frequency 27 gigahertz band.  “There’s less capital expenditure to provide service at
lower bandwidths,” said Chris Coughlan, director of research
consulting at telecommunications analysts Telsyte.  Australian licenses to the 800 MHz band were last issued in
1997 and 2000 and expire before 2017.  Conroy didn’t say what each company would have to pay.  Melbourne-based Telstra is the nation’s biggest operator,
followed by  Optus (ST) , a unit of Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.  “We’ll borrow for the spectrum as promised, and we have
plenty of capacity on the balance sheet to do so,” Telstra
Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey  told an analyst call after
first-half earnings yesterday. The company has been working to
sign up more mobile customers as it prepares to hand over its
fixed-line network to state-owned NBN Co.  Telstra will consider today’s announcement before deciding
what it will do, spokeswoman Nicole McKechnie said by phone.
Daniel Wong, a spokesman for Sydney-based Optus, wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  Vodafone Hutchison Australia, a venture between Newbury,
England-based Vodafone and the Australian unit of Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , is the third
largest by subscribers.  Vodafone Hutchison plans to renew its license following
Conroy’s announcement, Chief Executive Officer Nigel Dews said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  