-- Obama’s 2013 Budget Projects $901 Billion Deficit in Proposal to Congress
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-11T21:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/lawmakers-look-to-november-election-to-break-gridlock-over-budget-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  will revive
proposals for $1.5 trillion in tax increases as well as spending
to boost jobs as part of a 2013 budget request that projects the
 deficit  shrinking next year to $901 billion.  The tax increases would mostly fall on the wealthy, through
a new 30 percent minimum tax on those earning more than $1
million annually, allowing Bush-era tax cuts to expire for
families taking home more than $250,000 and capping the value of
itemized deductions for top earners at 28 percent, according to
administration officials who briefed reporters on the document
set for release Feb. 13.  Taxes would also increase for large financial institutions,
through a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, and also for oil,
gas and coal companies.  Obama is seeking $350 billion in short-term jobs measures,
including additional infrastructure spending, extending
 unemployment benefits  and increasing aid to cash-strapped state
governments. He would also extend an expiring payroll tax break
for the rest of this year.  “The budget targets scarce federal resources to areas
critical to growing the economy and restoring middle-class
security,” a White House fact sheet released yesterday said.  Much of the president’s budget plan repeats proposals that
have already been rejected by Republicans, including a 10-year,
$3 trillion deficit reduction package offered to Congress in
September. In addition to laying out the president’s priorities,
the blueprint is designed to highlight the differences between
the two parties’ agendas as the November election nears.  ‘Recipe for Debt’  “This unserious budget is a recipe for debt, doubt and
decline,” said  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. “It would make our economy worse
by imposing massive tax increases on small business and still
pile up enormous debt that stirs greater economic uncertainty.”  House Republicans  promise a sharp contrast when they unveil
their own budget plan next month. The plan will offer “a choice
of two futures: our vision, our solutions versus the path the
president is putting us on,” House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican said yesterday. His plan
probably will reprise last year’s call for overhauling Medicare,
cutting spending and eschewing any tax increases.  The administration forecasts this year’s deficit will be
$1.3 trillion, or 8.5 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product. The budget shortfall would eventually drop to as little
as $575 billion, or 2.7 percent of GDP by 2018, according to an
administration summary.  Under $1 Trillion  A $901 billion deficit next year translates to 5.5 percent
of GDP, according to the administration, and would be the first
time since Obama took office that the shortfall fell below $1
trillion.  The plan, for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, would
wring $360 billion in savings out of Medicare and Medicare over
the next decade.  Another $278 billion in savings would come from  farm
subsidies , federal workers’ retirement plans and the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures company pensions.
Defense spending would fall by 5 percent from last year’s
levels, according to the summary. The budget also relies on what
Republicans call an accounting trick to count hundreds of
billions in savings tied to the drawdown of the war in  Iraq .  Corporate Tax Overhaul  Obama’s plan to revamp the corporate  tax code , including
closing loopholes and adding a global minimum levy, will be
released by the end of the month and won’t be spelled out in the
budget, according to administration officials, who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity.  Plans also call for abolishing the alternative minimum tax,
meant to ensure high-earners pay at least some tax. Officials
described it as complicated and ineffective.  Obama will urge Congress to approve $26 million for his
State of the Union address promise to create a Trade Enforcement
Unit to investigate intellectual property violations or other
unfair trade practices, with a focus on  China . The president is
scheduled to meet with Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  a day
later at the White House.  Counterfeit Products  Other trade-related requests, first reported by the
 Associated Press  and confirmed by an administration official,
include $13 million for Customs and  Border Protection  to curb
imports of unsafe, pirated or counterfeit products, and $10
million for the  Food and Drug Administration  to increase
inspections, especially in China.  Among the winners in the plan would be college students and
their families, who would see an expiring tax break designed to
defray tuition costs extended.  A pending rise in student-loan  interest rates  would be
postponed, the number of work-student jobs would be expanded and
the maximum Pell Grant for poor college students would be kept
at $5,635 through 2014-2015. Congressional Republicans had
proposed cutting the maximum grant by 15 percent last year.  Also, the plan would provide new incentives for
universities to rein in tuition costs. And the budget will
contain a new $5 billion program to encourage states and schools
to train and reward teachers, the administration said.  Manufacturing would be another winner, with a 19 percent
increase in spending for advanced manufacturing research and
development. It would eliminate tax breaks the White House says
encourage manufacturers to send jobs overseas while offering tax
incentives for companies to invest in areas hit hard by job
losses.  The fact sheet didn’t include the administration’s updated
economic projections. The budget will project an average
unemployment rate of 8.9 percent this year and 8.6 percent next
year, though the administration said the forecast was completed
in mid-November before recent jobs data showed the economy on
the mend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  