-- Japan’s Azumi Seeks to Distance Himself From His Yen Intervention Comments
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-02-10T09:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/azumi-says-japan-has-no-reservations-about-unilateral-intervention-on-yen.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
distanced himself from his comments to lawmakers that indicated
a level that triggered intervention in the yen in October.  “I instructed an intervention when the yen was 75.63,
which could pose a threat to the Japanese economy, and finished
when it was 78.20,” Azumi said in the parliament in Tokyo
today. He didn’t mean that the level prompted intervention, and
was referring instead to the yen’s closing price before the Oct.
31 sales, he later told reporters.  Economists and investors are focused on the possibility of
more attempts to weaken  Japan ’s currency as the government seeks
to sustain growth amid faltering export demand. Weaker exports
probably caused the economy to contract in the fourth quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
before a report due Feb. 13.  “He was a bit careless,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief Japan
economist in Tokyo at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and a former
 Bank of Japan  official, “It’s questionable that a finance
minister who’s in charge of currencies comments about a certain
level of the yen.”  A  finance ministry  official, speaking to Bloomberg News on
condition of anonymity because of the ministry’s policy, later
said that the ministry doesn’t have any specific level as a
trigger for intervention and that Azumi intended to refer to the
yen’s level the day before his action.  Yen Prices  At the time Azumi spoke, the number 75.63 was visible on a
board displayed by an opposition lawmaker, with the date Oct.
30, a Sunday. The intervention was carried out on Oct. 31. The
currency’s closing price on Oct. 28, the last day of trading
before the move, was 75.82. The opening price Oct. 31 was 75.61.  The finance chief also said his nation’s authorities have
no reservations about conducting intervention alone to combat
currency swings. Gains in the yen are deepening an export slump
that is threatening profits at companies from  Sharp Corp (6753) . to
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and limiting the recovery from last year’s
earthquake.  “We’ve said we won’t hesitate to intervene” to counter
speculative currency movements, Azumi told lawmakers. “We won’t
be shy at all about unilateral intervention.”  The U.S. Treasury Department criticized Japan in a December
report for unilaterally selling its currency in August and
October, saying the Asian nation should focus on steps to
“increase the dynamism of the domestic economy.”  Stealth Interventions  Japan’s currency traded at 77.65 as of 3:25 p.m. in Tokyo,
compared with a post-World War II high of 75.35 on Oct. 31. The
Finance Ministry this week said it conducted unannounced
interventions in November as part of 14.3 trillion yen ($184
billion) of sales in 2011.  GDP shrank 1.4 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31
after expanding at an annualized 5.6 percent rate in the
previous quarter, according to the median forecast of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The government said this week exports in the first 20 days
of January fell about 20 percent from the previous year, the
fastest decline since the same period in December 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  