-- Bachus Predicts ‘Full Exoneration’ in Ethics Investigation
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-10T21:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bachus-predicts-full-exoneration-in-ethics-investigation.html
The chairman of the U.S. House
Financial Services Committee said he expects “full
exoneration” from an ethics investigation following reports he
made securities trades after being briefed by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  during the 2008 fiscal crisis.  The Washington Post reported today that Representative
 Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican and the panel’s chairman,
is being investigated by the independent Office of Congressional
Ethics. The office opened its probe late last year and has
notified Bachus that it found cause to believe insider-trading
violations have occurred, the newspaper said.  “I welcome the opportunity to set the record straight,”
Bachus said in a statement today. “I respect the congressional
ethics process. I have fully abided by the rules governing
members of Congress and look forward to the full exoneration
this process will provide.”  CBS’s “60 Minutes” reported in November that Bachus and
other members of Congress bought stock in companies while
legislation that might affect those businesses was being
debated.  The House and Senate this month passed competing versions
of a proposal to strengthen the ban on  insider trading  by
members of Congress and other government officials.  Boehner, Frank  House Speaker  John Boehner ’s spokesman  Michael Steel  said
in a statement today that the congressional ethics office hadn’t
“communicated anything to the speaker’s office on the matter”
and that Boehner had no comment.  Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the top
Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, said in a
statement that though he disagrees with Bachus on a number of
policy issues, “I have found him to be honorable and
straightforward” in their work on the committee.  CBS reported in November that during the 2008 financial
crisis, Bachus made trades based on the idea that stock prices
would fall while at the time he was being briefed that a global
financial meltdown might be imminent. Bachus was then the top
Republican on the Financial Services Committee.  Bachus was among the lawmakers briefed privately by
Bernanke and then-Treasury Secretary  Hank Paulson  during the
financial crisis.  Insider Trading Laws  Although members of Congress aren’t exempt from federal
insider-trading laws, the Constitution’s protection of their
“speech or debate” may make it tough to investigate potential
violations under current law. The Senate bill’s language says it
would give members and employees a “duty of trust and
confidence” to the government for purposes of securities and
insider-trading law.  A Gallup poll this week showed that a record-low 10 percent
of Americans approve of the job Congress is doing, down from the
previous low of 11 percent in December. The nationwide poll was
conducted Feb. 2-5 among 1,029 adults.  When the financial crisis deepened in 2008 and Bachus was
the ranking Republican on the Financial Services Committee, most
of his trades were made through a Fidelity Investments account.  Those transactions were valued at between $500,001 and $1
million, according to his financial disclosure statement for
2008. One of his investments through Fidelity was a short-term
trade in Kansas City Southern, a rail-freight transportation
company, from which he reported a realized gain of $14,196
according to the disclosure.  2010 Disclosure  Bachus’s 2010 disclosure, the most recent available,
doesn’t mention a Fidelity account. All of his trades, most of
which were short-term deals, were valued at between $1,001 and
$15,000 that year.  Less than a month after the “60 Minutes” report, Bachus
introduced a bill, H.R. 3549, that would require members of
Congress to place their securities holdings in a blind trust.
That measure hasn’t advanced.  Larry Powell, a professor of communication studies at the
 University of Alabama  at Birmingham, said in an interview the
investigation makes Bachus more vulnerable in the November
election, though it is by no means a campaign killer.  “The voters who like Bachus are going to be very skeptical
about the seriousness of the charge,” he said. Regarding voters
who don’t, “There haven’t been enough of them to matter,”
Powell said. “He’s well-liked.”  Ethics Panels  The Office of Congressional Ethics is an independent body
that conducts preliminary investigations and recommends to the
U.S. House Ethics Committee whether it should probe further.  The House Ethics Committee is investigating another member
of the financial services panel after receiving a recommendation
from the independent ethics office. California Democrat Maxine Waters is accused of trying to improperly help a bank in which
her husband owned stock. She has said she didn’t violate any
House rules.  Bachus has been a critic of the Dodd-Frank overhaul of Wall
Street regulation, enacted in 2010 in an effort to avoid a
repeat of the 2008 credit crisis. The congressman supported
legislation to delay implementation of new rules applying to
derivatives.  Jefferson County,  Alabama , in Bachus’s district, was the
biggest municipal victim of the Wall Street collapse. In
November, the county filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy in
U.S. history because of derivative-laden bond deals that
unraveled in 2008, hitting the county with bills it couldn’t
afford.  The deals were also marred by municipal corruption.  Larry
Langford , a county commissioner who arranged the deals, is in
jail for accepting bribes. JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2009 agreed
to a $722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over more than $8 million of undisclosed fees paid to
local bankers with ties to county officials to secure its role
in the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  