-- Baht Set for Weekly Gain After Funds Boost Thai Asset Holdings
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-10T01:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/baht-set-for-weekly-gain-after-funds-boost-thai-asset-holdings.html
Thailand ’s baht was poised for a
fourth weekly gain, its longest winning streak since March 2011,
after international investors raised holdings of the nation’s
assets on optimism economic growth will improve this year.  The baht touched a three-month high yesterday as global
funds purchased $367 million more Thai equities than they sold
this week through yesterday and bought a net $829 million of
government notes, data from the stock exchange and the Thai Bond
Market Association show.  Consumer confidence  rose for a second
consecutive month in January as the nation recovers from its
worst floods in almost 70 years, the University of the Thai
Chamber of Commerce said yesterday.  “We are seeing a recovery in the Thai economy from the
floods and growth prospects are now better,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan Center for  Economic Research 
in  Tokyo . “Fund inflows are supporting the baht.”  The baht advanced 0.3 percent this week to 30.77 per dollar
as of 8:18 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 30.68 yesterday, the strongest level since
Nov. 9. The currency was little changed today.  Thai exports may increase by between 1 percent and 5
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as factories
recover from last year’s floods, the state-run Export Promotion
Department said on Feb. 7. Overseas shipments account for about
two-thirds of  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy.  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2017 increased six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
3.15 percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate was unchanged today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  