-- Japan to Reject More Easing as Quake Rebuilding Aids Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-02-10T00:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bank-of-japan-to-reject-more-easing-as-quake-rebuilding-supports-economy.html
The  Bank of Japan  is set to refrain
from additional monetary easing next week because of signs of
strength in the global economy and the boost from reconstruction
work after last March’s earthquake.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s board will maintain the
overnight lending rate at between zero and 0.1 percent on Feb.
14, according to all 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A
55 trillion yen ($712 billion) asset-purchase program will
remain unchanged, 12 said.  The  Bank of England  announced additional stimulus yesterday
and the U.S. has pledged to keep  interest rates  “exceptionally
low” through late 2014 as  Europe ’s crisis caps global growth.
In Tokyo, officials may focus on more positive signs such as
gains in financial markets and reduced U.S. unemployment even as
strength in the yen crimps exports and analysts estimate the
economy contracted for three of the past four quarters.  “The biggest downside risk is the sovereign problems in
Europe,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo. Policy makers should “save the
card of additional accommodative policies for March or April,”
the analyst said.  Gross domestic product  shrank an annualized 1.4 percent in
the three months ended Dec. 31 after a 5.6 percent expansion in
the previous quarter, according to the  median forecast  of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That number will be
announced Feb.13.  Japan ’s economy was affected in the more recent period by
weakness in exports, floods in Thailand that disrupted
production, and reduced consumer and business confidence because
of Europe’s debt crisis, said David Rea, an economist at London-
based Capital Economics Ltd.  Extra Spending  The government has approved four supplementary budgets
worth about 20 trillion yen to stoke demand and rebuild after
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  In  Asia ,  Indonesia  cut interest rates yesterday, while the
Bank of  Korea  stayed on hold. Japan stands apart in the region
because officials are grappling with deflation not rising
prices.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  “will preserve further easing
measures,” said Jun Ishii, chief fixed-income strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “The European debt
crisis is in a temporary lull, the U.S. is on a recovery path
and stocks are rising in Japan.”  In the U.S., the jobless rate unexpectedly fell in January
to the lowest in three years. Meanwhile, Japan’s Topix Index
rose yesterday to its highest level since August and the yen
traded at 77.21 per dollar, about 2.4 percent weaker than a post
World War II high of 75.35 in October.  Less Competitive  Companies from Panasonic Corp. to  Sharp Corp (6753) . are blaming
the yen for projected losses, as the currency’s gains erode
profits and make products less competitive in overseas markets.
The government said this week that  exports  in the first 20 days
of January fell about 20 percent from the previous year, the
fastest decline since the same period in December 2001.  “The economy may have dipped into a contraction in the
fourth quarter, but it would be temporary,” said Seiji Adachi,
a senior economist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in  Tokyo .
“There’s no need to be overly pessimistic” as the global
economy including the U.S. is picking up, Adachi said.  Japanese lawmakers are escalating calls for more aggressive
measures to counter deflation after the  Federal Reserve  set a
goal of 2 percent inflation and pledged to keep interest rates
low.  The Fed “set a clear goal and made a firm promise for its
commitment to fulfill the goal,” opposition lawmaker Kozo Yamamoto said at a Feb. 2 hearing in parliament.  The BOJ’s stated understanding of  price stability  is from
above zero to 2 percent, centered on 1 percent. Prices haven’t
risen at least 1 percent for any year since 1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  