-- Bankia Says New Rules Call for $6.7 Billion Provisions, Capital
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-10T17:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bankia-says-spain-s-new-rules-call-for-4-5-billion-provisions.html
Spain’s  Bankia (BKIA)  group said a
government-ordered clean-up of its real estate holdings would
require 5.1 billion euros ($6.7 billion) in provisions and extra
capital, and that it can meet the demands alone.  “Bankia has sufficient capacity to meet the new
requirements in the time allowed, that’s to say before Dec. 31,
2012, with total autonomy,”  Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  said at a
news conference in Madrid today. The bank wouldn’t need to enter
into mergers or take more state aid to do so, he said.  Bankia SA, Spain’s third-biggest lender, and its parent
company need to take another 2.26 billion in provisions this
year after absorbing 1.14 billion euros in 2011, the lender said
in a statement today. The rules also require the group to set
aside a capital buffer of 1.67 billion euros.  Spanish banks are being forced by  government rules 
announced on Feb. 2 to recognize more losses on their real
estate assets, putting pressure on lenders such as Bankia to
cover the charges.  Addressing reports that the provisioning rules might
trigger a merger between Bankia and CaixaBank SA,  Spain ’s
fourth-biggest lender, Rato said he knew of no plans for such a
deal and the bank could continue on its own. The lender can
generate 8 billion euros of capital from asset sales,
recalibrating its risk-weighted assets, earnings and exchanging
securities for shares to bolster capital, it said.  Debt Exchange  Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, Bankia’s parent, said in a
filing today that it would offer to exchange as much as 1.28
billion euros of preferred shares and subordinated debt for
Bankia shares. As many as 454 million Bankia shares will be
issued for the exchange, BFA said, equivalent to as much as 26
percent of the shares in circulation.  “In this regulatory environment there’s no doubt that we
have to raise our capital levels,” Rato said. “Will it produce
a dilution? Probably yes, but it will also make the company
stronger.”  Bankia is looking at options to buy other lenders,
including Unnim, a bank formed from a merger of savings banks in
Catalonia that was taken over by the government last year.  The law allows lenders that have received state aid in the
way the Bankia group has done to take part in such transactions,
Rato said. An economy ministry official told reporters on Feb. 6
that all mergers sparked by the real estate cleanup must be
viable and investors may be skeptical of transactions in which a
bank that has received public aid buys another.  Bankia’s 2011  profit  was 309 million euros, short of the
376.5 million-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
four analysts, while bad loans as a proportion of the total
climbed to 7.63 percent from 7.09 percent in September. It will
offer a “flexible” dividend, Rato said today.  “Bankia has been a focus for this whole process from the
start -- the cleanup is very large,” said Ricardo Wehrhahn, a
partner at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants in  Madrid , in a
phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  