-- Bard Wins Ruling Upholding $371 Million Award Against Gore
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-10T21:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bard-wins-ruling-upholding-371-million-award-against-gore-1-.html
C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) , a maker of
catheters, won a U.S. court ruling that upholds a $371 million
patent-infringement judgment against  W.L. Gore & Associates Inc.   There was “substantial evidence” to support a verdict
that Gore infringed a patent for vascular grafts, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said today in a
 ruling . Including interest, royalties and fees, Gore owed $783
million as of June, Bard said in a regulatory filing last year.  The case began in 2003 and involves a dispute dating back
to 1974 over a tube that helps retain the shape of non-coronary
blood vessels using a substance known as ePTFE that is similar
to DuPont Co.’s Teflon, according to the patent. Closely held
Gore, a Newark, Delaware-based maker of surgical products and
fibers, said it uses the substance for its Gore-Tex fabrics.  Resolution of the case may bring in about $1 billion for
Bard, adding $1 a share to annual earnings, Raj Denhoy, an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New York , said in a note to
clients. While the litigation isn’t over, Bard “is very close
to the finish line,” Denhoy said.  Bard rose 3.6 percent to $95.67 at the close of New York
trading, the biggest percentage gain since Nov. 30. The stock
has climbed 12 percent this year.  Scott Lowry, a spokesman for  Murray Hill , New Jersey-based
Bard, said the company is pleased with the ruling.  Michael Ratchford, a spokesman for Gore, said in an e-
mailed statement that “undoubtedly, we are disappointed with
the court’s decision. But the company is as strong as it’s ever
been, and this does not change our plans to continue to bring to
market innovative and reliable products that improve health and
save lives.”  ‘Arduous Journey’  A federal jury found in 2007 that Gore infringed a Bard
patent and awarded $185.6 million in damages. U.S. District
Judge Mary Murguia later doubled that amount, based on the
jury’s finding that the infringement was intentional.  The judge also ordered Gore to start paying royalties of
12.5 percent to 20 percent, depending on the type of Gore
grafts. The three-judge appeals panel said Murguia acted within
her discretion to reject Bard’s request to halt Gore’s sales.  Murguia ruled that  Gore (GOWL)  should be able to keep its products
on the market because “it was in the public interest to allow
competition in the medical device arena,” the appeals court
said.  ‘Arduous Journey’  While Bard originally filed the complaint in 2003, the
appeals court described the dispute as a “long and arduous
journey” that dates back to 1974. The patent was first
requested that year and issued almost 28 years later largely
because of a dispute over who first discovered the invention.  The Federal Circuit, which had earlier ruled that a
researcher with Gore wasn’t the first inventor, said in its 2-1
decision today that the judge was correct to rule that the
researcher wasn’t a co-inventor either.  The case is Bard Peripheral Vascular Inc. v. W.L. Gore &
Associates Inc., 2010-1510,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Bard
Peripheral Vascular v. W.L. Gore & Associates, 03cv597, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  