-- Dallara Trying for Greek Deal Has Limited Powers to Drive ‘Roller Coaster’
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-02-10T11:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/beltway-insider-charles-dallara-trying-for-a-greek-debt-deal.html
If an agreement is reached in coming
days to reduce  Greece ’s debt burden, markets will calm, dire
predictions about the euro will fade, and  Charles Dallara  may
finally get a solid night’s sleep.  Since July, Dallara has shuttled among Greek and European
Union authorities and the banks, hedge funds, and other
financial institutions he represents in the seemingly endless
negotiations that all parties hope will lead to a second Greek
bailout. No matter what, Dallara’s side will lose,  The private debt holders, who hold a huge portion of
Greece’s 200 billion euros ($265 billion) debt, are expected to
accept a 70 percent or more reduction in the value of their
investments, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 13
edition.  Dallara walked into this mess because he is managing
director of the  Institute of International Finance , a little-
known Washington trade group of more than 450 banks and other
financial organizations from 70 countries. He has likened the
negotiations to “getting on the Coney Island roller coaster,”
as he told the BBC last fall. “You take some sharp turns,
they’re unexpected, and it rattles you around a little bit, but
then it settles out and you have to move forward.” His job
involves balancing the interests of the IIF’s diverse members,
from state-supported banks, who want a deal quickly to calm debt
markets, to  hedge funds  desperate to protect their investments.  Deutsche Bank  His job is also complicated -- if not outright frustrating
-- because his power to make a deal is limited. While he propels
the talks from one meeting, and European capital, to the next,
decision making rests more with the IIF membership and with
 Josef Ackermann , chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank and
IIF chairman. In the wee hours of Oct. 27, Dallara called
Ackermann at least three times seeking support for what was
supposed to be a final compromise in a debt writedown.
Negotiators for the banks were summoned at midnight to European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy ’s office and were presented
with an ultimatum. At about 3 a.m., Dallara got Ackermann’s
approval to pledge that bondholders would accept a 50 percent
writeoff on the face value of their holdings.  That deal fell apart after Greece’s then-Prime Minister,
 George Papandreou , unexpectedly called for a referendum on the
package. Dallara was soon back on the roller coaster. In January
he spent a weekend in  Athens , putting together what the IIF
called its “maximum” offer, then headed to Zurich for what the
group hoped would be a triumphant press conference followed by a
victory lap in Davos. Dallara never got to Davos. Instead he
headed to Paris to discuss with the IIF’s steering committee a
new objection by Luxembourg’s Prime Minister. On Feb. 3 it was
back to Athens for yet another final push.  Plaza Accord  A native of Spartanburg,  South Carolina , Dallara joined the
Treasury Department in the 1970s and eventually became Assistant
Secretary for International Affairs under the President  George
H.W. Bush . He helped put together the Brady bond program, which
allowed countries in  Latin America  to issue dollar-denominated
debt in a bid to avoid a sovereign-debt crisis. Dallara also
helped negotiate the Plaza Accord, an agreement that led to the
devaluation of the dollar in relation to the yen and the
deutsche mark. Such experience probably came in handy as he and
fellow IIF negotiator,  Jean Lemierre , talked sometimes more than
once a day with Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  in early
February.  For those seeking hints of progress in Dallara’s travels,
it may be good news that he left Athens and headed to Paris for
a Feb. 9 meeting of the steering committee of the IIF for an
update on the talks. It may soon be time for that victory lap.  Editors: Chris Power, Leon Mangasarian  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  