-- Bernanke Says Housing Market Holds Back Fed Efforts to Boost U.S. Economy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-10T19:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bernanke-says-housing-slump-is-holding-back-fed-s-efforts-to-boost-economy.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s efforts to spur economic growth
are being blunted by impediments to mortgage lending, and he
called for further steps to heal the housing market.  “We have helped lower  mortgage rates  to the lowest point
in many, many decades,” Bernanke told homebuilders today in
Orlando, Florida. “Yet we are not seeing as much activity as we
would like to see.”  Bernanke, who repeated that the pace of the recovery has
been “frustratingly slow,” didn’t discuss the outlook for
monetary policy. He devoted part of his speech to
recommendations from a Fed study on housing that was sent to
Congress last month and which prompted criticism from some
lawmakers, who said the Fed has overstepped its authority.  “The state of housing and mortgage markets may also be
holding back the recovery of our financial system and the
normalization of credit conditions,” Bernanke said today to the
National Association of Homebuilders International Builders’
Show.  Referring to the high standards of lenders following the
housing bust, Bernanke said that “some tightening was no doubt
necessary.”  “That being said, the pendulum has probably swung too far
in the other direction by this time,” he said. “Conditions are
still too tight for the health of both the financial system, for
the  construction industry  and for our economy. ”  Greek Rescue  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,339.40 at 1:52 p.m. in  New York  as a plan to help  Greece  avoid
default appeared to unravel and U.S. consumer confidence trailed
estimates. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.96
percent from 2.04 percent late yesterday.  Record-low mortgage rates haven’t revived housing sales.
The average 30-year fixed  rate  mortgage was 3.87 percent as of
Feb. 9, according to a  Freddie Mac  index, the lowest in data
going back 40 years.  Buyers purchased new homes at an annual  pace  of 307,000 in
December. The figure is little improved from the 278,000 pace in
August 2010, the least new home sales since at least 1963,
according to the Census Bureau.  Bernanke said housing has been recovering slowly because
“many lending institutions have tightened underwriting
conditions dramatically, relative to the pre-recession period.”  “Current lending practices appear to reflect, in part,
obstacles that are limiting or preventing lending even to
creditworthy households,” he said.  Home Sales  Existing home  sales  climbed to a 4.61 million annual pace
in December, up from 3.3 million in July 2010, the worst month
on record, according to the National Association of Realtors.  Bernanke said foreclosed properties in poor condition that
aren’t likely to attract buyers could be dealt with by land
banks, government entities that have the ability to purchase and
sell real estate, clear titles, and accept donated properties.  “Properties may be rehabilitated as rental or owner-
occupied housing or, in extreme cases, demolished,” Bernanke
said today. “Only some states have passed legislation to
establish land banks, and most existing land banks lack the
resources to keep pace with the number of low-value properties
in the current inventory.”  The Fed chief also said he sees “potential” in programs
that convert real estate owned homes -- those that are owned by
banks after foreclosure -- into rentals.  Pretty Large  “In order for this to work, you have to have pretty large
numbers of homes acquired,” Bernanke said, and that a program
to provide financing for such conversions could be beneficial.  Bernanke last week was criticized by Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, for submitting the housing
white paper to Congress. The paper discussed whether mortgage
companies  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac should take more losses to
support housing markets.  “Is this an invitation now to Congress that we should be
issuing resolutions to what monetary policy the Fed should be
doing?” Garrett asked during an appearance by Bernanke before
the House Budget Committee.  Bernanke replied that the Fed had received requests for
analysis of the housing market from members of Congress. “I am
sorry if you think we went too far,” he said.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  called the paper
“something of a break” from the central bank’s posture of
avoiding fiscal-policy recommendations. He also said the Fed
should refrain from buying mortgage-backed securities.  “I don’t think we should be targeting a specific market,
even a market as dear to Americans’ hearts as the housing
market,” Lacker said in a Jan. 13 speech.  $25 Billion Settlement  Bernanke’s remarks followed the announcement yesterday that
Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and three other U.S.
banks reached a $25 billion settlement with 49 states and the
U.S. government to end a probe of abusive foreclosure practices
prompted by the collapse of the housing price bubble.  The U.S.  Justice Department , Department of Housing and
Urban Development and state attorneys general announced the
agreement yesterday, which was more than 16 months in the making
following a move by states to investigate bank foreclosure
practices in 2010.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder called the agreement --
which also included  Wells Fargo & Co ., Citigroup Inc. and  Ally
Financial , Inc. -- the largest federal-state civil settlement in
U.S. history.  Sales Improved  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in January to the
highest level in more than four years as sales and buyer traffic
improved, according to the  National Association of Home
Builders /Wells Fargo sentiment gauge.  “ Chairman Bernanke  understands the situation in housing,”
said Barry Rutenberg, a Gainesville,  Florida  homebuilder who is
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and
introduced Bernanke to a standing ovation. “This group is not
normally, not always that warm and fuzzy.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Homebuilding Index has increased
23 percent this year.  “Simply put, our business feels more positive,”  Donald Tomnitz , chief executive of D.R. Horton Inc., the largest U.S
homebuilder by volume, said on a Jan. 27 earnings call. “We are
entering fiscal year ‘12 feeling better than we have in six
years and it’s been a long six years.”  -- With assistance from Craig Torres in  Washington . Editors:
James Tyson, Christopher Wellisz, Kevin Costelloe  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Steve Matthews in  Orlando , Florida at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  