-- BlackRock Fund Cuts Russia Stocks Pre-Election
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-10T13:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/blackrock-fund-cuts-russia-stocks-before-election.html
The  Eastern European Trust Plc (EST) , the
stock fund run by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  that beat the regional index by
19 percentage points in the past three years, has cut holdings
in Russia before presidential elections and is buying in  Turkey. (XU100)   “Elections always have the possibility of throwing up
surprises,” Sam Vecht, the London-based  money manager  at
BlackRock whose Eastern European Trust has gained about 79
percent since May 2009, said in an interview today. “We’ve
turned a little more cautious on Russia. We’re underweight
relative to where we’ve historically been.”  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s campaign to return to the
presidency in the March 4 election has spurred tens of thousands
of people to protest in the streets against alleged fraud in
December legislative polls. Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  has
climbed 9.3 percent this year, tracking a rally in London-traded
crude oil, the country’s main source of export earnings. The
Russian equity gauge is  valued  at 5.7 times profit, the lowest
in three years relative to MSCI Inc.’s gauge of global emerging
markets, monthly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not a negative view on Russia long term, it’s just
that we can find better opportunities elsewhere,” said Vecht,
whose London-listed trust has topped the 60 percent return in
the MSCI Emerging Markets  Europe  Index in pound terms since
BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, began running it
in May 2009.  “We’ve been buying in Turkey, which is something that
we’ve been underweight for a long time,” he said. “A lot of
the bad news that we thought would come out has emerged.”  Turkish Banks  The  Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index  has dropped
16 percent from its November 2010 high as the lira weakened, the
current-account deficit widened to the biggest in emerging
markets and inflation jumped to the highest level since 2008.
Vecht said he favors Turkish lenders including  Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest listed bank by market value.  “The banks continue to be very exciting and well run,”
Vecht said. “At a certain point, well-run companies at the
right valuation are interesting.”  Garanti shares trade for 1.6 times net assets, compared
with an average level of 1.9 times during the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Efforts to solve the debt crisis in developed European
countries are likely to drive fluctuations in the region’s
emerging markets in the short term, Vecht said. Over the long
term, “cheap” equity and currency valuations, low debt levels
and competitive manufacturing industries may spur gains in
Europe’s developing-nation stocks, he said.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Europe Index (MXMU)  dropped 2.1 percent
at 12:46 p.m. in  London  as European finance ministers held back
a rescue package for Greece and a political leader in the nation
said he won’t vote for an austerity plan. The gauge has gained
18 percent this year.  “Emerging Europe is moving around with whatever news flow
comes out of western Europe and Greece,” Vecht said. “There
isn’t a great amount of differentiation. Excluding the problems
in Europe, emerging Europe looks pretty good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  