-- BMW Fined $3 Million by U.S. for Delays in Reporting Auto-Safety Defects
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bmw-fined-3-million-by-u-s-for-delay-in-reporting-auto-defects.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest premium automaker, must pay a $3 million U.S.
civil penalty for delays in reporting auto-safety defects and
recalls of about 338,700 vehicles in 2010.  Munich-based BMW’s fine is the largest related to safety by
the  U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , the
investigator of automobile defects and regulator of recalls,
since the record $16.4 million levied against Toyota Motor Corp.
in 2010. It’s NHTSA’s second-largest penalty since at least
1999, according to agency records.  The 16 BMW recalls the regulator reviewed included X5 and
X6 sport-utility vehicles, 7 Series and 5 Series Grand Turismo
sports sedans, 1 Series cars and motorcycles, according to
agency records. BMW has 30 days to pay the fine to the  U.S.
Treasury .  “It’s critical to the safety of the driving public that
defects and recalls are reported in short order,” NHTSA
Administrator  David Strickland  said in a statement yesterday.
“NHTSA expects all manufacturers to address automotive safety
issues quickly and in a forthright manner.”  BMW is changing how it reports recalls and defects in the
U.S. because of the review, and recalled vehicles that had
defects, Dave Buchko, a company spokesman, said by phone.  “In each case when a defect was identified, a recall was
conducted,” he said.  The regulator, when it opened the review in 2010, said BMW
“appears to maintain a practice, by design or habit, in which
it provides little information in its initial filings.”  “Where information required to be provided as part of a
recall report is not provided initially, BMW will assure it will
provide that information, but then takes an inordinate amount of
time to do so.” the regulator said in a Dec. 15, 2010, notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  