-- BNY Mellon Denied Second Bid to Dismiss Virginia Fraud Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-10T21:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bny-mellon-loses-second-bid-to-dismiss-virginia-foreign-exhange-fraud-case.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, failed a second time to win
dismissal of the state of  Virginia ’s lawsuit accusing it of
defrauding pension funds in foreign-currency trades.  A state judge in Fairfax, Virginia, today again rejected
the bank’s argument that it can’t be sued under the Virginia
Fraud Against Taxpayers Act because alleged false or fraudulent
claims were never submitted to the state for payment.  Fairfax County Circuit Judge Terrence Ney, who ruled
against a similar request by the bank in November, said during a
hearing today the case may turn on the contracts between the
pension funds and the bank.  “If they have a contract with the funds permitting them to
earn a tidy sum for their work, they may be bad contracts for
the funds but they may not be fraudulent,” Ney said.  The bank will have another opportunity to seek dismissal of
the case at a hearing scheduled for Feb. 22. That hearing, which
may last more than a day, will examine evidence produced by the
bank in an effort to show it didn’t violate the law.  At today’s hearing, Virginia attempted, and failed, to
resurrect another argument as to why the bank was liable under
the anti-fraud statute.  ‘Closely Scrutinize’  Brandy Bergman, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an
interview that the bank is pleased the court again rejected that
argument and will “closely scrutinize the remaining claim at a
hearing later this month.”  State Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli sued in August,
claiming the bank violated state law by charging “undisclosed
markups” on currency-exchange trades to six retirement funds.
Virginia is seeking about $931.6 million in damages.  “We are pleased that the judge has determined our
complaint can move forward,” Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for
Cuccinelli, said in an e-mail.  Attorneys general  in  New York  and  Florida  have sued over
the same issue. Massachusetts filed an administrative action
against the bank.  All the cases center on the pricing of small foreign-
exchange transactions handled automatically by the custody banks
on behalf of the pension funds, a service known as standing
instruction.  The banks say they acted as a principal, selling one
currency for another in arms-length transactions at a set price
that customers were free to accept or reject.  Acting as Agents  The states claim the banks were obliged to act as an agent,
obtaining the best possible  exchange rate  in the interbank
 currency market . Banks misled clients on how they set prices,
the states maintain.  The bank said in Virginia court papers that there was “a
reasonable legal basis” under the contracts for the rates
charged for transactions and that retirement fund managers
“knew of and approved” procedures that the state claims were
fraudulent.  “Look at the account statements,” Reid Figel, a lawyer
for  BNY Mellon , argued at today’s hearing. “There’s nothing in
those account statements that seek approval of a transaction.”  Joel Bernstein, a lawyer for Virginia, handed the judge a
statement the Virginia retirement system received from the bank
in February 2008 that he said shows the money coming into the
retirement system as well as the expenses that were paid to BNY
Mellon.  ‘Numbers Don’t Tell’  “These numbers don’t tell the Virginia retirement system
what else BNY is taking,” said Bernstein, a partner at Labaton
Sucharow LLP in New York. “The bank is managing the money and
pocketing some of it without letting the commonwealth know about
it.”  Figel, a partner at Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans &
Figel PLLC in  Washington , said the only thing the bank didn’t
tell Virginia is “what margin we earned,” which he said the
bank wasn’t required to do.  “There’s no fraud for failing to disclose information
absent a duty to disclose,” Figel said.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 