-- BofA, JPMorgan, Google, Rio Tinto, Citigroup in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-10T13:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bofa-jpmorgan-in-mortgage-accord-citigroup-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and three other U.S. banks reached a $25 billion
settlement with 49 states and the U.S. government to end a probe
of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the collapse of
the housing bubble.  The U.S.  Justice Department , Department of Housing and
Urban Development and state attorneys general yesterday
announced the agreement, which was more than 16 months in the
making following a move by states to investigate bank
foreclosure practices in 2010.  The nation’s five largest mortgage servicers -- Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Citigroup Inc. and Ally
Financial Inc. -- entered into the settlement. With 49 state
attorneys general on board, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
called the agreement the largest federal-state civil settlement
in U.S. history.  Oklahoma entered into a separate agreement worth $18.6
million with the banks and didn’t sign the federal settlement,
according to a statement from the state’s attorney general,
Scott Pruitt.  The $25 billion agreement includes a $1.5 billion payment
to some 750,000 borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure.
About $17 billion will pay for mortgage debt forgiveness,
forbearance, short sales and other assistance to homeowners.
Servicers will also provide $3 billion in refinancings to lower
homeowners’ interest rates.  Bank of America has committed as much as $11.8 billion,
including a cash payment of $3.24 billion, according to a
government fact sheet. The balance will be applied toward
mortgage modifications, principal reductions and other benefits
for borrowers. Ally has committed as much as $310 million;
Citigroup $2.2 billion; JPMorgan $5.29 billion and Wells Fargo
$5.35 billion.  “This settlement will help provide additional support for
homeowners who need assistance, brings more certainty to the
housing market and aligns to our ongoing commitment to help
rebuild our neighborhoods and get the housing market back on
track,” Dan Frahm, a Bank of America spokesman, said in a
statement.  The settlement doesn’t release any criminal liability or
grant any immunity, release any private claims by individuals or
any class-action claims, or release claims related to the
packaging of mortgage loans into securities, according to the
website outlining the agreement.  The resolution also establishes a monitor, Joseph A. Smith
Jr., North Carolina’s top banking regulator, to track compliance
with the terms of the agreement.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Ex-Takeda Executive Committed Insider Trading, SEC Claims  A former  Takeda Pharmaceutical International Inc. (4502)  executive
was accused of using inside information to make more than
$63,000 trading in call options, according a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Brent Bankosky, a former director in Takeda’s business
development group, used non-public information to trade in
advance of Takeda’s announcement of transactions involving  Cell
Genesys Inc. (CEGE)  and  Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. (3437127Q) , the SEC said
in a civil complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Bankosky also used information about confidential
discussions between Takeda and two other drug companies, Arena
Pharmaceutical Inc. and AMAG Pharmaceutical Inc., according to
the agency. Bankosky failed to profit from his trades in those
companies’ securities, the SEC said.  Elissa Johnsen, a spokeswoman for Osaka, Japan-based Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s North American unit, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the SEC suit.
Bankosky’s lawyer, Robert Heim, also didn’t immediately return a
voice mail seeking comment.  The case is SEC v. Bankosky, 12-CV-1012, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Lehman Sues Citigroup for $2.5 Billion ‘Wrongfully’ Taken  Bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  sued Citigroup
Inc.’s Citibank for $2.5 billion claiming the bank
“wrongfully” withheld the money after it was transferred by
Lehman in the months before its 2008 bankruptcy.  Lehman also is seeking “hundreds of millions” owed by
Citibank, and wants to reduce or deny $2 billion of claims
Citibank filed against Lehman, according to a court filing Feb.
8.  Lehman, which is pursuing a liquidation plan that would pay
creditors less than 18 cents on the dollar, has said that $2
billion of the cash it has gathered so far to pay creditors was
pledged to Citigroup. In addition to trying to free up cash, it
is seeking to cut bank claims on its assets to increase the
amount available for other creditors.  “This action is an unjustified attempt by the Lehman
estates to renege on their obligations to Citi, and claw back
assets to which they have no right,” said Danielle Romero-
Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup. The bank,
which “went out of its way to try to help Lehman prior to its
bankruptcy filing,” will fight the lawsuit, she said.  According to Lehman, Citibank has said it’s entitled to $2
billion of the defunct firm’s cash to secure its claims on
Lehman, which would otherwise be unsecured.  The so-called setoff “is in violation of the bankruptcy
code,” Lehman said in the lawsuit.  Romero-Apsilos said the bank took the cash to protect
itself and its shareholders from loss. Lehman filed the biggest
U.S. bankruptcy in history with debt of $613 billion more than
three years ago.  The case is Lehman v. Citibank, 12-01044,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Intel Antitrust Suit Dropped by N.Y. Attorney General  New York state has ended its more than two-year-old
antitrust suit against  Intel Corp. (INTC)  without fining the chipmaker
or imposing any restrictions on its conduct.  Intel hasn’t admitted any wrongdoing or agreed to any
limitations on its business practices, said Sumner Lemon, a
spokesman for the Santa Clara, California-based company. Intel,
the world’s largest chipmaker, will pay $6.5 million to cover
the cost of some of the litigation, he said.  “While certain other matters are on appeal, this
settlement brings to an end what was the last active court-level
antitrust litigation involving Intel’s sales conduct,” Lemon
said. It “puts an end to any associated expense and distraction
from such matters.”  New York sued Intel in November 2009, accusing it of using
threats and illegal payments to pressure computer manufacturers
to use its chips. Leonard Stark, a U.S. district judge in
Delaware who is presiding over the case, canceled the Feb. 14
trial to allow lawyers from both sides to discuss whether the
case should be dismissed.  “While we were disappointed by the rulings of the Delaware
federal judge handling the matter, it’s important to note that
our claims were dismissed on procedural, not substantive
grounds,” Jennifer Givner, a spokeswoman for New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman , said in an e-mailed statement. “We
continue to believe that those claims, which were asserted under
the previous administration, had merit, but in light of the
court’s decision believe that no purpose is served by pursuing
the matter further.”  The case is State of New York v. Intel Corp., 09-cv-827,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  SEC Said to Review Settlement With Ex-Bear Stearns Managers  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is considering
a proposed settlement with two former  Bear Stearns Cos. (2942331Q) 
portfolio managers to resolve a case that has been pursued by
federal securities regulators for more than three years, three
people familiar with the matter said.  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , who managed the Wall
Street firm’s two largest  hedge funds , are scheduled to stand
trial on Feb. 13 over SEC civil claims that they deceived their
own investors about their funds’ subprime mortgage exposure,
causing losses of about $1.6 billion when the funds collapsed in
July 2007. SEC commissioners were scheduled to vote on a
proposed agreement in a closed meeting yesterday, the people
said without providing details of the deal.  Cioffi and Tannin gained attention in November 2009 when a
federal court jury found them not guilty in a related criminal
trial, the first stemming from a U.S. probe of the collapse of
the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 56, was senior portfolio
manager for the funds and Tannin, 50, was chief operating
officer.  The hedge funds filed for bankruptcy in July 2007 after
collateralized debt obligations linked to risky home loans began
to sour. Bear Stearns collapsed less than a year later and was
purchased by New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  The two men misrepresented the funds’ deteriorating
condition and the level of investor redemption requests as they
sought to bring in new money and keep existing investors from
withdrawing funds, the SEC said in its complaint. They also
exaggerated their own investments in the funds while using their
personal stakes as a selling point, the SEC said.  Cioffi and Tannin have contested the SEC’s claims for more
than three years in U.S. District Court in  Brooklyn , New York.
They argued in a December filing that, under a  U.S. Supreme
Court (1000L)  ruling involving  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , they can’t be
held liable for alleged misstatements in monthly reports to
investors because they only assisted in preparing the documents.  The proposed settlement being weighed by SEC commissioners
would still need to be approved by U.S. District Judge Frederic Block in Brooklyn.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment, as did
Nina Beattie, an attorney for Tannin at Brune & Richard LLP.
Phone calls to Edward Little and Marc Weinstein, lawyers for
Cioffi at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, weren’t immediately
returned.  Wynn Resorts Hearing Over Financial Records Access Continued  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s former Vice Chairman Kazuo Okada must
wait until Feb. 23 to find out whether he can access the casino
operator’s financial records, a Las Vegas judge ruled, saying
she needs more time to go over the document requests in detail.  Nevada state court judge Elizabeth Gonzales said at the
conclusion of a hearing yesterday that she wants to look at
Okada’s requests to determine which ones are reasonable.  “The company has a right to determine each document
individually,” Gonzales said. A director’s right to review
company books is “limited under Nevada law,” she said.  Okada, who was removed as vice chairman in October, sued in
state court in Clark County, Nevada, to force the company to
produce spending records. Okada, who is chairman of  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425) , Wynn’s largest shareholder, has $380
million invested in the casino operator dating back to 2000,
according to regulatory filings.  Kirk Lenhard, an attorney for Wynn, argued that Okada’s
request was premature as such actions should be brought before
the board of directors. The board should be allowed to review
the request at a meeting next month before the court rules,
Lenhard said.  Gidon Caine, an attorney for Okada, said the request was
about “good corporate governance.”  Gonzales “did not grant Mr. Okada’s request for relief but
she did ask us to reconsider the request,” Robert Shapiro, a
lawyer for Wynn Resorts, said after the hearing. “We will go to
the board of directors and get back to Judge Gonzales in two
weeks.”  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts Ltd., A-12-654522-B,
District Court, Clark County Nevada (Las Vegas)  U.S. Drops Antitrust Lawsuit Against Deutsche Boerse, NYSE  The U.S. Justice Department said it dismissed an antitrust
lawsuit and proposed settlement agreement with  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  because the two exchange owners have given
up on their proposed merger.  The lawsuit and settlement are “no longer necessary since
the parties have formally abandoned their plans to merge,” the
Justice Department said in a statement yesterday.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext terminated their merger
agreement Feb. 2, a day after European antitrust regulators
blocked the transaction because it would have concentrated too
much derivatives trading in the hands of a single entity.  The Justice Department had cleared the transaction Dec. 22
on the condition that a Deutsche Boerse unit sell its 31.5
percent stake in another U.S. equity market, Direct Edge
Holdings LLC. The proposed settlement resolved the concerns
about competition the Justice Department outlined in a lawsuit
filed the same day.  At its peak, a combined New York-based NYSE Euronext and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse would have been valued at more
than $26 billion.  Apple Loses German Case Over Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1N  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, for the second
time failed to win a ban on sales of  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s
Galaxy 10.1N from a German court.  The Dusseldorf Regional Court rejected the bid for an
emergency ruling yesterday in a case where Apple invoked a
European design right. Apple last week lost a similar attempt
over a technology patent in a Munich court.  A Dusseldorf appeals court last week upheld Apple’s request
to ban sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, the predecessor model,
which the company had won in the same lower court that rejected
yesterday’s bid. Samsung began selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1N, a
revised version, in  Germany  last year to get around that ban.
Samsung lost two patent rulings against its rival in a Mannheim
court last month.  “The Galaxy Tab 10.1N now sufficiently differs from the
form Apple has registered as a design right,” the court said in
a statement. “Apple’s iPads and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1N now
are two competing products of equal value.”  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its closest competitor in tablet computers is intensifying
as an increasing number of consumers use tablets and smartphones
to visit websites, play games and download music. More patent
rulings between the two are scheduled for the coming weeks.  Samsung said the ruling affirms its position that the
Galaxy Tab 10.1N is distinctive and doesn’t infringe the rights
asserted by Apple. The Galaxy Tab 10.1N remains available to
consumers in Germany, Samsung said.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment on
yesterday’s ruling and referred to the company’s earlier
statement that Samsung is “blatantly” copying the iPhone and
iPad.  Yesterday’s case is LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 292/11.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Google, Amazon.com Win Trial Over Interactive Web Patents  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  were among the companies
that won a jury trial that challenged the validity of patents of
a  Texas  business on ways to make the Internet more interactive.  A federal jury in Tyler, Texas, said two patents owned by
Eolas Technologies Inc. of Tyler are invalid.  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) , CDW Corp., JCPenney Co., Staples Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and
Google’s YouTube unit were also challenging the patents.  Eolas and the University of  California , which co-owns the
patents because they stem from work by Michael Doyle, the Eolas
founder and a former university researcher, claimed some basic
Internet features used their technology, including music clips,
search features, maps, advertisements and embedded applications.  More than a dozen companies had been named in the 2009
lawsuit. Apple Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  EBay Inc. and Playboy
Enterprises Inc. were among companies that settled before trial.  The case was to have been tried in phases before U.S.
District Judge Leonard Davis, with the first looking at the
validity of the two patents, and then subsequent trials on
infringement and damages by groups of companies. Yesterday’s
verdict eliminates the need for those later trials.  “We’re disappointed, but we respect the jury’s decision,”
said Douglas Cawley of McKool Smith in Dallas, a lawyer for
Eolas. “We will evaluate our options.”  The verdict “affirms our assertion that the claims are
without merit,” said Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain
View , California-based Google.  The case is Eolas Technologies Inc. v. Adobe Systems Inc.,
09cv446, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  Rio Tinto Loses Bid to Challenge Australian Labor Ruling  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  lost a bid to keep using non-unionized
workers in Western  Australia ’s Pilbara region, a decision a
lawyer for the world’s third-biggest mining company said may
affect other companies.  The High Court of Australia today rejected the miner’s
request for a full hearing as it attempted to overturn last
year’s appeal court ruling that invalidated its agreements with
railway workers and could give unions more leverage to represent
other employees.  John West, Rio Tinto’s lawyer, said failure to overturn the
appeal court decision would affect about 3,000 workers who have
contracts with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and HWE Mining. “Their
agreements have evaporated,” West said. “All someone has to do
now is sue.”  Rio Tinto’s attempt to stem the influence of unions at its
mines is part of a bigger battle in Australia between labor,
pressing to entrench workers’ bargaining rights, and business,
which claims current laws stifle productivity. The government,
which re-introduced worker safeguards in 2009, is reviewing
legislation, with a three-member panel scheduled to issue a
report by the end of May.  “Five years ago Australia was one of the cheapest places
in the world for us to do business; today it’s one of the most
expensive,” Rio Tinto’s Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese
said on a conference call yesterday. He said he’s concerned
“about the declining levels of productivity” in Australia.  “The unions were pretty well shut out,” Brandon Ellem, an
associate professor at the University of Sydney and author of
“Hard Ground: Unions in the Pilbara,” said in a phone
interview before today’s decision. The earlier Federal Appeal
Court ruling, “will make it a lot easier,” for workers to
organize, he said.  The High Court panel said Rio Tinto’s prospects of winning
a reversal of the appeal court decision were insufficient to
warrant a full hearing.  EPA Cross-State Air Rule Unlawful, Opponents Tell Court  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s regulation on
interstate air pollution is “one of the most costly, burdensome
and arbitrary” rules ever issued under the Clean Air Act,
opponents told a federal appeals court.  More than three dozen challengers to the EPA’s Cross-State
Air Pollution Rule in filings yesterday urged the U.S. Appeals
Court in  Washington  to vacate the rule, which was put on hold by
the court in December while it considered the legality of the
regulation.  Southern Co. (SO) , EME Homer City Generation LP, a unit of
 Edison International (EIX) , and  Energy Future Holdings Corp (TXU) . units in
Texas are among the power companies challenging the rule. The
 state of Texas , the National Mining Association and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers joined in
parallel cases, saying the rule puts an undue financial burden
on power producers and threatens electricity reliability by
forcing companies to shut some older plants.  The EPA rule, which applies to Texas and 26 eastern states,
imposes caps on sulfur dioxide, which can lead to acid rain and
soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen oxide, a
component of ground-level ozone and a main ingredient of smog.  The rule, issued in July and revised in October, applies to
emissions that cross state lines.  Power companies, state officials and lawmakers said the EPA
provided too little time to comply, and argued in court that the
October revisions should invalidate the entire rule.  Arguments in the case are scheduled for April 13. The EPA
is scheduled to respond to the opponents’ filings on March 1.  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  Stanford Bank’s Swiss Accounts $1 Billion Short, Regulator Says  An Antiguan banking regulator told the jury in R. Allen
Stanford’s criminal trial he was “shocked” to find $1 billion
missing from Swiss bank accounts belonging to Stanford’s
Antiguan bank, days before U.S. regulators seized the company on
suspicion of fraud in February 2009.  Paul Ashe, Antigua’s supervisor of international banks,
testified that records he received from  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
early 2009 listed $250 million in Stanford International Bank
Ltd.’s Swiss investment account as of mid-2008. Stanford bank
records Ashe examined in the same timeframe showed $1.25 billion
in the same account.  “I was shocked,” Ashe testified yesterday in federal
court in Houston. “It suggested the document shown to us when
we did the examination was altered, forged.”  Prosecutors claim Stanford masterminded a $7 billion
investment fraud through bogus certificates of deposit at his
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank. Stanford, 61, who
denies all wrongdoing in connection with the alleged scheme, has
been in custody as a flight risk since his indictment in June
2009.  Witnesses have testified that Stanford secretly borrowed
more than $2 billion to finance a lavish lifestyle and private
businesses ranging from Caribbean airlines and real estate to
cricket tournaments. Prosecutors have presented evidence
suggesting that Stanford bribed Leroy King, then Antigua’s top
banking regulator, to hide the fraud.  Ashe testified he found no mention of Stanford’s sizeable
borrowings in Stanford International Bank’s investment portfolio
records. Under Antiguan banking laws, any significant loans to
bank insiders must be “fully secured by cash, and the cash
should be placed within the bank itself, not in another bank,”
he said.  If Stanford International Bank had revealed Stanford’s loan
was part of its investment portfolio, “that would’ve been the
end of the bank,” Ashe testified. “This loan would’ve been
illegal. It would’ve been reckless, irresponsible and downright
negligent.”  Stanford’s attorneys have told jurors the financier was in
the process of consolidating more than 100 private companies and
investments onto the bank’s ledgers in late 2008. They said the
consolidation would have zeroed out Stanford’s loan balance and
repaid all depositors if the SEC had not stepped in and stopped
the process. They contend the court-appointed U.S. receiver has
destroyed much of the value of Stanford’s companies through
mismanagement.  Kinder Morgan’s El Paso Buyout Should Be Barred, Lawyer Says  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMP) ’s proposed $21.1 billion buyout of rival
pipeline operator  El Paso Corp. (EP)  should be barred because it was
tainted by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s conflicting interests in
the deal, a lawyer for El Paso investors said.  Goldman Sachs, which holds a 19 percent stake in Houston-
based Kinder Morgan, improperly served as an adviser to El Paso
on the acquisition offer, said  Mark Lebovitch , a lawyer for
pension funds from Louisiana, Florida and New York that sued
over the deal.  “If there was ever a conflict that can’t be neutralized,
this is it,” Lebovitch told Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo
Strine yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington. “The word
‘conflict’ just doesn’t do it justice.”  Goldman Sachs’s business practices have been criticized
during the past two years after the New York-based company
agreed to pay $550 million to resolve government claims that
marketing materials about investments linked to subprime
mortgages had “incomplete information.”  It was the largest penalty ever levied by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission against a Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs also faced questions from politicians and labor
unions about its compensation system after getting taxpayer aid
during the financial crisis.  El Paso’s board ultimately agreed to Kinder’s bid, which
includes both cash and stock and provides a  37 percent premium 
to shareholders, officials for the company said last year. El
Paso investors contend the offer was too low.  Lebovitch told the judge yesterday that Goldman’s dual
roles as investor and adviser in the El Paso deal tainted the
pipeline company’s consideration of Kinder Morgan’s offer  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court News  Delaware’s Secret Courts are Unconstitutional, Lawyer Says  Delaware Chancery Court’s use of its five judges to preside
over secret arbitration proceedings is unconstitutional, a
lawyer for a state advocacy group said.  Arbitration used to settle disputes between companies
outside the public eye in the presence of judge amounts to a
trial, especially if that judge is deciding facts and applicable
law in a decision that’s binding, attorney David Finger told a
federal judge in Philadelphia yesterday. The public has a right
under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution to access
judicial proceedings, Finger said.  “The point is the right to observe the judges in action,”
Finger told U.S. District Judge Mary A. McLaughlin in a hearing
to decide whether the Delaware statute should stand. “Evidence
is being presented and the judge is making findings of fact and
rules of law.”  The argument is at the heart of a complaint filed by the
Delaware Coalition for Open Government Inc. against the five
Chancery Court judges in October challenging the 2009 statute
governing the sealed proceedings. The Reporters Committee for
Freedom of the Press and five news organizations, including the
New York Times and the Associated Press, filed papers in support
of the Delaware Coalition. The Delaware State Bar Association,
the New York Stock Exchange and  Nasdaq  have backed the court.  The complaint was filed after  Skyworks Solutions Inc. (SWKS) , a
semiconductor maker, and  Advanced Analogic Technologies Inc. (AATI) , a
chipmaker, revealed in September that both companies filed
arbitration petitions under the Delaware program.  The dueling petitions were the first public indication that
the statute had been put into use in the Chancery Court, which
has jurisdiction over the majority of Fortune 500 companies. At
least six companies have used the confidential process so far,
Finger said. Delaware Superior Court has a similar statute,
which hasn’t yet been used, Finger said.  Andre Bouchard, an attorney for the judges, argued that the
proceedings fall within the scope of traditional commercial
arbitrations that have long been confidential and are meant to
streamline litigation and bring business to the state.  “If you opened up public access to this, what would be the
good of it?” Bouchard said. “Confidentiality is a key benefit
of commercial arbitration.  The case is Delaware Coalition for Open Government Inc. v.
Strine, 11-01015, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington.)  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  Jones Day Hires Ex-Latham Partner Tang for Securities Practice  Jones Day (1113L)  hired  John Tang , a former partner at  Latham &
Watkins LLP , as the firm expands its securities litigation team
in  San Francisco .  Tang, 42, the former co-chairman of Latham’s securities
litigation and professional liability practice group, will join
the San Francisco office as a partner in the securities
litigation and Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement
practice, Jones Day said yesterday in a statement.  Jones Day, which has more than 320 lawyers in five
California offices, was  ranked  as the seventh-highest-grossing
law firm in 2010 by the American Lawyer, a trade magazine, with
more than $1.62 billion in revenue.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  