-- Bovespa Sinks as Petrobras Earnings Decline More Than Forecast
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-02-10T15:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/bovespa-sinks-as-petrobras-earnings-decline-more-than-forecast.html
The Bovespa index sank, sending the
index toward its first weekly drop this year, as energy stocks
tumbled after  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  reported profit that missed
estimates and MPX Energia SA said it would delay $4 billion of
investment.  Petrobras, as  Brazil ’s biggest company by market value is
known, fell the most on the gauge.  MPX Energia (MPXE3)  dropped the most
in a week on plans to postpone investments in a Colombian coal
project by more than a year amid price declines for the fuel.  The Bovespa retreated 2 percent to 64,211.91 at 1 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. Fifty-three stocks dropped on the gauge, while 17
advanced. Brazil’s benchmark equity index is down 1.5 percent
this week. The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.727 per  U.S.
dollar  today.  “Petrobras’s earnings disappointed, and while I don’t
think that reflects the overall sentiment about corporate
earnings this quarter, the shares’ plunge dragged the Bovespa
down,”  Pedro Galdi , head strategist at brokerage firm SLW
Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “ Greece ’s problems are
still weighing on the market. Global stocks and commodities are
falling.”  Petrobras slumped 6.8 percent to 23.78 reais. The MSCI
Brazil/Energy Index led declines among 10 industry gauges,
sinking 6.7 percent.  Petrobras’s fourth-quarter net income dropped to 5.05
billion reais ($2.9 billion), or 39 centavos a share, from 10.6
billion reais, or 1.07 reais, a year earlier, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. Analysts had expected the company
to earn  69 centavos a share  excluding some items, according to
the average of six estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Earnings Reports  The decline in Petrobras’s profit reflects higher costs for
drilling in deep waters and shouldn’t be taken as a sign that
economic growth is faltering in Brazil or that corporate
earnings in general are deteriorating, Galdi said.  At least four other companies on the Bovespa index reported
fourth-quarter earnings this week, either matching or beating
analysts’ estimates. Sugar-cane processor  Cosan SA Industria e
Comercio , card-payment processor  Cielo SA (CIEL3)  and retailer  Lojas
Renner SA (LREN3)  outperformed the gauge yesterday after releasing their
earnings reports.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value, said in a regulatory filing on Feb. 7 its adjusted
net income, which excludes one-time charges, increased 10
percent to 3.75 billion reais. That matched the average estimate
among eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  MPX fell 1.8 percent to 47.76 reais.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) , Brazil’s third-biggest
steelmaker, declined 2.3 percent to 18.03 reais. CSN, as the
company is known, was cut to “underweight” from “neutral” at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Greek Debt Concern  Global stocks tumbled today, with the MSCI All-Country
World  index  sinking as much as 1.5 percent, amid concern that
plans to help Greece avoid default were unraveling.  Greece must pass its latest austerity package into law and
identify 325 million euros ($431 million) in spending cuts
before euro-area governments endorse a second bailout for the
country, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.
Laos Party leader George Karatzaferis said the roadmap proposed
for Greece is wrong and he can’t vote for the accord as is.  The Bovespa has advanced 13 percent this year, after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
10.4 times analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the ratio
for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities,
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  7.28 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 6.53 billion reais this year through Feb. 3,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  