-- Brasil Travel Cancels Initial Share Sale as Dozens of Others Wait to Offer
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-02-10T02:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/brasil-travel-cancels-initial-share-sale-as-dozens-of-others-wait-to-offer.html
Brasil Travel Turismo e
Participacoes SA  canceled an initial public offering, citing
“unfavorable” market conditions, as the operator of the
country’s stock exchange says dozens of other companies are
waiting for sentiment to improve to go public.  Brasil Travel had previously postponed the sale by a day
after saying that potential investors were demanding the
company’s owners adopt rules that would require them to retain
shares equal to 50 percent of the amount they’re selling for at
least six months, compared with 15 percent previously.  Brazil,  Latin America ’s largest economy, hasn’t had an IPO
since July even as the benchmark Bovespa stock index rallied 28
percent over the past six months. About 40 Brazilian companies
are waiting for markets to strengthen before going public in
offerings totaling as much as $28 billion, Eduardo Refinetti Guardia, BM&FBovespa SA’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview Feb. 7.  Potential investors in Brasil Travel’s IPO wanted current
shareholders to show more commitment to the company, said a
person with direct knowledge of the offering who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak about the
matter. Brasil Travel, a group of 35 travel agencies in Brazil,
had planned to use funds raised in the offering to expand
through acquisitions.  The company expected to benefit from an anticipated boom in
 Brazil ’s tourism industry as the nation renovates roads and
airports to host the 2014 Soccer  World Cup  and 2016 Summer
Olympics.  A  prospectus  filed last month put the IPO price range at
1,250 reais to 1,650 reais per share. Brasil Travel said it
planned to offer as many as 859,100 common shares, with 568,700
sold by existing investors.  Credit Suisse Group AG was coordinating the sale with
 Barclays Capital , Banco Santander SA and Flow Corretora de
Mercadorias.  Rival travel agency CVC Brasil Operadora e Agencia de
Viagens SA filed to sell shares with the securities regulator in
August, without setting a time frame.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  Sao Paulo  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  