-- Brazil Credit for Big Business ‘Moderately Restrictive’
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-02-10T16:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/brazil-credit-for-big-business-moderately-restrictive-1-.html
Credit availability for large
Brazilian companies was “moderately restrictive” in the final
three months of last year and will remain so in the first
quarter, said Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s director of
economic policy, citing a survey of 22 financial institutions.  The survey shows that the outlook for credit for large
businesses was affected by liquidity, Hamilton said at an event
in Fortaleza. The outlook for credit for smaller enterprises and
consumers is also slightly restrictive in the first quarter
because of delinquency rates, Hamilton said, citing the survey.  The survey, taken from Dec. 12 to Dec. 23, asked bank
executives how they viewed the credit market for different
industries.  Hamilton reiterated that credit will expand 15 percent this
year, after growing 19 percent in 2011.  Slower credit growth this year is one of the factors that
will help the central bank bring inflation back to its 4.5
percent target, according to the minutes of the Jan. 17-18 board
meeting. Still, the bank’s 2012 inflation forecast is 4.7
percent, according to its reference scenario published in
December.  Inflation “will converge to target in 2012 in our view,”
Hamilton told reporters in Fortaleza after the event. “The
forecast doesn’t point to the target, but our view is that the
balance of risks for inflation are favorable.”  There is a bigger chance that consumer prices will rise
less than 4.7 percent this year than the opposite, Hamilton
said.  On Jan. 26, the central bank said there was a high
probability it would reduce the benchmark  interest rate  to less
than 10 percent from 10.5 percent.  Traders are betting the bank will cut its benchmark rate
by 0.5 percentage point for a fifth straight meeting in March,
to 10 percent, and to 9.25 percent by July, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 