-- Brazil’s Consumer Prices Rise at Fastest Pace in Nine Months
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-10T18:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/brazil-s-consumer-prices-rise-for-third-straight-month-2-.html
Brazilian  consumer prices  rose at
the fastest pace in nine months in January on higher transport,
food and drink costs, reinforcing bets the central bank will
miss its year-end inflation target as the economy rebounds.  Prices increased 0.56 percent from December, the national
 statistics agency  said in a report distributed in Rio de Janeiro
today, in line with the median estimate of 49 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  While annual inflation slowed to 6.22 percent in January,
core prices indicate that inflation will breach the 6.5 percent
upper limit of the target range this year, said  Solange Srour ,
chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos in Rio de
Janeiro. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in Mumbai
last week that policy makers are working to bring inflation back
to 4.5 percent this year, even as the bank’s own forecast shows
consumer prices will rise 4.7 percent in 2012.  The January number “shows that the economic slowdown
didn’t affect inflation and that there’s strong inertia,” Srour
said in a telephone interview. “Meeting the target of 4.5
percent this year will be very difficult. Inflation continues to
run high.”  Srour’s calculations show annual  core inflation  at 6.7
percent in January. The central bank targets price increases of
4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Futures Contract  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014 declined four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 9.70 percent at 3:19 p.m. Brasilia time. The real
declined 0.5 percent to 1.7257 per dollar.  Traders are betting the central bank will cut its benchmark
rate by 0.5 percentage point for a fifth straight meeting in
March, to 10 percent, and to 9.25 percent by July, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  Economists forecast inflation of 5.29 percent this year,
according to a Feb. 3 central bank survey, down from 6.5 percent
in 2011.  Transport costs rose 0.69 percent in January after
stagnating in December. Food and beverage prices showed the
largest increase, with a gain of 0.86 percent, compared with a
1.23 percent increase the month earlier.  Recent data show the economy rebounding after it contracted
in the third quarter for the first time in more than two years.
The central bank’s economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, expanded at its fastest pace in 19 months in
November, while unemployment fell to a record low of 4.7 percent
in December and industrial production rose at the quickest pace
in seven months.  The January inflation number marked the first time the
statistics agency used a new methodology that changes the
weighting of each category of goods and services in the overall
index. Using the old methodology the January rate would have
been higher, said Srour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  