-- Brookfield in Talks With Two Companies for Bank of America Space
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-02-10T19:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/brookfield-in-talks-with-two-companies-for-bofa-space-in-lower-manhattan.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  is
in talks with two companies for about half of the space Bank of
America Corp. will leave behind at  New York ’s World Financial
Center, the landlord’s chief executive officer said.  Ric Clark, speaking on New York-based Brookfield’s fourth-
quarter earnings conference call, didn’t identify the potential
tenants. About 3.1 million square feet (288,000 square meters)
of  offices  in the lower Manhattan complex become available after
leases originally signed by Merrill Lynch & Co. run out in 2013.  “We certainly hope that we get half of it done this year,
and half of it done next year, before the expiries come,” Clark
said. “I don’t think the market is quite as slow as the press
has been reporting it, at least not from the level of our
discussions.”  Brookfield’s earnings “could be hit relatively hard” if
office demand wanes in lower  Manhattan , Ross Smotrich, an
analyst with Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, wrote in a Jan.
26 research note. Office availability rose to 11.6 percent in
the fourth quarter, and “spikes” of unleased space are
probable as Bank of America vacates and two World Trade Center
buildings are completed, the brokerage firm Studley Inc. said in
a report last last month.  Brookfield may benefit as financial firms, which once
dominated lower Manhattan, seek to consolidate from multiple
locations into large blocks of space, which the office owner can
offer, Clark told analysts on the call. At the same time,
technology and media companies are adding staff in New York, and
the financial center is “well-suited” to accommodate them, he
said.  New retail leases at the complex may be announced by May,
Clark said. Brookfield is spending $250 million to upgrade the
financial center’s retail portions, which surround its Winter
Garden atrium near the  Hudson River .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  