-- Calif. Jan. Tax Revenue $528M Below Estimate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-10T21:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/calif-jan-tax-revenue-528m-below-estimate.html
California (STOCA1)  collected $528 million
less in taxes in January than Governor  Jerry Brown  estimated in
his latest budget, Controller John Chiang said.  The majority of the shortfall was in income taxes, down
$525 million, or 6.3 percent less than projected in the spending
plan Brown released Jan. 5, Chiang said. Corporate taxes were
down $127.9 million, while sales taxes were up $42.8 million.  California ’s cash may be exhausted by March, Chiang
reported Jan. 31. The nation’s most populous state will need
$3.3 billion by mid-April without additional borrowing and
payment delays, because it has spent more and received less than
anticipated for the current fiscal year.  “January revenues were disappointing on almost every
front,” Chiang said today in a statement. “Thankfully, the
decisive actions taken recently by the state to stabilize its
 cash flow  will ensure that California can pay its bills through
the end of the fiscal year.”  Treasurer Bill Lockyer plans to obtain as much as $1
billion from  Wall Street  to ease the shortfall. Lawmakers passed
a bill to let the state borrow $865 million from internal
accounts to avert a cash shortage.  The drop in income-tax revenue resulted from worse-than-
expected estimated payments and higher-than-projected refunds,
the release said.  Estimated payments in the fourth quarter were down 13
percent from what was projected, a pattern that has occurred
just once in the past two decades, according to Governor Jerry
Brown’s budget office.  Taxpayers may make up the difference with final payments in
April, the budget office said in a  memo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  