-- Can You Pass the ‘Beverly Hillbillies’ Test?: Virginia Postrel
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-02-10T00:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/can-you-pass-a-beverly-hillbillies-test-commentary-by-virginia-postrel.html
Charles Murray knows that people who
read fat books of social criticism aren’t normal. They weren’t
normal when the books had titles like “The Affluent Society,”
“The Hidden Persuaders” and “The Organization Man,” and they
aren’t normal today.  One way they aren’t normal is that they expect to do well
on exams. So “Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-
2010,” Murray’s new book arguing that America’s distinctive
civic culture is unraveling, cleverly includes a 25-question
test. He jokingly frames it as a pre-computer SAT (“Please take
out your no. 2 pencil and begin”), but it’s more like the kind
of quiz you’d find in  Cosmopolitan  magazine. Here, instead of
revealing your sexual habits, you get points for eating at
 Applebee’s (DIN) , owning a pickup, recognizing military insignia and
correctly identifying Branson (a flamboyant entrepreneur named
Richard isn’t the right answer).  Like a Cosmo quiz, Murray’s test is a great marketing tool.
But its primary purpose is rhetorical. It takes people who are
used to feeling smart and in the know and makes them feel dumb
and out of it. It reminds them that they’re not normal. It
suggests they’re living the wrong sort of lives.  “The higher the score,” Murray explained in a Facebook
thread, “the less likely that you are an overeducated elitist
snob who doesn’t have a clue what America is all about.” (The
full quiz from the book is available  online  and there’s a short,
 interactive version  as well.)  Misleading Fable  “Coming Apart” is really two entirely separate works of
potentially valuable social science held together by a
misleading fable. Because Murray is best known as the author of
“The Bell Curve,” we might call the two subjects the Upper Tail
(the quiz is for them) and the Lower Tail ( MTV ’s trashy “Teen
Mom” is for them).  The Upper Tail includes roughly the top 20 percent of the
white population by education and occupation, although Murray
focuses primarily on the much smaller slice he calls the “new
upper class.” These people constitute maybe 5 percent of the
population as a whole and “run the nation’s economic, political,
and cultural institutions.”  The Lower Tail is roughly the bottom 30 percent of whites.
Here, again, Murray is most interested in the extremes: the
third or so of the Lower Tail, maybe 9 percent of the population
as a whole, who are seriously messed up. The vast middle -- the
people who do eat at Applebee’s and vacation in Branson,
 Missouri  -- rarely appear in “Coming Apart,” except as a foil to
make the Upper Tail feel bad.  The fable that connects the two subjects is that back in
1963, before President  John F. Kennedy  was assassinated and the
country split into a million fractious pieces, American culture
was sounder and more united. True, the problems of racial
segregation were yet to be overcome, but at least among whites
everybody shared essentially the same values and experiences.
Americans ate the same food, watched the same movies and TV
shows, read the same books, took the same sorts of vacations,
and adhered to the same basic religious beliefs and social
mores. For example, Murray writes, “It was taken for granted
that television programs were supposed to validate the standards
that were commonly accepted as part of ‘the American way of
life’ -- a phrase that was still in common use in 1963.”  All of this sameness expressed and reinforced a “national
conceit that had prevailed from the beginning of the nation:
America didn’t have classes, or, to the extent that it did,
Americans should act as if we didn’t.” That conceit, he argues,
has disappeared. Rather than mere differences of income, which
have always existed, we now see “the emergence of classes that
diverge on core behaviors and values--classes that barely
recognize their underlying American kinship.”  Different Threat  These classes, he warns, are “different in kind and in
their degree of separation from anything that the nation has
ever known” and that difference threatens to “end what has made
America America.”  There are two big problems with this fable. The first is
that the old consensus was an illusion. Editing out anomalies
was essential to the whole concept of a single culture as
defined not merely by basic values but by taste and experience.
Some of those anomalies were huge.  Take religion, a topic that looms large in Murray’s
analysis. In 1976,  Gallup  for the first time asked people
whether they had had a “born again” experience in which they
committed themselves to  Jesus Christ . It was a concept largely
unknown to the popular media before the emergence of  Jimmy Carter .  The answer was 35 percent. More than a third of the
population. More than the  number of Catholics . Even a narrow
definition of  evangelical Christians  puts them at nearly a
quarter of the population. Yet in the consensus picture of
America -- the picture created by people Murray assures us came
from all sorts of diverse backgrounds -- these born-again
Christians were completely invisible: not mocked, not dismissed,
not attacked. Invisible. Unknown. Utterly foreign. The gulf
between the old elite, who had never heard of evangelicals, and
the new elite, who don’t know many, is not as great as Murray
would have us believe.  Anticipating such objections, he acknowledges that America
in 1963 did have a few peculiar regional subcultures. Today not
knowing about evangelical Christianity, Nascar or Branson makes
you an overeducated elitist snob. Back then it just made you a
Yankee.  Actually, a little regional fragmentation might work in
favor of Murray’s ideal culture, because his real worry is that
it’s gotten way too easy for smart people to meet one another.
In 1963 they were still scattered about the country. Even the
brightest college-bound students tended to stick close to home.
As a result, “there was still no critical mass of the people who
would later be called symbolic analysts, the educated class, the
creative class, or the cognitive elite.” Now smart people go to
the same colleges, live in the same ZIP codes, work at the same
jobs and, worst of all, marry one another.  Too Friendly  “Instead of feeling sorry for the exceptionally able
student who has no one to talk to,” Murray writes, “we need to
worry about what happens when exceptionally able students hang
out only with one another.”  As someone known for writing defenses of  chain stores  and
explaining  Plano, Texas , to puzzled pundits, I agree that way
too many smart people, particularly on the coasts, are quick to
condemn middle-American culture without understanding why people
value one or another aspect of it. But they were even worse in
1963.  That’s the second problem with Murray’s fable: The cultural
consensus was not just an illusion. It was an unhealthy one.
Instead of promoting understanding, it fed contempt.  One piece of evidence is right on page 2 of the book: “The
Beverly Hillbillies,” the highest-rated TV show the week Kennedy
was killed. As Murray points out, nearly a third of American
households watched it on CBS every week -- astounding numbers by
today’s standards. “The Beverly Hillbillies” was not just
popular. It was, by most measures, the biggest hit in sitcom
history. By its fourth week on the air, it had knocked Lucille Ball out of her top spot, and it only fell from the top 10 in
its ninth and final season. It even saved “The Dick Van Dyke
Show,” a flop in its original slot, by providing a big lead-in
audience in an era when it was hard to change the channel. In a
true consensus culture, everyone would have loved it.  But even Mike Dann, the network’s vice president for
programming, found the show “perfectly awful. I hated it,” he
later told an interviewer. The best he could say was that “it
appealed to a certain kind of people.”  Critics damned “The Beverly Hillbillies” as utter trash.
The New York Times called it “steeped in enough twanging-guitar,
polkadot gingham, deliberative drawl, prolific cousins and rural
no-think to make each half hour seem as if it contained 60
minutes.” Variety declared it “painful to sit through.”  Newsweek 
said it was “the most shamelessly corny show in years.”  Antithesis of Corny  Back then “corny” was a word sophisticates used to sneer at
the common folks’ sentimental bad taste. John F. Kennedy, wrote
his friend Benjamin Bradlee of the Washington Post, “could not
bring himself to be ‘corny’ at a time when ‘corniness’ is a
hallmark of American politics.” Jacqueline Kennedy said after
his death that before her elegant young husband came along,
“Politics was just left to all the corny old people who shouted
on the Fourth of July.” Kennedy was the antithesis of corny.
That’s why he was so popular among the Eastern elite.  The truth is that during Murray’s golden age, a lot of
smart people were constantly irritated and angered by what they
saw as America’s lowest-common-denominator bad taste. “ A vast
wasteland ,” Newton Minow, the chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission, called television.  Some critics wanted to impose their idea of better taste on
everyone. Others simply wanted to pursue excellence as they saw
fit. Either way, mass culture offended people with refined or
idiosyncratic preferences. They may not have lived next to each
other or constituted an identifiable social class, but these
people definitely felt different from, and in most cases
superior to, their fellow Americans.  Hence all those scathing reviews of “The Beverly
Hillbillies” -- and all those midcentury books about the horrors
of mass culture, consumerism and other-directed conformism.
These books were written by and for a self-selected elite. A
blockbuster like Vance Packard’s anti-advertising tome “The
Hidden Persuaders” might sell a million copies, but even that
represented barely half a percent of the population.  With five decades’ distance it’s clear that books as
seemingly different as “The Organization Man,” “The Lonely
Crowd,” “The Feminine Mystique” and “ Atlas Shrugged ” were really
all about the same thing: the alienation and discomfort of
gifted, independent-minded individuals in a society in which the
“normal” ruled. The “cognitive elite” felt left out of or
oppressed by the country’s culture and, as a result, scorned it.  Now these people have one another. “People like to be
around other people who understand them and to whom they can
talk,” Murray writes. “Cognitive segregation was bound to start
developing as soon as unusually smart people began to have the
opportunity to hang out with other unusually smart people.” If
you care about happiness, that seems like a good thing.  Interestingly, when smart people feel less alienated, they
seem to buy different sorts of books. Instead of condemning
American society for not honoring the author’s personality or
tastes, the new bestsellers explore the mysteries of human
behavior. Think of  Malcolm Gladwell ’s various books or  Daniel
Kahneman ’s “ Thinking, Fast and Slow .” Perhaps once you accept
that people really are different -- that nobody’s normal and, at
least when it comes to food or entertainment or vacations,
there’s no one best way to live -- you can, paradoxically
enough, start to think about the commonalities known as human
nature.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 