-- Canadian Dollar Slides Most in a Month Amid Turmoil on Bailout for Greece
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-10T22:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/canadian-dollar-drops-most-in-a-month-as-europe-witholds-greek-bailout.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened the most in
a month against its U.S. counterpart after European officials
demanded Greece enact greater austerity measures before winning
more funding, damping demand for riskier assets.  The currency dropped below parity with the U.S. dollar even
after Statistics Canada data showed the nation recorded a trade
 surplus  of C$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion) in December, the widest
since October 2008. The currency had its first weekly loss since
Jan. 6 as stocks and crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell.  “The overriding situation in the euro zone is weighing on
sentiment,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage. “The markets have been overly optimistic.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.7 percent to
C$1.0014 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It weakened as
much as 0.9 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 5, and
declined 0.8 percent for the week. The loonie touched 99.26
cents yesterday, the strongest level since Oct. 31. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.86 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback touched a 10-month low before paring
its decline as the loonie weakened. It reached 7.66 percent, the
lowest level since April 11, before rising to 8.08 percent.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the underlying
currency. It has averaged 10 percent over the past year.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose for the first time in four
days. Yields on the benchmark  10-year  note fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.05 percent after climbing
yesterday to a two-month high of 2.13 percent. The price of the
3.25 percent security due in June 2021 increased 33 cents to
C$110.10.  Five-year (GCAN5YR)  note yields tumbled four basis points to 1.41
percent, after touching 1.48 percent yesterday, the highest
since Dec. 1. The government will auction C$3.5 billion ($3.5
billion) of five-year debt on Feb. 15.  Commodities dropped as risk appetite shrank. Crude oil for
March delivery fell as much as 2.5 percent to $97.32 a barrel in
New York, its biggest intraday drop since Dec. 14, before
trading at $99.05, down 0.8 percent. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index (CRY)  of  raw materials  decreased 1.1
percent. Raw materials including oil account for about half of
Canada’s export revenue. The  Standard & Poor’s  500  index (CRY) 
declined 0.7 percent.  “The news out of  Europe  has taken a little wind out of the
risk sails,” said Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal.  Trade Surplus  The loonie remained lower as the nation’s trade surplus,
which was more than double the revised amount in November, beat
all 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg economist survey with a median
projection for a surplus of C$800 million.  Investor reaction was “muted” in the face of turmoil in
Europe, Bank of Montreal’s Perrier said.  “We are living and dying on headlines out of  Greece ,”
Perrier said.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won approval from his
Cabinet late today to submit laws for the austerity steps, said
a government official who declined to be named. The measures
spurred protests and a strike. Papademos had told his ministers
they had to back deeper budget cuts or quit.  Talks on Greece yesterday between euro-area finance chiefs
broke up with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
head of the group, saying the nation must turn austerity steps
it pledged in an agreement into law before getting aid.  The loonie gained 1.4 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
fell 0.4 percent, and the euro dropped 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  