-- Canada Pension Posts 2.1% Gain as Equities, Bonds Rally
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-10T18:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/canada-pension-posts-2-1-gain-on-investments-as-equities-bonds-rally.html
The  Canada  Pension Plan Investment
Board, the country’s second-biggest public pension manager, said
investments gained 2.1 percent in the fiscal third quarter as
stock and bond markets rallied.  The return for the three months ended Dec. 31 was C$3.2
billion ($3.19 billion), the Toronto-based  fund manager  said
today in a statement. The value of Canada Pension’s assets rose
to C$152.8 billion, up from C$152.3 billion on Sept. 30.  “It was a very good quarter for equity markets around the
world,” David Denison, the chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “And bonds continue to do
well.”  Canada Pension had a “very busy” busy quarter for
transactions, Denison said, and will continue looking for
investments and acquisitions around the globe. He said the fund
may consider making an offer on Toronto’s Scotia Plaza, Canada’s
second-tallest  office tower , which  Bank of Nova Scotia  said last
month it may sell.  Canada’s equity benchmark  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index  rose 2.9 percent and the MSCI World Index climbed 7.1
percent in the three-month period.  Results trailed the 4.2 percent average increase of assets
for Canadian pension funds in the three months, according to a
Jan. 23 report by RBC Dexia Investor Services Ltd.  ’Global Basis’  Canada Pension had about C$1 billion in net investment
income from equities, which represents 51 percent of the fund’s
portfolio. Fixed-income investments, which are 32 percent of the
portfolio, returned C$1.84 billion, according to financial
 statements . Real estate, infrastructure and inflation-linked
bonds returned C$337 million. The fund had C$2.6 billion in
seasonal cash distributions in the quarter.  In the last quarter, Canada Pension agreed to partnerships
to invest in a Brazilian shopping mall and a logistics
facilities in  China , as well as to build an office tower in
Toronto for  Royal Bank of Canada .  The fund also agreed with partner Ares Management LLC to
buy U.S. discount retailer  99 Cents Only Stores (NDN) , and with Apax
Partners Inc. closed a buyout of U.S. wound-care company  Kinetic
Concepts Inc. (KCI)   “This is indicative of the kinds of opportunities that we
continue to see, and continue to see on a global basis,”
Denison said.  Canada Pension covers every Canadian province except
 Quebec . Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, the country’s
largest pension manager, oversees pensions for retirees in the
French-speaking province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  