-- Canadian National Ends Pension of Ex-CEO Recruited by Ackman to Head Rival
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-02-10T21:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/canadian-national-ends-pension-of-ex-ceo-recruited-by-ackman-to-head-rival.html
Canadian National Railway Co.’s (CNI) 
board canceled future pension payments for a former executive
recruited by activist investor  William Ackman  to replace the
head of a rival carrier.  Hunter Harrison ’s statements at an investor meeting held by
Ackman’s  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP indicate that he
broke a non-compete agreement with his former employer, Mark Hallman, a Canadian National spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement on the move. Ackman plans a proxy fight to replace
 Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd. CEO Fred Green with Harrison.  Canadian National, which previously sued Harrison in
federal court in Chicago and sought confirmation of its right to
suspend pension payments, filed a revised complaint today in
which it seeks approval of the railway’s right to cancel them
altogether and recover $3 million in previous payments.  The company is also canceling restricted stock units and
other benefits that have yet to be paid to Harrison.  Installing Harrison at  Canadian Pacific (CP)  is the centerpiece
of Ackman’s turnaround plan for the carrier. Ackman, who invests
in companies he deems undervalued and pushes changes to improve
returns, disclosed a  stake  in October that made him Canadian
Pacific’s largest investor.  Pershing Square now controls 14.2 percent of the company
and has previously said it would indemnify Harrison against any
losses from Canadian National’s suit.  Confidential Information  Harrison’s public statements indicate that be broke a two-
year non-compete with the railroad sometime in 2011, Canadian
National said in the revised complaint. He would be “in
unquestionable breach” of his agreements with Canadian National
if he took a position at Canadian Pacific and would inevitably
disclose confidential information, the company claimed.  Canadian National  said it will “consider appropriate
relief” if Harrison is offered and accepts the CEO job at the
rival rail. To receive his payments, Harrison must confirm that
he never broke his agreements with Canadian National and reject
Ackman’s push to take the top job at Canadian Pacific, the
company said.  Pershing and Harrison couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Right Team  While Harrison may  have some confidential information from
his time at Canadian National, “the more time that goes by
since he was at CN -- he’s now been gone for two years -- the
less I think that information becomes relevant,” Ackman said.  Canadian National cited Harrison’s purchase of $5 million
of Canadian Pacific stock as evidence of his breaking
agreements. The company also said his statement that he would
put the right team in place at Canadian Pacific indicates that
he could look to his former employer to find executives, which
would violate a non-solicitation agreement.  The case is Canadian National Railway Co. v. Harrison,
12-00493, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  