-- LCH.Clearnet Says Annual Profit Gains 11% on Increase Revenue
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-02-10T08:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/lch-clearnet-says-annual-profit-gains-11-on-increase-revenue.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the world’s
biggest clearinghouse for swaps, said full-year profit rose 11
percent as revenue climbed.  Net income increased to 21.2 million euros ($28.1 million)
in 2011 from 19.1 million euros the previous year, the London-
based company said today in a statement. Net revenue climbed 10
percent to 391.4 million euros.  “2011 was a strong year for performance and growth,”
LCH.Clearnet said in the statement. “The underlying core
businesses performed well, with volumes up across asset classes,
in many instances to all-time highs.”  LCH.Clearnet is holding exclusive takeover talks with
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , after earlier attracting
interest from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and NYSE Euronext, which
planned to bid in partnership with Markit Group Ltd. After
NYSE’s merger with Deutsche Boerse AG was blocked by regulators
last week, the New York-based company’s chief executive officer,
 Duncan Niederauer , said there are other “assets” available,
such as LCH.Clearnet and the London Metal Exchange.  LCH.Clearnet, whose  SwapClear  service began clearing
interest-rate swaps traded between banks in 1999, has seen its
market share in equities eroded by new entrants. Its biggest
customers such as NYSE Euronext and the London Metal Exchange
are considering clearing their own trades and two chief
executives have departed in less than six years.  Derivatives Clearing  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet and  Deutsche Boerse ’s
 Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the threat from a trader’s default. The businesses have
become more valuable as regulators globally seek more central
clearing of derivatives.  Yesterday, European Union officials and lawmakers brokered
a deal on rules to force trading of some over-the-counter
derivatives through clearinghouses to safeguard financial
markets. The law will empower EU regulators to decide on types
of derivatives that should be centrally cleared.  Exchange operators from  New York  to Frankfurt and Singapore
have sought takeovers to augment equity businesses after
regulation and automated trading eroded profit.  Nasdaq , which
dropped a bid for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , is the majority owner of
International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC, which opened in
January 2009 for interest-rate swap futures.  New Regulations  The banks that created over-the-counter derivatives in the
1980s are seeking control over how the $601 trillion market
changes under new regulations in the U.S. and  Europe .  The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most swaps be processed by
clearinghouses and that all trades are reported to data
repositories.  As regulators urge more clearing for derivatives, exchanges
such as Deutsche Boerse, NYSE,  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) 
and  CME Group Inc., (CME)  which own clearinghouses or have the so-
called vertical model that locks in trading and post-trading,
are offering more services. The banks that dominate the market
are seeking to take stakes in clearinghouses or strike profit-
sharing agreements.  LSE, which tried and failed to buy the Canadian exchange
last year, lags behind its rivals in the clearing business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  