-- Chavez Rivals Use Primary to Gain Advantage in Venezuela Vote
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-02-10T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/chavez-rivals-use-primary-to-gain-advantage-in-venezuela-vote.html
Opponents of  Hugo Chavez , after
years of infighting and political setbacks, are banking on a
fresh strategy to break the Venezuelan president’s 13-year grip
on power: staging the nation’s first-ever presidential primary.  The 30 or so parties ranging from communists to free market
advocates say the Feb. 12 vote will refute Chavez’s frequent
taunt that they are a “nest of vipers.” It will also showcase
policies that they say aim to protect gains by the poor over the
past decade, while opening up the state-dominated economy.  All three leading candidates are below the age of 45, which
the opposition says will make it harder for the 57-year-old
Chavez to portray them as the old guard who want to return  South
America ’s largest oil producer to the cronyism and corruption of
the past. The ability to form a united front means Chavez, who
says he recovered from cancer last year, is facing his biggest
challenge yet after three consecutive electoral victories, said
Saul Cabrera, vice president of the Caracas-based polling firm
Consultores 21.  “Today, the opposition has a different face than the old
opposition,” said Ramon Guillermo Aveledo, executive secretary
of the Democratic Unity Table, as the opposition alliance is
known. “Before the only thing that united us was our opposition
to Chavez.”  In the last election in 2006, anti-Chavez leaders rejected
a proposal to hold a primary, instead selecting behind closed
doors Manuel Rosales, then-governor of Zulia state, as their
candidate. A supporter of the government that took power after
Chavez was briefly toppled in 2002, Rosales ended up losing to
Chavez by 63 percent to 37 percent.  Opinion Poll  The favorite to win the primary is Henrique Capriles Radonski. The governor of Miranda state was backed by 61 percent
of those surveyed, compared with 16 percent for Pablo Perez, the
42-year-old governor of Zulia, and 5 percent for lawmaker Maria
Corina Machado, 44, according to a survey by Datanalisis, a
Caracas-based polling company.  The survey of 1,000 people, taken between Jan. 25 and Feb.
3, had a margin of error of 2.6 percentage points.  Capriles has set up more than 70 free health clinics in
poor neighborhoods of Miranda state and provided subsidized food
to low-income families. The 39-year-old says he favors former
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s mix of market-
friendly economic policies combined with income redistribution.  No Shocks  Chavez accuses the opposition of using undemocratic
methods, citing the failed 2002 coup and an attempt to oust him
through an oil lockout that paralyzed most of the country’s
economy from December 2002 to January 2003.  Determined not to repeat the mistakes of the past and
emboldened by a strong showing in congressional elections in
2010, the opposition has organized the primary to boost its
democratic credentials. It also tried to make its economic
policies more palatable to Venezuela’s poor majority, who are
accustomed to the welfare benefits of Chavez’s “21st century
Socialism.”  For the first time, it has produced a policy manifesto that
calls for maintaining currency controls temporarily to prevent a
slump in the bolivar and to honor oil contracts signed by Chavez
with  China ,  Russia  and Cuba.  Capriles, whose Jewish grandfather arrived in Venezuela
from  Poland  after fleeing Nazi persecution and founded the local
unit of  East Hanover , New Jersey-based Nabisco Inc., said the
opposition has undergone a steep learning curve.  “We now have a clear proposal for what a government should
be and we’ve made an enormous effort to understand that unity
should transcend all Venezuelans,” Capriles said in an
interview in Caracas Jan. 31.  Economic Model  The government’s economic model of nationalization,
currency controls and price regulations show it’s Chavez who is
harkening back to the failed, state-dominated policies from the
mid-20th century, not the opposition, Aveledo said in an
interview at his office in Caracas.  Since 2002, Chavez has expropriated more than 1,000
companies and assets, leading to shortages of basic staples like
milk that are aggravating 26 percent inflation that’s the
highest among 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “The president remains tied to a dogmatic vision on such
things,” Aveledo said. “He is the candidate of the past.”  Chavez can point to an economy that is picking up after
contracting in 2009 and 2010. Record revenue for state-owned
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA of $128 billion in 2011, after
Venezuelan crude prices rose 40 percent to an average of $101.06
a barrel from the year earlier, allowed for a surge in public
spending that helped gross domestic product expand 4 percent.
The average crude price for the week through Feb. 2 was $107.06.  Borrowing Costs  Venezuelan bonds have rallied in the past year on
speculation that Chavez’s battle with cancer may lead to a
regime change and the reversal of his economic policies.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bond
maturing in 2027 fell 6 basis points yesterday to 12.08 percent,
bringing the decline this year to 1.33 percentage points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Venezuela still pays
the highest borrowing costs in the Americas after Belize.  Chavez, who says he’s cured of cancer after doctors in Cuba
removed a tumor from his pelvic area in June, warned that an
opposition victory will mean Venezuela is once again subjugated
to the interests of the U.S.  “Whoever it is, it’s all the same to me,” Chavez said in
comments broadcast on state television Jan. 31. “Let
Venezuelans decide: independence or colonialism, the future or
the past.”  Opinion Poll  Chavez is leading voter preferences with 47.3 percent of
support, compared with 44.9 percent for the opposition
candidate, according to a December poll by Consultores 21,
published by  Barclays Capital  in a note to clients. The report
did not specify dates or a margin of error for the survey.  The presidential race remains wide open, said Cabrera, the
polling company’s vice president.  “February 12 is going to be an important moment for the
opposition,” he said “It could be the launch pad for a
campaign that has a real chance of winning the presidential
elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 