-- Chile’s Finance Ministry Urges Central Bank to Consider Halting Peso Rally
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-10T21:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/chile-should-study-buying-usd-to-curb-region-beating-peso-minister-says.html
Chile’s central bank should consider
renewing a dollar-buying program to curb appreciation of the
peso,  South America ’s best performing currency in the past
month, acting Finance Minister Julio Dittborn said.  “Obviously it’s a concern that the peso is strengthening
so much,” he said in a telephone interview today. “The central
bank should evaluate whether it is appropriate to intervene
again or not like it’s done in previous years.”  The peso has appreciated 6.2 percent in the past month and
8.1 percent since the central bank ended daily auctions on Dec.
16 through which it bought $12 billion last year. The currency
of the world’s largest copper producer may continue to
strengthen on rising metal prices, Leonardo Suarez, chief
economist at Larrain Vial SA, said on Feb. 9.  The government, whose fiscal policy doesn’t have a
“strong” influence on the  exchange rate , isn’t studying
measures to weaken the peso, Dittborn said. The ministry instead
will take care not to implement measures that strengthen the
currency. Whether to buy dollars is a decision for the central
bank, he said.  The one-month peso forward rate weakened 0.2 percent to
481.5 per dollar from 480.75 after Dittborn’s comments,
according to Alex Pigatto, a trader at Nomura Securities Inc. in
 New York .  Fruit Industry  “It’s important to us that prices in the economy remain
aligned with long-term prices,” he said. “If the price of the
dollar falls a lot now, it’s a concern for some assets.”  Chile’s fruit producers’ federation, known as Fedefruta,
has asked the central bank to take steps to weaken the peso,
Antonio Walker, president of the industry group, said by
telephone last month.  Chile ’s central bank, which operates under a flexible
exchange-rate regime, intervened in the currency twice under the
former bank President Jose De Gregorio.  Rodrigo Aravena, chief economist at Banchile Inversiones in
Santiago, said it was premature to expect the central bank to
resume dollar purchases.  “We’re far from an intervention,” he said by phone today.
“The real exchange rate is above the levels of the previous
interventions. It’s not the right time.”  Stimulus Measures  The government also is “far” from taking steps to
stimulate growth, with the economy expected to expand between 4
percent and 5 percent this year, Dittborn said.  The jobless rate was 6.6 percent in the three months
through December, the lowest rate since before the recession of
2009, while gross domestic product expanded an estimated 6.3
percent in 2011, he said.  Dittborn, 60, has a Master’s in Economics from the
 University of Chicago  and has taught at schools including the
University of Chile, the Pontifical  Catholic University  of Chile
and Andres Bello University. He was a member of Congress from
1997 to 2009.  Dittborn is serving as Finance Minister until Felipe Larrain returns from vacation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  