-- China’s Stocks Rise, Capping Fourth Week of Gains, on Property Easing Bets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T07:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/china-s-stocks-drop-paring-weekly-gain-on-export-outlook-greek-concerns.html
China’s stocks  rose, capping a
fourth week of gains for the benchmark index, after an eastern
Chinese city said it would subsidize home purchases, signaling
some policy easing of property restrictions.  Developers  China  Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co.
surged at least 2 percent after Wuhu city said it will waive a
deed tax. Anhui Conch Cement Co. led gains for construction
material makers after the 21st Century Business Herald reported
 government investment  in low-income housing will increase.  EGing
Photovoltaic Technology Co. (600537)  jumped 4.7 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG said major Asian solar manufacturers are running at full
capacity. China’s exports fell 0.5 percent from a year ago in
January while imports declined 15.3 percent, a report showed.  “Some easing of curbs may follow in smaller cities as
local governments wrestle with the central bank to protect local
interests,” said Luo Bin, who manages about $60 million as
general manager at Shanghai Mingyu Xiaoyang Investment
Management Co. “It’s a positive sign for the  property market .”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.4 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,351.98 as the close, its highest close since Dec.
2. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 0.2 percent to 2,533.62. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, added 0.2 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai index advanced 0.9 percent this week for a
fourth weekly gain, its longest winning streak since July 15.
The measure has rebounded 6.9 percent this year on speculation
the central bank will further cut lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios to spur growth. It announced a cut in reserve ratios on
Nov. 30, the first reduction since 2008, after boosting them and
 interest rates  last year to cool inflation that accelerated to
its fastest pace in three years in July.  Property Stocks Rally  A  gauge  of property stocks jumped 3 percent in the Shanghai
Composite today, the most among the five industry groups. Vanke,
the nation’s biggest listed property developer, climbed 2
percent to 7.85 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest,
jumped 3.3 percent 10.91 yuan. Gemdale Corp. advanced 2.8
percent to 5.56 yuan.  The property gauge rose this week after the central bank
pledged to support first-time homebuyers and said it will
increase support for building of affordable housing.  Wuhu, a mid-sized city in Anhui province, will give
subsidies of 50 yuan ($7.90) a square meter (10.76 square feet)
for the purchase of homes between 70 square meters and 90 square
meters, and 150 yuan a square meter for new homes smaller than
70 square meters, the local government said in a statement on
its website yesterday.  Easing Signal  Wuhu’s announcement may signal more easing of property
measures by local governments as prices fall, said Bai Hongwei,
a property analyst at China International Capital Corp. in
Beijing. Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated on Jan. 31 that China
will maintain real-estate market curbs to bring prices down to a
reasonable level. Beijing and Shanghai are among cities that
said they will continue to impose restrictions this year.  Anhui Conch, the biggest cement maker, gained 0.6 percent
to 17.51 yuan.  BBMG Corp. (601992)  added 2.9 percent to 8.90 yuan.  Government investment in low-income housing will rise by 20
billion yuan this year, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported yesterday, citing unidentified local officials.  China’s trade surplus was $27.28 billion in January, the
customs bureau said on today. Analysts forecast a 1.4 percent
drop in exports and a 3.6 percent decline in imports.  “It is worth noting that the trade data at this time of
the year is heavily distorted by the Lunar New Year holidays,
which fell in January this year and February last year,” Haibin
Zhu and Grace Ng, economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a
a report. “The fact that exports managed to show a month-on-
month gain in seasonally-adjusted terms in January suggests that
the underlying growth pace in exports was indeed quite solid.
Meanwhile, imports came in weaker than expected.”  Solar Stocks  The data may add to concerns that the world’s economy faces
a deeper slowdown in the first quarter as the government curbs
property prices and weaker global growth limits overseas demand.
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday overseas shipments
“cannot make us optimistic” and the  International Monetary
Fund  cautioned this week  Europe ’s debt crisis may cut China’s
growth rate almost in half this year.  EGing Photovoltaic led gains for solar stocks, jumping 4.6
percent to 21.71 yuan.  “Demand pick-up in multiple markets appears to be the
primary driver of recent strength in fundamentals,”  Vishal Shah , an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report yesterday.
“Tier-one companies in China,  Taiwan  and  Korea  have rising
orders and are running at 100 percent of utilization.”  China plans to develop three gigawatts of solar capacity
this year, double its existing capacity, the National Energy
Administration said on its website on Jan. 11.  Reserve Ratios  Chinese lenders’ reserve-ratio cuts may be postponed after
a jump in inflation last month, Market News International
reported yesterday, citing unidentified government officials and
economists. Inflation pressure remains strong because Middle
East tensions may boost  oil prices , said a source familiar with
discussions within the People’s Bank of China.  Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in January, the statistics
bureau said yesterday. That compared with the median 4 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and 4.1 percent in December.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  