-- China Ore Stocks Will Sustain Prices on Iran Sanction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T05:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/china-ore-stocks-will-sustain-prices-should-iran-face-sanction.html
(Corrects  iron ore  inventories figure in second paragraph
of story published Feb. 10)  China  has enough iron ore  stocks  at
ports to prevent prices rising should sanctions by the U.S. and
 Europe  affect deliveries from the nation’s fifth-largest
supplier of the steelmaking ingredient, analysts said.  Iran sold 16.6 million metric tons of ore to China last
year, accounting for 2.4 percent of China’s imports of the raw
material, said Xu Xiangchun, chief analyst with researcher
Mysteel.com. Inventories at 30 Chinese ports totaled 100.21
million metric tons this week, about 32 percent more than a year
earlier, according to data from Mysteel.  The European Union agreed on Jan. 23 to ban oil imports
from  Iran , the world’s fourth-largest producer, starting July 1
to ratchet up pressure on the nation’s nuclear program. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill on Dec. 31 that denies
access to the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank that
conducts business with the Central Bank of Iran.  “Any disruption in supply from Iran isn’t likely to cause
price volatilities because the quantity is too small,” said Xu
Guangjian, a Shanghai-based analyst with Umetal.com.
“Steelmakers can easily find alternative supplies at ports. The
inventories are high.”  Iron ore prices  for immediate delivery gained 3.3 percent
this year to $142.80 a ton as of yesterday on expectations
demand may rise as Chinese construction resumes after the
weeklong Chinese New Year holiday that ended Jan. 29. Ore from
 Australia ,  Brazil  and India account for 79 percent of the port
inventories in China, according to Mysteel data.  Wang Zixuan, co-founder and chief executive officer of
Docom Industry Co. that buys as much as 900,000 tons of ore from
Iran’s state-owned miners a year and sells to China, said a
total of $6 million of capital was frozen twice - this year and
last year - by the U.S. because of doing business with Iran.  “Some Chinese companies are buying iron ore from Iran
using fake contracts to hide the origin of the suppliers,” Wang
said. “They are doing a dangerous thing. There’s a high risk of
losing money.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  