-- China’s Central Bank Invests $50 Billion in CIC, Caixin Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T10:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/china-s-central-bank-invests-50-billion-in-cic-caixin-reports.html
China ’s central bank will become a
shareholder in the nation’s sovereign wealth fund by injecting
$50 billion of capital into the fund, Caixin Online reported,
citing a person it didn’t identify.  China Investment Corp. (CHIVCZ)  received the infusion after the
Chinese New Year holiday, which ended late last month, the
website  reported  in English today. Further guidelines on
financing for the Beijing-based fund have yet to be decided,
according to the report.  CIC has been seeking new capital from the government for a
year after Chairman  Lou Jiwei  deployed almost all of the fund’s
cash in 2010 as an improving world economy prompted a 10 percent
gain in the MSCI World Index. The country’s  foreign-exchange
reserves , managed by the central bank through the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, dropped for the first time
in more than a decade in the fourth quarter.  “It’s a positive move, as that will enable CIC to tap
SAFE’s years of experience in overseas investment and help
balance the corporate structure of the fund,” Zhang Zhiming,
head of China research for HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong , said
by phone. “This is not the end of the second round of funding
injections and more will come” as China deploys more of its
foreign reserves to increase returns, he said.  Calls to the press offices of CIC and the central bank
weren’t answered outside normal business hours.  CIC was set up in 2007 with $200 billion of capital from
China’s  Finance Ministry , which borrowed reserves from the
central bank through a bond sale, to boost returns on the
growing stockpile. The fund posted an 11.7 percent return on its
overseas investments in 2010, it said in July.  China’s reserves, the world’s biggest, fell to $3.18
trillion on Dec. 31 from $3.2 trillion Sept. 30, as foreign
investment moderated, the  trade surplus  narrowed and  Europe ’s
crisis spurred sales of emerging-market assets in the quarter.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  