-- China’s Import Slump, New Loans Slowdown Add to Growth Concerns: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T11:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/china-s-january-exports-fall-0-5-trade-surplus-widens-to-27-28-billion.html
China ’s exports and imports fell for
the first time in two years in January and lending grew less
than estimated, adding to signs growth is weakening in the
world’s second-largest economy.  Overseas shipments decreased 0.5 percent and imports
declined a more-than-forecast 15.3 percent from a year earlier
in a month that had four fewer working days than January 2011
because of the Chinese New Year holiday, the  customs bureau  said
today.  The lowest January new lending in five years and the
smallest  money-supply  growth in more than a decade underscore
the case for more easing even as seasonal distortions make the
numbers harder to gauge. Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said
yesterday January exports “cannot make us optimistic” and the
 International Monetary Fund  warned this week a deterioration in
Europe could cut China’s expansion rate almost in half this year.  “The weakness in trade and lending is more than can be
explained by holiday effects, pointing to growing downside risks
in the domestic economy due to cooling in the property market
and investment,” said Joy Yang, chief economist for Greater
China at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Still, policy makers may wait to move more aggressively
with policy easing until next quarter when inflation drops to
more of a “comfort zone” and weaker economic data justify the
actions, Yang said.  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.1 percent today,
while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index was down 1.4 percent at 8:21
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Surplus Widens  The  trade surplus  widened to a six-month high of $27.3
billion, customs bureau data showed. M2, the broadest measure of
money supply, rose 12.4 percent, less than all 29 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey, People’s Bank of China data released
today showed.  Banks extended 738.1 billion yuan ($117 billion) of  new
yuan-denominated loans  last month, compared with the 1 trillion
yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. New lending
totaled 640.5 billion yuan in December, and last month’s figure
was lower than 25 of 26 analyst  estimates .  The trade surplus may increase pressure on China to quicken
the pace of yuan appreciation and will also delay a projected
reduction in required reserves for banks, said Liu Li-Gang, an
economist in  Hong Kong  at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. The currency rose to an 18-year high against the dollar
today ahead of Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s visit to the
U.S. next week. China lowered the bank-reserve ratio in December
for the first time since 2008.  ‘Mixed Signals’  January’s data gave “mixed signals” on prospects for the
next reserve-ratio reduction as inflation and the  trade balance 
may lower chances of an immediate cut whereas weaker-than-
forecast loan data boosts the case for a move, Mirae’s Yang said.  The median estimate of 30 economists was for a 3.6 percent
drop in imports for the month. Trade data in the first two
months of the year are distorted by the timing of the Chinese
New Year festival which fell in January this year. Adjusted for
the holiday, exports rose 10.3 percent from a year earlier while
imports were up 1.5 percent, the customs bureau said.  The decline in exports compared with the median estimate
for a 1.4 percent drop in a Bloomberg News survey. The median
analyst estimate was for a $10.4 billion  trade surplus  last
month after a $16.5 billion excess in December and $6.46 billion
a year ago.  Imports fell for the first time since October 2009. Last
year, purchases from overseas rose 51 percent in January from a
year earlier.  Demand ‘Picking Up’  In China factories had less need to build up inventories
ahead of the holiday, ANZ’s Liu said. “We do not believe this
is a sign of a demand slowdown,” said Liu, who previously
worked at the  World Bank . “On the contrary, demand has been
steadily picking up.”  Tom Albanese, chief executive officer of  Rio Tinto  Group,
said yesterday he remains confident of a so-called soft landing
in China. The nation provided 28 percent of Rio Tinto’s revenue
in its most recent financial year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yuan-denominated deposits dropped 800 billion yuan in
January, the central bank said today. That would be the largest
monthly decline in at least 12 years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg that go back to 2000.  “The weak pace of deposit growth has been a constraint to
bank lending,”  Jing Ulrich , chairman of global markets for
China at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note after the data.
“With the stringent loan-to-deposit ratio requirement of 75
percent still in place, individual banks’ loan growth may remain
constrained.”  India Output  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, the Australian
central bank lowered its forecasts for growth and inflation this
year. The outlook for consumer prices provides “scope for
easier monetary policy should demand conditions weaken
materially,” the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said.  India ’s industrial production rose less than estimated in
December, signaling weakening domestic demand, data from the
 Central Statistics Office  showed today.  In Europe, U.K. factory output prices rose at the fastest
pace in nine months as manufacturers increased the price of
alcohol, petroleum products and clothing, according to report
from the  Office for National Statistics  in  London .  The  trade deficit  in the U.S. probably widened to $48.5
billion from the $47.8 billion shortfall in November, according
to a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department data
today.  ‘Significant’ Fiscal Stimulus  China’s  inflation  accelerated last month for the first time
since July as food prices climbed before the holiday that
started Jan. 22, a statistics bureau report showed yesterday. An
index of export orders in the agency’s survey of manufacturing
purchasing managers released last week showed a contraction for
the fourth straight month.  The IMF said in a Feb. 6 report that China’s economic
expansion may be cut almost in half from its 8.2 percent
estimate this year if  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens, a scenario
that would warrant “significant” fiscal stimulus from the
government.  --Zheng Lifei, Li Yanping. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore , Penny Peng and Regina Tan in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  