-- China’s New Lending Increased Less Than Estimated in January Amid Holiday
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T09:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/china-s-new-lending-increased-less-than-estimated-in-january-amid-holiday.html
China ’s new lending grew less than
estimated in January as the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday left
financial institutions with fewer working days to grant credit
and the central bank refrained from cutting  reserve requirements .  Banks extended 738.1 billion yuan ($117 billion) of  new
yuan-denominated loans  last month, according to data released by
the People’s Bank of China today. That compares with the  median
forecast  of 1 trillion yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of 26
economists and 641 billion yuan in December.  The lowest January lending in five years may bolster the
case for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to ease monetary policy to counter
cooling overseas demand and slumping property transactions at
home. Officials have pledged in the past month to boost credit
support for smaller businesses, major government-backed
investment projects and affordable-home construction this year.  “Companies remain hesitant to borrow amid the
uncertainties in economic outlook, and fewer working days in
January this year also affected lending,”  Ken Peng , a Beijing-
based economist at BNP Paribas SA, said before today’s release.
“The central bank may also want to prevent the usual explosion
of January lending in order to signal its prudence even though
the market is widely expecting further policy easing.”  Peng estimates new bank lending will rise to 8 trillion
yuan this year from 7.5 trillion yuan last year.  Decade Low  China’s New Year holiday, which ran from Jan. 22 to Jan. 28
this year, distorts monthly data in the first two months of the
year. Such holiday effects “may have masked the real trend in
the economy” and policy makers may adopt a “wait-and-see”
stance until the seasonal factors fade, Peng said.  M2 (CNMS2YOY) , the broadest measure of  money supply , expanded 12.4
percent in January from a year earlier, the lowest in more than
a decade. It gained 13.6 percent the previous month.  Historical data show that banks grant more loans at the
beginning of the year.  The central bank is allowing the nation’s five biggest
lenders, including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
to increase first-quarter lending by a maximum of about 5
percent from a year earlier, two people at state lenders said
last month.  The central bank surprised markets by refraining from
cutting banks’ reserve requirements before the holiday. It has
instead added liquidity to the financial system through reverse-
repurchase contracts and the suspension of weekly bill sales.  A report this week showing inflation in January accelerated
for the first time in six months may further delay a reduction
in reserve ratios, economists at China International Capital
Corp. wrote in a report yesterday. Improved interbank liquidity
and a better-than-forecast reading for the January purchasing
managers’ index may also explain the central bank’s stance,
according to analysts led by Peng Wensheng.  China today reported a $27 billion  trade surplus  in January,
the biggest in six months. The inflow of funds may also add to
domestic liquidity, according to Joy Yang, an economist at Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  