-- China One-Year Swap Completes Biggest Weekly Increase This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T09:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/china-one-year-swap-completes-biggest-weekly-increase-this-year.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps had
their biggest weekly increase this year on speculation the
central bank will slow the pace of policy easing after inflation
unexpectedly accelerated in January.  The  consumer-price  index rose 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its website
yesterday. That was more than all 33 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists and a median of 4 percent. The central
bank  drained  a net 44 billion yuan ($7 billion) of capital from
the financial market, a second week of withdrawals.  “The market has lowered policy-easing expectations
following the CPI figure,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at
Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “The higher-than-expected CPI
will prompt the central bank to wait and watch before announcing
any new easing measure.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose 17 basis
points this week to 3.29 percent as of 5:03 p.m. in Shanghai,
the biggest increase since the five days through Dec. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It declined five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, today.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, gained 28 basis points this week to 3.63
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It fell four
basis points today.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021
climbed 13 basis points in the week to 3.58 percent, according
to quotes provided by the Interbank Funding Center. It was
little changed today.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Sandy Hendry, Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 