-- Citigroup, 16 Firms Reimburse California $2.3 Million in Trade-Group Probe
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/citigroup-16-firms-pay-california-2-3-million-in-muni-probe.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and 15 other underwriters reimbursed  California  $2.3 million
last year after a regulatory probe found they used taxpayer
funds to pay fees to their lobbyists.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, returned
$479,994, while Bank of America Merrill Lynch repaid a combined
$456,482 and JPMorgan paid $490,449 for itself and Bear Stearns
Cos., which it acquired, according to a spreadsheet California
Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office sent to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The documents were obtained by Bloomberg
News through a California Public Records Act request.  The repayments were about 50 percent more than Lockyer had
estimated was owed a year ago, when the practice was uncovered
in a Finra investigation of the  California Public Securities
Association , which lobbies state officials for the municipal-
bond industry.  “We’re pleased the banks cooperated with our effort to get
taxpayers’ money back,”  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Lockyer,
said Feb. 8 in an e-mail. “We’ve put policies in place that
ensure bond underwriters never again recoup from taxpayers the
cost of fees the banks pay to their lobbying groups.”  The firms paid assessments on the sale of new bonds to the
San Francisco-based California municipal-bond trade group, known
as Cal PSA, and to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, a New York-based organization representing broker-
dealers and asset managers, according to the treasurer’s office.
The underwriters used bond proceeds to cover the cost of the
fees.  ‘It Will Stop’  “It’s improper, it will stop now, it will not happen
again, and we will get our money back,” Lockyer said in
February 2011. He estimated that the firms had passed along to
the state $1.5 million in fees since 2005.  James Cervantes, the chairman of Cal PSA, didn’t respond to
a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment on the payments.  “Sifma ended its municipal bond underwriting assessment
last year,” Andrew DeSouza, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  The treasurer’s office didn’t collect about $332,598 in the
fees it identified, including $267,112 from bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and $65,486 from Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
which exited the public-finance market, according to the
document that Lockyer’s office sent to Finra.  “The use of taxpayer funds to pay the bond assessment fees
of the CalPSA and Sifma is not appropriate,” Blake Fowler,
director of the public finance division in Lockyer’s office,
wrote in letters to the underwriters Feb. 25. “Our office is
seeking recovery of such fees that were included as an
underwriter’s expense on past state-bond issues.”  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
 Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and  Justin Perras  of JPMorgan, based in  New
York , declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs & Co., the most profitable securities firm in
Wall Street history before converting to a bank in 2008,
refunded $267,520, according to the documents.  “Goldman Sachs values its long-standing relationship with
the State of California and its related issuers, and we look
forward to continuing to help the Treasurer’s Office access the
 capital markets  in the most efficient manner,” J. Timothy Romer, a managing director of the firm, wrote in a March 9
letter to Lockyer’s office.  Tiffany Galvin, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Gina Petrocelli, principal counsel in Finra’s enforcement
department, sent a letter to Lockyer’s office Jan. 18 requesting
documents showing how much the underwriters were asked to return
and how it was calculated, the names of those receiving the
requests and the issuers who got the refunds.  Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for Washington-based Finra,
declined to comment.  “We’re satisfied we’ve brought this matter to a successful
conclusion,” said Dresslar of the treasurer’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 