-- PetroChina Tops N.Y. Discounts as Lending Falls: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-12T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/cnooc-leads-new-york-discounting-as-bank-lending-slumps-china-overnight.html
PetroChina Co. (PTR)  traded at the biggest
discount to  Hong Kong  in two months and Chinese stocks in the
U.S. slid as lower-than-expected lending and falling imports
boosted concern the world’s second-largest economy is slowing.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. tumbled 1.1 percent to 105.07 in New York
on Feb. 10, as all but one stock fell below shares traded in
Hong Kong. The 1.3 percent drop last week was the first weekly
retreat in two months. Solar module maker  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  fell 9.5 percent while  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) 
joined energy producer PetroChina to trade at the biggest
discount to Hong Kong since December.  Speculation Chinese policy makers must further loosen
monetary policy to spur the economy is mounting, after data
released on Feb. 10 showed credit grew less than analysts
estimated and imports and exports slumped for the first time in
two years. New lending in January was the lowest for the month
in five years, while  money supply  grew the least in more than a
decade, a report released after Chinese markets closed showed.  “The striking thing on the trade data was how weak imports
were,” Mark Williams, chief Asian economist at Capital
Economics Ltd, said by phone from  London . “ China ’s economy is
still slowing and policy makers have not turned fully in the
direction of easing.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 2.9 percent to $38.93
on Feb. 10, the lowest since Jan. 31. The fund slumped 3.9
percent last week.  ‘Unsustainable’ Solar Rally  Imports (CNFRIMPY)  to China declined 15.3 percent in January from a
year earlier, missing the lowest estimate for a 14 percent drop
in a Bloomberg survey of 30 economists. M2, the broadest measure
of  money supply , rose 12.4 percent, less than all 29 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey. Banks extended 738.1 billion yuan ($117
billion) of  new yuan-denominated loans  last month, lower than 25
of 26 estimates.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong fell 1.7
percent last week.  Global stocks  declined for the first week in
six as concerns that a deal to bail out  Greece  may fail rattled
investors.  Hebei, China-based Yingli led a decline among solar
companies, paring its weekly advance to 23 percent.  Mark Bachman , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC -- whose
“neutral” outlook for Yingli stock has not yet borne out with
the stock up 41 percent this year -- said the rally in the
companies’ stock is “unsustainable.”  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , a
Changzhou-based maker of solar panels, lost 7.3 percent to
$10.15 on Friday, cutting its weekly advance to 24 percent.
Bachman also rates Trina’s stock “neutral.”  ‘100 Percent of Utilization’  There has been no uptick in solar companies’ production
targets and factories aren’t running at full capacity, Bachman
said in an interview on Feb. 10, citing conversations with
company officials in China.  “Every one of these companies coming out of China is
likely to produce losses all the way through 2012,” he said.  Deutsche Bank AG’s Vishal Shah, a managing director based
in  New York , wrote in a Feb. 9 report that for “tier-one”
solar companies in China,  Taiwan  and Korea, orders have been
rising and they are “running at 100 percent of utilization.”  ADRs of PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer,
declined 3.4 percent to $146.63 on Feb. 10, widening the
 discount  to Hong Kong to 1.6 percent, the most since Dec. 8. The
U.S.-traded stocks slid 1.9 percent last week.  Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore energy producer, fell 1.9
percent to $221.41 in New York, paring its weekly gain to 1.4
percent, after its  Hong Kong shares  slipped 1 percent to
HK$17.28, or $2.23. One  American depositary receipt  is the
equivalent of 100 ordinary shares. The 0.6 percent discount was
the widest since Feb. 2.  Falling Demand  Crude oil fell from a three-week high in New York trading
Friday on concern euro-area finance ministers’ refusal to
approve Greece’s second rescue package will worsen the European
debt crisis and cut demand for fuel and commodities. Oil for
March delivery gained 0.8 percent last week to settle at $98.67
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The  International Energy Agency  also cut its 2012 forecast
for global oil demand on Feb. 10, citing a “darkening”
economic outlook. Demand will drop in nations of the
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development as the
European crisis hits economic growth, according to the IEA.  Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-biggest producer of the fuel,
slipped 4.6 percent to $24.40, bringing its decline to 0.5
percent last week. The company’s  Hong Kong shares  fell 3 percent
to HK$19.30, or $2.49, leaving the ADRs, worth 10 ordinary
shares, to trade at a 2 percent  discount , the cheapest since
Dec. 28.  European Crisis ‘Staggers On’  Chinese economic data for January can be difficult to
interpret because the Lunar New Year holiday closed many
businesses in the last week of the month,  Capital Economics ’
Williams said. The holiday usually falls during February,
complicating year-over-year comparisons, he said.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the amount banks are
required to keep in reserve for the first time since 2008 in
December and hasn’t altered the nation’s 6.56 percent lending
rate since July. The  International Monetary Fund  said in a
report this week that China’s economic expansion may be cut
almost in half should  Europe ’s debt crisis worsen.  “As the European crisis staggers on with no firm
resolution in sight, I think it will be fair to expect Chinese
policy makers to start wondering whether they should do a little
bit more,” Williams said.  Focus Media  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital advertising company in
China, dropped 3.1 percent to $23.47 on Feb. 10, to lose 2.8
percent last week.  Shanghai-based Focus Media was the subject of a fifth
report questioning its financials by short-sellers Muddy Waters
LLC on Feb. 8. Muddy Waters reiterated a “strong sell”
recommendation on the stock saying that Focus overstated the
size of its LCD television network by counting some cardboard
posters as LCD displays, according to the report last week.  Focus Media said on Dec. 22 that a survey by market
research company Synovate showed the number of LCD screens and
poster frames that it claimed to have was more than 99.95
percent accurate.  Some traditional picture frames, which contain static
poster ads, are counted by its LCD network because the LCD
display network division of the company installs them, not the
Framedia poster frame network, Jing Lu, an investor-relations
officer for Focus in  Shanghai , said in a Feb. 10 phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  