-- Top Colombian Gainer Helm Says Takeover Approaches Rejected
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-02-10T22:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/colombia-s-helm-says-owners-unwilling-sellers-amid-speculation.html
Helm Bank SA (PFBHELM) ,  Colombia ’s best-
performing stock in the past month, said its controlling
stakeholders have no intention of selling amid takeover
speculation that’s driven the share up from a three-year low.  Helm shareholders, including Miami-based investor William
Wilde, have declined approaches by prospective buyers, including
Chilean and Brazilian groups, Helm’s President Carmina Ferro
said in a telephone interview from Bogota. The bank is not
holding any talks with potential investors, she said.  “We have seen interested buyers for five years and the
interest has increased in the past year,” Ferro said yesterday.
“But our shareholders have been resistant to sell the bank.”  Helm has jumped 22 percent in the past month, the biggest
gain in Colombia’s main index. The stock is recovering from a 33
percent plunge last year as investors bet it will be targeted
amid an unprecedented surge in acquisitions of Andean financial
firms sparked by the region’s economic growth and capital market
integration, according to  Andres Jimenez , head of international
sales at  Interbolsa SA (INTBOL)  and David Pelaez, an analyst at Bolsa y
Renta in Medellin.  Even after the rally, Helm’s price-to-book ratio of 1.33 is
the second lowest among 35 Chilean, Peruvian and Colombian banks
covered by Bloomberg, helping fuel speculation a foreign company
will buy it. Only  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Chilean unit has a lower
valuation, the data show.  Less Attractive  Helm gained 5.5 percent to an eight-month high of 366 pesos
at 4 p.m. Bogota time.  Wilde didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
left with an assistant at Helm Holdings International in Miami.  Helm’s net income, which more than doubled in 2010,
probably rose about 7 percent last year, limited by investments
in new offices, branding and technology, Ferro said. Profit
growth may accelerate to as much as 30 percent this year as the
bank begins a plan to nearly double the retail sector’s share of
total lending to about 25 percent over five years, Ferro said.  “We don’t want to lose the position we have in the
corporate sector, where the bank has been doing a very good
job,” she said. “But we do want more consumer participation in
our total portfolio to have a bit more profitability.”  The Bogota-based lender has lower returns and less
attractive growth prospects than Colombian peers and is limited
by a niche focus on high-income individuals and corporations,
said  Rupert Stebbings , Colombia director for Celfin Capital.  “The problem with Helm is no one really knows where it’s
going,” Stebbings said.  Entry Point  Acquisitions of Andean financial firms worth a record $7.56
billion were announced last year, five times the previous year’s
total, while similar transactions in  North America  slumped 8.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Helm may provide a low-cost entry point to Colombia for a
foreign group that can overhaul management and widen margins,
said Andres Jimenez at Interbolsa.  Citigroup Inc., (C)   Brazil ’s  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITAU)  and  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and Chile’s  Corpbanca (BCA)  have expressed interest in
purchasing Helm in recent years, Jimenez said.  A Citigroup spokesman declined to comment in an e-mailed
response. Itau, Bradesco and  Corpbanca (CORPBANC)  representatives didn’t
respond to e-mail and telephone requests for comment.  Helm’s board has approved the issuance of as much as $1
billion worth of debt when the bank sees fit, Ferro said.  “At this point the bank is very liquid,” she said. “But
taking into consideration our growth expectations for this year,
we want to be ready to come out in the market.”  Corpbanca agreed in December to pay $1.16 billion for 95
percent of  Banco Santander Colombia SA. (SANTAN)   Bank of Nova Scotia 
bought Colombia’s Colpatria for $1 billion in October while
Brazil’s Banco BTG Pactual SA agreed Feb. 8 to buy Chile’s
Celfin Capital SA for $245 million in cash and 2.4 percent of
BTG Pactual equity.  Banco de Credito del Peru,  the country’s
biggest bank, agreed to buy 51 percent of Colombian financial
services firm Correval SA in a deal announced Dec. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  