-- Colombia Central Bank Studying Consumer Credit Curbs, Cano Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/colombia-central-bank-studying-consumer-credit-curbs-cano-says.html
Colombian policy makers are studying
new measures to slow consumer credit growth as a compliment to
recent  interest rate  increases, central bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said.  The  central bank  is considering the use of so-called
“macroprudential” measures, which have a faster impact than
the 18-24 month delay associated with higher borrowing costs,
Cano said in an interview in his Bogota office yesterday.  “The risk is overusing the interest rate when there’s
uncertainty regarding the international environment,” Cano
said. “You need to have specific instruments to control
credit.”  Banco de la Republica on Jan. 30 unexpectedly raised its
overnight lending rate a quarter percentage point to 5 percent,
citing rapidly-expanding credit and the fastest economic growth
since 2006. Colombia has raised the rate eight times since the
beginning of last year, in contrast to other  emerging markets 
such as  Brazil  and  Chile , which are cutting borrowing costs to
shield themselves from European debt turmoil.  Brazilian policy makers imposed restrictions on auto loans,
personal loans and payroll loans in December 2010, before
unwinding most of the measures in November when the economy
showed signs of cooling. Brazil’s central bank said that
macroprudential curbs are a “rapid and potent” method of
containing demand, according to the minutes of its March policy
meeting.  Lending, Currency  Colombia’s policy makers in recent months have repeatedly
voiced concern over the pace of credit growth in  South America ’s
fourth-biggest economy.  Total lending rose to 213 trillion pesos ($120 billion) in
November, up 22 percent from 174.3 trillion pesos in the same
month a year earlier.  Colombia ’s January rate increase, which provoked complaints
from business leaders who said it would hurt exports by
strengthening the peso further, was followed four days later by
the central bank’s announcement that it would purchase at least
$20 million per day for at least three months starting Feb. 6.  Cano says Colombia shouldn’t worry about the peso’s
appreciation against the dollar, and should instead focus on its
value relative to regional peers such as Peru and Chile.  Colombia uses dollar purchases to correct currency
“misalignments” compared to its neighbors, without trying to
change its structural trend, Cano said.  The peso has appreciated 7.7 percent to 1776.45 per  U.S.
dollar  over the last three months, the second-best performer
after the Mexican peso of the six most-traded Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Now is a “propitious moment” for the Andean nation to
build up its international reserves, since they are insufficient
to pay for eight to nine months worth of imports, the
historically normal level, Cano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 