-- Copper Traders Turn Bullish as Inventories Drop to 2009 Low: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-02-10T14:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/copper-traders-turn-bullish-as-inventories-drop-to-2009-low-commodities.html
Copper traders turned bullish for
the first time in seven weeks on mounting confidence that global
growth will strengthen, diminishing stockpiles after a year in
which mine production fell by a record amount.  Thirteen of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to gain next week and three were neutral.  Hedge funds  and
other money managers are holding their biggest bet on rising
prices since early August, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Inventories tracked by the London Metal Exchange are
already at a two-year low after global mine output dropped by
200,000 metric tons in 2011,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  Investments (.CMDOI)  in commodities expanded at the quickest pace in
six years in January on increasing confidence economies will
skirt another recession, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Higher
demand comes at a time when producers are struggling to keep up,
as lower ore grades, strikes and slower-than-expected mine
developments limit supply growth. Barclays anticipates a third
consecutive copper shortage in 2012 and another one next year.  “Copper is always a forward looking indicator of where the
economy is going to be,” said  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc in London. “Things are improving in the financial
markets, people are becoming more bullish.”  The metal rose 13 percent to $8,558 a metric ton this year
on the London Metal Exchange, the best start since 2009. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 4.2 percent
and MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 8.2 percent,
as it entered a  bull market  from its October low. Treasuries
lost 0.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  Interest Rates  Investors should take on more risk because “I don’t have a
view that the world is going to fall apart,” Laurence D. Fink,
chief executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest
money manager, said in a Feb. 8 interview in  Hong Kong . The
 Federal Reserve  last month pledged to keep interest rates low
until late 2014 and the  European Central Bank  kept interest
rates at a record low yesterday.  Inventories of copper monitored by the LME slid 34 percent
since October to 312,750 tons, the lowest since September 2009,
bourse data show. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts
global growth of 3.3 percent this year, even as  Europe  contends
with a debt crisis. European finance ministers yesterday held
back a rescue package for  Greece  in a rebuff that left lawmakers
in  Athens  under government pressure to endorse a newly minted
austerity plan or exit the euro.  Development Association  China’s economy  will expand 8.2 percent this year and 8.8
percent in 2013, the IMF predicts. The People’s Bank of  China 
said Feb. 7 it will boost support for construction of affordable
housing. China consumes about 40 percent of the world’s copper
and construction accounts for about 40 percent of demand,
according to the Copper Development Association.  While combined stockpiles tracked by bourses in  London , New
York and  Shanghai  tumbled 9.2 percent since October, inventories
in Shanghai more than doubled this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Demand from Chinese buyers may slow as prices
reach $4 a pound ($8,818 a ton), said Peter Hickson, the head of
commodities research at UBS AG in Hong Kong.  “We’ve had a bit of a run-up in copper prices on Chinese
imports, and I suspect that they will be slower while the price
remains high,” Hickson said. “We are already starting to see a
situation when inventories are rising in Shanghai.” Copper
imports by China fell for the first time in eight months in
January, customs data showed today.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , based in London and the world’s third-
biggest mining company, said yesterday its mined copper output
fell 23 percent last year because of lower ore grades. Supply
will fall 376,000 tons short of demand this year, even as mine
production rises about 3 percent, Barclays estimates. Last
year’s drop in tonnage was the biggest ever, the bank said.  Futures and Options  Speculators raised their net-long position in copper by 5.1
percent to 7,695 futures and options in the week ended Jan. 31,
the most since early August, CFTC data show.  Twelve of 24 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect gold to gain next week and seven were neutral. Futures on
the Comex in  New York  rose 9.3 percent to $1,712.70 an ounce
this year after a 10 percent increase in 2011. Holdings in gold-
backed  exchange-traded products  stand at 2,388.1 tons, about 0.2
percent below the record set in December, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sugar Survey  Seven of 12 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
decline next week. The commodity fell 1.5 percent this year to
22.96 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Ten of 23 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices next
week, while 13 of 25 said soybeans will advance. Corn fell 2
percent to $6.3325 a bushel this year as soybeans gained 0.8
percent to $12.18 a bushel.  The number of futures contracts on 24 commodities from oil
to copper rose 9.3 percent last month, the most since January
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “From a commodity perspective it actually looks quite
positive for 2012,” said Filip Petersson, an analyst at SEB AB
in  Stockholm . “The risk for a Chinese hard landing is easing.
Commodities get less and less sensitive to the European crisis
and the  U.S. economy  at least remains stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 