-- Cybersecurity Bill Responds to Industry Cost Concerns, Reid Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-10T17:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/cybersecurity-bill-responds-to-industry-cost-concerns-reid-says.html
Cybersecurity legislation in the
 U.S. Senate  was designed to avoid unmanageable costs to industry
and can be altered in coming weeks, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  told the nation’s largest business lobbying group.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, responded in a letter to concerns
raised by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that a planned
cybersecurity bill may increase costs and place too many rules
on companies. The measure may be introduced as early as next
week.  “You are absolutely right that a regulatory framework
creating bureaucratic redundancy, over-intrusive requirements,
and unmanageable costs is counterproductive and contradictory to
the spirit of public-private partnership that must drive our
nation’s cybersecurity efforts,” Reid wrote to U.S. Chamber
president  Thomas Donohue  yesterday.  U.S. lawmakers and regulators say legislation is needed to
fight increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks by Chinese
hackers, criminal groups and activists that jeopardize an
estimated $398 billion in domestic research and threaten to
disrupt power grids, banks and communications networks.  Reid has said he plans to bring the bill to the Senate
floor as soon as possible. The Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee scheduled a Feb. 16 hearing on
the legislation.  U.S. lawmakers should more thoroughly vet provisions in the
measure that would give the Homeland Security Department power
to regulate companies that own and operate U.S. networks,  Bruce Josten , the Chamber’s executive vice president of government
affairs, wrote in a Jan. 30 letter to Reid and Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  ‘Rushing Forward’  “Rushing forward with legislation that has not been fully
vetted would be a major mistake,” Josten wrote. “Layering new
regulations on critical infrastructure will harm public-private
partnerships, cost industry substantial sums on compliance, and
not necessarily improve economic and national security.”  In his letter, Reid said many of the issues raised by the
Chamber were addressed in bill revisions. He said the
legislation has been “carefully crafted and narrowly
tailored,” and he pledged to hold a “fair and reasonable”
amendment process when the bill comes to the Senate floor.  Tom Ridge, the former U.S. Secretary of  Homeland Security 
and current leader of the Chamber’s national security task
force, plans to testify on the group’s behalf at next week’s
hearing, Matthew Eggers, the group’s director of national
security and emergency preparedness, said today in an e-mail.  “Ridge will emphasize the need to pursue positive
measures, like information-sharing, in place of measures that
will lead to prescriptive regulations, which run counter to
effective security for the business community,” Eggers said.  Ability to Intervene  U.S. Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  and
Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads the
Senate Commerce Committee, are scheduled to testify at next
week’s hearing.  “Without some ability to intervene -- in a targeted and
efficient way -- to ensure a certain level of protection in this
narrow set of key infrastructure, the government cannot
adequately protect its citizens,” Reid wrote.  The bill would give the Homeland Security Department the
authority to identify computer systems that may cause mass
casualties or catastrophic economic damage when attacked, Leslie Phillips, spokeswoman for the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee, said in an e-mail today.  The agency would work with companies to set standards for
network security, focusing on those that are least secure, she
said. Companies would have to show that their networks are
secure through self assessments or third-party audits, or face
penalties.  “There is no question that the Senate has considered
cybersecurity legislation as thoroughly and as conscientiously
as any legislation in many years,” Reid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net 
nh 