-- Alberto Contador Is Said to Decide Against Challenge to Anti-Doping Rules
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-10T18:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/cyclist-contador-said-to-decide-against-challenge-to-anti-doping-ruling.html
Alberto Contador probably won’t
challenge an anti-doping rule that led to the loss of one of his
three Tour de France titles because it would take several years,
two people familiar with the situation said.  World Anti-Doping Agency  rules put the burden on athletes
to prove their innocence. While sport’s top court found the
Spanish rider guilty of having a banned substance, clenbuterol,
in his system, the Feb. 6 ruling said he most likely ate a food
supplement contaminated with substance during the 2010 Tour.
Because Contador couldn’t prove how the stimulant got into his
system, he was stripped of the title and got a two-year ban.  In criminal cases, the prosecution must prove the athlete’s
guilt. While the Spaniard told reporters in  Madrid  a day after
the ruling that he and his legal team would “carry on fighting
until the end,” challenging the decision may not be worth the
effort, according to  Rodrigo Garcia , a lawyer at Laffer Abogados
in Madrid who has represented athletes at the sports court.  “There is a good argument for questioning the anti-doping
rule but it would take years and be very expensive,” Garcia
said in an interview. “Contador has already spent a lot of time
and money” on his defense, Garcia said.  Contador may have racked up as much as 2 million euros
($2.6 million) in legal fees over the last 18 months, according
to Daniel Malbranque, former general secretary of the
professional cyclists’ union who has direct knowledge of doping
cases. The Montreal-based World Anti-Doping Agency spent
$300,000 in legal fees in winning the case against Contador,
WADA spokesman Terence O’Rorke said Feb. 7.  Swiss Challenge  Contador’s lawyers are considering mounting an appeal to
the Federal Supreme Court of  Switzerland  within the next 30
days, according to the people who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. Such an appeal would be swifter, although to be
successful it would require finding a procedural error with the
process by Lausanne, Switzerland-based CAS, according to Garcia.  “A few cases have been overturned before but I don’t think
there is a case for annulling this one,” Garcia said.  Contador’s spokesman Jacinto Vidarte couldn’t be reached by
telephone today and didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment on his legal options.  The case began when a laboratory in Cologne,  Germany , found
50 picograms per milliliter of clenbuterol in a urine sample
Contador gave to anti-doping officials in Pau,  France , on the
last rest day of the 2010 Tour, an amount that scientists said
would not have improved his performance. A picogram is one
trillionth of a gram.  Contaminated Steak  The Lausanne court rejected Contador’s argument that the
clenbuterol had come from eating a contaminated steak and said a
suggestion by WADA that the drug might have come from an illegal
blood transfusion by Contador to boost his performance was
“equally unlikely.” Athletes have been known to re-infuse
their own blood to increase the number of oxygen-carrying red
blood cells in their body and boost stamina.  Cycling’s ruling body is looking into whether the Saxo Bank
team will retain its place in the elite World Tour series
following Contador’s suspension.  “If the points obtained by  Alberto Contador , representing
approximately 68 percent of the Saxo Bank-Sungard team’s total
points, are disregarded, his team would no longer be considered
to fulfill the sporting criterion required for the UCI World
Tour,”  Union Cycliste Internationale  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  