-- DBS’s Gupta Says U.S. Compliance Easing May Favor European Banks
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-02-10T08:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/dbs-s-gupta-says-u-s-compliance-easing-may-favor-european-banks.html
Piyush Gupta, the head of Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank, said the U.S. may be acting selectively in
relaxing a reporting rule for foreign lenders that seeks to
prevent  tax evasion  by Americans.  “We have to go through the details and if it turns out
that they’ve done something for the Europeans and not for the
rest of the world, we will have to make more noise and fight
harder,” Gupta, chief executive officer of  DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. (DBS) , told reporters in Singapore today.  The U.S. is working on a framework to allow financial
institutions in France,  Germany , Italy, Spain and the U.K. to
report information about Americans under the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act to their own governments rather than to the
 Internal Revenue Service , the Treasury Department  said  on Feb.
8. Asia-Pacific banks face challenges implementing FATCA because
of their diverse jurisdictions, according to Ernst & Young.  “Some countries in the region have data confidentiality
and privacy laws that restrict financial institutions from
releasing customers’ information to third parties unless proper
consent has been obtained,” the consulting firm said in a
statement yesterday.  FATCA is not the only U.S. rule attracting concern from
 Singapore  banks. The island-state’s lenders wrote a letter to
U.S. authorities this week saying the so-called Volcker rule
restricting proprietary trading would impinge on their business
outside of the U.S. and undermine the role of Singapore’s
financial regulator.  Gupta said some of U.S. rules are “unintended
consequences” of other efforts, and that American authorities
are open to fixing them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  