-- Dems Turn to Ex-Congress Members to Win House
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-10T17:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/democrats-turn-to-former-congress-members-in-bid-to-win-house.html
Democrats are turning to a bench of
former lawmakers to help win the 25 Republican seats they need
to gain the majority in the U.S. House of Representatives in
November’s election.  Ten former House Democrats who were defeated in 2010 --when
Democrats lost 63 seats and control of the House -- are trying
to reclaim their seats, some running in districts that tilt more
Democratic after redistricting.  New York (BEESOH) ’s Dan Maffei, Ohio’s Charlie Wilson,  Arizona ’s Ann Kirkpatrick and  Bill Foster  of  Illinois  are among former
lawmakers who Democratic officials see as well-positioned to
regain their seats because they have name recognition, campaign
organizations and fund raising ability. Having been out of
Congress amid the current record-low public approval ratings is
also a point in their favor, Kirkpatrick said.  The time is ripe for comeback candidates because “people
have been watching a very dysfunctional Congress that can’t get
anything done,” said Kirkpatrick, who served one term before
losing to Republican Paul Gosar in 2010.  A Feb. 2-5 nationwide Gallup poll of 1,029 adults showed
public approval of Congress fell to 10 percent, a record low.  The defeated Democratic incumbents are trying for political
comebacks in part because they think their 2010 losses were due
to “peculiar circumstances and that those circumstances won’t
occur again,” said  Bruce Altschuler , a political science
professor at the  State University of New York at Oswego .  ‘Better in the Stable’  Republicans, though, say Democrats’ optimism is misplaced
and stress that voters fired these lawmakers two years ago.  “A lot of these are horses that look better in the stable
than they run on the track,” said  Oklahoma (BSTIOK)  Representative Tom Cole, a former chairman of the Republicans’ House campaign
effort. “They are people who have already been defeated once.”  A number of Republicans defeated in the past six years
tried again and “never made it back,” Cole said. Exceptions to
this trend are Steve Chabot of Ohio, who was defeated in 2008,
and Charlie Bass of New Hampshire, who lost in 2006. Both
“picked the right year and came back in 2010,” Cole said.  Republican campaign strategists say ex-incumbents’ name
recognition also might work against them and tie them to
policies voters don’t favor.  Already Rejected  “The fact that these Democrats have already been rejected
by voters is the least of their problems,” Paul Lindsay, a
spokesman for the  National Republican Congressional Committee ,
said in an e-mail. Their voting records will haunt them, he
said.  Former incumbents do have connections and “some residual
name ID, but there is usually some political damage as well,”
Cole said. “You got defeated for a reason.”  Several of the ex-incumbents said former constituents
helped persuade them to try to regain their seats. Kirkpatrick
said she decided to run last March after people told her they
were “very unhappy with the positions” Gosar had taken. Gosar
has since decided to seek re-election in a different district
that is more solidly Republican. Kirkpatrick faces a primary
challenge from  Wenona Benally Baldenegro , an attorney and
Democratic activist.  ‘Buyer’s Remorse’  Wilson, the  Ohio  lawmaker who was defeated in 2010 after
two terms, said he found “a lot of buyer’s remorse” among
voters who elected Republican  Bill Johnson . Wilson cited a Jan.
21-22 survey by Public Policy Polling of voters in the district
showing that Johnson’s personal favorability rating was 32
percent. The poll was conducted for the House Majority PAC,
which seeks to put Democrats back in control of the House.  Cole said Johnson will prove to be a tough opponent for
Wilson.  Wilson was included in January in the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee’s “Red to Blue” program,
which provides fund raising and organizational assistance to
recruits. Maffei, who is running in upstate  New York , and former
Texas Representative Nick Lampson also were designated for help
from the campaign group.  New York Representative Steve  Israel , who leads House
Democrats’ campaign effort, said in an interview that Democratic
lawmakers narrowly defeated two years ago “can expect to win in
2012” in what he predicted would be “a much more favorable
environment for Democrats around the country.”  Vote on Medicare  Israel said  House Republicans  will be dogged by a vote to
replace Medicare with a health-care voucher system for the
elderly as part of the April 2011 House budget blueprint. He
also cited last year’s brinkmanship over a threatened government
shutdown, raising the federal debt ceiling and extending a
payroll tax break for workers.  “People who voted against  Dan Maffei  didn’t know they were
voting for a congresswoman who would vote to end their
Medicare,” Israel said. Representative Ann Marie Buerkle
defeated Maffei by  fewer than 700 votes  in 2010. “Now they
know, and they will vote for Dan Maffei to come back.”  With congressional redistricting in New York still
incomplete, Maffei doesn’t yet know who his Republican opponent
will be, Altschuler said. Maffei declined to be interviewed.  Redrawn congressional maps have contributed to retirements
of House members on both sides of the aisle. Twenty Democrats
and 15 Republicans announced they will retire from the House or
seek other office. Democratic retirements include three members
of the Blue Dog Coalition from Republican-leaning districts:
 North Carolina ’s Heath Shuler,  Arkansas ’s Mike Ross and
Oklahoma’s  Dan Boren .  Tougher for Democrats  Such districts may be tougher for Democrats to retain
without an incumbent on the ticket.  Redistricting, by contrast, might help Democrat  Mary Jo Kilroy ’s comeback attempt in Ohio. First elected to Congress in
2008, Kilroy lost her re-election bid in 2010 to Republican
Steve Stivers.  The redistricting plan adopted by the Republican-run Ohio
Legislature may paradoxically work in Kilroy’s favor. Lawmakers
created a Columbus-area district with “significantly more
Democratic voters” than her previous district, she said. She
first must beat Democratic primary challengers.  “I was intending to run if there was a district that
wasn’t totally rigged against me,” Kilroy said.  Challenges in 2010  In addition to the ex-incumbents’ races, several Democrats
who mounted strong, though unsuccessful, challenges in 2010 when
Republicans won their House majority are pursuing rematches.  California (BEESCA) ’s Ami Bera and  New Hampshire ’s Ann McLane Kuster
are among the repeat challengers who Democratic campaign
officials see as being competitive. Bera will again try to oust
Republican Representative Dan Lungren in a redrawn Sacramento-
area district where Democrats now have an edge in party
registration.  Kuster will try to unseat Bass, who voters returned to
Congress in 2010 after he was defeated four years earlier when
Democrats took control of the House.  Bass said in an interview he was optimistic he would beat
Kuster, in part because of his strong ties to the district,
which he has represented for a total of 14 years.  “My constituents know me, and I’ve worked hard to deal
with issues that are not necessarily national in nature,” Bass
said.  Bera, whose rematch against Lungren will occur in a
district with about 25,000 fewer Republican voters, said in an
interview that he has observed a stronger anti-incumbent
sentiment, regardless of party affiliation.  Lungren said in an interview he isn’t concerned that the
district has more Democratic voters than before. “Elections are
not predetermined by registration,” he said. “They can give
you a hint as to what a district might do but they don’t
determine it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  