-- Denzel Needs Airbags; Pole Saves Nazi-Era Jews ‘In Darkness’: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/denzel-needs-airbags-pole-saves-nazi-era-jews-in-darkness-greg-evans.html
Sloshing through rank, rat-infested
sewers below Nazi-occupied  Poland , Agnieszka Holland’s wrenching
 “In Darkness”  is a Holocaust film with a setting like no
other.  It’s easy to see why this suspenseful, harrowing and
inspirational drama is an Oscar contender for best foreign
language film, even if it doesn’t join the ranks of such genre
classics as   “The Diary of Anne Frank,”   “Sophie’s Choice” 
and  “Schindler’s List.”   Qualified praise? Yes. This fact-based tale of a Polish
Catholic sewer worker and petty thief who assists a group of
Jews hiding in the foul, labyrinthine sewer system under Lvov
(now Lviv, Ukraine) hews too closely to the emotional beats of
its predecessors to achieve full intensity.  Underground  Written by David F. Shamoon (and based on Robert Marshall’s
1991 book “In the Sewers of Lvov”), “In Darkness” is the
story of Leopold Socha (Robert Wieckiewicz, convincing in both
his greed and compassion), the Pole who happened upon a large
group of Jewish men, women and a few children hiding in his
underground domain.  At first agreeing to help only for money, the casually
anti-Semitic Socha (“Give a Jew your finger and he’ll take your
arm”) gradually opens his heart and conscience to the people he
comes to call “my Jews.”  Holland  (“Europa, Europa” ) initially presents the
terrified escapees as all but indistinguishable, both to Socha
and the audience. Personalities slowly emerge from
cinematographer Jolanta Dylewska’s shadows.  As a Jewish con man whose prejudices are tested as surely
as his courage, Benno Furmann makes an impressive counterpart to
Wieckiewicz’s Socha. Their slowly evolving friendship might seem
too close to buddy film territory, but their final moments in
the sun are for the ages.  “In Darkness,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is playing in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  ‘Safe House’  What, no airbags?  In  “Safe House,”  a rote CIA action-thriller starring
 Denzel Washington  and  Ryan Reynolds , one metal-crunching car
crash after another leaves us pondering the absence of
inflatable life-savers.  Everything else about this predictable movie is telegraphed
nearly from the outset.  Washington, leaning hard on his usual cool, plays Tobin
Frost, a rogue CIA agent who emerges in  Cape Town ,  South Africa ,
from a decade in hiding to take part in a shadowy plot against
his old cohorts.  Remanded to a high-tech “safe house” for an interrogation
that goes very wrong, Frost finds himself the captor of an
untested rookie agent (Reynolds) only recently recruited from
Yale law school.  As the duo goes off-grid en route to the sanctuary of yet
another safe house, director Daniel Espinosa and screenwriter
David Guggenheim concoct shoot-out after shoot-out, car chase
after car chase, all filmed in cinematographer Oliver Wood’s
jerky, close-up style that rewards with excitement but punishes
with motion sickness.  Despite the high-decibel jolts, “Safe House” lapses into
the routine, from the easy-to-guess identity of a CIA traitor,
to the inevitable detente between  Washington ’s not-so-cynical
cynic and Reynold’s wising-up-fast naif.  Sam Shepard, Vera Farmiga, Brendan Gleeson and Ruben Blades
do what they can with one-note roles, while Washington glides
through on detachment and a grin.  Reynolds works hard to outrun his pretty-boy blandness. If
action hero status isn’t in the offing, his portrayal of
panicked befuddlement rings true.  “Safe House” from  Universal Pictures  is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 