-- Dexia Faces 1 Billion-Euro Loss on Sale of Municipal Agency
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-10T19:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/dexia-faces-1-billion-euro-loss-on-sale-of-municipal-agency-1-.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender being broken up
after losing access to funding, faces a loss of about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) on the sale of a majority stake in its unit
that sells covered bonds to finance French municipal lending.  The French government and state-owned Caisse des Depots et
Consignations will each buy 31.7 percent of Dexia Municipal
Agency’s parent company and La Banque Postale SA will acquire
4.9 percent, Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, said today in a
statement. The transaction values the covered-bond vehicle at
380 million euros, according to Dexia.  “That implies a deep discount to book value for a triple-A
covered bond issuer,” Dirk Peeters, an analyst at KBC
Securities NV in Brussels who recommends investors reduce their
Dexia holdings, wrote in a note today. “We hope to see how much
equity, if any, is remaining” in Dexia, he said.  France  salvaged the original deal by agreeing to buy a
direct stake in Dexia Municipal Agency, which preserves Paris-
based Caisse des Depots from having to acquire full control.
Last year’s collapse of Dexia threatened municipal lending
months before the country’s presidential elections.  Moody’s Investors Service stripped Dexia Municipal Agency’s
covered bonds backed by public-sector loans from their top
rating on Dec. 16 and put the Aa1 rating on review for a
downgrade.  Standard & Poor’s  has put its AAA rating on the
covered bonds on “negative watch,” or review for a ratings
cut.  Dexia Municipal Agency, which had 63.4 billion euros of
covered bonds outstanding at the end of June, will provide
funding for a joint venture of Banque Postale and Caisse des
Depots that will replace Dexia Credit Local SA as France’s
municipal lender.  Guarantees  Dexia agreed to provide legal and financial guarantees to
Dexia Municipal Agency and the French government will guarantee
70 percent of losses exceeding 500 million euros on structured
loans to French municipalities, Dexia said, referring to the
original agreement announced on Oct. 20.  The state guarantee needs to be approved by the European
Commission, the European Union’s antitrust regulator. The
agreement also includes a provision for a price adjustment after
three years, both upward and downward and subject to an
undisclosed limit, Dexia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  