-- DNB Channels Samurai Bond Success to Target Debt Sales in U.S., Australia
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-02-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/dnb-channels-samurai-bond-success-to-target-debt-sales-in-u-s-australia.html
DNB ASA (DNB)  will target the U.S. and
 Australia  for debt sales this year after becoming the first
European bank in three months to sell Samurai bonds.  “We made our first Samurai sale in January and we will
continue to tap into that market as well as other sources of
funding,” Bjoern Erik Naess, chief financial officer at
Norway’s biggest bank, said yesterday in an interview. “We’re
active in the Eurobond market and we also plan to enter the U.S.
funding market.”  DNB’s plans to step up sales show Norwegian issuers have
emerged from the credit market turmoil sparked by the
government’s November decision to wind down state-backed
Eksportfinans ASA. Moody’s Investors Service responded by
cutting the unit to junk, a move that sent yields on bonds of
other Norwegian issuers soaring. DNB holds 40 percent of
Eksportfinans and is itself 34 percent owned by the government.  The downgrade of Eksportfinans “created a lot of noise in
the capital and funding markets for a couple of weeks in
December, but seems to have now stabilized,” Naess said. “It
was an overreaction.”  The yield on Eksportfinans’ 4.75 percent 1 billion-euro
($1.3 billion) note due June 2013 has eased to 4.39 percent,
compared with a high of 10.46 percent at the end of November.
Before the lender was cut by Moody’s on Nov. 22, the bond
yielded 1.91 percent.  Spreads Narrow  DNB’s 4.5 percent 2 billion-euro note due 2014 yielded 1.77
percent yesterday, compared with 3.27 percent at the end of
November. The spread to the benchmark Eurobond curve widened to
as much as 257 basis points at the end of November, versus about
139 basis points this week. DNB’s spread is smaller now than it
was before Eksportfinans was downgraded.  The fallout of the export finance unit’s downgrade prompted
DNB to stop a planned Samurai debt sale in December, before it
last month returned to that market.  Japanese investors hold more than 1 trillion yen ($13
billion) of Eksportfinans debt, according to SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. The Japanese Securities Dealers Association in
mid-January wrote a letter to ask  Norway  to lobby Moody’s to
press the rating company to raise Eksportfinans from junk.  While Eksportfinans bondholders have seen their investments
slump, DNB now has “good access” to credit markets “at
competitive prices,” Naess said.  “Last year we were one of
the only European banks to sell covered bonds in the Australian
covered  bond market ,” which the bank may tap again, Naess said.  Diversified Funds  DNB had 635 billion kroner ($110 billion) in issued  debt
securities  at the end of 2011, up from 502 billion kroner at the
end of 2010, the bank said yesterday.  “DNB has diversified itself and raised funding in several
different markets,” said Espen Furnes, a  fund manager  at
Storebrand Asset Management in Oslo. “This is a smart move, and
although this is not necessarily the cheapest way of funding at
the moment, it gives the bank more flexibility in funding.”  DNB sold 400 million pounds ($633 million) of eight-year
senior unsecured bonds in January, while Kommunalbanken AS, a
municipal Norwegian lender, increased a benchmark U.S. debt sale
by 25 percent last week to meet demand.  The state-backed bank, also known as KBN, sold $1.25
billion in three-year AAA rated notes on Feb. 1, $250 million
more than planned, Chief Executive Officer Petter Skouen said.  “We got in some very interesting investors, a lot of the
investors were actually public institutions, central banks and
so forth,” Skouen said in an interview. “It seems we have been
sort of decoupled from the Eksportfinans situation.”  Scandinavian Appeal  Bond and currency investors in Europe have flocked to
Scandinavia to escape the euro area’s debt crisis. Norway and
 Sweden , both rated AAA with stable outlooks, are among the
world’s safest sovereign credits, default swap contracts show.  “DNB has fully utilized the opening in the funding window
that opened this year and has already funded most of the year’s
capital needs,” Furnes said. “This contrasts to the back end
of last year, where there was only limited supply of funding
available.”  DNB has managed to contain a decline in profits even as the
bank faces a slowing economy in Norway. Fourth-quarter net
income fell to 4.09 billion kroner from 5.35 billion kroner a
year earlier, it said in a statement yesterday. That beat the
3.57 billion-krone average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “We are one of the best capitalized banks in  Europe ,”
Naess said. “We are located in one of the world’s strongest
economies here in Norway. We have a conservative business model
and this should continue to be a very solid, robust bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  