-- Dondero Still Slays Bears at Highland With New Leveraged Loans
-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/dondero-still-slays-bears-at-highland-with-new-leveraged-loans.html
Even in an industry full of risk
takers, James Dondero stands out.  At 49, the 6-foot-5-inch  money manager  has taken up
wakesurfing, a daredevil form of water-skiing that involves
riding a boat’s wake just 8 feet from the spinning propellers.
Without a towrope. In October, he stalked brown bears in
Alaska’s rugged Aleutian Islands, bagging a 9-foot-6-inch, 800-
pound behemoth.  One risk Dondero took with his Dallas-based debt-investing
firm, Highland Capital Management LP, almost cost him his
reputation along with billions of dollars, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its March issue.  He gambled that Highland could do with a  hedge fund  what it
had done with the firm’s specialty -- packaging high-yield bank
loans into securities in the form of collateralized loan
obligations (CLOs).  The bet backfired along with the economy during the credit
crisis. By Jan. 1, Highland’s total assets under management had
shrunk to $23 billion, down from $39 billion at the end of 2007.
For Dondero, the low point came in 2008, when Highland suspended
investor withdrawals from two ailing hedge funds.  “Our name was mud,” he says.  Now, Dondero is back on the road, pitching new investment
strategies to attract investors, including a distressed debt
fund and two revamped -- and smaller -- hedge funds. In recent
months, Dondero and Highland’s co-founder, Mark Okada, 49, say
they’ve managed to repair the firm’s reputation.  Infrastructure Projects  They settled investor lawsuits; hired new investor and
institutional relations managers; and in September, opened an
office in  Seoul  to work with institutional investors in  South
Korea  and  Asia . In October, after raising $163 million, they
closed their first joint-venture oil-and-gas fund to new
investors.  In January, they spun off a $3 billion retail unit
comprising 21 mutual funds. All told, Highland says, it had a
net increase of $1.4 billion in assets in 2011.  In December, they teamed up with three Sao Paulo-based
asset managers: Plural Capital Ltda., Quata Investimentos and
 Banco Pine SA (PINE4) ’s investment arm. Highland is calculating that
 Brazil  will need to fund major infrastructure projects for
soccer’s 2014  World Cup  and the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  “No one bailed us out,” Dondero says. “We had to work
through the issues, good and bad.”  With so much distressed debt around after the financial
crisis, Highland is concentrating once again on the core
business Dondero and Okada built before they strayed into hedge
funds in the early 2000s and had their brush with disaster.  Largest CLO Manager  Highland is the largest CLO manager in the U.S. by dollar
amount, according to  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO) , and this part of
Highland’s business has done well. Since 1996, the equity
portion of Highland’s CLOs has generated average annualized
returns of 19 percent.  Highland focuses on buying secured loans from banks or on
the secondary market and packaging them into CLOs, which are
backed by the pool of corporate loans. The firm sells the
higher-rated portions to investors. Highland itself invests in
the nether reaches of CLOs, the so-called equity tranche, which
is typically unrated and gets wiped out if a CLO goes bust.  In cases where debt hasn’t been repaid, Highland has taken
a stake in the borrowers, including  American HomePatient Inc. (AHOM) 
and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. If the CLO stays healthy,
Highland’s payoff is an average return of 170 percent of the
original investment after five to seven years.  Comeback Strategy  Lee Partridge, chief investment officer of Salient Partners
LP in Houston, says he’s favorably impressed by Highland’s
comeback strategy after the hedge-fund debacle. “Considering
the circumstances, they actually navigated that environment very
well,” he says.  In 2010, Partridge recommended a Highland oil-and-gas
joint-venture fund with  PetroCap Inc. , a  Dallas  energy
investment firm, to his clients at the  San Diego County
Employees Retirement Association , which had $8.2 billion in
assets as of Nov. 30, 2011.  Britt Harris, chief investment officer of the $101 billion
 Teacher Retirement System of Texas , is more cautious. He says
Highland’s strengths in distressed debt are relevant to some
things -- “not to everything in the world.”  After earning double the returns of the benchmark index,
TRS took its money out of Highland in 2010. Harris says TRS may
reinvest with Highland only when it sees more-attractive
opportunities in the credit markets.  The two men in charge of Highland have an odd-couple
partnership. Dondero towers over the diminutive Japanese-
American Okada, who’s at least 8 inches shorter.  Giraffe Rug  Dondero, a New Jersey native who took up hunting when he
moved to  Texas , decorates his office with trophies, including a
boar, a giraffe rug and stuffed pheasants.  Okada’s office features a somewhat tamer collection of
basketball bric-a-brac and electric guitars. He jokes about the
origins of the name of a band he once played in, Subprime:
“Because nothing was good about our band.”  Okada’s leisure-time pursuits are more serious in nature.
Last summer, he carted his family off to a Christian missionary
project in Brazil, where his five kids scrubbed toilets and
performed other menial chores.  The pair hooked up in 1990. At the time, Okada was at
Hibernia National Bank in New Orleans, and Dondero was working
in  Los Angeles  as chief investment officer of a unit of
 Protective Life Corp. (PL) , a Birmingham, Alabama-based insurance
firm. Dondero bought a package of commercial loans from Okada as
an investment.  Forming Highland  Okada, who was raised in Orange County and graduated with
degrees in economics and psychology from the  University of
California, Los Angeles , wanted to get back to  California . He
joined Dondero at Protective Life as a credit analyst in July of
that year.  “Jim was smart at everything I wasn’t,” Okada says.  Three years later, Okada and Dondero carved off their
operation, formed a joint venture with Protective that would
become Highland and moved to Dallas. In 1997, they bought out
Protective.  Highland was one of the earliest packagers of corporate
loans into CLOs. To this day, CLOs remain largely unscathed
compared with collateralized debt obligations, which packaged
subprime-mortgage-backed loans and imploded during the credit
crunch.  “The CLO market was well governed before the financial
crisis, and that is why it performed relatively well,” says
Houman Shadab, an associate professor of law at New York Law
School.  Keeping CLOs Solvent  Trey Parker, Highland’s co-head of research, says that to
keep its CLOs solvent, the firm buys debt only after delving
deep into a company’s financials. Parker cites Highland’s role
last year in funding Rank Group Ltd.’s $950 million purchase of
Autoparts Holdings Ltd. from  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)   While Highland’s 25-page analysis was positive about
Autoparts’ brands, including  Prestone antifreeze  and  Autolite 
spark plugs, it was cautious about risks such as the price
volatility of ethylene glycol, the main chemical in antifreeze.  Highland’s foray into hedge funds started off well. Dondero
and Okada launched the Highland Crusader Fund in 2000 as a
vehicle to invest in troubled loans.  Credit Crisis  The Crusader fund produced returns as high as 50.6 percent
in 2004 and had down years in 2002 and 2007, according to a
performance review sent to investors. Net assets peaked at $3.12
billion in 2007, with the fund leveraged at 1.5 to 2 times
equity.  The following year, Highland got slammed by the credit
crisis. Dondero says market prices for assets in the hedge fund
collapsed, potential bidders dried up and counterparties who had
provided leverage to the fund demanded additional cash
collateral or yanked their backing entirely.  By October 2008, the fund’s assets had shrunk to $1.3
billion. Highland sent a letter to investors announcing that it
was suspending withdrawals by investors in order to preserve the
fund’s value by waiting for markets to stabilize so the assets
could be sold.  Highland had to convince 400 investors to accept the firm’s
plan to distribute the assets of Crusader and the smaller
Highland Credit Strategies Fund, which had about $200 million.  The firm spent almost the next three years negotiating with
investors over a plan to return their money and persuading them
to wait until asset prices or liquidity recovered.  Lawsuits  “People realized we had saved them from themselves,”
Dondero says. In the case of the Crusader fund, the firm said in
July that it would return $350 million in cash immediately and
the remaining $1.3 billion during the next three years.  Over the years, at least eight investors sued Highland on
grounds that the firm deceived them about the health of the
hedge funds and the rate of redemptions. The plaintiffs included
the Houston Municipal Employees Pension System and the Mary E.
Bivins Foundation, an Amarillo, Texas-based senior citizens
charity.  Most of the lawsuits have been settled or dismissed.
Highland says it paid no compensation.  Highland, in turn, filed lawsuits against banks it said
were compounding the firm’s problems by seizing collateral that
Highland had used to back the leverage in its hedge funds; it
accused some of the banks of selling collateral and others of
transferring it internally for their own gain.  Fighting Banks  Highland traded litigation with  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)  “The attitude
among many big banks in the crisis was, ‘We’re going to do
things to survive and pay money in litigation later,’” Dondero
says. Some of those cases have been settled; others are still in
court.  With many borrowers unable to pay off their loans, Highland
was left running a number of companies.  In 2008, the firm took control of bankrupt  Marcal Paper
Mills Inc.  after Highland agreed to convert $121.6 million in
debt into a controlling stake in the maker of paper towels,
toilet paper, tissues and napkins.  Highland installed a new management team and repositioned
the company as a marketer of green products, touting Marcal’s
use of recycled materials.  Highland also controls  American HomePatient (AHOM) , a provider of
medical supplies such as feeding tubes, oxygen supplies,
wheelchairs and beds to hospitals through a network of 280
health-care centers in 33 states.  Hollywood  Highland began buying American HomePatient’s debt on the
secondary market in 2001 before the company tumbled into
bankruptcy in 2002. Highland acquired more of the company’s debt
and equity before taking the entire company private in 2010.  Highland’s most high-profile move was to take control of 12
percent of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, owner of the iconic Hollywood
movie studio that produced such classics as “The Wizard of Oz”
and “Gone With the Wind” as well as the James Bond series and
2012’s “The Hobbit”.  Once one of Hollywood’s grandest studios, MGM ran into
trouble after a $5 billion leveraged buyout in 2005 by private-
equity firms including Providence Equity Partners Inc. and Texas
Pacific Group.  Highland and other owners of MGM debt, including Anchorage
Capital Group LLC and Solus Alternative Asset Management LP,
converted their debt to equity after MGM filed for bankruptcy in
November 2010. They appointed Gary Barber and  Roger Birnbaum ,
the co-founders of Spyglass Entertainment Group Inc., to run the
studio.  Marble Pillars  The new team’s first money-saving move was to get MGM out
of its luxurious Century City office tower, where MGM’s design
flourishes included marble pillars and a grand spiral staircase.  Barber says he and Highland share an appreciation for
keeping expenses to a minimum. No one at Highland flies in
anything except coach unless they pay for the upgrade on their
own. That includes Dondero.  “We’re both very tough on costs,” says Barber, whose
Spyglass Entertainment produced supernatural thriller “The Sixth
Sense” and co-produced the 2009 movie version of “Star Trek”.
“We don’t like to see things getting wasted.”  Now that Dondero and Okada have pulled Highland out of its
nose dive, they say they’re eager to break with the past. Among
other things, Highland earned an unhelpful reputation as a
magnet for lawsuits.  One, filed by Shawn Carter, the rapper who performs as Jay-
Z, accused Highland and co-defendant NexBank SSB of trying to
“bleed” from him more money than he had agreed to invest in
connection with a boutique hotel development project in
 Manhattan ’s Chelsea neighborhood.  New Offices  Highland denied the allegations and said they resold the
building at a profit.  In what Highland Chief Operating Officer Patrick Boyce says
is a deliberate re-branding effort, the firm scheduled a move in
late February from the northern suburbs to new offices closer to
Dallas’s downtown financial district.  “It made sense to really have a rebirth of Highland,”
Boyce, 40, says. “We want to make sure the world almost sees us
as a new firm.”  Boyce says the new setup will be more modern, with white
walls and glass. That means Dondero’s office will lose its big-
game hunter look as Highland repositions itself. According to
Boyce, Dondero won’t be taking with him his coveted collection
of trophies that for years adorned his private lair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Lubove in Los Angeles at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  