-- Dubai International Said to Mull Sale of German Industrial Packager Mauser
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-02-10T15:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/dubai-international-said-to-mull-sale-of-german-packager-mauser.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, a
private equity unit owned by the emirate’s ruler, is considering
a sale of German industrial packager Mauser AG, people familiar
with the plans said.  The investment firm is working with  Bank of America Corp .’s
Merrill Lynch unit to explore options for the Bruehl, Germany-
based company, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the process is confidential. Private equity firms will
probably look at Mauser, which has annual sales of 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion), said one of the people.  Dubai International, owned by Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum’s Dubai Holding LLC, bought Mauser in 2007 from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co .’s buyout unit One Equity Partners LLC in a deal
valuing the company at 850 million euros. The potential sale
comes as several companies in the emirate try to restructure
loans after property prices and asset values slumped and credit
markets froze.  Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  owned by the
emirate’s ruler, offered to pay creditors over five to 10 years
as it seeks to restructure $6 billion of bank debt, a banker
familiar with the proposal said this week. Dubai World, a
holding company for the emirate’s government, reached an
agreement with about 80 creditors in March on restructuring
billions in debt.  A spokesman for Dubai International said Mauser is not
currently for sale, and that Bank of America is a trusted
adviser. Spokeswomen for Mauser and Bank of America declined to
comment.  Mauser was founded in a small town in the Black Forest in
1896 by Alfons Mauser, son of the inventor of the gun of the
same name. The company builds packaging such as drums and cans
for transporting hazardous materials such as chemicals and
employs about 4,000 people.  Mauser said on Feb. 8 that Hans-Peter Schaefer had been
appointed to replace Clemens Willee as the company’s chief
executive officer. Schaefer has been with Mauser since 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  