-- Tearful Stanford Investor Tells Jury of Losing Life Savings
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-10T19:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/tearful-stanford-investor-tells-jury-of-losing-life-savings.html
A retired U.S. Air Force medic told
jurors at R. Allen Stanford’s criminal trial that she lost four-
fifths of her savings and her dream of a comfortable retirement
on now-worthless certificates of deposit from Stanford’s bank.  “Being in the military, I was just a middle-class, hard-
working person who took care of my family and made my ends
meet,” a tearful Dianne Hammer testified today in Stanford’s
fraud trial in federal court in Houston. “You really don’t get
rich serving in the military.”  Hammer’s broker at Stanford Group Co. and marketing
brochures from Stanford International Bank didn’t say that
investors were supposed to have a net worth of $1 million or
annual incomes of $250,000 to buy CDs from the Antiguan bank,
she said. Prosecutors claim Stanford ran the bank as a  Ponzi
scheme  that defrauded investors of more than $7 billion.  Testifying for prosecutors, Hammer, 54, said she increased
her Stanford CD holdings from $50,000 to $260,000 in August
2008, after she discussed deteriorating financial market
conditions with her Stanford broker.  “He said since it was an overseas bank, it was safer than
banks in the U.S. were at the time,” she said. The adviser also
recommended she combine investments with her elderly parents so
the family could qualify for a higher  interest rate  on their
joint holdings at SIB, she said.  Stanford, 61, has denied wrongdoing. His lawyers have told
jurors that all of Stanford’s customers were wealthy, accredited
investors, with sophisticated investment knowledge.  Military Pension  Hammer told jurors that she now lives on a modest military
pension. When U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s
operations on suspicion of fraud in February 2009, Hammer said
her SIB statement listed her CD account balance as $280,679.  Her parents’ statement that month indicated a CD balance of
$295,604, which she said represented roughly 90 percent of their
savings. Her mother has since died of cancer, and her father was
diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease and lives in an assisted-
living facility.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa asked Hammer if she or
her parents have gotten any of that money back. She said they
haven’t.  “You’ve got to have money to be able to retire,” Hammer
testified. “I wanted to be able to travel, buy a house, and
help my children as I could, too.”  Cricket Tournament  Costa showed Hammer a photo of a yacht that Stanford spent
$13 million renovating and a snapshot of the former financier
standing beside a glass case filled with $20 million, the prize
money awarded to winners of a cricket tournament Stanford
sponsored.  “If you’d known that millions of dollars in CD money was
going to rebuild yachts and to cricket prizes like in that glass
case, would you have bought the CDs?‘‘ Costa asked. ‘‘Do you
wish you had some of the money in this yacht or in this glass
case?’’  The judge barred Hammer from answering when Stanford’s
lawyer, John Parras, objected to the questions as inappropriate
for a jury weighing guilt or innocence.  Stanford’s trial, which may last six weeks, is completing
its third week of testimony.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is SEC v. Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 