-- ECB Cash Doesn’t Wean Investors Off German Debt
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-10T09:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/ecb-cash-fails-to-wean-investors-off-german-debt-euro-credit.html
Investors are sticking with German
government debt amid concern that unlimited three-year cash from
the  European Central Bank  won’t end the region’s debt crisis.  The yield on 10-year bunds, perceived to be the among the
region’s least risky government debt, has averaged 1.90 percent
since Dec. 8, when the ECB announced the three-year loan plan,
compared with 3.34 percent over the past five years. Bund yields
have held close to their record low of 1.64 percent even as the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has rallied 26 percent from last year’s
low and 7.5 percent this year.  “There’s still a lot of skepticism as to whether Europe
can pull this off,” said Elwin de Groot, a market economist at
Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “While some
money is flowing into the periphery and causing a decline in
spreads, bund yields have been relatively stable. This is not a
trade that’s consistent with a crisis resolution scenario.”  Bund rates remain low even after  Greece ’s government agreed
yesterday on austerity measures required for a 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) financing package, needed to avert an economic
collapse that may spark a fresh wave of contagion in the euro
area. Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  Investors also are wary about the health of the financial
system after banks took 489 billion euros of three-year loans at
1 percent last month from the ECB. The central bank will offer a
second tranche of loans on Feb. 28.  Bunds Outperform  Germany’s 10-year yield has climbed 17 basis points, or
0.17 percentage point this year, to 2 percent as of 9:40 a.m.
London time. In the same period in 2011, it jumped 35 basis
points to 3.31 percent, as investors shifted to higher-yielding
assets. Bunds finished last year with the best returns since
2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
triggered the global financial crisis.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1 percent this
year, less than the 2.3 percent decline by U.K. gilts, according
to indexes compiled the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries, also perceived as
the safest assets, have declined 0.6 percent, the indexes show.  Spanish two-year notes have rallied since Dec. 8, pushing
yields down more than 2 percentage points to around 2.70
percent. German two-year rates dropped two basis points in the
same period.  ING Group Cuts  ING Group NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
said yesterday it cut government bond holdings by 1.3 billion
euros in the quarter that ended in December, compared with the
previous three months, “largely due to a reduction in Italian
and Spanish exposures.”  German yields are unlikely to rise as there’s still “no
closure” on the sovereign debt crisis and the region’s
politicians continue “muddling through,” said Alex Johnson,
the London-based head of  portfolio management  at Fischer Francis
Trees & Watts, which has $54 billion in assets.  “The material issue remains concerns around sovereign
indebtedness and the extent to which bunds represent a safe
haven in the current environment,” said Johnson, adding that
lower yields will be supported by speculation that the ECB will
do more to revive the 17-nation economy.  ‘Significant Challenges’  The euro area probably will contract this year by 0.5
percent with recessions in crisis-hit Greece and  Portugal ,
compared with a 2.3 percent expansion in the U.S., according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists. Europe is also likely to
underperform the U.K., which is forecast to grow by 0.5 percent,
the surveys show. The region’s economy may fail to grow or show
a “recession in certain phases” of this year, ECB council
member Ewald Nowotny said on Jan. 30.  “ Europe  has still got massive, significant challenges,”
William Low, head of global equities at Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership, said in an interview at his Edinburgh
office on Feb. 3. “You’ve still got an issue of imbalanced
growth with Europe, you still have an issue of the availability
of credit and the willingness of financial institutions to
provide credit to the private sector.”  The German 10-year yield climbed yesterday to its highest
since Dec. 13 as Greek politicians announced their agreement,
clearing the way for a deal for creditors to cut the nation’s
debt and win its second rescue in two years. Discussions between
the Greek government and the so-called troika, the European
Commission, ECB and  International Monetary Fund  succeeded and
political leaders agreed with the result, Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s office said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Premature to Cheer  “It would be premature to cheer these headlines before we
know what is really behind the announcement,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “As long as we remain in a situation
where we have ratification and implementation risks ahead, the
10-year bund yield should stay within this range of 1.80 percent
and 2 percent.”  Germany ’s government debt will equal 81 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to the latest set of
European Commission forecasts. That compares with 121 percent
for  Italy , 198 percent for Greece and 118 percent for Ireland.
European rules require euro-region nations to limit their debt-
to-GDP ratio to 60 percent.  “The risk scenarios are absolutely intact, even though
risky assets are rallying,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-
rate strategist at UBS AG in London. “The possibility that the
Greek situation could get worse means there’s a lot of European
demand for bunds as a precautionary asset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 