-- ECB’s Draghi Can Play Pivotal Role in Solving Greek Crisis: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/ecb-s-draghi-can-play-pivotal-role-in-solving-greece-s-debt-crisis-view.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has taken a decidedly more activist and creative
approach than his predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet , toward
supporting the euro-area economy and propping up its banks. Now,
he has an opportunity to take the initiative with Greece, the
currency union’s sickest economy.  After weeks of wrangling, Greece is close to completing yet
another inadequate deal to fix its finances. If all goes as
planned, it will get as much as 100 billion euros ($132 billion)
in debt relief from private creditors, and 130 billion euros in
loans from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  to help cover its borrowing needs while it carries out
austerity measures. The stated goal: to lower the government’s
suffocating  net debt  burden of more than 150 percent of gross
domestic product to the slightly less suffocating figure of 120
percent of GDP by 2020 -- a level that would still leave it
among the euro area’s most indebted.  Greece’s  end of the bargain  is extremely onerous. The
government must reduce its annual primary  budget deficit  by
about 7 percent of GDP, or more than 15 billion euros -- the
equivalent of what it  spends  every year on social programs. With
unemployment at more than 20 percent, industrial production down
11.3 percent in the last year and the economy expected to shrink
4.5 percent in 2012, the budget target all but guarantees that
Greece will be back for another bailout, if it manages to avoid
a descent into civil unrest.  Official creditors, such as the European Union and the ECB,
have the power to increase Greece’s chances of pulling through.
They hold about 40 percent of the country’s sovereign debt. If
they agreed to take losses alongside private creditors,  Greece ’s
net debt burden could be brought down to roughly 80 percent of
GDP immediately. The move would halve the deficit reduction
required of Greece, significantly improving its economic
prospects and reducing the amount of new loans it would need
from the EU and the IMF to stay afloat in the years ahead.  Here is where Draghi comes in. By various estimates, the
ECB holds between 36 billion euros and 55 billion euros of Greek
debt, much of it purchased on the open market at a deep discount
to face value. According to Bloomberg News, euro-area officials
have said the ECB is considering ways to give Greece a break on
that debt, possibly in a deal that would involve selling it at
cost to the European Financial Stability Facility.  This would be an excellent move: It would allow the EFSF to
lighten Greece’s debt load and would point the way toward more
official participation in a realistic solution to the crisis. It
would also permit the ECB to avoid losses that could otherwise
undermine its ability to keep buying the bonds of other troubled
countries such as Spain and  Italy .  Action from the ECB would be only a first step. European
leaders, in particular German Chancellor Angela Merkel, face
serious domestic political obstacles to providing debt relief.
They might also believe that the more Greece is beholden to
them, the more leverage they’ll have to press for further
austerity measures. That approach carries a big risk of pushing
Greece -- and possibly the global economy -- straight off a
cliff.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 