-- Egypt Credit Rating Cut by S&P Citing Plunge in Country’s Foreign Reserves
-- B y   B e n   H o l l a n d   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-10T15:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/egypt-credit-rating-cut-by-s-p-citing-plunge-in-country-s-foreign-reserves.html
Egypt ’s credit rating was downgraded
by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a plunge in the country’s
foreign reserves and persistent political instability.  S&P lowered the ratings on long-term foreign- and local-
currency debt to B, five steps below investment grade, from B+,
according to an e-mailed statement from  London  today. The
outlook was negative, suggesting the next move may be another
cut. It was the country’s third downgrade at S&P in four months.  “Egypt’s external position has deteriorated and is likely
to weaken further, absent stabilization in the domestic
political situation alongside external financial support,” S&P
said.  Egypt’s  reserves  have plunged by more than half since the
start of 2011, dropping to $16.4 billion last month, as the
central bank sought to defend the pound after the revolt against
 Hosni Mubarak  a year ago. Its support helped cap the pound’s
loss at below 4 percent last year, when most emerging-market
currencies declined more, while raising concerns that the bank
will run out of cash to stop a run on the currency.  “They will have to devalue soon, we don’t think they can
hold on much later than April,” said Said Hirsh, an economist
at  Capital Economics  in London. “Everybody is waiting to see by
how much and when it will happen, and that just adds to the
uncertainty. If they act on it soon and the shock happens,
capital might start to return to Egypt.”  Bond Yields Rise  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds maturing in 2020
rose 3 basis points to 7.31 percent at 4:40 p.m. in Cairo, where
local financial markets are closed today.  Egypt’s transition toward democracy has been punctuated by
frequent violent clashes between protesters and the military
rulers who took power from Mubarak. In recent days it also
became embroiled in a row with the U.S., a key ally and
financial supporter, over charges brought against several U.S.
citizens working at non-governmental organizations in Egypt.  “The transition to more-participatory political
institutions in Egypt could falter, leading to weaker political
institutions and rising domestic conflict,” S&P said.  The government has applied to the  International Monetary
Fund  for a $3.2 billion loan. The country needs $11 billion in
external financing through June 2013, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said in an e-mailed statement today. One-year
borrowing costs in pounds have jumped to a record of almost 16
percent.  The political unrest has deterred investors and tourists,
dragging economic growth to its slowest in at least a decade.
Gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in the third quarter
of 2011.  Central bank reserves, excluding gold, now cover less than
three months of imports, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  