-- Heir’s Lawyer ‘Optimistic’ After Hearing on Nazi-Looted Posters
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-10T13:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/heir-s-lawyer-optimistic-after-hearing-on-nazi-looted-poster-collection.html
The lawyer for Peter Sachs, the son
of a dentist who fled  Nazi Germany , said he was “cautiously
optimistic” that his client will get back a collection of 4,259
posters looted by the Gestapo after a court hearing today.  The Federal Administrative Court in Karlsruhe, the highest
court for civil affairs in  Germany , postponed its decision on
the case until March 16. The posters are currently at Berlin’s
 Deutsches Historisches Museum , which is owned by the German
government and the state of Berlin.  Peter Sachs, a retired airline pilot from Sarasota,
 Florida , has been fighting a legal battle to get his father’s
posters back ever since a German government panel rebuffed his
claim in 2007. The Deutsches Historisches Museum estimates their
value at more than 4.5 million euros ($5.9 million).  “I think we can be cautiously optimistic,” said Matthias
Druba, of FPS Rechtsanwaelte, Sachs’s Berlin lawyer. 
“Everything suggests that the court sees Peter Sachs as
the rightful owner.” Sachs was unable to attend the hearing
because of illness.  In January 2010, a Berlin appeals court overturned an
earlier ruling that the posters should be returned to Peter
Sachs. It ruled that although Sachs is still the legal owner, he
doesn’t have the right to possess them.  Hans Sachs began collecting posters in his school days. He
published a poster magazine called “Das Plakat,” founded a
society, held exhibitions and gave lectures. His collection,
including works by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Ludwig Hohlwein,
Lucian Bernhard and Jules Cheret, totaled 12,500 posters and was
at the time the biggest in the world.  Goebbels Museum  It was seized in 1938, and when Gestapo officers carted it
off, they told Sachs that  Joseph Goebbels  wanted his posters for
a new museum wing dedicated to “business” art.  Hans Sachs was arrested and sent to a concentration camp in
1938 and later that year managed to flee with his wife and son
Peter, who was then 14 months old. He never saw his collection 
again. Sachs assumed it hadn’t survived the war and accepted
compensation of 225,000 deutsche marks (about $50,000 at the
time) from the West German government in 1961.  Peter Sachs has said he is willing to repay the
compensation if the collection is returned.  The case is BGH: V ZR 279/10.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Karlsruhe at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 