-- Emerging-Market Stocks Snap Five-Week Advance
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-10T23:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/emerging-market-stocks-drop-from-six-month-high-on-greece-china-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in more than two months as European leaders delayed a rescue
package for  Greece  and China’s trade data signaled growth in the
world’s second-largest economy is weakening.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.8 percent to
1,042.15 at the close in  New York , retreating from a six-month
high and erasing its weekly gain. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  sank 2.3 percent. Benchmark gauges in  Hungary 
and the  Czech Republic  lost more than 2 percent.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa fell 2.3 percent, the most this year.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  obtained approval from
his Cabinet for deeper budget cuts needed to secure a second
package of international aid. The approval capped a week of
tension in Athens as European Union and International Monetary
Fund officials argued with Greek government officials over the
conditions required to secure the 130 billion-euro ($172
billion) rescue package.  “The delay has raised the level of uncertainty in the
market,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at BDO
Unibank Inc. in  Manila . “Some investors are worried this might
not be done on time. Greece has to tighten its belt to improve
its ability to service debt and reduce prospects of a default.”  The measure for developing markets has gained 14 percent in
2012, beating a 7.4 percent advance by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-nation shares. MSCI’s emerging-stocks gauge  trades  for
10.3 times estimated profit, up from an October low of about 9
times. The index has dropped 0.6 percent this week.  Emerging-market equity funds lured the most inflows since
October 2010 in the week ended Feb. 8, taking in $5.8 billion,
according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Allocation Cut  Emerging-market stocks are “overbought” as investors pour
money into the funds, according to Morgan Stanley. The brokerage
reduced its weighting on emerging and Asian stocks from the
maximum “overweight” and boosted cash holdings to 2 percent
from zero,  Jonathan Garner  and Pankaj Mataney, strategists at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report dated today.  “Strong inflows are a near-term contrarian negative,”
Garner and Mataney wrote. “The market is technically
overbought.”  The 14-day relative strength  index  for the MSCI gauge
closed at 82 yesterday, the highest since October 2010. A
reading above 70 signals stocks may have rallied too quickly and
may weaken, according to some technical analysts.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index declined in Sao Paulo as  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  reported profit that missed estimates and  MPX
Energia SA (MPXE3)  said it would delay $4 billion of investments.  Petrobras, as the state-controlled oil company is known,
 fell  7.8 percent, the most since December 2008. MPX  dropped  1.9
percent after announcing plans to delay a Colombian coal project
by more than a year.  Egypt Downgrade  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 386, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The so-called yield spread for Egyptian debt increased 6
basis points to 559, according to JPMorgan. The country had its
credit rating cut by one level to B, five levels below
investment grade, at Standard & Poor’s today. The ratings
company cited a decline in foreign-exchange reserves along with
“ongoing political uncertainties” a year after the ouster of
President Hosni Mubarak.  South Africa’s benchmark equity gauge fell 1.1 percent,
while the rand weakened 2.1 percent against the dollar as the
S&P  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of commodities fell for the first time in six
days. Commodities account for about 60 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  Russia’s Micex Index declined 1.1 percent.  China Trade  China ’s exports fell and imports slid more than forecast in
January as a weeklong holiday disrupted trade while commodity
prices dropped.  China’s exports decreased 0.5 percent and imports fell 15.3
percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said on its
website today. The median estimate of 30 economists was for a
3.6 percent drop in imports for the month, which had four fewer
working days than January 2011 because of the holiday. The trade
surplus widened to a six-month high of $27.3 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  