-- Templeton’s Hasenstab Rejoins Top Performing Funds With Ireland, Asia Bets
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-02-10T01:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/templeton-fund-rejoins-top-performers-with-ireland-asia-bets.html
Templeton Global Bond Fund rejoined
the top-performing fixed-income funds following last year’s
underperformance by scooping up distressed Irish bonds and
keeping bets that the Asian currencies will rise.  The $57 billion U.S.-incorporated fund, run by  Michael Hasenstab  and Sonal Desai, has gained 7.3 percent this year
through yesterday, beating 98 percent of its competitors,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The fund lost 2.4
percent in 2011, ranking at the bottom 10 percent among its
peers.  Hasenstab, 38, turned around the fund after adding to
holdings of Irish government bonds, Asian securities and central
European currencies that suffered losses in the second half of
last year amid the European debt crisis. The  Irish notes  have
gained 9 percent since the end of 2011, while the Hungarian
forint rose 11 percent as the  European Central Bank ’s record
lending eased a funding shortage in the region.  “Our long-term focus allows us to remain patient,”
Hasenstab wrote in a Feb. 8 e-mail response to questions. The
fund was able to “exploit investment opportunities created by
the volatility and panic during the second half of 2011,” he
said.  The fund returned 10.6 percent annually over the past five
years, beating 98 percent of its competitors. Hasenstab, who
holds a doctor’s degree in economics from the  Australian
National University , was named the Top Global Bond Fund Manager
in 2010 by Bloomberg Markets magazine. He is based in  San Mateo ,
 California , and has climbed Alaska’s Mount McKinley and
Kilimanjaro in Tanzania.  Fund Outflows  Templeton Global Bond Fund had its first annual losses in
six years in 2011 as investors dumped emerging-market assets on
concern the European debt crisis would deepen and  China’s
economy  would crash. Investors pulled $1.8 billion from the fund
in the final two months of last year, the first withdrawal since
November 2008, according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  It
attracted a net $15 billion in the first 10 months of 2011, the
most of any U.S. mutual fund, the data show.  Hasenstab said he maintained a steady hand during the
market selloff, keeping the dollar, euro and the yen at a lower
weighting than benchmark indexes and maintaining bullish wagers
in Asian and Scandinavian assets even as the bets went against
him. The portfolio rebounded as concern about an Italian debt
default and a hard landing in China faded.  “We are not compelled to reverse our positioning due to
short-term noises when our long-term conviction remains
unchanged,” Hasenstab said. “For example, in September we
observed a collapse of  Asian currencies  despite their long-term
value. However, already in January, markets have begun to
correct this temporary aberration.”  South Korea  As of Dec. 31, his fund held 14 percent of its assets in
 South Korea , its biggest investment, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It held 10.8 percent of assets in  Poland , the
second biggest, followed by Malaysia and Australia.  Franklin Templeton’s funds, including the Global Bond Fund,
held 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) of Irish  government bonds ,
accounting for about 6 percent of the total outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Irish bonds have gained 16 percent since the end of
November, according to an index compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Irish Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  said this week in a Bloomberg Television
interview that he won’t impose losses on holders of the
country’s sovereign debt.  Distressed Debt  The yield on its 5 percent debt maturing in October 2020
has fallen to 485 basis points above similar maturity euro
benchmark debt from as wide as 1,093 in July 2011. Ireland wants
to refinance about 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of so-called
promissory notes it used to rescue the former Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., now known as Irish Bank Resolution Corp., on better terms
and over a longer period.  While  Greece  failed yesterday to win a rescue package,
Hasenstab said that the chance of contagion has been reduced as
the ECB eased stress on the region’s banking system.  “The chances that  Italy  faces a Greece-like stress have
become smaller,” Hasenstab wrote. “We remain convinced that
 China  is not going to have a hard landing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ; 