-- England May Appoint a Temporary Manager for European Soccer Championships
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-10T11:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/england-may-enter-first-tournament-with-temporary-coach-to-replace-capello.html
Fabio Capello’s resignation may send
the England soccer team into a major championship without a
permanent manager for the first time in history.  Capello quit two days ago after a disagreement with the
Football Association over its decision to remove Chelsea
defender  John Terry  as captain of the national team. The F.A.
acted after Terry’s trial for allegedly racially abusing an
opponent was delayed until after the European Championship in
July. Terry denies the charge.  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp , cleared this week of  tax
evasion , is the favorite for the post with bookmakers and some
players. F.A. Chairman  David Bernstein  said all options remain,
including naming a manager just for the tournament. Under-21
coach Stuart Pearce will lead the team in its next match, an
exhibition against the Netherlands on Feb. 29.  Bernstein also repeated his preference for an Englishman to
hold one of the highest-profile posts in soccer but said there
remained a possibility of another foreign appointee as long as
they had a good knowledge of English soccer.  “We are not prepared to restrict ourselves at this
stage,” Bernstein told reporters yesterday at Wembley Stadium.
“He might be English, he might be British, he might not be. He
might be for the Euros only, he might be long term. We need to
look at all the options.”  Bernstein’s suggestion means there’s a possibility of
Redknapp or another coach taking charge of the team for the
tournament before returning to their current jobs. Tottenham is
on course for its highest finish in the Premier League -- it’s
currently third, 7 points behind leader  Manchester City  -- and a
return to the  Champions League .  Difficult Jobs  Redknapp said that while it was “flattering” to be
mentioned for the post, it would be hard for anyone to juggle
both a club and national job. He added that he owed it to
Tottenham to keep “completely focused” on his current
position.  “It’s hard enough managing a league club, let alone
managing your country,” Redknapp told reporters at a news
conference ahead of tomorrow’s game with Newcastle. “They’re
two very difficult jobs and your focus would have to be on one
job.”  Officials will meet today to decide the criteria required
for finding a new coach.  Scotland  was the last British team to
have a temporary manager at a tournament when  Alex Ferguson  took
charge for the 1986 World Cup.  Terry Decision  Capello said he opposed the decision to remove Terry
because it remained unproven that he racially abused QPR’s  Anton Ferdinand , whose brother Rio plays alongside Terry in England’s
central defense. Bernstein said he understood the coach’s
frustration but the F.A.’s 14-member board was unanimous the
issue “was not appropriate and not in the best interests of
England” for Terry to continue in the role.  Bernstein said the F.A. expected Terry’s trial to begin in
April or May and was surprised by the decision to push it back
to July, even though lawyers for the player and Chelsea lobbied
for the delay. It remains unclear whether the F.A. spoke to
Chelsea about its plans.  Capello was the second foreigner appointed England manager
after  Sweden ’s Sven Goran Eriksson in 2001. U.K. newspapers have
estimated the pair earned 50 million pounds ($79.2 million)
between them over 10 years.  `Large Amounts of Money'  “Clearly there have been large amounts of money
involved,” Bernstein said. “Going forward, we will have to
assess things very carefully. We should pay a sensible amount of
money for the right person but how that balances out we will
have to see.” He added that didn’t mean they were going to hire
someone “on the cheap.”  England hasn’t won a tournament since its only  World Cup 
triumph on home soil in 1966. Its record in European
Championships, excluding the one staged in England in 1996,
stands at just four wins in six tournaments.  Trevor Brooking, a former national team player now on the
four-member panel that nominates the new coach, said an
appointment shouldn’t be seen as a “panacea.”  “Let’s not get this expectancy that whoever comes in is
going to suddenly start delivering us championships,” Brooking
said. “I don’t want to scare off anyone coming into this job
because you are expecting them to come back with a championship
or get to a final and I’m saying it would be great, but let’s
not put this person’s head on the block.”  Some bookmakers have stopped taking bets Redknapp replacing
Capello, and fans and players like Manchester United’s  Wayne Rooney  and  Rio Ferdinand  expressed support for him.  “We of course understand the feeling of the nation and
supporters, fans of  England  are very important when it comes to
choosing the right person for the job,” Bernstein said. “But
we have to sit down and look long-term and give ourselves as
many options as are available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  