-- Tesla Shows Gull-Wing Electric SUV Ahead of Model S Sales
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-10T21:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/tesla-shows-gull-wing-electric-suv-ahead-of-battery-sedan-sales.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker run by entrepreneur Elon Musk, unveiled a battery-powered
sport-utility vehicle with “gull-wing” doors that will go on
sale next year after the Model S sedan’s debut.  The Model X, touted by Tesla as faster than  Porsche AG (PAH3) ’s
911 sports car and roomier than Audi AG’s Q7 SUV, will be built
in 2013 at the company’s Fremont, California, plant that starts
making the Model S this year. Deliveries will begin late next
year and increase throughout 2014, Musk said in an interview.  “The sensible thing to do is to extend the platform of the
Model S into other applications, and the next application
logically is the SUV/minivan arena,” he said yesterday. “For
relatively little  capital investment , maybe between a third and
half of what we spent on Model S, we can bring the Model X to
market.”  Tesla, which seeks to become a dominant seller of premium
electric vehicles, has said it expects Model S sales to help it
become  profitable  for the first time by as early as next year.
The Model X may sell as well as the Model S, Musk said. The
company began taking reservations for the seven-passenger
crossover, which shares a platform and battery system with Model
S, late yesterday, when it showed a prototype at Tesla’s design
studio in Hawthorne, California.  The debut was attended by California Governor  Jerry Brown 
and celebrities such as director  Jon Favreau , who gave Musk a
cameo role playing himself in the movie “Iron Man 2.” Favreau
said yesterday he’s on the waiting list for a Model S.  Tesla, whose investors include  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , fell 4.5 percent to $31.10 at the
close in  New York , as the broader markets declined. The  stock 
has risen 8.9 percent this year.  ‘Falcon’ Doors  The Model X has two electric motors and will be available
with all-wheel drive, said  Alan Clarke , manager of studio
engineering at the Hawthorne facility.  The vehicle has doors that swing open upward because
they’re hinged at the roof, reminiscent of auto designer John DeLorean’s namesake DeLorean DMC-12 sports car from the early
1980s, featured in the “Back to the Future” movies.  The second-row doors “are like gull-wing doors, but we
call them ‘falcon-wing’ doors,” Musk said at the unveiling.
They offer the easiest access to the rear seats of any luxury
vehicle, he said.  Like the Model S, the SUV has a 17-inch touch screen for
navigation, audio and other vehicle controls, the largest of its
type in the industry.  Federal Loan  The company has reservations for more than 8,000 Model S
sedans, Musk said. That figure may be updated on Feb. 15, when
Tesla announces results for the quarter ended Dec. 31.  “Demand for the car is phenomenal,” Musk said. “We’re
sold out until March of next year.”  The company didn’t give pricing or range details for the
Model X. The most expensive version of the Model S sedan,
capable of going 300 miles a charge on lithium-ion battery
power, costs at least $92,400, Tesla said late last year. The
base model of the sedan starts at $57,400 and will run 160 miles
on a charge.  The vehicles qualify for a $7,500 U.S. federal tax credit
aimed at encouraging sales of electric vehicles.  Tesla received a $465 million federal loan to develop and
build electric vehicles at the  California  plant, which was
shared by Toyota and the former General Motors Corp., before
GM’s 2009 bankruptcy.  Tesla has “substantially” met all the requirements of the
 loan  program and has drawn down most of the funds, Musk said.  Triple IPO  Fisker Automotive Inc., a California startup that also
sells premium rechargeable cars, said this week it halted work
on a Delaware auto factory that was preparing to make plug-in
sedans after the U.S. Energy Department blocked access to its
federal loan, citing unmet milestones.  Separately, Musk, who is also chief executive of Space
Exploration Technologies Corp., said he wants the private
rocket-launch business to have an initial public offering in
2013, the third such sale for the entrepreneur in as many years.  “There’s a good chance that SpaceX goes public next
year,” Musk said yesterday, without elaborating.  Tesla sold shares for the first time in 2010. SolarCity
Corp., a developer of rooftop solar-power systems of which Musk
is chairman, is also preparing to file for an IPO this year,
three people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Shares of Tesla, named for inventor Nikola Tesla, plunged
19 percent on Jan. 13 after Bloomberg reported the departure of
two top engineers for the Model S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  