-- EU Lenders to Escape Stress Test This Year, Bank Regulator Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/eu-lenders-to-escape-stress-test-this-year-bank-regulator-says.html
European (BEBANKS)  banks won’t face stress
tests this year because they are already improving their balance
sheets in response to lower sovereign-debt values, the region’s
top regulator for lenders said.  Banks plan to boost capital by about 98 billion euros
($130 billion), 26 percent more than the  European Banking
Authority  originally wanted, the agency said in on its website
yesterday. The regulator excluded from the group Greek lenders
and some banks in the midst of restructuring. It also said that,
while 77 percent of the capital would be raised by “direct”
measures such as retaining profits and dividends, the rest will
come from changing how banks measure risk on their liabilities.  “This says more about the headwinds that banks are
expecting from the sovereign crisis,” Bob Penn, a regulatory
lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP, said in a telephone interview. “If
they’re girding loins for war, then that will be reflected in
more conservative capital planning.”  The EBA excluded all Greek banks,  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,  Austria ’s
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , and  Germany ’s WestLB AG from
the most recent calculations because they are restructuring
their businesses or already under obligations tied to receiving
money from the  International Monetary Fund .  The EBA had told European banks to raise 114.7 billion
euros in fresh capital in December to respond to the sharp fall
in the value of securities issued by euro-area governments. The
agency also required banks to keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio
of 9 percent and hold additional reserves, called a sovereign
buffer, to protect against default on debt tied to weaker euro-
area economies.  Real Economy  The measures would result in banks reducing lending to the
real economy by “less than 1 percent of the total amount” of
capital raised, the EBA said yesterday.  “Capital plans may be challenged and in some cases
revised,” the EBA said in the statement, following a London
meeting of the 27 national banking supervisors in the European
Union. “If earning forecasts or other assumptions look
optimistic, back-up plans will be requested.”  Banks submitted plans to raise capital in January. The EBA
has said lenders aren’t allowed to reduce lending to reach the
capital-ratio goals. Groups of financial supervisors are to have
further meetings this month to evaluate and formally approve the
plans.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, rose 15
percent on Jan. 19 after the bank said it’s more than halfway to
reaching a 5.3 billion-euro capital goal without resorting to
 government aid .  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest bank, was required to
plug a 15.3 billion-euro shortfall. Santander said Jan. 9 it met
EBA’s requirements by selling stakes in South American lenders,
issuing new stock in exchange for preferred equity and paying
dividends in shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  