-- EU Sanctions Against Iran’s Largest Port Operator Risk Curbing Legal Trade
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-10T00:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/eu-sanctions-on-iran-s-largest-ports-will-slash-legal-trade-if-enforced.html
New European Union sanctions on
 Iran ’s largest ports operator will curb billions of euros in
otherwise legal trade, if EU authorities police those seeking
ways around the rules, according to trade lawyers, shipping and
insurance executives and EU officials.  The EU’s announcement of an Iranian oil embargo on Jan. 23
overshadowed an asset freeze approved the same day on Tidewater
Middle East Co., Iran’s dominant ports operator, a move with
consequences for European companies all along the trade and
supply chain. The EU was Iran’s top trade partner in 2010, with
about 13 billion euros ($17.3 billion) in non-petroleum trade
that year, European Commission and International Monetary Fund
figures show.  The new measure forbids any EU person or entity from making
direct or indirect payments for Tidewater’s benefit. That means
exporters, importers, shipowners and charterers can’t pay
loading fees at Tidewater’s seven ports, including the Shaheed
Rajaee complex at  Bandar Abbas . Ninety percent of Iran’s
container traffic passes through that port at the mouth of the
 Strait of Hormuz .  Until last month, “a U.K. company could legally ship legal
goods like medical equipment or glass to Iran,” Nigel Kushner,
chief executive officer of Whale Rock Legal, a London law firm
whose clients include exporters that trade with Iran, said in a
phone interview. “Now if they ship that to Dubai, knowing it
will be shipped to Bandar Abbas, they may be in breach of
sanctions.”  “In practice, much trade will become impossible,” Kushner
said.  Illicit Arms Shipments  The EU action followed a similar step by the U.S. Treasury
Department on June 23. The U.S. said Tidewater was co-owned by
Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and used by the elite
military unit for illicit arms shipments.  Tensions over Iran have risen in the last week, with U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  expressing concern about a
potential Israeli military strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities
by mid-year. Policy makers in  Washington  and  Europe  say economic
pressure on Iran to abandon illicit aspects of its nuclear
program is the best way to forestall a military confrontation.
Iran says its program is for civilian energy and medical
research.  The Tidewater ban, which took immediate effect, also will
have ripples beyond the EU, impairing the ability of shippers
worldwide to get insurance coverage for trade with Iran,
insurance and shipping executives said.  Mohammad-Reza Khoshrou, head of public relations for
Tidewater, wasn’t available to comment after two phone calls
were made to the company’s headquarters in Tehran yesterday.
Tidewater  Middle East  Co. isn’t connected to Tidewater Inc., a
New Orleans-based marine services provider that isn’t under
sanctions.  Looking for Enforcement  Given Tidewater Middle East’s size and reach, it may be
difficult to channel trade to small, non-Tidewater ports
hundreds of miles away, or for other port operators to soak up
all the business.  Kushner said he hasn’t seen evidence that the U.K.’s
Treasury has taken action yet against British companies shipping
to Tidewater’s ports. “There have been exports in the last two
weeks, and I would eat my hat if there aren’t a large number
that have gone through from the U.K. to those ports” since the
ban was imposed, he said.  Mustapha Pakzad, chairman of Pakzad Consulting Co. in
 London , which advises clients doing trade with Iran, said EU
exporters are settling port charges through their representative
companies in Iran, and former Soviet states are acting as
“platforms” for some trade related to Iran.  ‘Robust Implementation’  James Barbour, a U.K. government spokesman in Washington,
said his government “is committed to the robust
implementation” of sanctions. “We take these allegations
extremely seriously and they will be investigated,” he said in
an interview.  The 27-nation EU is still working on a text with precise
implementing measures to guide  member states  on how to enforce
the sanctions, according to Silvia Kofler, spokeswoman for the
EU delegation in Washington.  Tidewater may attempt to evade the barriers by transferring
business to subsidiaries, sanctions specialists such as Michael
Swangard said.  “I suspect tomorrow there will be new port agents
appointed,” turning enforcement into a cat-and-mouse game,
Swangard, an international trade attorney at Clyde & Co., a
London-based  law firm , said in a phone interview.  The EU, not just Iran, will bear the cost of sanctions, as
law-abiding traders give up business, said Martin Johnston,
executive director of the British-Iranian Chamber of Commerce in
London.  Trade Partners  The EU has been Iran’s principal trading partner, exporting
11.3 billion euros in goods to Iran in 2010, led by machinery,
transportation equipment such as cars, and chemicals, according
to European Commission figures.  Iran was the EU’s 25th-biggest  trade  partner, with the 27-
member region importing 14.5 billion euros in goods from Iran in
the same period, led by fuel and minerals. Only 11 percent of EU
imports from Iran were non-petroleum products, led by 757
million euros in chemicals and 390 million euros in agricultural
goods, European Commission data shows.  Crude for March delivery gained $1.13 to $99.84 a barrel
yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement in three weeks. Prices are up 1 percent this year.  Johnston and Kushner estimate that when official figures
are released for 2011, U.K. exports to Iran will have dropped 60
percent over the past three years, due to tightening
restrictions on financial transactions with Iran.  China’s Gain  EU exporters’ loss may be  China ’s gain. Trade between China
and Iran rose 52 percent in the year following the imposition of
new U.S. and United Nations sanctions on Iran in June 2010,
according to the  World Trade Organization .  Kiran Khosla, director of legal affairs at the
International Chamber of Shipping in London, the trade
association representing 80 percent of the world’s merchant
fleet, said prudent EU shipowners already adjusted their
business following U.S. sanctions on Tidewater.  Last summer, “the advice to the shipowners was to refrain
from engaging in any business” with Tidewater and that any
payments to them might endanger the shipowners’ U.S. trade, she
said.  Peter Sand, chief shipping analyst for Bimco, the Denmark-
based largest international shipping association, said the
reality that “shipowners constantly have to keep track of
companies and individuals that they should not do business with
doesn’t make their business life any easier.”  Russians Involved  The Tidewater ban will also affect countries that aren’t EU
members and didn’t sign onto sanctions, such as Norway and
 Russia .  Insurers even outside the EU now will be inclined to deny
liability coverage to companies shipping to or from Iran, said
Douglas Jacobsohn, chief executive officer of Skuld Group, an
Oslo-based marine insurer providing protection and indemnity
policies, and legal coverage to shipowners and charterers
worldwide. Norway isn’t a member of the EU, though Skuld is part
of a London-based insurance pool.  “Russians have so far been able to do large trade with
Iran,” he said in a phone interview. “But they need cover from
P&I clubs to be able to trade legally, and if we can’t provide
them with that anymore, it’s really a problem for them,”
because “coverage from Russian insurance is not considered
adequate,” he said.  Denying Insurance  While non-petroleum trade with Iran is still legal in the
EU, P&I clubs are likely to deny coverage because “it’s very
hard to ensure that somebody doing legal business with Iran is
not going to have links with something illegal,” Jacobsohn
said. P&I clubs are mutually owned by shipowners, ship operators
and charterers and provide risk coverage that’s not available
from traditional marine insurers.  In October 2010, the EU banned the provision of insurance
and reinsurance to the Iranian government and all Iranian
companies. It didn’t bar insurance for EU entities doing legal
trade with Iran.  Ways Around  Hugo Kidston, head of communications for Munich-based
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty AG, a corporate insurance
company, said Iran has reportedly increased the capacity of its
own  insurance industry , with support from the Russian and
Chinese markets, through ceding arrangements, such as
reinsurance, and through direct investments.  Emanuele Ottolenghi, a senior fellow at the  Foundation for
the Defense of Democracies  in Washington, a research group that
supports sanctions on Iran, said the Tidewater ban is an
important step in hampering Iran’s weapons proliferation.  Ottolenghi said he worries that Tidewater, along with
determined traders or shippers, will find ways around the ban.  “What happens if Tidewater transfers its business to its
subsidiaries” that aren’t covered by EU or U.S. sanctions, he
said. Sanctioned Iranian banks and ships have resurfaced under
new names, he said. “Presumably, you will see much of the
same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  