-- European Stocks Decline on Greek Impasse; Saab, Commerzbank Fall
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-02-10T17:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/european-stock-index-futures-drop-after-eu-delays-approval-of-greek-accord.html
European (SXXP)  stocks fell for the fourth
time in five days as a leader in  Greece ’s coalition government
said he won’t support more spending cuts demanded by the
region’s finance ministers.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  tumbled 9.5 percent.  Saab AB (SAABB) 
plunged 8.6 percent after fourth-quarter earnings and sales
missed analysts’ estimates.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  jumped 12 percent
after saying adjusted operating margins will increase in 2012.  The  Stoxx Europe 600  Index dropped 0.9 percent to 261.24 at
the close in London, wrapping up a weekly loss to 1.3 percent.
The gauge has still advanced 6.8 percent this year amid optimism
that the euro area will contain its debt crisis and that the
U.S. economic recovery remains intact.  “It’s still Greece that’s dominating” the sentiment, said
Will Hedden, a sales trader at IG Markets Ltd. in  London . There
are “people ready to get in and get some risk on and move this
market forward, but it is this little annoying Greece issue, I
think, that is still stopping people from jumping in.”  George Karatzaferis, the leader of the Laos party, today
said he couldn’t support the accord worked out for a new
financing agreement in its present form.  Euro-area finance ministers yesterday refused to approve a
second aid package because of a lack of assurances by Greek
party leaders that they will stick to their commitments after
elections due as soon as April. The ministers asked Greece to
turn its budget cuts into law and identify 325 million euros
($429 million) in spending reductions.  Future of Greece  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said after the
Brussels meeting that the parliamentary vote set to begin this
weekend amounted to a ballot on euro membership.  “If we see the salvation and future of the country in the
euro area, in  Europe , we have to do whatever we have to do to
get the program approved,” Venizelos said.  China ’s exports fell and imports slid more than forecast in
January, the first declines in two years, as a week-long holiday
disrupted trade and commodity prices dropped.  In the U.S., a gauge of  consumer confidence  declined more
than forecast in February from the highest level in almost a
year. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  fell to 72.5 from 75 at the end of
last month. Economists projected a reading of 74.8, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes declined in 16 of the 18
western- European (SXXP)  markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
slipped 0.7 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 Index dropped 1.5 percent,
while  Germany ’s DAX Index lost 1.4 percent.  Bank Shares  National Bank of Greece, the country’s largest lender, fell
9.5 percent to 2.68 euros. Alpha Bank SA, the second-biggest,
plummeted 9.4 percent to 1.45 euros. EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA
dropped 9.3 percent to 88 euro cents.  Saab declined 8.6 percent to 136.40 kronor, its biggest
drop since August. The Swedish company reported a fourth-quarter
net income of 413 million kronor ($62 million) against analysts’
projection for 474 million kronor.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, lost 5.2
percent to 2.06 euros.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , France’s largest telecommunications-gear
supplier, jumped 12 percent to 1.68 euros after it said it
expects to increase adjusted operating margins in 2012.  National Grid Plc (NG/)  slid 1.2 percent to 632.5 pence after its
stock was cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Total SA dropped 1.4 percent to 40.58 euros. The company
plans to cut net investments to $20 billion in 2012, compared
with $22 billion last year. Adjusted net income in the fourth
quarter was 2.73 billion euros, in line with the average analyst
estimate of 2.72 billion euros.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  plunged 17 percent to
36.3 pence, its biggest decline since 2005, after saying that
full-year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization at its Panama unit will be less than its own
projection. The business has been affected by the high level of
competition in mobile-phone services, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  