-- European Stocks Slide as Greeks Fail to Agree on Austerity Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/european-stocks-slide-as-greeks-fail-to-agree-on-austerity-deal.html
European stocks  fell from a six
month-high this past week, as Greece’s coalition government
failed to agree on the remaining spending cuts needed to obtain
financial aid from the European Union and stave off a default.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  fell 6.6 percent as some investors opposed
Glencore International Plc’s $39 billion takeover proposal.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sank 8.1 percent after posting a loss
when analysts had predicted a profit.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) 
dropped 23 percent as the wind-turbine maker reported a full-
year loss four times wider than analysts had forecast.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.3 percent to 261.24 this
week, retreating from its highest level since July 29. The
benchmark measure has still  rallied 22 percent  from its two-year
low on Sept. 22 and  6.8 percent  from the start of this year as
the  European Central Bank  lent 489 billion euros ($645 billion)
to banks and investors speculated that the currency area would
contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  “If  Greece  comes out now and says it will no longer play
along and chooses to default, that may trigger a drop in
European equities,” said senior equity strategist Per Hansen at
Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank A/S. “The ECB intervention,
providing a flush of liquidity in December, insulated Italy and
 Spain  from a Greek default, so the Greeks will go down on their
own and the decline will be around 5 percent.”  European stocks dropped 0.9 percent on Feb. 10 as George Karatzaferis, who heads one of the three parties supporting
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s government, said he will not
vote for the austerity measures needed to get additional rescue
funds from the European Union.  Finance Ministers’ Meeting  A meeting of euro-area finance ministers on Feb. 9 ended
with Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying that
Greece’s politicians must enshrine the budget cuts in law,
identify 325 million euros in spending reductions and promise
not to backtrack on the measures following upcoming elections.  Karatzaferis spoke hours after Germany’s Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that Greece had
missed its deficit targets.  “What has particularly bothered me is the humiliation of
the country,” Karatzaferis, whose Laos party has 16 members in
the 300-seat parliament, said in televised comments. “Greece
can’t and shouldn’t do without the European Union, but it could
do without the German boot.”  Vote on Austerity  Greece’s Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said after
the Brussels meeting that this weekend’s parliamentary vote to
introduce the austerity measures amounted to a ballot on
membership of the euro.  “The Greeks may blame their situation on foreign banks and
choose to default,” Hansen said. “But banks will only suffer
one or two years from a default, while the Greeks will see
living standards halved and have to deal with the fallout for 15
years.”  In the U.S., a report showed that  consumer confidence 
declined this month more than  economists had forecast  as rising
gasoline prices began to stress household budgets. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment dropped to 72.5 in February from 75 in January. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for 74.8.  Fifteen of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600  declined
this past week, with mining companies dropping the most. The
 International Monetary Fund  said the euro area’s debt crisis
will cut  China ’s economic expansion almost in half if it
worsens. Based on the IMF’s “downside” forecast for the global
economy, China’s growth would drop by as much as 4 percentage
points from the fund’s current projection for an expansion of
8.2 percent this year, the organization said in a report
released by its China office in Beijing on Feb. 6.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata (SXPP)  fell 6.6 percent and Glencore dropped 9.8 percent
after Glencore offered 2.8 of its shares for every  Xstrata (SXPP) 
share, valuing the stocks Glencore does not already own at $39
billion in a deal that will create the world’s fourth-largest
mining company, combining the largest supplier of coal burned by
power stations with Glencore’s global trading network.  Rio Tinto Group, the  world’s third-biggest miner , dropped
5.4 percent this past week after taking a $8.9 billion charge on
its aluminum business, pushing the company to a second-half
loss.  Credit Suisse Slides  Credit Suisse fell 8.1 percent, lead declines in bank
shares as the second-biggest Swiss lender posted a loss in the
fourth quarter for the first time since 2008, hurt by “adverse
markets” and costs to reorganize its investment bank.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  fell 3.9 percent.  Eastern
Europe’s third-biggest lender  has revisited plans for a rights
offering, four people with knowledge of the talks said. The
company abandoned preparations for a sale last year.  Vestas plunged 23 percent for the third-largest slump on
the  Stoxx 600  this past week. The world’s biggest wind-turbine
maker reported an annual loss of 166 million euros, according to
its annual report. The average estimate of 16 analysts called
for a loss of 40.3 million euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Vestas attributed the loss to production delays at a
new generator factory and unexpected costs developing a turbine.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  tumbled 24 percent as the world’s
second-biggest dental implant maker reported earnings for 2011
that missed analysts’ estimates.  Alcatel-Lucent,  France ’s largest telecommunications-
equipment supplier, jumped 13 percent after forecasting
increased profit margins in 2012 and announcing a plan to
increase income from its trove of 29,000 patents. The company
also reported its first annual profit in six years.  National benchmark indexes declined in 13 of the 18
western-European markets this past week. France’s CAC 40 Index
slipped 1.6 percent.  Germany ’s DAX Index dropped 1.1 percent and
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 0.8 percent.  Of the 125 Stoxx 600 companies that have reported quarterly
earnings since Jan. 9, 64 have missed analysts’ estimates,
compared with 56 that beat projections, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  