-- MF Global Brokerage Has $1.6 Billion Shortfall to Pay Claims, Trustee Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/mf-trustee-1-6b-gap-between-claims-assets.html
The trustee liquidating  MF Global
Inc. (MFGLQ)  brokerage said the firm has a shortfall of at least $1.6
billion to pay commodity customers’ claims.  James Giddens, the trustee, gave the estimate yesterday
after counting allowable customer claims and the assets under
his control. Giddens previously estimated the shortfall at about
$1.2 billion and has now folded in $700 million that he is
disputing with the administrators of MF Global’s U.K. affiliate.
The gap, which applies to commodities customers who traded on
U.S. and foreign exchanges, will change over time as claims are
processed and assets recovered, he said.  “The estimated deficiency may rise or fall in significant
amounts,” Giddens said in a statement.  The trustee has said customers of the bankrupt futures
brokerage, formerly run by  Jon Corzine , may not recover all
their money. Giddens has traced most of the more than $327
billion in transactions completed during the brokerage’s last
days. The banks, clearing houses and customers that received the
funds may be subject to lawsuits seeking the money for customers
missing funds from their accounts, Giddens has said.  Gap Figures  The gap was calculated after counting about $6.9 billion in
claims by commodity customers, Giddens spokesman  Kent Jarrell 
said. The trustee has returned about $3.9 billion that was
frozen in customer accounts, and has $1.4 billion left as a
reserve, Giddens said yesterday. That means there’s a shortfall
of “at least $1.6 billion” to pay the remaining $3 billion
owed to those customers, Jarrell said in an e-mail.  It’s a
different calculation from the previous one involving missing
funds of $1.2 billion, Jarrell said.  The gap between MF Global’s securities customers’ claims
and assets available for them hasn’t been calculated yet, and
all claims will have to be checked for accuracy, Giddens said.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after making bets on
sovereign debt and getting margin calls. Corzine, a former
governor of  New Jersey  and former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., has said he didn’t authorize any misuse of customer
money that may have occurred.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The main investor
case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  