-- Falling Prices, Margins Threaten Small Wind Companies, BNEF Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/falling-prices-margins-threaten-small-wind-companies-bnef-says.html
Declining prices for  wind turbines 
and slim margins over the next few years may make it harder for
smaller, pure-play wind companies to compete, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Average turbine prices fell 4 percent last year to 910,000
euros ($1.2 million) a megawatt from 2010, and will fall another
2 percent this year and in 2013, according to the research
company’s biannual Wind Turbine Price Index, which surveyed 38
manufacturers, developers, utilities and investors. Margins will
range from 2 percent to 4 percent through 2015.  A global supply glut and increased production in  China  are
making it tougher for companies that only offer wind-power
equipment such as  Nordex SE (NDXY)  and  Repower Systems SE (REPP) , both based
in Hamburg, to compete against larger rivals and those that are
part of large manufacturing conglomerates, said Eduardo Tabbush,
a BNEF wind analyst.  “They’re two good companies, but they have a very local
reach,” Tabbush said by telephone from  London . “They have good
technology, good products, but they don’t have scale. Those
would be ones that could potentially be acquired.”  Buying one of the top turbine companies, such as Aarhus,
Denmark-based  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VFS) , the world’s largest, or
Zamudio, Spain-based  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Europe ’s
second largest, “wouldn’t be easy, but it wouldn’t be
unthinkable,” Tabbush said.  “If you’re a wind player and turbine prices have decreased
by 25 percent the last three years, your costs have not
decreased and you have Chinese competitors putting in a bid for
20 percent lower than your price, your margins are going to be
affected,” Tabbush said. “If you don’t have global reach, you
might not survive the downturn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  