-- Father of N.Y. Bomb-Plotter Gets 4 1/2 Years Prison for Obstructing Probe
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-10T22:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/father-of-n-y-bomb-plotter-gets-4-1-2-years-prison-for-obstructing-probe.html
A U.S. citizen from  Afghanistan  was
sentenced to four and a half years in prison for destroying
evidence and conspiring to lie to investigators in the case of
his son, who was convicted of plotting to bomb New York subways.  Mohammed Wali Zazi, 56, was sentenced today by U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York, according to
a statement from prosecutors. Zazi was convicted by a federal
jury July 22 of obstruction of justice and conspiracy to
obstruct justice. His son, Najibullah Zazi, pleaded guilty in
February 2010 to supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a
weapon of mass destruction  Prosecutors said the elder Zazi directed family members to
destroy bomb-making materials, including liquid chemicals, that
were part of his son’s terror plot, and that he conspired with
family members to lie to agents that were probing the matter in
2009.  “To this day he still rejects the government’s view of
Najibullah and his case,” Deborah Colson, a lawyer for Zazi,
told Gleeson today.  Zazi had faced as long as 40 years in prison. He had
pleaded not guilty to two counts of obstruction of justice and
one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice. The plot, which his
son called a “martyrdom operation,” was planned for around the
2009 anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  During the trial, lawyers for Zazi said the former  New York 
City taxi driver worked hard to live the American dream and
support his children, and that he took his own son to the FBI
upon learning of an investigation. They said he didn’t know of
his son’s plans, and blamed family members for turning against
him and trying to obscure their own role in the plot.  Zazi stood in the way of the FBI’s investigation into his
son in by destroying chemicals and goggles and lying about
communications with an imam in Queens, Andrew Goldsmith, a
prosecutor, told the jury during the trial.  The case is U.S. v. Zazi, 1:10-cr-60, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  