-- Pianalto Says Housing Is ‘Significant Headwind’ to Economy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-10T18:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/fed-s-pianalto-says-housing-is-significant-headwind-to-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said weakness in the housing market is
an impediment to U.S. growth and that “foreclosures have become
a national crisis.”  “Housing market issues pose a significant headwind to our
economic recovery,” Pianalto said in the text of remarks given
in Cleveland today. “Specifically, losses in housing wealth
have held back  consumer spending , sapped household confidence,
and reduced the ability of small-business owners to obtain
credit.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  voted last
month to extend its pledge to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
low until at least late 2014, pushing back a previous date of
mid-2013. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 that
weakness in the housing market was an “important reason” why
the economy has been weaker, and that the U.S. central bank was
considering additional bond purchases to boost growth.  In September, the Fed decided to replace $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in
an effort to further reduce borrowing costs. Policy makers also
decided that month to reinvest maturing housing debt into agency
mortgage-backed securities, switching from Treasuries. Both of
those policies were maintained at last month’s FOMC meeting.  Bank Earnings, Credit  Pianalto said “housing issues” also “continue to affect
bank earnings and  credit quality .” She didn’t comment on the
outlook for monetary policy or the economy in the remarks.  Bernanke said today in Orlando, Florida, that the central
bank’s efforts to spur economic growth are being blunted by
impediments to mortgage lending and called for further steps to
heal the housing market.  The Fed Chairman said foreclosed properties in poor
condition that aren’t likely to attract buyers could be dealt
with by land banks, government entities that have the ability to
purchase and sell real estate, clear titles, and accept donated
properties.  “Properties may be rehabilitated as rental or owner-
occupied housing or, in extreme cases, demolished,” Bernanke
said. “Only some states have passed legislation to establish
land banks, and most existing land banks lack the resources to
keep pace with the number of low-value properties in the current
inventory.”  The  Cleveland  Fed’s Pianalto also spoke in support of land
banks today.  “Our research leads us to believe that land banks can play
a vital role in the mix of policy options to address abandoned
properties, specifically low-value properties,” Pianalto said.
“The Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland has actively supported
this concept as it was being planned and implemented locally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  