-- Fed Playing Favorites With Wall Street in Secretive Bond Deals: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/fed-plays-wall-street-favorites-in-secret-bond-deals-mortgages.html
The Federal Reserve secretly
selected a handful of banks to bid for debt securities acquired
by taxpayers in the U.S. bailout of American International Group
Inc., and the rest of  Wall Street  is wondering what happened to
the transparency the central bank said it was committed to
upholding.  “The exclusivity by which the process has shut out smaller
dealers is a little un-American,” said  David Castillo , head of
sales and trading at broker Further Lane Securities LP in  San
Francisco , who said he would have liked to participate. “It
seems odd that if you want to get the best possible price that
it wouldn’t be open to anyone who wants to put in the most
competitive bid.”  After inviting more than 40 broker-dealers to take part in
a series of auctions last year, the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  asked only  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to bid on the full $13.2 billion of bonds
offered in two  sales  over the past month. The central bank
switched to a less open process after traders blamed the
regular, more public disposals for damaging prices in 2011. This
week, Goldman Sachs  bought  $6.2 billion of bonds in an auction.  The selectivity has irked firms that weren’t also given the
chance to profit from the auctions, and raises the question of
whether the Fed got the highest price for U.S. taxpayers, who
gave insurer AIG a $182.3 billion bailout. The New York Fed
resumed its sales of the assets in January after the market
recouped a portion of last year’s losses.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  “The purpose should be to get the best price for the
taxpayer,” said  Robert Eisenbeis , a former research director at
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta who’s now chief monetary
economist for Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors.
“Anybody knows the more bidders the better, so it’s a little
hard to understand why they would essentially pick potential
winners and losers. That smacks of crony capitalism.”  Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment.  The New York Fed announced in March that it would sell the
bonds held in a vehicle called Maiden Lane II LLC, created in
2008 to buy holdings that AIG handed the Fed in exchange for a
cash injection. The portfolio includes bonds backed by the types
of home loans with some of the highest default rates, such as
 subprime , Alt-A and option adjustable-rate mortgages that helped
fuel the  housing  boom and bust. Those securities, which can be
difficult to value, offer a chance for a bigger profit to a
savvy investor.  ‘Competitive Sales’  The regional Fed bank said in a March 30 statement that it
would “dispose of the securities in the ML II portfolio
individually and in segments over time as market conditions
warrant through a competitive sales process,” and that it would
also “entertain investor inquiries to acquire specific parcels
of securities where these offer superior value.”  It announced that it would undertake the sales after
rejecting a $15.7 billion offer from  AIG (AIG)  for the entire pool.
“Offering the Maiden Lane securities for sale individually and
in segments rather than as a single block will give a larger set
of investors opportunity to bid for the assets,” the regional
Fed bank said in the March 30 statement. “This will maximize
sale proceeds.”  Twenty-two dealers bought bonds in the New York Fed’s
Maiden Lane II auctions last year, with  Bank of America Corp. 
and Citigroup Inc. topping the list of buyers. Before each
auction, the regional Fed bank posted on its website the amount
it planned to sell and when. Dealers widely shared the names of
individual securities that were being offered and the second-
best bids that were reported.  Damaging Credit Markets  The New York Fed was criticized for damaging credit markets
with the regular sales, and halted them in June after disposing
of about $10 billion in face value of the assets.  It resumed the sales on Jan. 19, when it unloaded about $7
billion of assets in one block to Credit Suisse, after receiving
an unsolicited bid for the securities from Goldman Sachs. Only
Barclays and Bank of America were invited to also participate in
that auction. Goldman Sachs won the auction for $6.2 billion of
bonds this week after Credit Suisse placed an unsolicited bid
for the assets. Barclays,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and RBS Securities Inc.
were also included in that sale. Barclays presented the second-
highest offer in both auctions this year, according to a person
familiar with the process.  The New York Fed didn’t announce either auction until after
they closed, and said the broker-dealers it included were chosen
based on the strength of previous bids. The Wall Street firms,
and their clients who wished to bid on the assets, were required
to sign non-disclosure agreements forbidding them from
discussing the offerings. At least one investor opted not to
participate for that reason.  ‘Chinese Wall’  “Our compliance people took a very conservative view of the
non-disclosure agreement,” James Keegan, chief investment
officer at Seix Investment Advisors LLC in  Upper Saddle River ,
 New Jersey , which manages about $30 billion. “Since we don’t
have 20 securitized traders, we couldn’t put someone behind a
‘Chinese wall’ and continue to conduct business.”  The Fed’s less-transparent approach didn’t drag down
markets like their more public auctions did last year, and
analysts at Morgan Stanley and Bank of America said the first
sale contributed to gains by highlighting demand.  Further Lane’s Castillo, whose broker participated in the
auctions last year, said “it seems like the process has been
working for the New York Fed.”  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option ARMs
climbed to 55 cents on the dollar last week from 49 cents in
October and November, according to Barclays Capital data. That’s
down from last year’s high of 65 cents in February. Option ARMs
allow borrowers to pay less than the interest they owe by
increasing their balances.  Following Dexia  “Limiting it to the dealers that in the New York Fed’s
opinion they trust to be the best cuts down on the price
discovery that’s important in illiquid markets like this,” said
Jason Weaver, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
Nashville,  Tennessee . At the same time, those dealers were ones
that “they had the confidence had the ability would get the
transaction done and done quickly and without any problems.”  The Fed followed an approach undertaken by other firms
looking to unload billions of dollars of assets without roiling
markets.  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which said in August it sold $8.8 billion of
mortgage bonds, and State Street Corp., which sold $11 billion
in assets in December 2010, also turned to a limited number of
dealers rather than widely distributed auction lists to dispose
of holdings. Dexia, the lender now being dismantled by Belgium
and  France , had publicly announced its intention to sell; State
Street, the third-largest custody bank, hadn’t.  Goldman Holds Bonds  “You certainly don’t want to lose that one buyer because
you feel a need to go through with all the formalities,” Joseph Vitale, a partner in New York at Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP, who
said he wasn’t involved in the transaction.  Goldman Sachs held onto almost all of the bonds the New
York Fed sold to it for at least a day, rather than mainly
fulfilling client orders as Credit Suisse did last month, based
on data from Trace, the transaction reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Goldman Sachs told some investors who bid on the bonds
through the bank that, while they had offered the best prices on
individual securities, the firm had bought the debt for itself,
according to three money managers with knowledge of the matter.
Goldman Sachs then offered the securities for sale to the
investors, they said. The prices were between 1 and 3 cents on
the dollar higher, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the transactions aren’t public.  Willing Market  “Our intention has always been to distribute the portfolio
to our clients globally and we are in the midst of doing that,”
said  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman.  The method the New York Fed employed may have been less
important than market conditions following a slump in prices, as
signs of a strengthening U.S. economy, fading European debt
crisis and change in the calendar year embolden investors and
dealers, said Ken Hackel, head of securitized product strategy
at CRT Capital Group LLC.  “More than anything else, it’s that they’re selling to a
very willing market at this point,” said Hackel, whose
Stamford, Connecticut-based bond broker was one of the dealers
that participated in last year’s auctions.  Public Fashion  It’s not clear that the Fed’s approach resulted in higher
prices than if the bonds had been sold in a more piecemeal and
open fashion, said Adam Murphy, president of  Empirasign
Strategies LLC , a New York-based provider of data on
securitization-market trading.  “I fail to see how running a limited participation, secret
auction is any way beneficial to the owners of these bonds, the
U.S. taxpayer,” Murphy said. “Not to mention these bonds are
now trading 15 to 25 cents” on the dollar “cheaper compared to
when they were last auctioned in a more public manner.”  This week’s $6.2 billion sale to Goldman Sachs allows the
repayment of the central bank’s loan to  Maiden Lane II (FARBML2) , which
was originally $19.5 billion. While the Fed hasn’t disclosed the
prices paid, it was owed about $6.7 billion on its loan to the
facility as of Feb. 1, not taking into account proceeds from
last month’s transaction. About $6 billion of assets remain in
the vehicle, based on Fed disclosures.  The New York Fed said Feb. 8 that it “will dispose of the
remaining securities in the ML II portfolio individually and in
segments over time as market conditions warrant through a
competitive sales process, while taking appropriate care to
avoid market disruption.”  A separate facility,  Maiden Lane III (FARBML3)  LLC, helped retire
credit-default swaps that were sold by the insurer to protect
banks from losses on securities tied to subprime mortgages. AIG
said in March 2009 that Goldman Sachs received $12.9 billion
from the insurer to settle securities-lending and credit-swap
contracts from the 2008 bailout. The Fed was owed about $9.6
billion as of Feb. 1 from its loan to Maiden Lane III.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 