-- Glencore-Xstrata Deal Terms Must Be ‘Revisited,’ Fidelity Says
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/fidelity-says-terms-glencore-xstrata-deal-need-to-be-revisited-.html
Fidelity Worldwide Investment said
that while it supports  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s 23.8
billion-pound ($37.5 billion) takeover bid for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  “in
principle,” the terms of the deal “need to be revisited.”  The  investment company , which commented yesterday in an e-
mail, holds at least 1.5 percent of Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fidelity is the latest investor to withhold support for the
deal. Standard Life Plc and Schroders Plc, two of Xstrata’s
largest shareholders, say they will oppose it unless Glencore
boosts its friendly all-stock offer, which was announced Feb. 7.
Glencore offered 2.8 shares for each one of Xstrata’s,
representing a deal premium of about 8 percent.  Investors holding 16.48 percent of Xstrata can succeed in
voting to block the deal. That’s because Glencore won’t be
allowed to vote its 34 percent stake in Xstrata, according to
the U.K.’s takeover code, putting the final decision into the
hands of the shareholders who control the rest of the company.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodity
trader, plans to combine with Xstrata’s coal and copper mines to
create a business with $209 billion in sales, the companies said
Feb. 7. The takeover would be the biggest-ever mining deal if
completed and form a commodities supplier to challenge BHP
Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group.  Premium Comparison  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment. Claire Divver, a spokeswoman at
Xstrata, didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and an e-
mail sent outside normal business hours.  The 8 percent premium is calculated based on Glencore’s
average price in the 20 days before the deal was first reported
Feb. 2. That would be the second-lowest premium for any mining
deal worth more than $5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The premium narrows to 7.2 percent when comparing the
companies’ share prices in the 20 days prior to the official
announcement on Feb. 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Glencore dropped 1.7 percent to 435.2 pence at the close in
 London  yesterday. Xstrata declined 0.7 percent to 1,198 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  