-- Fink Says Stock-Market Call Aims to Get Cash Off Sidelines
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-02-10T17:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/fink-call-intended-to-get-cash-off-sidelines.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
who urged investors this week to put all their money in
equities, said his call was aimed at getting cash back into the
 capital markets .  “It’s important to get cash off the sidelines and back
into the markets so people can get the returns they need and we
can get our economies moving again,” Fink, chief executive
officer of the world’s largest asset-management firm, told
BlackRock employees in Beijing yesterday. “Obviously, everyone
needs a portfolio tailored to their risk-tolerance and goals;
one size doesn’t fit all,” Fink said, according to a transcript
of the comments obtained by Bloomberg News.  Comments by Fink that yields from traditional bonds are too
low to provide meaningful returns for investors have been echoed
by billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who said yesterday that
bonds are among the “most dangerous of assets.” The  Federal
Reserve  has kept borrowing costs near zero, and said last month
that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally low”
 interest rates  through 2014.  Mutual fund companies are trying to reverse stock fund
redemptions after investors pulled money from funds that invest
in U.S. equities for five straight years, withdrawing $134
billion last year, according to  Investment Company Institute .
Funds that invest in non-U.S. stocks attracted $4.1 billion in
2011, down 93 percent from the prior year’s deposits of $58
billion, according to the Washington-based ICI.  ‘Still Anxious’  “It’s a flight to safety, investors are certainly still
anxious and that’s what’s showing,” said Greg Cherry, a senior
analyst at Boston-based research firm Aite Group.  BlackRock, based in  New York , manages $3.5 trillion in
assets, including $1.25 trillion in fixed-income and $1.56
trillion in stocks.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which was unchanged last
year, rallied 7.5 percent this year through Feb. 9. The MSCI
ACWI Index, which includes developed and emerging-market stocks,
fell 9.4 percent last year as the European sovereign-debt crisis
prompted a flight to the perceived safety of bonds. Through
yesterday, the global index had advanced 9.5 percent this year.  “Too many people are underweight equities, and one of
things I’m trying to do is to get people to think about the
opportunities they’re missing, with valuations at these
levels,” Fink said in Beijing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  