-- Florida Homeowners Find Little to Cheer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/florida-homeowners-find-little-to-cheer-in-deal-with-gangsters-.html
Florida (STOFL1) , the U.S. state with the
highest percentage of troubled mortgages, may collect almost
one-quarter of the national $25 billion foreclosure settlement.
For Cheryl Alexander, who had a court halt the forced sale of
her home, that’s not enough.  “We’re not sheep that can be led to the slaughter,” said
Alexander, a 61-year-old who has been fighting to keep her Cape
Coral house for four years. “These are fraudulent bankers and
Wall Street gangsters who have to pay for what they’ve done.”  The deal includes 49 states and ends a probe into five U.S.
mortgage servicers over abuses stemming from the housing
bubble’s collapse. It requires the banks to pay $20 billion in
mortgage relief and $5 billion to state and federal governments.
The settlement may mean as much as $8.4 billion in benefits for
Florida homeowners, said Attorney General  Pam Bondi , who helped
negotiate the agreement.  While Bondi described the deal yesterday as a historic win,
interviews around the Sunshine State revealed anger among
homeowners stuck in foreclosure cases that last longer than in
any other state, and skepticism from real-estate professionals
leery of banks’ promises.  “They say it’s a lot of money, but is it?” said Richard
Thompson, a 51-year-old real-estate agent who has sold property
in Broward County for 26 years. “You wonder if this is just
p.r. or if it’s going to help genuine people stay in their home
and help stabilize the market.”  ‘Much-Needed Relief’  Bondi, a 46-year-old Republican, cautioned against
measuring the settlement by how much it improves the housing
market. She said homeowners will be helped more than if the
states had taken their case to court.  “It’s a great day for the state and for the country,”
Bondi said in a telephone interview. “This settlement provides
much-needed relief for homeowners now and America needs relief
now.”  Florida ’s share of the settlement includes $7.6 billion in
loan modifications and principal reductions, Bondi said.  Mortgaged homes in the state are underwater by $110
billion, according to CoreLogic Inc., a  Santa Ana , California-
based real-estate data provider.  Almost a quarter of the state’s homes, 23 percent, have
delinquent mortgages or are being foreclosed upon, more than in
any other state, according to Lender Processing Services, a
Jacksonville analytics company.  Jobs, Not Deals  The deal, struck with  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial
Inc., also includes a direct payment of $350 million to Florida,
Bondi said. Another $309 million will help refinance loans for
those who owe more than their homes are worth.  The settlement included $170 million for Floridians
foreclosed on between Jan. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2011, Bondi
said. Expected to amount to about $2,000 each, she said, that
means 85,000 payments. There have been 444,967 foreclosure sales
in Florida in those same four years, according to Lender
Processing Services.  Only new jobs will stem the crisis, said a spokesman for
Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican elected on a promise to
reverse the economic slide.  “The housing problem in Florida is our biggest economic
challenge, so every bit of homeowner relief helps,” Brian
Burgess said. “But the governor knows the best way to fix the
housing market is to fix the job market.”  Florida’s December jobless rate was  9.9 percent , while the
national average was  8.5 percent . However, the state’s forecast
six-month growth rate is the highest since July 2005, according
to the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Soothing Effect  The mere existence of a deal may be more beneficial than
any actual benefits, said George Scanlon, chief executive
officer of  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF)  in Jacksonville, the
largest U.S. title insurer.  “It’s debatable whether the principal reduction will help
anyone,” said Scanlon. “Most people are going to be underwater
more than the credit amount.  “It’s good news only in that it advances something that
has been hanging over the market for 18 months now,” he said.
“The bankers were very distracted, and having it resolved takes
away one more aspect of uncertainty.”  Lenders slowed foreclosures as they negotiated with
 attorneys general  in all 50 states. Florida leads the nation in
the time it takes to foreclose, 1,017 days, according to Lender
Processing Services.  Second Chances  “A lot of foreclosures were put on hold in Florida because
of the settlement,” said Danielle Blake, the Miami Association
of Realtors’ vice president for government affairs and housing.
“Will those cases move forward or will those homeowners be
given another opportunity?”  Outside a grocery near Wellington’s palm-tree-lined Olympia
community, Bart Cozad said the agreement would do little. The
dozen or so unoccupied homes in his gated neighborhood of about
200 houses are mainly due to “amateur investors who walked,”
the 50-year-old attorney said.  For residents who got mortgages from “overeager” banks,
interest-rate reductions and principle write-offs won’t be
enough to dig out, he said: “You either got money, or you
don’t.”  Danielle Vennett, a 33-year-old commercial real-estate
adviser, said she hoped the deal helps “responsible” owners
like her, who make their payments on time. Her house in the
Fieldstone subdivision wasn’t underwater, she said, merely “a
little lopsided.”  Modifications are “what we all need to get the economy
going, and to be in a position to spend money again,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  