-- Focus Media Defense Against Muddy Waters Report Reverses Losses
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T07:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/focus-media-defense-against-muddy-waters-report-reverses-losses.html
Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital
advertising company in  China , rose to a two-month high in New
York as it defended itself against a report by  Muddy Waters  LLC
questioning company disclosures.  American depositary receipts of the Shanghai-based company
climbed 3.3 percent to close at $24.23 yesterday, the highest
closing level since Nov. 18. The ADRs had dropped as much as 5.4
percent earlier after the Muddy Waters report.  Focus Media overstated the size of its liquid-crystal-
display television network by reporting some cardboard posters
as LCD displays, Muddy Waters said in the report, reiterating a
“strong sell” recommendation. The short-selling company run by
Carson Block first said in a November report that Focus was
inflating the size of its advertising network and overpaid for
acquisitions.  “Investors perhaps are getting tired of Muddy Waters,”
said C. Ming Zhao, an equity analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP in  Boston . He rates the shares
“positive” and has a 12-month price target of $45.  Focus Media disclosed on Nov. 29 that some traditional
picture frames, containing static poster ads, are included in
the counting of its LCD network because the frames were
installed by the LCD display network division rather than by its
Framedia poster frame network, the company said in a statement
yesterday.  “LCD is not representing the type of device,” Jing Lu, an
investor-relations officer at Focus Media in  Shanghai , said in a
phone interview today. “This is a classification of business
divisions.”  Muddy Waters estimated that proper LCD screens generate
seven times more monthly revenue than the static poster ads. Lu
declined to comment on that estimate.  ADRs of Focus Media have fallen 5 percent since the last
trading day before Muddy Waters’s first report on Nov. 21.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  