-- Foreclosure Settlement, Libor Probe, EBA’s ‘Boost,’ Takeda: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-10T13:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/foreclosure-settlement-libor-probe-eba-s-boost-takeda-compliance.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and three other U.S. banks reached a $25 billion
settlement with 49 states and the federal government to end a
probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the
collapse of the housing bubble.  In what the U.S. called the largest federal-state civil
settlement in the nation’s history, the banks have committed $20
billion in various forms of mortgage relief plus payments of $5
billion to state and federal governments.  “There are something like 10 million-plus homes under
water to the tune of half a trillion dollars,” said Lynn
Turner, the former chief accounting officer at the Securities
and Exchange Commission and a managing director at consulting
firm Litinomics Inc. in Los Angeles. “I don’t think this
settlement, which lets all the bank executives off the hook for
filing false documents with courts, is going to make much of a
dent.”  The accord announced yesterday in  Washington  was 16 months
in the making, following a move by states to investigate bank
foreclosure practices in 2010. The deal will “begin to turn the
page on an era of recklessness” that led to the housing bubble,
President  Barack Obama  said in Washington, where he was joined
by administration officials and state attorneys general.  The nation’s five largest mortgage servicers -- Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Citigroup Inc. and Ally
Financial Inc. -- negotiated the settlement with federal
agencies, including the Justice Department, and state attorneys
general.  The deal comes more than a year after attorneys general
from all 50 states announced a probe into foreclosure practices
following disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to
seize homes.  Oklahoma reached a separate agreement worth $18.6 million
with the banks and didn’t sign the federal settlement, according
to a statement from the state’s attorney general, Scott Pruitt.  The $25 billion agreement includes $1.5 billion in payments
to some 750,000 borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure.
About $17 billion will pay for mortgage debt forgiveness,
forbearance, short sales and other assistance to homeowners.
Servicers will also provide $3 billion in refinancing to lower
homeowners’ interest rates. A website has been set up to give
information on the settlement.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Agrees on Clearing Law for Over-the-Counter Derivatives  European (BEBANKS)  Union officials and lawmakers brokered a deal on
rules to force trading of some over-the-counter derivatives
through clearinghouses to safeguard financial markets.  The law, approved after negotiations in Brussels yesterday,
will empower EU regulators to decide on types of derivatives
that should be centrally cleared. Traders who flout the rules
would face penalties including fines. The law also sets rules on
management of clearinghouses, including on reserves they must
hold to protect themselves from insolvency.  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for OTC
derivatives since the collapse in 2008 of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps.
Lawmakers have said that clearing firms should also face  tougher
regulation  because a crisis at one of them could threaten the
global financial system.  Negotiators on the EU rules sought to address concerns from
U.S. banks that they could face discrimination.  U.S.-based companies  warned  last year that a draft of the
law would grant exemptions from clearing rules to derivatives
trades between different units of the same bank, but only if
these units were both based in  Europe .  The accord would empower ESMA to settle disagreements
between national supervisors on whether a clearinghouse should
be authorized.  For more, click here.  EU Banks to Boost Capital by $130 Billion, Regulator Says  European banks plan to boost capital by about 98 billion
euros ($130 billion), 26 percent more than regulators originally
required, while excluding lenders in  Greece  and those in the
midst of restructuring.  The  European Banking Authority  also said in an e-mailed
statement it won’t subject banks to stress tests on their
balance sheets this year, citing the current efforts to raise
capital. The measures would result in banks reducing lending to
the real economy by “less than 1 percent of the total amount”
of capital raised, the EBA said.  The agency excluded all Greek banks,  Dexia SA (DEXB) , Austria’s
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and  Germany ’s  WestLB AG (WESTLB)  from the
most recent calculations because they are restructuring their
businesses or already under obligations tied to receiving money
from the  International Monetary Fund .  The EBA told European banks to raise 114.7 billion euros in
fresh capital in December to respond to the sharp drop in the
value of securities issued by euro-area governments. The agency
also required banks to keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio of 9
percent and hold additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer.  Banks submitted plans to raise capital in January. The EBA
has said lenders aren’t allowed to reduce lending to reach the
capital-ratio goals. Groups of financial supervisors will have
further meetings on the plans this month.  Canadian Securities Regulators Streamline Rules on ETFs  Canadian  Securities Administrators  introduced amendments
streamlining access to market for exchange traded funds by
eliminating need to apply for regulatory exemptions, according
to a  statement  on the regulator’s website.  The amendments come into force April 30 after ministerial
approval. The purpose of the reform is to reduce regulatory
costs, which the CSA anticipates will benefit investors, the
regulator said in the statement. The CSA also expects the new
amendments to make the funds more resilient to certain short-
term risks by introducing liquidity restrictions, the CSA said
in the statement.  SEC Backs Away on Real-Time Data in Market-Tracking System  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  is backing away from a proposal to require live
reporting of trading data as part of the agency’s planned
market-surveillance system.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said yesterday in a
statement that Schapiro believes, based on comments received by
the agency, that “very substantial benefits” of a consolidated
audit trail can be achieved without incurring the costs and
risks of real-time reporting.  Schapiro hasn’t scheduled a vote on the audit trail, which
the SEC says would help track the cause of disruptions such as
the May 6, 2010, market plunge that temporarily erased $862
billion in equity value before stocks recovered by day’s end.  Later that month, the SEC proposed building the audit trail
-- a multibillion-dollar centralized data hub that would capture
“customer and order event information” as it happens. The
real-time reporting idea was faulted by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, as well as brokerages and exchanges that
expressed concern over the plan’s cost, which the SEC initially
estimated at $4 billion to build and $2.1 billion a year to
maintain.  The SEC currently keeps tabs on the markets using data
terminals from private industry. Senate Republicans sent a
letter to Schapiro last month asking why the SEC was pursuing a
real-time audit trail instead of a cheaper alternative proposed
by Finra.  Compliance Action  RBS Said to Dismiss 4 Bankers as Libor Probe Widens to Brokers  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest
government-owned lender, dismissed at least four employees in
connection with a probe of potential interest-rate manipulation,
two people briefed on the move said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  have also dismissed,
suspended or put traders on leave as part of the investigation,
according to two more people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case.  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,
the world’s largest broker of trades between banks, suspended an
employee in the past six weeks and put two others on leave,
another person said.  Regulators’ requests for information from interdealer
brokers marks a widening of the global investigation into
whether there were attempts to manipulate the  London , Tokyo and
euro interbank offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor.  The investigation is being handled by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the U.S. Justice Department,  Japan ’s Financial
Supervisory Agency and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.
European Union antitrust regulators and the Swiss Competition
Commission are also examining Libor rates.  Libor, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
each day on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London.  For more, click here.  Insurer Seeks to Pay Corzine, MF Executives Up to $25 Million  An insurance company that issued to  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MS) 
$25 million of directors and officers liability insurance
through the year ending in May asked a judge to let it pay legal
defense costs.  U.S. Specialty Insurance Co. cited a class-action lawsuit
against former Chief Executive Officer Jon Corzine in  New York ,
cases in other states, and investigations into the company’s
collapse being conducted by U.S. attorneys and regulators.  For more, click here.  German Regulator Says HRS Hotel Price Agreements May Break Rules  Germany’s antitrust regulator said Hotel Reservation
Service Robert Ragge GmbH’s pricing agreements with hotels may
harm competition.  The best-price clause in HRS’s agreements with hotels
guarantees that the company would get the best hotel price, the
highest room availability and the best cancellation policies for
its complete Internet offering, the Federal Cartel Office said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Andreas Mundt, president of the Bonn-based Cartel Office,
said the clause makes it more difficult for newcomers to enter
the market.  Today’s warning doesn’t mean the regulator has made a final
decision on HRS and it will give the company the opportunity to
respond, the Cartel Office said. Anja Klein, a spokeswoman for
HRS, said the company will reply to the Cartel Office later
today.  Courts  SIPC Ordered to Say Why It Shouldn’t Cover Stanford Victims  The  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  was ordered by a
federal judge to explain why it shouldn’t begin a claims process
for the victims of R. Allen Stanford’s alleged investment fraud.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in Washington yesterday
ruled that SIPC, a nonprofit corporation funded by the brokerage
industry, must tell the court by Feb. 16 why it shouldn’t be
ordered to start a liquidation proceeding in federal court in
Texas to handle more than $1 billion in possible claims related
to the alleged Stanford fraud.  At issue is whether more than 7,000 brokerage customers who
invested in the alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme run by Stanford
are entitled to have their losses covered by SIPC. The
Securities and Exchange Commission sued SIPC in December to
compel coverage.  Wilkins said he will decide whether SIPC must file an
application for a protective decree in federal court in Texas.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  U.S. Drops Antitrust Lawsuit Against Deutsche Boerse, NYSE  The U.S. Justice Department said it dismissed an antitrust
lawsuit and proposed settlement agreement with  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  because the two exchange owners have given
up on their proposed merger.  The lawsuit and settlement are “no longer necessary since
the parties have formally abandoned their plans to merge,” the
Justice Department said in a statement yesterday.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext terminated their merger
agreement Feb. 2, a day after European antitrust regulators
blocked the transaction because it would have concentrated too
much derivatives trading in the hands of a single entity.  Ex-Takeda Executive Committed Insider Trading, SEC Claims  A former  Takeda Pharmaceutical International Inc. (4502)  executive
was accused of using inside information to make more than
$63,000 trading in call options, according a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Brent Bankosky, a former director in Takeda’s business
development group, used non-public information to trade in
advance of Takeda’s announcement of transactions involving  Cell
Genesys Inc. (CEGE)  and  Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. (3437127Q) , the SEC said
in a civil complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Bankosky also used information about confidential
discussions between Takeda and two other drug companies, Arena
Pharmaceutical Inc. and AMAG Pharmaceutical Inc., according to
the agency. Bankosky failed to profit from his trades in those
companies’ securities, the SEC said.  Bankosky has agreed to a partial settlement of the suit
without admitting or denying the SEC allegations, said his
lawyer, Robert Heim. Bankosky will contest the SEC request for
an order barring him from acting as an officer or director of a
public company, Heim said.  Bankosky agreed to pay more than $136,000 in the partial
settlement, the SEC said.  Kara Hoeger, a spokeswoman for Osaka, Japan-based Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s North American unit, said in a statement
that the company is cooperating with the SEC. Takeda has a
training program that instructs employees in the company’s
policies against insider trading, she said in the statement.  Bankosky resigned from Takeda in May, according to the SEC
complaint.  The case is SEC v. Bankosky, 12-CV-1012, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  EU Regulators to Focus on Shadow Banks, Barnier Adviser Says  Olivier Guersent, chief adviser to Michel Barnier, the
European Union’s financial services chief, said regulating
shadow banks would be a priority for the EU during the next two
years. Barnier will seek views “this spring” on the topic,
Guersent said.  He made the remarks at an event in Brussels yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 