-- Forint Has First Weekly Decline This Year on Greece, Malev Risk
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-10T16:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/forint-heads-for-first-weekly-decline-against-euro-this-year.html
The forint dropped for a third day,
capping the first weekly loss this year after European finance
ministers held back a rescue package for Greece and  Hungary 
faced fallout from the demise of its national airline.  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, declined 0.8 percent to 293.31 by 5 p.m. in
Budapest, dropping 1 percent in the week. The benchmark BUX
stock  index  plunged 2.2 percent to 19,026.82.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said a
parliamentary vote set to begin this weekend amounted to a
ballot on euro membership as the country faced further delays to
the aid package. Hungary, which has been struggling since the
end of last year to start talks on a bailout of its own, is
facing a potential compensation payment to Budapest Airport
after the bankruptcy of state-owned carrier Malev Zrt. last
week.  The potential Malev payment “may blow a big hole in the
budget,” Jozsef Szabo, who helps manage $7 billion at Aberdeen
Asset Management in Budapest, said in a telephone interview
today, adding that Hungary was “especially vulnerable” to
heightened risk aversion in international markets.  The forint strengthened 9 percent through the end of last
week since Jan. 5 after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said he was
ready to discuss the conditions needed to obtain a “quick”
deal on aid with the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU,
following a dispute over legislation.  The government may be forced to pay “several hundred
billion forint” to Budapest Airport in compensation as it moves
to wind up carrier Malev Zrt., the Development Ministry said
this week. The ruling Fidesz party doesn’t see any solution that
would help create a national airline, news service MTI said
today, citing Janos Lazar, head of Fidesz’s parliamentary group.  “The discussions about the extent of the airport
compensation aren’t helping the forint,” Jozsef Miro, a
Budapest-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, and colleagues
wrote in a research report today. “The sums being thrown about
are astoundingly large.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  