-- Gasoline Slides With Commodities on Greek Debt Aid Plan Concern
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-02-10T20:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/gasoline-slides-with-commodities-on-greek-debt-aid-plan-concerns.html
Gasoline and heating oil fell as
commodities retreated on concern that  Greece ’s bailout was
unraveling over German demands for deeper budget cuts and that
the region’s debt crisis would spread.  Futures declined as German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin today that Greece is missing
its debt-cutting targets, according to two people who took part
in the meeting. The dollar surged against the euro, weakening
the investment appeal of commodities.  “There’s worry about Europe and a lot of economic
uncertainty out there,”  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said by phone.  Gasoline for March delivery fell 3.79 cents, or 1.3 percent,
to settle at $2.9749 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  The euro slipped 0.9 percent against the dollar at 2:37
p.m. in  New York . The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  spot index of 24 raw materials
sank for the first time in six days, losing 0.9 percent.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told members of his
government they must back deeper budget cuts needed to prevent
financial collapse or quit, as political dissension threatened
the country’s second bailout.  Greece, facing doubts from European officials about its
commitment to reduce deficits, will take years to emerge from
its debt crisis, JPMorgan Chase International Chairman Jacob Frenkel said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  Demand Concern  “The concern is if Greece were to default and possibly
leave the European Union, it could happen elsewhere and there
would be a slowdown in  Europe ’s economy, impacting demand,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would reduce the threat that speculators will target debt-
saddled nations including Italy and Portugal.  “We had a nice rally in products, but with a much stronger
dollar and an impasse in Greece, it’s a great reason to take
profits,” James Cordier, portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com
in Tampa, Florida, said  Gasoline gained 2.1 percent this week, the third increase
in four weeks, and is up 11 percent this year. Prices reached a
five-month high yesterday on speculation that refinery shutdowns
in the U.S., Europe and the Virgin Islands, coupled with
seasonal maintenance, would trigger a supply crunch.  Gasoline Demand  Over the past four weeks,  gasoline demand , measured by
deliveries to wholesalers, was 6.8 percent lower than a year
earlier, the Energy Department reported Feb. 8.  “Gasoline demand is horrible,” McGillian said. “It was
due for a bit of a pullback.”  The  International Energy Agency  cut its 2012 global oil
demand forecast for a sixth month, citing a “darkening”
economic outlook. Worldwide consumption will rise by 800,000
barrels a day to 89.9 million barrels, the IEA predicted in its
monthly oil market report today. That’s 300,000 less than its
previous estimate.  March-delivery heating oil declined 2.64 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $3.1821 a gallon on the exchange. Prices
rose 2.2 percent this week, the third consecutive weekly gain,
and are up 8.4 percent since Jan. 1.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.9
cent to $3.497 yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices have
risen 21.9 cents, or 6.7 percent, this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  