-- Gazprom to Boost 2012 Europe Exports, Cuts Target on Demand
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-02-10T14:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/gazprom-to-raise-2012-europe-exports-to-154-billion-cubic-meters.html
OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, lowered a target for supplies to  Europe 
this year after missing forecasts for 2011 on a slower than
expected recovery.  Gazprom plans to export 154 billion cubic meters to Europe
this year, according to a copy of presentation to analysts
obtained by Bloomberg News. That is about 2.7 percent more than
last year’s 150 billion cubic meters. In November, the company
cut that year’s estimate from a possible 159 billion cubic
meters, while targeting shipments of 164 billion in 2012.  “Gazprom showed itself as a big elephant that walks ahead
despite attacks of mosquitoes,” said  Valery Nesterov , an
analyst at Troika Dialog, who attended the meeting today at the
company’s Moscow headquarters. “Despite known difficulties in
the gas markets, Gazprom is acting very confidently.”  Demand in Europe, Gazprom’s biggest market by revenue, is
recovering after a two-year slump when buyers turned to the  spot
market  for cheaper supplies than under Russian contracts. Facing
competition and a persistent gap between its long-term oil-
linked  gas prices  and spot rates, the company agreed to lower
prices to five customers in recent months.  The state-controlled gas exporter hasn’t fully recovered
from the global economic downturn that cut demand for the fuel
in 2009. The rebound is probably delayed to 2013,  Renaissance
Capital  said late last month.  Contract Renegotiations  Gazprom forecasts its average gas price for Europe will
jump about 8 percent to $415 per 1,000 cubic meters this year,
from $384 last year, according to the presentation. Higher
prices may help Gazprom boost 2011 profit to a record. The
company hasn’t reported full-year results.  Contract renegotiations with customers didn’t cause losses
for Gazprom as rising prices helped boost revenue, Nesterov
said, citing Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Alexander
Medvedev ’s comments at the presentation. Total sales probably
rose to $155 billion in 2011 from $118.4 billion the previous
year, according to the presentation today.  Total supplies this year may still reach 164 billion cubic
meters, including volumes delivered outside Gazprom’s export
unit, according to the presentation.  Gazprom held 27 percent of Europe’s gas market last year,
on the way to rise to 30 percent by 2020, according to the
presentation. The producer had a 23 percent share in 2010, CEO
Alexey Miller said in June.  Asian LNG  Cargoes of liquefied natural gas, which kept Europe
oversupplied in 2010, were diverted to  Asia  to counter a
shortfall created by idled nuclear capacity in  Japan  last year.
The Asian nation, the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, boosted
imports of LNG to a record in 2011 after the disaster at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactor in March led to the shutdown of most
of its atomic plants.  The Russian gas exporter has downplayed threats to its
business from surging shale gas output in the U.S., competition
with LNG from  Australia  and a potential shift toward pricing gas
at spot rates.  “We would have liked to hear about problems, and how
Gazprom addresses them,” Nesterov said.  Colder than usual weather in most of Europe earlier this
month boosted demand for Russian gas. While rejecting calls for
extra gas exports amid freezing weather at home in the run-up to
a presidential election in March, Gazprom has said it is
supplying gas to Europe at “maximum possible” capacity.  Pressure on Spending  Gazprom, faced by pressure to cap its spending after an
overshooting 2011 investments, said in the presentation that
capital expenditure will decline to $35 billion this year, close
to the 2010 level, from $50 billion last year. That includes
spending by its oil unit  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  Neft and its power
division.  Investments will remain high in coming years as Gazprom
reconfirmed plans to develop its major pipeline and gas
production projects, Nesterov said.  The producer may pay 180 billion rubles in dividends for
this year and 210 billion rubles in dividends for 2013,
according to the presentation. Gazprom reconfirmed plans to
double the dividend to about 198 billion rubles for 2011,
subject to a shareholder approval in June.  Gazprom’s press service declined to comment on the
presentation. The gas producer started its annual meetings with
investors and analysts in Moscow, to be followed by events in
 London  and  New York  next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  