-- Germany Plans to Vote on Greek Aid Feb. 27 If Greece Delivers
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-10T11:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/germany-plans-to-vote-on-greek-aid-feb-27-if-greece-delivers.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government plans to ask lawmakers to vote on a second Greek
bailout on Feb. 27, if political parties in Greece meet the
conditions needed to win more aid.  Merkel invited the leaders of the six parties represented
in the lower house of parliament to the Chancellery in Berlin
today for a briefing on Greece, when she announced the proposed
date for the vote, Left Party Chairman Klaus Ernst told
reporters after the meeting. Merkel then briefed coalition
lawmakers in a bid to shore up support for yet more aid.  “I do believe there will be a majority if the Greeks are
ready to take all the measures that are needed,”  Michael Fuchs ,
the economic affairs spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , told reporters in the lower house,
the Bundestag. “But they do have to, otherwise I don’t see a
majority in the German Bundestag.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers that
Greece’s debt-cutting pledges still fall short and the country
needs to do more to achieve the target of 120 percent of gross
domestic product, according to two people who took part in the
meeting. Merkel said while Greek aid has always been dependent
upon conditions, the situation could spin out of control if
Greece is cut off from money, a party official told reporters.  The assumptions for Greek recovery made by the so-called
troika of the  European Central Bank , the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Commission, are “much too optimistic,”
said Frank Schaeffler, a lawmaker for Merkel’s Free Democratic
Party coalition partner and leading opponent of euro-area
rescues. Greece has “no chance” to revive its economy without
slashing its debt and leaving the euro area, he said.  With little more than two weeks left for Greece to commit
to cuts and bring them into law before Germany votes, the aid
package is “hanging by a thread,” said  Otto Fricke , the FDP’s
budget spokesman in parliament.  “Greece has got to implement what it will promise in quick
succession,” Fricke told reporters. “Otherwise we may not be
able to get this package through in time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  