-- German Bunds Rise as Europe Withholds Aid for Greece; Spanish Bonds Fall
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-02-10T16:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/german-bunds-advance-first-time-in-four-days-as-europe-withholds-greek-aid.html
German bunds rose, pushing yields
down the most in two months, after European finance ministers
held back a rescue package for  Greece , increasing pressure on
politicians in Athens to ratify new austerity measures.  German 10-year  yields  fell from yesterday’s eight-week high
as Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin
that Greece is missing its targets. George Karatzaferis, the
leader of the Laos party supporting the government in Athens,
said he couldn’t support an austerity accord needed for a
bailout. Spanish bonds had their biggest weekly drop since Jan.
6 and  Italy ’s 10-year debt fell for the first time this week.  “Bunds are higher on safe-haven demand,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays Capital  in
London. “Greece has to approve measures this weekend and commit
to those, and the delay is making the market a little nervous.”  The German 10-year bund yield dropped nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time.
That’s the biggest drop since Dec. 14. The rate rose to 2.05
percent yesterday, the highest since Dec. 13. The 2 percent bond
due in January 2022 gained 0.815, or 8.15 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,318) face amount, to 100.665.  Greek lawmakers will begin voting on austerity measures
this weekend after European finance ministers demanded further
commitments to austerity from  Athens  to win the 130 billion-euro
bailout. The country is facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment
on March 20.  Greek Debt  Greece “must get this deal agreed really within the next
few days to enable them sufficient time and have the new bailout
money disbursed before that bond is due,” Tony Stringer, Fitch
Ratings’s managing director of global sovereigns, said in an
interview in  Singapore . “If they don’t manage to achieve that,
then it could be in the realm of a disorderly default.”  Schaeuble, briefing lawmakers on estimates assessing Greek
progress, said Greece’s pledges would leave the nation’s debt as
high as 136 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, according
to two people who took part in the meeting. The target for
Greece’s debt cuts and bond writedown was to reduce debt to 120
percent of GDP by then.  Bunds dropped yesterday as the  European Central Bank  kept
its refinancing rate unchanged at 1 percent and the central
bank’s president,  Mario Draghi , said there were “signs of
stabilization,” damping demand for safer assets.  Spanish Notes  Germany ’s bonds have returned 11 percent in the past year,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Italian securities
gained 2.4 percent, and Greek debt slid 63 percent.  Spain ’s 10-year note yield rose 14 basis points to 5.31
percent, leaving it up 32 basis points this week. The Italian
10-year yield was 13 basis points higher at 5.61 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity bunds widened 22 basis points
today to 3.38 percentage points. Italian 10-year bonds yielded
3.69 percentage points more than similar maturity bunds, from
3.47 percentage points yesterday.  London-based Barclays said in a statement today that it
increased its holdings of Italian bonds by 57 percent to 3.5
billion pounds last year while reducing its ownership of Spanish
government debt. ING Group NV, the biggest Dutch financial-
services company, said yesterday it cut government bond holdings
in the quarter that ended in December, “largely due to a
reduction in Italian and Spanish exposures.”  ECB Loans  Demand for Spanish and Italian bonds was bolstered after
the ECB said on Dec. 8 it would offer unlimited three-year loans
to the region’s financial institutions in a long-term
refinancing operation, or LTRO, to stimulate lending. Spain’s
two-year yields have dropped 2 percentage points since then amid
speculation banks are buying the securities to use as collateral
with the ECB.  “We’re in a holding pattern waiting for announcement on
the Greek side” said Guy Mandy, a fixed-income strategist at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “The more cautious
investors are sticking with core markets, and others that see
the LTRO as quite bullish are still looking at peripherals.”  Volatility on Portuguese debt was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Greece, according to measures of 10-
year bonds, two- and 10-year spreads and credit-default swaps.
The yield on the Portuguese security due April 2021 slipped 93
basis points to 12.43 percent, while the Greek 10-year yield
increased 29 basis points to 32.91 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  