-- Gingrich Seeks to Ease Fundraising Woes as Big Donations Slow
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-02-10T16:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/gingrich-seeks-to-ease-fundraising-woes-as-big-donations-slow.html
Newt Gingrich  was just days away
from the Jan. 31 Florida Republican presidential primary when he
told reporters that his campaign was down to its last $600,000.  Five losing contests later, Gingrich and Winning Our
Future, an outside political action committee supporting him,
are almost silent on television airwaves, offering free water
and coffee at events, and revamping a fundraising strategy based
largely on the support of a single wealthy backer,  Sheldon Adelson , and the Las Vegas casino owner’s family.  In the past seven days, Winning Our Future has spent
$61,290 on broadcast television advertisements, compared with
$636,920 spent by  Mitt Romney  and a super-PAC backing him,
Restore Our Future, according to data compiled by New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  For now, the Adelsons don’t plan to deliver another big
check to float Gingrich’s campaign, according to a person
familiar with their deliberations. The family has donated a
combined $11 million to Gingrich’s super-PAC in the past two
months, according to interviews and Federal Election Commission
records. An Adelson spokesman declined to comment.  Gingrich’s shifting fortunes offer insight into how the
rise of super-PACs and wealthy donors in the 2012 presidential
campaign can change the dynamics of the contest in a short
period of time.  Closing the Spigot  Former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who dropped out of
the primary on Aug. 14 and now backs Romney, said in a Feb 6
MSNBC interview that he hopes Adelson will “shut off the spigot
on Newt Gingrich’s super-PAC.”  “With all due respect to Newt, he’s not going to be the
nominee, and by continuing to fund that super-PAC, Mr. Adelson
continues Newt’s campaign in a way that I think is not
productive or helpful,” Pawlenty said.  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, has said he will
continue his presidential bid in spite of recent setbacks.
Winning Our Future is shifting its focus to “grassroots
fundraising” of amounts between $2,500 and seven figures,  Rick Tyler , the committee’s senior adviser, said in an interview
yesterday.  “We’re going to more aggressively go after those donors,”
Tyler said. Super-PACs can accept unlimited amounts from
individuals, companies and unions, whereas the candidates are
limited to $2,500 from each per cycle.  No TV Spending  As Tyler declined to comment on how much cash Winning Our
Future has left, Foster Friess, a major donor to the Red, White
and Blue Fund, a super-PAC backing  Rick Santorum , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday that money is “just
absolutely rolling in” since the former Pennsylvania senator
won three primary contests this week.  Friess said a single unidentified donor -- not him --
contributed $1 million to the fund and sent even more money this
week.  Santorum won the Iowa caucuses and placed first on Feb. 7
in  Colorado , Minnesota and  Missouri . Romney came out on top in
 New Hampshire ,  Florida  and  Nevada . Gingrich has one win, the
South Carolina primary. The nomination contest moves to Arizona
and  Michigan  on Feb. 28.  “We will be fine,” Tyler said of his super-PAC’s
finances. “Fundraising definitely has its ebbs and flows. We
could get a check this afternoon.”  About half of the money Winning Our Future collected by
Dec. 31 came from Adelson’s step-daughters, who contributed a
combined $1 million, the year-end FEC report shows.  Adelson Cash  The casino owner and his wife, Miriam, made two $5 million
contributions in January, according to Tyler.  On Jan. 24, Tyler announced that the committee would spend
$6 million on ads in Florida to help Gingrich, who was then
fresh off his win in  South Carolina  on Jan. 21.  CMAG data show that the committee bought $1.8 million worth
of network TV time in the state. Tyler said the rest of the
money went to cable television and Internet ads, which aren’t
tracked by CMAG.  After losing to Romney in Florida by 14 percentage points,
neither Gingrich nor the super-PAC spent money on network TV ads
in Nevada, Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri, CMAG data show.  At the same time, the pro-Santorum fund bought an estimated
$245,950 in those states and Romney and Restore Our Future spent
about $967,970. The fourth Republican candidate, U.S.
Congressman Ron Paul of  Texas , spent about $238,440 on network
TV ads.  ‘Greener Pastures’  Winning Our Future will use its resources in “greener
pastures for Newt,” Tyler said, such as  Idaho , which holds its
primary on March 6 and Texas, which votes April 3.  Apart from the super-PACs, Romney has long held a
fundraising advantage over Gingrich. Romney closed out 2011 with
$19.9 million in cash and no debt; Gingrich reported $2.1
million in the bank and $1.2 million owed, according to FEC
reports released Jan. 31.  Santorum ended the year with $278,934 in the bank and
$204,836 in debt, the FEC report shows. His fundraising is
picking up, he said in recent interviews. Since the night of his
three wins, Santorum has raised more than $2 million, campaign
manager Michael Biundo wrote on Twitter last night.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, said in an interview at
a stop on Feb. 8 in  Cleveland  that the campaign’s finances are
“doing fine.” He said Gingrich was “pledged” $2 million from
meetings in  Las Vegas  before the Feb. 4 Nevada caucus, declining
to give more details.  New Fundraising Priority  Since the Florida loss, Gingrich has been dedicating more
time to fundraising, Hammond said.  “Dialing for dollars is a large section of the day. It’s
not something he was doing the week of the Florida primary,”
Hammond said Feb. 2. “It’s part of his regular schedule now.”  Gingrich will spend Valentine’s Day next week at the
Fresno,  California , home of Wendy and Ryan Turner, according to
the Fresno Bee, where couples must pay $1,000 for entry and
$2,500 if they want a photograph with the presidential
candidate.  The different financial capabilities of the Romney and
Gingrich campaigns were on display this week.  Gingrich appeared the morning of Feb. 6 at a Marriott hotel
in Golden, Colorado, where a subdued audience, sipping water and
coffee, filled about half of a ballroom where a few campaign
signs were posted.  The next day, Romney stopped at RV America in Loveland,
Colorado. The campaign decorated the business with Romney signs
and provided breakfast burritos, donuts and choice of drinks for
free to the attendees, who were cheering the candidate’s name
before the event began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  