-- GM May Build 7 Billion Yuan China Factory
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-10T07:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/gm-set-for-approval-on-1-1b-china-factory.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
biggest automaker, is poised to receive approval to build a 7
billion yuan ($1.1 billion) factory in China, according to a
provincial government statement.  The plant, operated by GM’s passenger-car venture with  SAIC
Motor Corp. (600104) , will have annual production capacity of 300,000
vehicles and be located in the central city of Wuhan, the Hubei
Environmental Protection Bureau said on its website.  Shanghai  GM
is satisfied with its current capacity arrangements and has yet
to make a decision on building a new factory in Wuhan, said
Jerry Ma, a Shanghai-based spokesman.  The statement comes less than two months after China’s
government moved to end a seven-year policy of encouraging
foreign companies to invest in the nation’s carmaking industry.
The factory would increase GM’s passenger-vehicle capacity,
estimated at 2 million units last year by research firm IHS
Automotive, by about 15 percent, easing the strain on existing
plants that are producing cars in excess of their normal output.  “GM has been running with tight capacity and the expansion
will make the company even more competitive,” said Cao He, an
analyst with  China  Minzu Securities Co. in Beijing. “To have a
foothold in central China will also bring GM closer to its
clients there and lower logistic costs.”  GM makes vehicles in the eastern province of Shandong, the
southern province of Guangxi, the northeastern city of Shenyang
and the eastern city of Shanghai.  Biggest Vehicle Maker  The move may also help widen GM’s lead as the biggest
foreign automaker in the world’s biggest vehicle market. Its
deliveries to Chinese dealers rose 8.3 percent to 2.55 million
vehicles in 2011, outpacing the 5.2 percent growth in the
nation’s passenger-car industry. Still growth slowed from 2010,
when GM sales jumped 29 percent.  GM is counting on China and the U.S. to drive earnings
growth this year as it faces mounting competition from Japanese
carmakers led by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , who are boosting production
after restoring production disrupted by natural disaster last
year.  In  Europe , the financial crisis is raising the pressure for
the Detroit-based carmaker to turn around its unprofitable Opel
unit. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has lost more than
$2.34 billion on GM’s European operations since pushing to call
off the sale of the Opel brand in late 2009.  For the Shanghai GM passenger-car venture, which is
expanding capacity in two existing plants in the cities of
Shenyang and Yantai, the new factory will provide enough
capacity for the company to meet its target of selling 1.3
million vehicles in China this year, Ma said. Shanghai GM sold
1.2 million vehicles last year, it said Jan. 9.  The National Reform and Development Commission on Dec. 29
dropped vehicle manufacturing from the “encouraged” external
investment list, ending benefits that analysts at Booz & Co.
said include the waiver of  import duties  on automaking equipment
and tax breaks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  