-- Cobalt Climbs to Record on Angola Well Results: Houston Mover
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-02-10T21:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/goldman-backed-cobalt-says-angola-oil-test-exceeds-expectations.html
Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) , a
deep-water oil explorer whose biggest investors include  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , climbed to a record after test results at a
discovery off the coast of Angola exceeded the company’s
expectations.  Cobalt  surged  33 percent to $31.68 in New York, its highest
close since the company first sold shares to the public in 
December 2009.  Work at the Cameia-1 well confirmed a 1,180-foot (360-
meter) oil column, the company said in a statement. Cobalt and
its partners will now begin to appraise the well to evaluate the
discovery’s size, according to the statement.  “The results have exceeded our pre-drill expectations and
have increased our confidence in our entire West Africa pre-salt
exploration inventory,” Joseph Bryant, chairman and chief
executive officer of Houston-based Cobalt, said in the
statement.  Cobalt said on Jan. 10 its Cameia-1 well in the Kwanza
basin found a “high-quality” oil reservoir.  BP Plc (BP/) ,
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Total SA are among oil producers that won
licenses in Angola’s pre-salt areas largely running from the
equator south to the Tropic of Capricorn.  Energy companies are exploring possible oil reservoirs
below a layer of salt more than two miles beneath the seabed off
Africa’s coast. That follows success off Brazil on the South
American side of the Atlantic in finding some of the largest
fields of the last decade under the same mineral.  Drilling Plan  The Cameia well may have the potential to produce more than
20,000 barrels of oil a day, according to Cobalt, which has
wells in the  Gulf of Mexico  and West  Africa . The company said it
plans to start drilling at the Cameia-2 well this month, work
that’s expected to take 100 to 120 days.  “This basically confirms pre-salt hydrocarbons within this
trend and opens up opportunity on the other multiple prospects
that Cobalt holds in the area, including Gabon,”  Scott Hanold ,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Minneapolis, said in a
telephone interview today.  The Cameia prospect area may have close to 2.5 billion
barrels gross, based on preliminary results, said Hanold, who
has a “sector perform” rating on Cobalt shares and doesn’t own
any. The 50 percent stock price climb by the company earlier
today implied a possible 10 billion barrels gross in areas
offshore West Africa where Cobalt has properties, he said.  “We’re talking about something that could rival all the
stuff that’s happening in  Brazil ,” Hanold said.  It may be several years before production is under way off
Angola, Cobalt said on a conference call today. Cobalt has a 40
percent stake in Cameia-1 and the block where it was drilled.  Goldman Sachs and private-equity firm Riverstone Holdings
LLC each hold 19 percent stakes in Cobalt, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  