-- Greece Needs Years to Mend From Crisis, JPMorgan’s Frenkel Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-10T16:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/greece-needs-years-to-mend-from-crisis-jpmorgan-s-frenkel-says-tom-keene.html
Greece , facing doubts from European
officials about its commitment to reduce deficits, will take
years to emerge from its debt crisis, JPMorgan Chase
International Chairman Jacob Frenkel said.  “What we’re talking now about is not a magic wand that in
one day will change the face of the country,” Frenkel, a former
governor of the Bank of  Israel , said today in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“Those expectations will be frustrated unless it is
communicated very clearly that problems that arose over years
need to be corrected over years.”  Emergency talks of euro-area finance chiefs on a second
bailout of Greece broke up late yesterday, with Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying the nation must turn its
budget cuts into law to win a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
rescue package. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told
lawmakers in Berlin that Greece was missing deficit targets  “People say past record has shown that promises have not
always been delivered,” said Frenkel, who’s based in  New York 
at the JPMorgan Chase & Co. unit. “If you have a binding
commitment that is coupled with international and Europe
community assistance, then this can give some breathing space.”  In  Athens , unions struck for the second time this week and
police used tear gas to counter protesters. George Karatzaferis,
head of one of the three parties backing interim Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos , said he wouldn’t support austerity measures
worked out for a rescue.  Won’t Solve Problem  “Let’s face it, it will not solve the problem for the long
term,” Frenkel said of the aid package. “Growth is not
purchased by money or by debt. Growth is acquired through
economic policy, improved markets and increased flexibility of
the marketplace.”  Germany ’s Schaeuble said that current plans would leave
Greece’s debt as high as 136 percent of gross domestic product
by 2020, according to two people in the meeting who spoke on
condition of anonymity because it was private. That compares
with the 120 percent foreseen in the bailout being negotiated.
Debt was about 160 percent of GDP last year.  A debt load that’s 120 percent of GDP can be an
“encouraging number if it is a longer trajectory of a smaller
number over time,” Frenkel said. “If the future means economic
policies with greater tilt toward sustainable growth, and the
word sustainable is key, then there is a chance. Otherwise, we
are throwing good money after bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  