-- Greece’s Use of Debt Writedown Would Equal Selective Default, S&P Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-02-10T20:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/greece-s-use-of-debt-writedown-would-equal-a-selective-default-s-p-says.html
Greece’s implementation of a measure
that imposes losses on investors who fail to support the
nation’s debt restructuring would qualify as a selective
default, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The application of the so-called retroactive collective
action clauses that modify the amount or timing of debt payments
would result in the New York-based firm downgrading Greece to
SD, or selective default, S&P said today in a statement.  Greek-law-governed debt will be cut to D from CC should the
nation’s parliament pass laws that allow the amending of the
securities retroactively to include CACs, S&P said. Greek bonds
that aren’t governed by Greek law and aren’t affected by the
change would keep their CC ranking, 10 steps below investment-
grade. The notes would be lowered to D “if and when they became
eligible for the upcoming debt exchange.”  “In light of the protracted discussions over  Greece ’s
sovereign debt, we take the view that legislation leading to the
Greek government’s introducing CACs to outstanding Greek
sovereign debt issuances indicates a forthcoming debt
restructuring, which we expect to take place in the coming
weeks,” S&P said.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told members of his
government today they must back deeper budget cuts needed to
prevent financial collapse or quit, as political dissension
threatened to unwind the country’s second bailout.  Bond Payment  Papademos said failure to secure the 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) rescue package that’s under negotiation threatened 11
million Greeks with a default that would halt the payment of
wages and pensions and shut down schools, hospitals and
businesses. He spoke after five ministers resigned in two hours
and protesters clashed with police in  Athens .  Concern the bailout might unravel mounted after euro-area
finance ministers yesterday kept back approval of Greece’s
austerity measures, one of the Greek governing coalition parties
pushed back against German demands for deeper cuts, and police
used tear gas to counter demonstrators in the capital.  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.
The proposed bond exchange is intended to help the country
reduce its debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to 120 percent
by 2020 from 162 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  