-- Papademos to Ministers: Back Bailout or Quit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-02-10T19:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/greek-bailout-at-risk-as-party-pushes-back-against-german-demand-for-cuts.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
told members of his government they must back deeper budget cuts
needed to prevent financial collapse or quit, as political
dissension threatened to unwind the country’s second bailout.  Papademos said failure to secure the 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) rescue package that’s under negotiation threatened 11
million Greeks with a default that would halt the payment of
wages and pensions and shut down schools, hospitals and
businesses. He spoke after five ministers resigned in two hours
and protesters clashed with police in Athens.  “Some say default would be preferable,” Papademos told a
Cabinet meeting in Athens this evening, according to an e-mailed
transcript from his office. “They are woefully mistaken. What
is of the essence right now is to do whatever we can to approve
the new plan and let the loan accord proceed.”  Concerns the bailout might unravel mounted after euro-area
finance ministers yesterday kept back approval of  Greece ’s
austerity measures, one of the Greek governing coalition parties
pushed back against German demands for deeper cuts, and police
used tear gas to counter demonstrators in the capital.  Papademos met his ministers to discuss the bill detailing
the measures, amounting to 7 percent of gross domestic product
to 2014, which will be put to a parliamentary vote this weekend.
The Cabinet gathered after one minister and three deputies from
the Laos party as well as a Socialist minister said they were
quitting in protest at the steps worked out for a rescue.  ‘German Boot’  “What has particularly bothered me is the humiliation of
the country,” George Karatzaferis, the leader of  Laos , which
has 16 members in the 300-seat parliament, said in televised
comments. “Clearly Greece can’t and shouldn’t do without the
European Union but it could do without the German boot.”  Karatzaferis spoke hours after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that Greece was
missing deficit goals and had to do more to meet its bailout
commitments.  With the rescue package in the balance, the parties that
support Papademos’s interim government will meet tomorrow ahead
of parliamentary votes on the new measures. Lawmakers will
convene from both the Socialist Pasok party and the New
Democracy party, which leads in opinion polls before elections
due as soon as April. A number of Pasok deputies have threatened
to vote against the bill.  Political uncertainty, Papademos said, was the main reason
for finance ministers failing to approve the program in Brussels
yesterday.  ‘Cannot Remain’  “It should be evident that whoever disagrees and doesn’t
vote for the new program cannot remain in this government,” he
said.  Global stocks fell for the first time in four days and the
euro weakened from yesterday’s two-month high against the dollar
as the plan for Greece ran into turbulence.  Police in  Athens  scuffled with protesters as unions started
a 48-hour strike against the austerity measures demanded by the
so-called troika of international creditors who monitor progress
made by Greece.  Schaeuble, briefing lawmakers in Berlin on troika estimates
relayed to the Brussels meeting yesterday, said current plans
would leave Greece’s debt as high as 136 percent of GDP by 2020,
according to two people in the meeting. That compares with the
120 percent foreseen in the second bailout. Debt was about 160
percent of GDP last year.  “The Greek offer is not sufficient and they have to go
away to come up with a revised plan,”  Bertrand Benoit , a
spokesman for the German Finance Ministry, said by telephone.  Juncker’s Conditions  The emergency euro-area talks broke up late last night with
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying Greece must
turn its budget cuts into law, flesh out 325 million euros in
spending reductions and have its major party leaders sign up to
the program so they don’t retreat after the elections. Another
extraordinary meeting was set for Feb. 15.  “In short: no disbursement without implementation,”
Juncker said. “We can’t live with this system while promises
are repeated and repeated and repeated and implementation
measures are sometimes too weak,” he said.  In a bid to pressure his country’s lawmakers, Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the parliamentary vote on
budget cuts amounted to a ballot on euro membership.  ‘Salvation and Future’  “If we see the salvation and future of the country in the
euro area, in  Europe , we have to do whatever we have to do to
get the program approved,” he said.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would allow Greece to make a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 and contain the threat that speculators will
target debt-saddled nations including Italy and  Portugal .  The strike called by the private-sector GSEE union shut
down schools, government services, and some public transit for
the second time this week.  “They want to privatize the entire country,” Ploumitsa
Triantafillopoulou, 42, who works for an organization that
promotes day-care facilities for children, said today in an
interview. “All of us here we will lose our jobs. They don’t
care for us. They don’t care for the people of Greece.”  Europe’s hardline stance follows more than two years in
which Greece failed to carry through promised reforms to tackle
its uncompetitive economy and meet the terms for aid. Greece
blamed its shortcomings on a deepening recession now set to
worsen with reports yesterday showing unemployment jumping to
20.9 percent in November and industrial production declining.  Debt Swap  Bondholders met separately in Paris yesterday to discuss
accepting an average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-
year bonds in a proposed debt swap. An agreement would slice 100
billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately-held
debt and a formal offer must be made by Feb. 13 to allow all
procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond comes due.
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the deal is “practically finalized.”  The Brussels meeting, attended by International Monetary
Fund chief  Christine Lagarde  and European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi , came hours after Papademos and party chiefs ended
a week of meetings with a deal on fresh budget cuts.  The measures are aimed at delivering budget reductions
totaling 1.5 percent of GDP this year and range from a 22
percent paring of the minimum wage to lower pension payments and
immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  