-- Venizelos Tells Greek Lawmakers to Back Budget Cuts or Risk Exiting Euro
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-10T10:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/greek-lawmakers-must-back-bailout-cuts-or-risk-euro-exit-venizelos-says.html
Greek unions held their second
strike in a week against proposed austerity measures as Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos pressed lawmakers to yield to
conditions for a bailout, saying a refusal would open the way
for the country’s exit from the euro.  Venizelos returned to  Athens  today after his euro-area
counterparts yesterday refused to approve a second aid package
for  Greece  at an emergency meeting. The officials cited the
failure to reach previous budget-cutting targets and doubts
Greek party leaders will stick to their commitments after
elections due as soon as April.  The Greek parliament is due to vote on the measures this
weekend. Euro-region ministers are set to meet again on Feb. 15.  “From today until the next meeting of the eurogroup, our
country, our homeland, our society has to think and make a
definitive, strategic decision,” Venizelos, 55, told reporters
after the Brussels talks. “If we see the salvation and future
of the country in the euro area, in  Europe , we have to do
whatever we have to do to get the program approved.”  Greece, which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment ($19.3
billion) on March 20, has since July been seeking a new aid
package to follow an initial rescue of 110 billion euros in
emergency loans approved in May 2010. The new program foresees a
loss of more than 70 percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt
exchange and extra public aid of 130 billion euros.  Mounting Pressure  The standoff puts the spotlight on the leaders of the three
Greek political parties backing the caretaker government of
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , a former European Central Bank
vice president. Haggling over austerity measures between
Papademos and the “troika” of the European Commission, ECB and
 International Monetary Fund  stalled for days over pension cuts
until the premier announced a “general political agreement”
hours before yesterday’s Brussels meeting.  “Yesterday’s pledge by Greece’s main political leaders to
accept the terms for a second bailout was of limited
significance, as was its prompt rejection by the eurogroup,”
said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London . “When the causes of the failure of the
first bailout have yet to be addressed, there is scant chance of
the second working.”  Greece’s private-sector union GSEE called a 48-hour strike
beginning today, shutting down schools, government services, and
some public transit for the second time this week. The move was
supported by ADEDY, the public-sector union. Deputy Labor and
Social Security Minister Yiannis Koutsoukos, a former head of
the ADEDY union, resigned in protest over the austerity
measures, according to a statement sent from the Pasok socialist
party member’s office.  ‘Extortionate’ Cuts  Greece’s lenders ignored the government’s proposals in “a
completely extortionate, improper and shameless manner,”
Koutsoutos said in an e-mailed statement. “I can’t implement
the measures decided.”  Venizelos said yesterday’s euro-area gathering left no more
room for political games in Greece over budget policy. The
Papademos administration is backed by the Socialist Pasok party
led by former Premier  George Papandreou , New Democracy under
Antonis Samaras and Laos headed by George Karatzaferis.  “There were many objections from many countries based on
the fact that we didn’t fully complete in cooperation with the
troika the catalogue of additional fiscal measures that must be
taken,” said Venizelos, a Pasok leader. “But the main thing is
that the eurogroup took serious note of the fact that there
haven’t yet been written, explicit and unequivocal pledges from
the leaders of all the parties of support for this program.”  Euro Risk  It’s not the first time the financial crisis that erupted
in 2009 raised the possibility of a fracture of the currency
zone. The 17-nation euro area’s rules neither permit nor foresee
an exit by a member. Papandreou dropped a call for a referendum
on austerity last November when European leaders said it could
lead to Greece quitting the euro.  The Cabinet will probably meet today to approve the
agreement before discussion in Parliament this weekend. Today
will be marked by a series of meetings with lawmakers as
attempts get underway to shore up support for the bill in
Parliament.  Socialist Pasok party lawmakers are due to discuss the new
measures today, while lawmakers of the  New Democracy  party will
meet at 8 p.m.  Samaras View  Samaras said his party’s negotiations with the troika
resulted in smaller pension cuts, criticizing the previous
Papandreou socialist government for failing to negotiate over
the past two years to protect Greeks from austerity measures and
that pension cuts were half of what were initially sought. He
said Greece needs national elections now more than ever.  His New Democracy party fought to avert “more austerity,
more unemployment and more misery for Greeks,” Samaras said in
comments televised live on state-run NET TV yesterday. “We must
show that what is happening to Greece will spill over to Europe
if we don’t avoid one-sided and relentless austerity.”  The  IMF  defended its approach in negotiating the terms of a
new loan to Greece, saying it’s not forcing the country to take
steps such as budget cuts.  “The IMF is not imposing austerity on Greece,” IMF
spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.
“What we’re trying to do here is come up with a program that
will return Greece to a sustainable path.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  