-- Greece Pushes Back on Demand for More Cuts
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-10T13:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/greece-pushes-back-against-german-demands-for-deeper-cuts-to-receive-aid.html
A leader of  Greece ’s governing
coalition pushed back against German demands for deeper budget
cuts to get the bailout needed to prevent a financial collapse.  In Athens, unions struck for the second time this week and
police used tear gas to counter protesters. George Karatzaferis,
who heads one of the three parties supporting interim Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos , said he wouldn’t support austerity
measures worked out for a rescue. He spoke hours after German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin
that Greece was missing deficit targets.  “What has particularly bothered me is the humiliation
of the country,” Karatzaferis, whose Laos party has 16 members
in the 300-seat parliament, said in televised comments.
“Clearly Greece can’t and shouldn’t do without the European
Union but it could do without the German boot.”  Schaeuble said that current plans would leave Greece’s debt
as high as 136 percent of gross domestic product by 2020,
according to two people in the meeting who spoke on condition of
anonymity because it was private. That compares with the 120
percent foreseen in the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) bailout
being negotiated. Debt was about 160 percent of GDP last year.  “The Greek offer is not sufficient and they have to go
away to come up with a revised plan,”  Bertrand Benoit , a
spokesman for the German Finance Ministry, said by telephone.  Juncker’s Conditions  Emergency talks of euro-area finance chiefs broke up late
last night with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
saying Greece must turn its budget cuts into law, flesh out 325
million euros in spending reductions and have its major party
leaders sign up to the program so they don’t retreat after
upcoming elections. Another extraordinary meeting was set for
Feb. 15.  “In short: no disbursement without implementation,”
Juncker said. “We can’t live with this system while promises
are repeated and repeated and repeated and implementation
measures are sometimes too weak,” he said.  The impasse left European stocks falling for the fourth
time in five days and the euro declining from yesterday’s two-
month high against the dollar.  In a bid to pressure his country’s lawmakers, Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the parliamentary vote on
budget cuts amounted to a ballot on euro membership.  ‘Salvation and Future’  “If we see the salvation and future of the country in the
euro area, in  Europe , we have to do whatever we have to do to
get the program approved,” Venizelos said in Brussels.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would allow Greece to make a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 and contain the threat that speculators will
target debt-saddled nations including Italy and Portugal.  The standoff put the spotlight on the leaders of the three
Greek political parties backing the caretaker government of
Papademos, a former European Central Bank vice president.
Greece’s private-sector union GSEE called a 48-hour strike
beginning today, shutting down schools, government services, and
some public transit for the second time this week.  Fitch Ratings today reiterated its view that Greece will
default even with the rescue package.  Greece “must get this deal agreed really within the next
few days to enable them sufficient time and have the new bailout
money disbursed before that bond is due,” Tony Stringer,
Fitch’s managing director of global sovereigns, said in an
interview in  Singapore . “If they don’t manage to achieve that,
then it could be in the realm of a disorderly default.”  Hardline  Europe’s hardline stance follows more than two years in
which Greece failed to carry through promised reforms to tackle
its uncompetitive economy and meet the terms for aid. Greece
blamed its shortcomings on a deepening recession now set to
worsen with reports yesterday showing unemployment jumping to
20.9 percent in November and industrial production declining.  Negotiations over another bailout began seven months ago
and Greece’s participation in the euro first came into question
when then-Prime Minister  George Papandreou  threatened in October
to hold a referendum on austerity.  In contrast to the approach to Greece,  Germany  may be
willing to study revising the terms of  Portugal ’s bailout,
Schaeuble told his Portuguese counterpart in Brussels in a
conversation picked up by Portuguese television.  Germany will “be ready” for an adjustment of the
Portuguese program if needed, Schaeuble told Finance Minister
Vitor Gaspar at the meeting yesterday.  IMF, ECB  The gathering, attended by International Monetary Fund
chief  Christine Lagarde  and European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi , came hours after Papademos and party chiefs ended
a week of meetings with a deal on fresh budget cuts.  The measures are aimed at delivering budget reductions
totaling 1.5 percent of GDP this year and range from a 20
percent paring of the minimum wage to lower pension payments and
immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  With European officials signaling investors will soon
accept a debt swap that would impose losses of about 70 percent
of their Greek bond holdings, the ECB came under pressure to
offer additional relief.  “The ECB must look, within the framework of its
independence, what sort of contribution it can make,” Juncker
said.  Draghi yesterday left open the possibility of passing up
some the profits on the Greek bonds the central bank bought
during the crisis. He nevertheless rejected selling them to
Europe’s temporary bailout fund at a loss because doing so would
amount to “monetary financing” of governments, which is banned
by European treaties.  Bondholders Meet  Bondholders met in Paris yesterday to discuss accepting an
average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in
the proposed debt swap. An agreement would slice 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt and
a formal offer must be made by Feb. 13 to allow all procedures
to be completed before the March 20 bond comes due.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the deal is “practically finalized.” The
 Institute of International Finance , which represents investors,
said it welcomed progress made by Greece and look forward to the
debt swap being completed next week.  “The Greeks understand that it’s not five minutes to
midnight but 30 seconds to midnight,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  