-- Micron’s Adams Says Computer Memory Prices Probably Bottomed
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-10T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/micron-president-adams-says-computer-memory-prices-probably-bottomed-out.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  President
 Mark Adams  said prices of computer memory have probably hit
their lowest after a slump that caused losses at three of the
four largest companies in the industry.  In December the Boise, Idaho-based company, the only
remaining U.S. maker of dynamic random access memory, or  DRAM (DRAMXI) ,
reported its second straight quarterly  loss  as product prices
fell amid slowing personal computer orders.  “I don’t think DRAM goes down from here,” Adams said in
an interview ahead of a company analyst day in Scottsdale,
 Arizona . “It’s starting to feel like a stable market.”  Chipmakers are struggling to match supply with demand in
the market for memory in personal computers, where plants take
years to come online and can’t be shut down cheaply. Underlining
that, 2011 industry sales dropped 26 percent to $29.2 billion,
according to an estimate by market researcher Gartner Inc. That
followed a 72 percent surge in 2010.  This quarter, prices of DRAM chips are still dropping as
much as 20 percent, Brian Shirley, head of Micron’s DRAM
solutions business, said in a presentation to analysts today.
That’s in line with the company’s earlier projection. Demand,
rather than too much supply, remains the problem, he said.  “There is certainly some macroeconomic softness out there
right now,” Shirley said.  Appleton’s Vision  Encouraging signs include cuts in output by competitors and
the end of shortages of hard-disk drives, which have held back
production of PCs, he said.  Micron  fell  3.1 percent to $7.91 at the close of trading in
 New York . The stock has gained 26 percent this year, compared
with a 6.8 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Adams was promoted to company president last week following
the death of former Chief Executive Officer  Steve Appleton  in an
airplane accident. Former Chief Operating Officer Mark Durcan
has reversed his retirement decision and is taking on Appleton’s
position.  The industry is inching closer to Appleton’s vision of a
more stable business populated by few producers, Adams said.  Only  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the largest maker of computer
memory, which also gets income from mobile phones, flat-panel
displays and home electronics, has remained  profitable . Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung, the world’s second-largest chipmaker
behind  Intel Corp. (INTC) , spends more on new plants and equipment.  Looking for Opportunities  The latest memory-chip maker to come under pressure is
 Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , which this month reported its fifth
consecutive  quarterly loss . The Tokyo-based company said last
week it was in talks with the government and creditors to try to
reach an arrangement on continued support before an April debt-
repayment deadline.  Elpida is the third-largest maker of dynamic random access
memory, behind Samsung and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  Micron is
fourth.  Japanese media have reported that Micron was in talks to
invest in Elpida. Micron’s Adams declined to comment on whether
his company is contemplating any specific transaction, including
taking an interest in Elpida.  “We’re going to look at opportunities,” Adams said. The
company now has more than $2 billion in  cash reserves  and in a
market with more stable chip prices, Micron may use its balance
sheet to lead more consolidation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 