-- High-Frequency Traders May Win EU Reprieve
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-10T17:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/high-frequency-traders-may-win-reprieve-from-eu-flash-crash-rule.html
High-frequency traders may win a
partial reprieve from proposed European Union rules designed to
prevent a repeat of the so-called flash crash after banks and
exchanges including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  warned
they could damage markets and lead to an exodus of traders.  The European Parliament may scrap plans to force firms that
use algorithmic-trading programs to continue trading throughout
the day, said Markus Ferber, the lawmaker writing the assembly’s
response to the proposals. The measure was meant to prevent them
creating volatility by diving in and out of the markets.  “We are really rethinking on the whole approach the
European Commission has proposed,” Ferber said in an interview.
The all-day trading rule was intended to promote market
liquidity by ensuring a steady supply of buyers and sellers.
“No one can answer me” why such firms should be expected to
provide liquidity throughout the trading day, Ferber said.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May 2010, during
which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points. The liquidity rule is one of several curbs proposed by
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  last year as part
of a wider overhaul of an EU markets law, known as Mifid.  Continuous Trading  High-frequency trading, often used by  hedge funds , entails
using powerful technology and complex computer programs to
execute orders in milliseconds to profit from fleeting
discrepancies in the prices of shares across different trading
venues.  Barnier’s proposals would require algorithmic trading
strategies to be in continuous operation during trading hours
and to offer quotes at competitive prices regardless of
prevailing market conditions, according to a copy of the
plans published on the commission’s website.  “This proposal defied logic from the outset,” Etay Katz,
regulatory partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in  London , said
in an e-mail. “If anything, it would act to decrease liquidity
-- due to many market participants withdrawing -- and
substantially increase market risk for frequent traders.”  The liquidity rule may increase costs for high-frequency
trading companies and place them at a disadvantage to other
traders who are allowed to withdraw from the market, NYSE
Euronext warned when the plans were announced last year. This
may encourage firms to shift their activities out of the 27-
nation EU, it said.  ‘Significant Problems’  The rule would “cause significant problems” and should be
reworked or scrapped, the Association for Financial Markets in
 Europe , which represents banks including Deutsche Bank,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and BNP Paribas SA said in a statement last month.  “We believe that this would have grave consequences for
the markets -- in terms of systemic risk with increased order-
flow and for credit risk -- as firms are forced to provide
quotes,” the Federation of European Securities Exchanges, also
said last month.  Barnier’s proposals  need to be approved by national
governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament before they
can be implemented.  FESE’s members include NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1) , the exchanges whose planned merger was blocked by EU
regulators last week.  Ferber said the EU Parliament will also consider scrapping
part of the Mifid overhaul that would create a new kind of
trading platform known as organized trading facilities.  Regulated Markets  Under the commission’s proposals, these OTFs would handle
derivatives that are currently traded over-the-counter, so away
from regulated markets. They would be subject to similar rules
as other kinds of trading venues, the commission said.  Jean-Pierre Jouyet, chairman of France’s financial market
regulator, has warned that new venues risk diverting trading
away from more heavily regulated venues, such as exchanges.  “The question we have to answer in the European Parliament
is whether a new venue is really necessary,” Ferber said. “Is
there a need for a new platform with less transparency in some
areas?”  Ferber said the Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee will discuss Mifid when it meets on Feb. 13 in
Strasbourg,  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  