-- Lin-Manuel Miranda ‘Merrily’ Rolls; ‘Rx’ Targets Big Pharma
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/lin-manuel-miranda-merrily-rolls-rx-targets-big-pharma-jeremy-gerard.html
Most Broadway failures limp
offstage, never to be seen again except as posters on the Wall
of Flops at  Joe Allen ’s Theater District canteen.  Not “Merrily We Roll Along.”  Ever since it closed after 16 performances in 1981, this
 Stephen Sondheim  musical has been revived, revised, rearranged
and reconsidered by some of the best talents in the business.
The latest attempt to make an honest show of it is the concert
version opening the season at  New York City Center ’s invaluable
“ Encores! ” series of semi-staged concerts.  “Merrily” tells the story of three friends who meet in
1957 as New York City college students: Mary, a budding writer
who carries a torch for Franklin, a composer; and Charley, a
would-be playwright. During the next two decades, Mary writes a
best-selling novel before dissolving into alcoholism. Charley
writes earnest plays that win prizes but not dollars and
Franklin sells out to Hollywood, becoming a high-living producer
of schlock.  The gimmick is that the story is told backwards, just as it
was in the 1934 play by Kaufman and Hart. Franklin (Colin
Donnell), Mary (Celia Keenan-Bolger) and Charley (Lin-Manuel Miranda) are first seen when their friendship is ruins.  We travel back in time to the finale, their chance meeting
on the roof of an apartment building. They’ve come to watch
Sputnik stream across the night sky and, hitting it off, they
sing that “something is stirring, shifting ground ... and
yesterday is done.”  This is a bad idea. Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal” succeeded
in telling its tale in reverse chronology. A musical builds
emotionally in a different way. The first time we meet them,
Franklin is a philandering egomaniac, Mary an acid-tongued drunk
and Charley an embittered scourge. They’re unlikable and, worse,
boring.  Why all this effort for what remains a fatally flawed work?
The reason is simple: “Merrily” has an ingratiatingly
entertaining score. The half-dozen songs that unfold in its last
half-hour are as moving an account of the way time warps
youthful dreams as you’re ever likely to hear.  They’re also the point at which James Lapine’s production
finally takes off. Until then, Keenan-Bolger and Miranda both
sang somewhat shakily, which I will blame on opening night
nerves; only Donnell seemed comfortably assured.  This allowed others to shine, particularly Adam Grupper as
a middlebrow lawyer/producer; Elizabeth Stanley as the knockout
wife who leaves him for Franklin; and Betsy Wolfe as the long-
suffering spouse Franklin dumps for Stanley. A reprise of the
torchy ballad “Not a Day Goes By,” sung by Keenan-Bolger and
Wolfe, is a killer.  Lapine and video wizard Wendall K. Harrington provide era-
defining images (in which the three leads appear, Zelig-like,
with Kennedys and others). Ann Hould-Ward’s costumes also place
us securely in each period. But even the reliable Encores!
Orchestra, conducted by Rob Berman, seemed shaky on opening
night.  For all these reasons, I plan to revisit “Merrily” a bit
later in the run, when I’m pretty certain all the elements will
have fallen securely into place. And maybe next time, some
enterprising director will stage “Merrily” backwards. The way
it ought to be done.  Through Feb. 19 at City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org .
Rating: **1/2  ‘Rx’  Kate Fodor’s “Rx,” running off-Broadway at  59E59
Theatres , is a charmer.  Stephen Kunken plays a doctor whose lousy bedside manner
has led him to take a job running trials for a pharmaceutical
company. Marin Hinkle is the neurotic, depressed trade-magazine
editor who signs up for a new drug to combat “workplace
depression.” She spends her lunch hours in the ladies’
underwear section of a nearby department store, sobbing with
existential remorse.  They fall in love. She becomes addicted to the uppers, but
their cover is blown and so is the trial. No more pills for
Hinkle, who has come to love her work for American Cattle and
Swine.  Kunken wants her to follow him on a humanitarian mission to
 Africa , where he hopes she will return to writing the prose
poetry she long ago abandoned. She’s having none of it; she just
wants her damned pills.  Under Ethan McSweeny’s deft direction, these engaging
actors effortlessly capture the play’s screwball-comedy tone. As
a romance, “Rx” is a terrific farce, skewering Big Pharma. As
farce, it’s a warmly romantic valentine.  Through March 3 at 59 E. 59th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200. Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 