-- India Factory Output Rises 1.8%, Missing Estimates Amid Economic Slowdown
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-02-10T12:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/india-factory-output-rises-1-8-missing-estimates-amid-economic-slowdown.html
India ’s industrial production rose
less than estimated in December, signaling weakening domestic
demand as the global recovery faltered. Bonds rose and stocks
and the rupee fell.  Output (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines climbed 1.8
percent from a year earlier, after a 5.9 percent advance in
November, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in
New Delhi today. The median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 2.6 percent gain.  The deterioration in factory output may fan concern India’s
growth is slowing after the government forecast the weakest rise
in gross domestic product since 2009. The central bank has
signaled readiness to cut rates and shield the economy if
inflation eases further, with a fall in Chinese exports in
January underscoring the threat to Asian expansion from Europe’s
protracted debt crisis.  “We’ll have to accept that we are in a slowdown mode and
factory output is likely to remain subdued for the first half,”
said  Arun Singh , Mumbai-based senior economist at Dun &
Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt. “Moderating growth
and cooling inflation will pave the way for the  Reserve Bank  of
India to reduce  interest rates  in April.”  The rupee, Asia’s worst-performing currency last year with
a 16 percent tumble against the dollar, declined 0.2 percent to
49.4100 at the close. It has rebounded about 7 percent so far in
2012. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.5 percent. The yield
on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.20 percent from yesterday.  Manufacturing, Electricity  Manufacturing gained 1.8 percent in December from a year
earlier after a 6.6 percent advance in November, today’s report
showed. Electricity output climbed 9.1 percent, while mining
fell 3.7 percent.  India’s government on Feb. 7 predicted gross domestic
product will rise 6.9 percent in the 12 months through March
from a year earlier, the least since 2008-2009.  Asia ’s third-
largest economy expanded 8.4 percent in the last financial year.  India’s  inflation  moderated to 6.6 percent in January, a
more than two-year low, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report due Feb. 14. That pace
would remain the fastest in the so-called BRIC group that also
includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The Reserve Bank on Jan. 24 cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009, seeking to ease a cash squeeze and bolster expansion.  Interest-Rate Signal  It reinforced guidance that future rate actions “will be
towards lowering them,” while saying inflation risks made it
“premature” to start reducing borrowing costs. The central
bank kept the  repurchase rate  at 8.5 percent for a second month,
following 3.75 percentage points of increases from mid-March
2010 to October last year to fight inflation.  Asia-Pacific officials are striving to weather the impact
of  Europe ’s debt turmoil. Expansion has eased in countries from
China to  South Korea , prompting central banks to cut rates or
leave them on hold.  Indonesia  unexpectedly lowered borrowing
costs by a quarter-point this week, while both  Australia  and
South Korea left them unchanged.  China today said its imports and exports both contracted
for the first time in more than two years in January.  In India, businesses have reported slowing output growth.
Production at steel companies, including Tata Steel Ltd.,
India’s largest maker of the alloy, rose 2.2 percent in December
from a year earlier, compared with 5.1 percent in November,
government data shows.  The $1.7 trillion economy also faces pressure from budget
and trade deficits and policy gridlock inhibiting investment.  India’s trade gap widened to a three-month high of $14.7
billion in January, the commerce ministry said yesterday.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee faces a fiscal shortfall
that reached 92.3 percent of the 2011-2012 target in the nine
months through December, imperiling the government’s aim of
reining in the gap. He presents the next budget on March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  