-- India Said to Plan Raising $2 Billion Selling Assets by March
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-02-10T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/india-said-to-plan-raising-2-billion-selling-assets-by-march.html
India  may raise 100 billion rupees
($2 billion) by selling stakes in  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and
 National Building Construction Corp.  next month, a Finance
Ministry official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government plans to sell a
5 percent stake in Oil & Natural Gas, India’s biggest explorer,
and 10 percent in National Building, the official said,
declining to be identified before a public announcement.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee plans to revive his asset
sale program amid a stock market rally this year that has made
the benchmark  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  the second-best
performer in  Asia . The government raised 11.44 billion rupees
from share sales in the year that began on April 1, or 3 percent
of its target, according to data provided by the Department of
Disinvestment.  “A big ticket sale like ONGC next month will improve
 market sentiment ,” said Vaibhav Sanghavi, director at Ambit
Holdings Pvt. “In spite of the government’s best intentions, it
remains to be seen how fast they work out the technicalities.”  The Sensex has risen 15 percent this year after posting its
worst performance in three years in 2011 prompting the
government to delay asset sales. ONGC rose 0.2 percent to 281.75
rupees in Mumbai.  The government scrapped an earlier plan to borrow as much
as 500 billion rupees using land and shares, the official said.
The South Asian nation had proposed setting up a  fund manager  to
pledge stocks it holds in non-state companies, two officials,
who declined to be identified, said in December.  “A group of ministers will take a decision on the timing
and method of selling ONGC, NBCC stake,” Mohammad Haleem Khan,
secretary, department of disinvestment said in a telephone
interview yesterday. He declined to comment on the timing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  