-- Indonesian Bonds Advance, Rupiah Falls After Interest-Rate Cut
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2012-02-10T08:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/indonesian-rupiah-falls-bonds-advance-after-interest-rate-cut.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell for a second
day and bonds completed a fifth weekly advance after Bank
Indonesia unexpectedly cut borrowing costs yesterday.  The central bank reduced the  reference rate  by 25 basis
points to 5.75 percent, a move predicted by four of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with the rest expecting no
change. Overseas investors sold $196 million more local shares
than they bought this week through yesterday, exchange data show.
 Offshore funds  raised holdings of government debt by 5.7 percent
to 235.54 trillion rupiah ($26 billion) this year through Feb. 7,
finance ministry data show.  “Bonds reacted positively toward the rate cut,” said
Wiwig Santoso, head of treasury and markets at PT Bank DBS
Indonesia in Jakarta. “As the economic fundamentals are solid,
investors will come back into equities.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent security due May
2022 fell 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, this week
to 5.03 percent, according to midday prices from the Inter-
Dealer Market Association. The rate fell five basis points today.  The currency also weakened after European leaders held back
a bailout package for  Greece . The country must pass its latest
austerity package into law before European leaders endorse 130
billion euros ($173 billion) of aid, Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  said yesterday.  The rupiah declined 0.7 percent to 9,033 per dollar as of
3:10 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 0.6 percent this week, the
steepest decline since November.  “The  exchange rate  is relatively stable and won’t be much
affected,” Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said
yesterday after the interest-rate decision.  The central bank has been intervening in the foreign
exchange and bond markets to prevent volatility, Governor Darmin
Nasution said today.  “As a policy response to preserve macro and financial
system stability, the central bank implemented a dual
intervention strategy in the foreign exchange and government
bond markets simultaneously,” Nasution said at a seminar in
Jakarta today. “This strategy has stabilized both the currency
and bonds.”  The country sold 12 trillion rupiah of local-currency notes
this week, exceeding its 8 trillion rupiah target, the  finance
ministry  said in a statement. The sale drew 42.38 trillion
rupiah of bids, it said. Moody’s Investors Service awarded
Indonesia an investment-grade  credit rating  last month,
following  Fitch Ratings  in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 