-- Indonesia Stock Movers: Aneka Tambang, Astra, Bumi Minerals
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-02-10T09:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/indonesia-stock-movers-bakrie-sumatera-bumi-semen-gresik.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual  moves in  Indonesian trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the close in Jakarta.  The  Jakarta Composite index  sank 1.7 percent to 3,912.39,
the most since Jan. 30. The gauge declined 2.6 this week, the
biggest drop since the week ended Nov. 25.  Mining companies:  PT Bumi Resources Minerals (BRMS)  ,
which owns shares in a copper producer, fell 1.7 percent to 580
rupiah and  PT Aneka Tambang (ANTM)  , a gold and nickel
producer, lost 2.6 percent to 1,860 rupiah.  Indonesia  will ban
exports of raw metals, including copper and nickel, starting in
2014, according to a decree signed by the nation’s energy
ministry on Feb. 6 and posted on its website yesterday.  PT Astra International (ASII)  , Indonesia’s largest
automotive retailer, dropped 2.4 percent to 71,200 rupiah, the
lowest close since Dec. 16. Overseas investors are selling
stocks that have rallied last month such as Astra to raise cash
amid uncertainties related to the European debt crisis, said
Armand Dharmasana, head of research at PT Phillip Securities in
Jakarta. Astra rose 6.6 percent last month.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  , Indonesia’s biggest coal
producer, fell 3 percent to 2,400 rupiah, the lowest close since
Jan. 9.  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s two largest shareholders said they are
“absolutely confident” that investors will support a proposal
to replace the directors of the company, including billionaire
founder  Nathaniel Rothschild . Bumi Plc owns 29.2 percent of Bumi
Resources.  Investors had expected Rothschild’s presence would help
improve corporate governance at Bumi Resources, Frederick Daniel Tanggela, an analyst at PT Bahana Securities in Jakarta, said.
Bumi Resources Director Dileep Srivastava didn’t answer a call
to his mobile phone and hasn’t replied to an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  