-- Lira Weakens a Second Day After European Union Rejects Bailout for Greece
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-10T08:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/lira-weakens-a-second-day-after-european-union-rejects-bailout-for-greece.html
The lira depreciated for a second
day and headed for the lowest close this month as European
Union’s refusal to deliver bailout for neighboring  Greece 
weighed on the Turkish assets.  The Turkish currency declined 0.6 percent at 1.7633 per
dollar at 10:02 a.m. in Istanbul, heading for the biggest
decline this year and the lowest level since Jan. 31.  Yields (BENCH)  on
the benchmark two-year bond rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage points, to 9.40 percent, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS
index of the securities showed.  European finance ministers held back a rescue package for
Greece in a rebuff that left lawmakers in  Athens  under
government pressure to endorse a newly minted austerity plan or
exit the euro. The refusal to deliver a 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) bailout for Greece reflected the euro area’s
frustration with the country’s bickering politicians and the
prospect that they may again backtrack on fiscal commitments not
passed into law.  “We are shifting our positive position on the lira and
lira-linked investment instruments to cautious on the face of
these risks,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at HSBC Bank AS in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note.  The lira gained 7.2 percent this year against the dollar,
after sinking 18 percent last year, as credit growth and an
expansion in trade deficit slowed as a result of higher lending
rates of as much as 12.5 percent by the central bank. Risk
appetite for  emerging markets  was also spurred this month after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. interest
rates will remain exceptionally low for longer and hinted there
would be a third round of quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  