-- Iran Sanctions Give China Bargaining Power for Crude, IEA Says
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-02-10T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/iran-sanctions-give-china-bargaining-power-for-crude-iea-says.html
Global sanctions against  Iran  have
strengthened China’s bargaining position with the Persian Gulf
state for oil purchases even as the Asian nation opposes trade
restrictions, according to the  International Energy Agency .  China’s first-quarter purchases of Iranian oil may slow to
half of last year’s average rate of 550,000 barrels a day,
because of a dispute over prices, the Paris-based adviser to
oil-consuming nations said in a report today.  The U.S. and its allies are using economic and financial
sanctions to curb Iran’s nuclear program, which they say has
military objectives. Iran denies the claim.  Escalating sanctions over Iran’s nuclear program have posed
difficulties for customers such as  India  to continue purchasing
crude. The European Union, collectively the No. 2 importer of
Iranian oil in the first half of 2011, last month approved a ban
on imports set to take effect on July 1.  China  said sanctions on Iran’s oil exports are not
“constructive” and urged relevant parties to settle
international disputes through dialog, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported Jan. 26, citing comments from the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. The country is the biggest buyer of Iranian
crude, according to the IEA.  Unipec Supply  China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the
nation’s biggest oil trader, was negotiating a 2012 crude supply
contract that was scheduled to be agreed on last year with
National Iranian Oil Co., two people with knowledge of the talks
said Jan. 10.  As much as 1 million barrels a day of Iran’s 2.6 million
barrels a day of exports may be replaced by alternative supplies
once the EU sanctions take effect, forcing Iran to place unsold
supplies into floating storage or to shut in production in the
second half of the year, according to the IEA.  While Iran has asked fellow members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries not to fill any gap created by the
country’s loss of market share,  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
biggest crude exporter, has signaled it could increase
production, the IEA said in its report.  Japan , India and  South
Korea  have boosted crude purchases from suppliers other than
Iran, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  