-- Missed Super Bowl, Frantic Talks Led to $25 Billion Bank Deal
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/missed-super-bowl-frantic-talks-led-to-25-billion-bank-deal.html
Hashing out the $25 billion
settlement reached by  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and three other U.S. banks with 49 states required missing
some football.  Bank executives, state officials and U.S. Housing Secretary
 Shaun Donovan  worked frantically over  Super Bowl  weekend as the
 New York Giants  beat the New England Patriots 21-17, according
to three people involved in the discussions. The negotiations
ran down to the wire the night before the agreement was
announced, they said.  Negotiators made phone calls late into the night and ironed
out the final details by phone at about 2 a.m. or 3 a.m.
yesterday, less than six hours before the Obama administration
released the details to the public, said the people, who didn’t
want to be identified because the negotiations were private.  The result was what the U.S. called the largest federal-
state civil settlement in the nation’s history, ending a probe
of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the collapse of
the housing bubble. The banks have committed $20 billion in
various forms of mortgage relief plus payments of $5 billion to
state and federal governments.  The nation’s five largest mortgage servicers -- Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally
Financial Inc. -- negotiated the settlement with federal
agencies, including the  Justice Department , and state attorneys
general.  Faulty Documents  The deal comes more than a year after attorneys general
from all 50 states announced a probe into foreclosure practices
following disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to
seize homes. Oklahoma reached a separate agreement worth
$18.6 million with the banks and didn’t sign the federal
settlement, according to its attorney general, Scott Pruitt.  The multistate deal will “begin to turn the page on an era
of recklessness” that led to the housing bubble, President
 Barack Obama  said yesterday in Washington, where he was joined
by administration officials and state  attorneys general . Obama’s
announcement was preceded by lengthy, sometimes contentious
negotiations.  Florida Attorney General  Pam Bondi  pulled her support for
the agreement late on Feb. 3, three days before the deadline for
states to sign on to the deal, according to one person involved
in negotiations. She refused to sign on until the banks would
guarantee that  California  didn’t get a better deal than other
states, two people said.  Florida, California  A third person said Bondi wanted to make sure that her
state got as good of a deal as California.  Negotiations were delayed more than once by Bank of
America, which sent Eric Telljohann, a credit loss mitigation
strategies executive, to the bargaining table, said two people
involved in the talks. Telljohann, who reports to Ron Sturzenegger in Bank of America’s legacy mortgage division,
wasn’t authorized to commit to any major decisions without
seeking approval from Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan and
sometimes the board of directors, according to these people.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank was accountable
for almost half of the $25 billion settlement so it was natural
that the board had to sign off on certain commitments ahead of
time, said  Dan Frahm , a bank spokesman.  BofA’s Stake  “When material changes to terms were proposed, our
negotiators reviewed changes with our management team to confirm
support,” Frahm said, adding that the banks’ negotiating team
had “significant authority” to make some decisions on their
own. “This was appropriate and responsible given the size of
the settlement and the fact that Bank of America was committing
the greatest share of dollars and programs for customers in need
of assistance.”  Bank of America had the most at stake for its customers and
shareholders, Frahm said.  “Our approach to the negotiations was rigorous and
disciplined with a sense of urgency to provide additional
assistance to our customers and get the mortgage crisis behind
us,” he said.  Jenn Meale, a spokeswoman for Bondi, didn’t respond to an
e-mail or a phone call seeking comment on her role in the talks.
Late in the day on Feb. 8, Bondi still hadn’t signed on to the
deal and was “actively involved” in settlement discussion,
Meale said in an e-mail at the time.  Brian Sullivan, a spokesman for the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, didn’t return a call or e-mail seeking
comment yesterday on Donovan’s role in the talks.  750,000 Borrowers  The $25 billion agreement includes $1.5 billion in payments
to some 750,000 borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure.
About $17 billion will pay for mortgage debt forgiveness,
forbearance, short sales and other assistance to homeowners.
Servicers will also provide $3 billion in refinancing to lower
homeowners’ interest rates. A  website  has been set up to give
information on the settlement.  Bank of America has committed as much as $11.8 billion,
including a cash payment of $3.24 billion, according to a
government fact sheet. The balance will be applied toward
mortgage modifications and other benefits for borrowers. San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo (WFC)  has committed as much as $5.35
billion; New York-based JPMorgan $5.29 billion; New York-based
Citigroup $2.2 billion; and Detroit-based Ally $310 million.  Best-Case Scenario  The total could grow to $40 billion if the next nine
largest mortgage servicers sign on to the agreement, said an
administration official who briefed reporters on condition of
anonymity before the announcement. In a best-case scenario, if
all banks participate fully, the deal could be worth $45 billion
to homeowners and people who lost their homes to foreclosure,
the official said.  This settlement will hold accountable institutions that
wronged families and neighborhoods and “contributed to the
collapse of not just the American economy but the international
economy,” Donovan said in  Washington .  California Attorney General Kamala Harris, who initially
didn’t sign on the accord when states were required to decide,
said in a statement that the settlement provides a commitment to
the state of as much as $18 billion.  California’s agreement with the banks includes $12 billion
for principal reduction, with incentives for banks to move
swiftly and penalties if they don’t, Harris said yesterday.  The settlement doesn’t release banks from any criminal
liability or grant any immunity, release any private claims by
individuals or any class-action claims, or release claims
related to the packaging of  mortgage loans  into securities,
according to the website outlining the agreement.  The resolution also establishes a monitor, Joseph A. Smith Jr.,  North Carolina ’s banking regulator, to track compliance
with the terms of the agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  