-- Italy Industrial Production Rose in December Even Amid Austerity Measures
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-10T11:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/italy-industrial-production-rose-in-december-even-amid-austerity-measures.html
Italian industrial  production 
unexpectedly rose in December, even as quarterly data suggest
that the euro’s area’s third-biggest economy may have entered
its second recession since 2009 amid tax hikes and budget cuts.  Output increased 1.4 percent from November, when it rose
0.3 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said today in
Rome. Economists had expected a 0.5 percent drop, the median of
21 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. Production fell
1.7 percent from a year earlier on a workday-adjusted basis.  Output declined 2.1 percent in the three months through
December from the previous quarter, suggesting  Italy ’s economy
may have contracted in the fourth quarter after shrinking 0.2
percent in the period from July through September. A recession
is commonly defined as two consecutive quarterly contractions.
Istat publishes fourth-quarter gross domestic product figures on
Feb. 15.  “What these numbers suggest is that the GDP contraction in
the fourth quarter may not be quite as deep” as some forecasts
suggest, Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe Generale SA
in  London , said in an e-mail. “Italy’s recession has barely
started and has yet to reach its most acute phase,” he said,
adding that he predicts GDP will decline as much as 0.4 percent
in the three months through December.  Recession Forecasts  Mario Monti , the unelected premier who took over after
Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation in November, pushed through 20
billion euros ($26.5 billion) in spending cuts and tax increases
in December while reducing red tape that he blames for Italy’s
stagnant economy. Italian GDP rose at an annual average of 0.4
percent in the decade through 2010, compared with 1.2 percent in
the euro area.  Italy’s government projects GDP to fall 0.5 percent this
year while the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts a
contraction of 2.2 percent. Bank of Italy Director General
Fabrizio Saccomanni told reporters in Rome yesterday that he
expects the economy to shrink as much as 1.5 percent in 2012.  December’s monthly gain was led by computers and
electronics, vehicles, wood products and chemicals, Istat said.  Still, Italian business confidence fell in January to the
lowest in more than two years. Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest
manufacturer, led a decline in auto sales in  Europe  in 2011 with
a 12 percent slump to 947,786 vehicles, according to the
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association in Brussels.
Deliveries in Italy fell 16 percent in January.  French industrial output declined in December by 1.4
percent, Paris-based national statistics institute Insee said
today, the latest sign that the region’s second-biggest economy
may also be on the verge of a recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  