-- Kleiner Perkins Considering New Fund for Cloud-Computing Services Startups
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-10T21:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/kleiner-perkins-considering-new-fund-for-cloud-computing-services-startups.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers ,
the venture firm that backed  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and Groupon Inc., is
considering starting a new fund focused on startups selling
cloud services to corporations.  Kleiner Perkins partners “have talked about it, and are
intrigued by the idea,”  Matt Murphy , a partner at the  Menlo
Park , California-based firm, told Bloomberg.com’s Tech Deals
blog. Kleiner Perkins could invest $100 million in the market
this year, he said. Cloud services, which run on servers located
in remote data centers, help companies manage their data.  The firm is chasing a global cloud-computing market that
will grow at an annual clip of about 30 percent a year, reaching
$270 billion in 2020, according to  Market Research Media Ltd. 
Companies are embracing the approach because it means they don’t
have to store software and data on local computers, saving the
time and expense of managing those systems.  “Companies’ comfort level and willingness to adopt the
cloud is hitting an acceleration point,” Murphy said. “Now’s
the most interesting time in the last 10 years to be investing
in enterprise-based companies.”  In January,  Kleiner Perkins  led a $20 million funding round
in  AppDynamics , which helps companies manage Web applications.
Last year, the firm poured about $100 million into 10 more cloud
startups, including automation provider Puppet Labs, Murphy
said.  Cloud Deals  Many cloud companies have been acquired in the past year,
and others are preparing to go public, providing a payoff to
their venture investors.  In July, Citrix Systems Inc. bought Cloud.com Inc., a maker
of software for delivering and managing cloud services. And this
week Oracle Corp. agreed to buy Taleo Corp., which helps
companies manage human resources and set compensation, for about
$1.9 billion. Workday Inc., a provider of employee and payroll
management software to businesses, is preparing for an IPO
filing, people familiar with the matter said in December.  Kleiner Perkins already runs a $200 million fund called the
 iFund  that invests in applications, services and components for
mobile Internet devices, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. It also has
a $250 million fund focused on social startups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  