-- Knicks’ Lin Helps Generate Top Ticket Prices as Sponsors Say Wait and See
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-10T05:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/knicks-lin-helps-generate-top-ticket-prices-as-sponsors-say-wait-and-see.html
Jeremy Lin will have a more
difficult time landing corporate sponsorships than he did the
hearts of  New York  basketball fans.  The reaction to the Asian-American Harvard University
graduate has been nicknamed Linsanity by the team and New York
media. Lin, 23, took over as the  New York Knicks ’ starting point
guard two games ago and has helped build a three-game winning
streak that hasn’t produced any new deals. Marketers and Lin’s
own agent say they are taking a long-term approach.  “Two games doesn’t make a trend,” Jeff Urban, former
senior vice president of sports marketing for  PepsiCo Inc (PEP) .’s
Gatorade brand, said in a telephone interview. “But when a kid
can capture the imagination like he has, it’s certainly worth
keeping on the radar screen.”  Lin replica jerseys and T-shirts will be on sale for the
first time tonight when the Knicks host  Kobe Bryant  and the  Los
Angeles Lakers  at Madison Square Garden. The average ticket
price on SeatGeek.com, an aggregator of the online ticket resale
market, is $322.33, the highest for a Knicks home game this
season, spokesman Will Flaherty said in an e-mail. Ratings for
Knicks games on the MSG Network are up 36 percent since Lin
became a starter, the cable unit said yesterday in a statement.  The fans’ cheers of “Jer-a-mee” and shirts hand-painted
with his uniform number, 17, have shown up far from the arena in
Midtown Manhattan.  This week in Washington, fans were chanting for Lin, who
held his own statistically against Wizards point guard  John Wall , the No. 1 pick in the 2010 National Basketball Association
draft, where no team chose New York’s latest sports hero.  Lin has had at least 23 points and seven assists in each of
his last three games, averaging 39 minutes per contest. It’s
raised his season average to nine points and 3.5 assists, with
average playing time of 14 minutes.  Full Season  Companies will want to see how Lin performs over a full
season before committing to him, said John Huizinga, whose
clients include  Yao Ming , now retired after an All-Star career
in both  China  and the NBA.  “It all depends on his on-court performance,” Huizinga, a
professor of economics at the University of Chicago’s Booth
School of Business, said in a telephone interview. “He’s got a
lot of possibilities, but basketball ought to be his sole
focus.”  Lin broke into the Knicks’ regular player rotation three
games ago and will be making his third start. Bryant, a former
NBA Most Valuable Player, has won five championships with the
Lakers.  Bryant, at about $25 million, is the highest-paid player in
the NBA this season and he makes another $10 million a year in
endorsements, according to  Sports Illustrated . Lin’s $788,872
contract didn’t become guaranteed until today.  Cut Twice  The only significant endorsement contract Lin has is with
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , a sneaker deal signed when he entered the NBA in 2010
with the  Golden State Warriors , said Roger Montgomery, Lin’s
agent, without giving financial terms. Lin appeared in 29 games,
none as a starter, with Golden State, which released him. He
signed and was cut by the  Houston Rockets  and played for the
 Dallas Mavericks  on their 2010 summer league team.  The Knicks signed the 6-foot-3 guard on Dec. 27 after
rookie Iman Shumpert sprained his right knee during the season-
opener. He took over when Shumpert was injured against the  New
Jersey Nets  on Feb. 4 and the Knicks haven’t lost since, with
wins over the Nets, Utah Jazz and Wizards to go to 11-15 on the
season. New York is also missing two all-stars --  Carmelo
Anthony  is out with a groin injury and Amar’e Stoudemire left
the team after the death of his brother in a car crash.  Nash Praise  Lin’s potential for endorsements is “huge,” said John Starks, who went from the Continental Basketball Association to
stardom in the Knicks backcourt in the 1990s.  “Here’s a guy who has come out of nowhere to right the
ship while Carmelo and Amar’e are out,” Starks, who works in
community relations for the Knicks, said by telephone. “And
he’s doing it in the top media market.”  Starks said Lin reminds him of Phoenix Suns point guard
 Steve Nash , a two-time league Most Valuable Player. Nash, known
for his passing, sent a Twitter message after Lin posted 23
points, 10 assists and four rebounds in the 107-93 win over
 Washington  on Feb. 8. Wall had 29 points, six assists and one
rebound.  “If you love sports you have to love what Jeremy Lin is
doing,” Nash wrote. “Getting an opportunity and exploding.”  ESPN is hosting a viewing party for the Lakers’ game
tonight in  Taiwan , the homeland of Lin’s parents. His followers
on Sina, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, went to 250,000 from
190,000 the week before, the NBA said in an e-mail. The league’s
broadcast partners in China have added extra New York games to
their schedules.  No Rush  Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni , Nash’s former coach with the
Suns, says there’s no reason Lin can’t succeed in the NBA,
citing court vision, speed and knowledge of the game.  “It can only get better,” he said.  Montgomery said in a telephone interview yesterday that
he’s been inundated with calls and e-mails from prospective
business partners. No agreements have been signed and the agent
said there’s no urgency.  “It’s not like this is a puff of smoke and this is going
to go away,” he said. “Jeremy can play and he’s going to be
here. We’re not going to rush anything.”  Andrew Stroth, a Chicago-based sports attorney who
negotiated contracts for Miami Heat All-Star guard  Dwyane Wade ,
compared Lin to Chien-Ming Wang, a Taiwan native and former New
York Yankees pitcher who had endorsements with U.S. and Asia-
based companies.  “If the Knicks can win and he can play at a high level, he
can generate significant revenue in the U.S. and out of the
U.S.,” Stroth said without being specific. “The NBA, a global
brand, couldn’t ask for a better story.”  Harvard and Asia  Marketers would be wise not to wait too long, says agent
Bill Strickland, whose clients included Allan Houston, a former
All-Star now an executive with the Knicks.  “Given the uniqueness of the circumstances from which he
arises, the school and his heritage, that could generate
possibilities right now,” he said via telephone. “Wait too
long, and the opportunity might become too costly or you might
find yourself not even being considered.”  Starks said he’s focused on tonight and the chance Bryant,
a first team all-defensive player last season, will tell coach
 Mike Brown  he wants the assignment of guarding the league’s
latest headline machine.  “New York brings out the best in everybody, especially a
great player like Kobe,” Starks said. “I’m excited to see how
Jeremy responds.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  