-- NCAA Panel Suggests Moving Kickoffs to 35-Yard Line and Touchbacks to 25
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-02-10T21:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/ncaa-panel-suggests-moving-kickoffs-to-35-yard-line-and-touchbacks-to-25.html
College football rule makers
recommended that kickoffs be moved up five yards to the 35-yard
line and touchbacks come out to the 25-yard line instead of the
20 in an effort to reduce injuries.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association ’s Football
Rules Committee recommended the changes because the governing
body’s data shows that injuries occurred more during kickoffs
than at other times of games. The plan is designed to encourage
touchbacks with the ball downed in the end zone.  The proposal, which will be voted on Feb. 21 by the NCAA’s
Playing Rules Oversight Panel after a comment period, parallels
changes the  National Football League  made before the 2011
season. The professional league moved kickoffs to the 35, but
didn’t change touchbacks.  “Without question, these changes will enhance student-
athlete safety and we feel very comfortable based on the data we
collected that the impact will be significant,” said Scot Dapp,
chairman of the NCAA committee and athletic director at Moravian
College in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  The panel recommended that if a player loses his helmet on
a play other than when fouled, he must sit out the next play.
NCAA data showed that players lost their helmets about twice a
game last season.  It also proposed new wording that allows offensive players
in the tackle box who are not in motion at the snap of the ball
to block below the waist without restriction. The change is
designed to clarify the rule, the committee said in a statement.  Another proposal bans leaping over the offensive line on
punts to get into the backfield, because players often land on
their heads or shoulders, risking injury. The proposal wouldn’t
allow the receiving team to jump over blockers, unless the
player goes straight up or between two players.  The committee also wants officials to give kick returners
additional protection to complete a catch before allowing
contact by the kicking team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  