-- Nigeria Probes Possible Fraud Over $12.6 Billion Subsidies
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-02-10T13:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/nigeria-probes-possible-fraud-over-12-6-billion-fuel-subsidies.html
Nigeria ’s parliament is probing
whether fraudulent practices by government agencies fueled a
fivefold rise in spending on gasoline subsidies in the past
three years, said the head of the investigating committee.  The government is probably paying more than 2 trillion
naira ($12.6 billion) to fuel importers to cover the difference
between market costs and state-regulated prices for last year,
said Farouk Lawan, chairman of a  House of Representatives 
committee investigating the discrepancies. That’s up from 384
billion naira in 2009 and represents almost half of last year’s
4.5 trillion budget.  Government agencies that import the fuel were involved in
“instances where they either didn’t follow due process, or
certain provisions of some laws were abused,” Lawan said in a
Feb. 7 interview in Abuja, the capital.  Levi Ajuonuma , a
spokesman for the petroleum ministry, said the investigation
should be completed before making any conclusions.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, relies on imports to
meet about 70 percent of its domestic fuel needs due to a lack
of refining capacity. President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s attempt last
month to scrap the subsidies sparked a week-long general strike
and prompted the parliamentary investigation.  The strike ended on Jan. 16 after Jonathan agreed to limit
gasoline-price increases to 97 naira a liter (0.26 gallon).
Prices initially more than doubled from 65 naira a liter.  ‘Largest Fraud’  “This is the single largest fraud that has ever been
disclosed in Nigeria’s political history,” Clement Nwankwo,
executive director of the Abuja-based Policy and Legal Advocacy
Centre, said by phone yesterday.  While the petroleum ministry estimates national fuel
consumption of 35 million liters a day, the government paid
subsidies on 59 million liters daily last year, said Lawan, a
member of Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party .  Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke on Feb. 7 named
Nuhu Ribadu, a former chief of the  Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission , to head a 20-member  task force  to monitor revenues
and oil production and exports.  Fuel imports are managed by the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp., or NNPC, the  Petroleum Products Pricing and Regulatory
Agency ,  Department of Petroleum Resources , and the  Pipelines and
Product Marketing Co. , which are under the  Ministry of Petroleum
Resources .  Nwankwo questioned the ability of the ministry where the
alleged corruption took place to investigate itself and said
ultimately Jonathan is responsible.  Presidential spokesman Reuben Abati didn’t answer four
calls to his cell phone and a text message seeking comment.  Alleged Violations  “No doubt about that, it happened under his watch,” Lawan
said, referring to Jonathan. “But it doesn’t necessarily mean
that he knew about what was happening.”  Lawan declined to give details of alleged violations,
saying they would be announced when the eight-member committee
is scheduled to release its report in two weeks after listening
to testimony from officials from the government and fuel
importing companies.  The central bank has already paid 1.75 trillion naira for
last year, Lawan said, and the full cost of the subsidies hasn’t
been fully counted because of outstanding payments.  “From the figures that we are compiling now, I can
confidently say the figure for 2011 will be in excess of 2
trillion,” he said.  Naira Pressure  Fuel imports have been a leading source of demand pressure
in Nigeria’s foreign-currency market, according to the  Central
Bank of Nigeria . Since the beginning of the committee’s
investigation, demand for foreign-currency to fund fuel imports
has eased, central bank Deputy Governor Tunde Lemo told Lawan’s
committee at a public hearing on Feb. 7.  “Perhaps because of the ongoing probe, we have seen a
moderation in the demand for foreign exchange especially from
the petroleum sector,” Lemo said. Since the start of the
investigation, “a lot of order is being brought into the
management of the petroleum products.”  The naira, which has gained 2.2 percent this year, advanced
0.2 percent to 158.85 per dollar as of 2:35 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the exact figure for domestic fuel consumption isn’t
known, the petroleum ministry estimates it rose by 3 million
liters a day last year from 32 million liters in 2009.  Average crude prices rose 53 percent to $95.10 a barrel in
2011 from $62.03 a barrel in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nigeria is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. imports. The
country produced about 2.1 million barrels of oil a day in
January, unchanged from the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About 90 percent of Nigeria’s crude is
pumped by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with NNPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  