-- Goldman Unit Said in Talks to Give Up Chicago Tower to NorthStar
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/northstar-said-in-talks-to-take-chicago-s-hancock-center-from-goldman-unit.html
NorthStar Realty Finance Corp. (NRF)  is in
talks to seize Chicago’s John Hancock Center from owners
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall real estate unit,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  The New York-based commercial property lender and investor
owns junior debt on the building, Chicago’s fourth-tallest, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The $182 million mortgage on the property yesterday was
transferred to a firm that specializes in troubled loans after
the borrowers defaulted, according to  Fitch Ratings .  The loan, packaged into bonds, was part of about $400
million in debt that Whitehall and Golub & Co. used to finance
their purchase of the 100-story property in January 2007, near
the market’s peak. The loans came due on Feb. 9.  Buying slices of lower-ranking debt to take ownership of
commercial properties has become a common strategy as defaults
surge. Borrowers are struggling to refinance loans made during
the bubble years of 2005 to 2007, allowing investors to get hold
of marquee buildings through junior-debt purchases.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman,
and Mary Ellen Smith, director of marketing for Chicago-based
Golub, both declined to comment. Joe Calabrese, a spokesman for
NorthStar, didn’t respond yesterday to an e-mail and telephone
call seeking comment.  Blackstone Loan Purchase  NorthStar probably will prevail over other junior creditors
who were considering bids for control of John Hancock Center,
said the people familiar with the negotiations. Blackstone Group
LP this month bought a junior loan on the building with a face
value of about $65 million from a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  unit, according
to one of the people.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, said he had no comment
yesterday.  The building is 1,128 feet (344 meters) tall, fourth in
height in  Chicago  after Willis Tower, formerly known as Sears
Tower; Trump International Hotel & Tower Chicago and the Aon
Center, according to the Chicago-based Council on Tall Buildings
and Urban Habitat.  John Hancock Center was the third tower in the world to
surpass 1,000 feet when it was built, following the Chrysler
Building and Empire State Building in  Manhattan , according to
property-data provider Emporis GmbH. The property, at 875 North
Michigan Ave., is in the Magnificent Mile area of Chicago, known
for its shopping and high-end hotels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  