-- Nuance Communications Falls Most Since August 2006: Boston Mover
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-02-10T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/nuance-falls-most-in-18-months-as-profit-sales-trail-forecasts.html
Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , a maker
of speech-recognition software, tumbled the most in more than
five years after first-quarter earnings and revenue trailed
analysts’ estimates on deferred sales in its mobile segment.  Nuance  dropped  13 percent to $26.50 at the close in New
York for the biggest one-day percentage decline since Aug. 9,
2006. Yesterday the company reported earnings excluding some
items of 34 cents a share. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
estimated 36 cents.  The Burlington, Massachusetts-based company, which also
 provides  technology for health-care companies, in December
agreed to acquire Vlingo Inc. to gain a system that conducts
Internet searches based on voice commands. The purchase is
intended to help capture growing demand for voice-command
technology, which is being driven by software such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Siri for the iPhone, Nuance said.  “Clearly, the hype and excitement surrounding the iPhone
4S Siri launch was not matched by the fundamental output in the
quarter,” Tom Roderick, a Chicago-based analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a research note. “Management’s tone
indicated a level of confidence that the business will snap back
in the coming quarters,” he said.  Roderick recommends buying the shares.  Revenues ‘Deferred’  Nuance, which provides dictation software for smartphones
including Apple’s iPhone and Research in Motion Ltd.’s
BlackBerry, said “more comprehensive and complex”
relationships with mobile customers caused revenue deferral
during its fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31.  “Some revenues can be deferred for quite some considerable
period of time,” Paul Ricci, chairman and chief executive
officer,  said  on a conference call yesterday. “Some of the
negotiations under way over the last six months that might have
been completed in the first quarter were not.”  The company forecast sales of as much as $415 million for
the fiscal second quarter. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast $401.4 million.  Revenue in the mobile and consumer unit, on an adjusted
basis rose 24 percent in the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31,
the company said. Nuance said it added a number of key mobile
 customers  during the period.  Nuance reported adjusted net income of $108.5 million or 34
cents a share for the period, compared with $86.1 million, or 28
cents a year earlier. Analysts had estimated 36 cents.  Adjusted sales were $382 million, compared with $317.3
million a year earlier. Analysts had predicted $388.2 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  