-- NYSE Euronext Profit Falls on Merger Costs, Exceeding Analyst Estimates
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-02-10T18:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/nyse-euronext-profit-falls-on-merger-costs-exceeding-analyst-estimates.html
NYSE Euronext, which was prevented
last week from merging with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  by European
regulators, reported 19 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit
after one-time charges related to the takeover and a French tax
settlement. The shares rose as profit beat forecasts.  Net income fell to $110 million, or 43 cents a share, from
$135 million, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Excluding some items,
earnings were 50 cents a share, exceeding the 48-cent average
 estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company said
costs in 2012 are expected to be lower than last year’s $1.66
billion.  “While the near-term outlook for trading volumes and
currencies remains clouded, we are continuing to focus on those
areas of our business model that we control,” Chief Financial
Officer Michael Geltzeiler said. Our two-year plan “will drive
higher levels of earnings per share growth through a combination
of targeted revenue growth initiatives, accelerated cost
efficiency efforts and disciplined deployment of capital.”  Standalone Strategy  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , operator of the  New York  Stock Exchange,
bourses in Paris, Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam and London-
based Liffe,  Europe ’s second-largest derivatives market, is
preparing to discuss its standalone strategy with shareholders
after a year’s work on a merger with Deutsche Boerse. The shares
fell 17 percent from Feb. 8, 2011, the day before the Deutsche
Boerse deal was reported, through yesterday. That compares with
the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index’s 8.8 percent drop.  NYSE Euronext rose 3.9 percent to $28.77 at 1:01 p.m. in
New York trading today, the biggest gain in a month.  NYSE reported $46 million in one-time “merger expenses and
exit costs” in the quarter, of which $38 million related to the
failed Deutsche Boerse deal. The results also included a $25
million charge for a tax settlement with the French authorities
over its BlueNext joint venture with Caisse des Depots.  Rejection by the European Commission means the executives
need new ways to cut costs and expand after $37 billion in
proposed industry takeovers failed in the last 15 months. NYSE
will resume a buyback, focus on its clearing strategy for Europe
and look for other merger opportunities, Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said on a conference call today.  Cost Savings  NYSE’s plans are “focused on accelerated cost savings,
capital deployment and new revenue initiatives,” Alex Kramm, an
exchange analyst at UBS AG in New York, said today. “We expect
incremental cost initiatives to become a renewed area of focus
for investors,” he said, adding that operating expenses of $416
million for the quarter were lower than his forecast.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire its New York rival in a
deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced last February.
The Frankfurt-based exchange reports earnings next week.  The European Commission said the deal would have led to a
“near-monopoly” in European exchange-traded derivatives and
any savings would “not be substantial enough to outweigh the
harm to customers caused by the merger.”  “It was an exciting year and I don’t regret what we tried
to do for a second,” Niederauer said today. “Onwards and
upwards from here. The deal is done. It’s behind us.”  Other Assets  After the merger with  Deutsche Boerse  was blocked by
antitrust regulators last week, Niederauer said there are other
assets available, such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and the London
Metal Exchange.  “As far as LCH goes, I think it’s fair to say we’d
obviously be very interested in what happens,” Niederauer said
today. “We own nearly 10 percent of the company. We have a
board seat and we’re the enterprise’s largest customer. We think
that the company has a great deal of potential under Ian Axe’s
leadership.”  NYSE Euronext’s priority is now in post-trade services, he
said. The exchange has a contract through 2013 with LCH.Clearnet
for equity clearing and has started work again on its
derivatives-clearing and over-the-counter strategy, he said.  Shifting Landscape  “Given the shifting landscape and the clients need for
capital efficiency, I think it would be foolish for us not to
consider any and all forward alliances that might make sense
between various exchanges and clearing organizations,”
Niederauer said.  LCH.Clearnet is in exclusive takeover talks with London
Stock Exchange Group Plc. The London-based clearinghouse
reported an 11 percent increase in full-year profit today.  “We are always willing to take calls,” LCH.Clearnet Chief
Executive Officer Ian Axe said today when asked about approaches
from other companies.  On Feb. 1, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the second-largest U.S.
equity exchange operator, posted fourth-quarter earnings that
beat analyst estimates as revenue climbed and the company bought
back $100 million in shares. Earnings were 63 cents a share
excluding some items such as debt refinancing and a charge for
an investment in Dubai Financial Market, exceeding the 61-cent
average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  