-- Obama Gets Bounce as Economic Advances Lift Poll Standing
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/obama-gets-election-bounce-as-economic-advances-lift-job-approval-in-poll.html
A brightening economic picture is
improving President  Barack Obama ’s re-election prospects even as
the pace of the nation’s recovery from financial crisis remains
a vulnerability for his campaign.  Public approval of Obama’s performance in office in the
Gallup Organization’s daily tracking poll climbed to its highest
level since last June just days after the unemployment rate
dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest in almost three years.  Announcement of the unemployment figures “appears to be
the proximate cause” for the uptick in Obama’s job approval
rating, which has been rising for weeks in concert with a series
of favorable economic reports,  Frank Newport , editor-in-chief of
the Gallup Poll in Princeton,  New Jersey , said yesterday after
the latest poll results were released.  Obama registered 49 percent job approval and 45 percent
disapproval in polling conducted Feb. 6-8, the best reading
since the month after al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed
by U.S. special operations forces.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, also released
yesterday, showed confidence last week at a one-year high,
spurred by improving perceptions of employment opportunities and
a rally in the stock market. The reading for political
independents, a key group in presidential elections, increased
to a four-year high.  The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s  500 index rose 7.5 percent
this year through the market close yesterday.  Jobs Data  A Labor Department report released yesterday on claims for
unemployment insurance payments indicated the job market is
gaining more traction. Applications for  jobless benefits 
decreased by 15,000 in the week ended Feb. 4 to 358,000. The
median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected 370,000.  A stirring economy at the start of an election year helps
frame favorable perceptions for an incumbent at a key moment if
growth can be sustained, said Robert Erikson, a professor of
political science at  Columbia University  in  New York  and co-
author with  Christopher Wlezien  of “The Timeline of
Presidential Elections.”  “The timing is crucial,” Erikson said, “The trajectory
of the economy throughout the election year is the most
important.”  Campaign Issue  After the longest period of unemployment above 8 percent
since the Great Depression, the economy is the focal point of
the 2012 campaign. Voters consistently tell pollsters it is the
most important issue for them.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and the other
Republican presidential candidates have cast Obama as an
ineffective steward of the economy and his policies, such as the
2009 stimulus, as failures. Obama has pointed to progress on
jobs and the challenge of confronting the worst recession in
seven decades. He argues that Republicans would return to the
policies of President  George W. Bush  that preceded the 2008
collapse of financial markets.  White House economic advisers as well as private
forecasters in recent days have become more optimistic about the
economy’s prospects.  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said he lowered his projection for the
unemployment rate at the end of the year a half percentage point
to 7.9 percent after the recent Labor Department data.  ‘Stale’ Forecast  Alan Krueger, chairman of the president’s  Council of
Economic Advisers , said in a statement Feb. 8 that economic
projections the administration prepared in mid-November for its
budget are now “stale and out of date.”  The budget proposal the Obama administration will send to
Congress on Feb. 13 forecasts an average  unemployment rate  this
year of 8.9 percent.  “We would certainly lower our forecast of the unemployment
rate from the figures that will appear in Monday’s budget if we
were to do another forecast today,” Krueger said in his
statement.’’  Still, the economy has repeatedly shown signs of
improvement early in the year only to falter later since the
U.S. recession officially ended in June 2009.  A pickup in the recovery at the start of last year was
blunted by a surge in gasoline prices, the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  and the European debt crisis.  The economy remains vulnerable to more shocks such as a
worsening of the European debt situation or another decline in
housing prices, Zandi said.  “Last year we got nailed by a couple of events that in
normal times we could easily have digested but everyone was so
on edge it caused us to freeze,” Zandi said. “Forecasters are
a bit gun-shy because last year at this time a lot of good
things were happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 