-- Obama Says Changes to Contraception Rule Will Address Religious Concerns
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-11T16:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/obama-to-make-accommodation-on-birth-control.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to
quell the uproar over a requirement that employers provide
coverage for contraception by saying religious-affiliated
charities and hospitals won’t have to pay for such services.  Instead, insurance companies will be compelled to offer
them to insured employees of those institutions without charge.
Obama said his administration, through the Department of Health
and Human Services, was acting to preserve access to
contraceptive coverage and at the same time respond to
objections from religious officials.  With the revision “religious liberty will be protected,
and a law that requires free preventive care will not
discriminate against women,” Obama said yesterday at the White
House.  The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, which led
criticism of the administration’s initial rule, said the
revision lacks clear protection for religious groups, employers
and individuals, and is “unacceptable.”  The law’s mandate of insurance coverage for sterilization
and contraception “remains a grave moral concern,” the group
said in a written statement. “The only complete solution to
this religious liberty problem is for HHS to rescind the mandate
of these objectionable services.”  Before his remarks, Obama called Dolan, Carol Keehan,
president and chief executive officer of the Catholic Health
Association of the  United States , and Planned Parenthood
Federation of America President Cecile Richards, according to an
administration official.  Insurers React  America’s Health Insurance Plans , a trade group for the
industry, also withheld its support. “We are concerned about
the precedent this proposed rule would set,” AHIP press
secretary  Robert Zirkelbach  said in a statement. “As we learn
more about how this rule would be operationalized, we will
provide comments through the regulatory process.”  The presidents of Planned Parenthood Federation of America
and the  Catholic Health Association  of the United States issued
statements in support of the shift in policy.  The requirement was part of the health-care law passed in
2010 and the initial rule was announced Jan. 20. The move to
revisit the issue so soon after the policy was announced
indicated the furor from religious institutions and some
Catholic Democrats in Congress caught the administration off
guard.  Officials, including HHS Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius ,
repeatedly said the transition period before the rule takes
effect in 2013 -- after the election -- was built in to address
concerns that Obama’s advisers anticipated from the Catholic
church.  ‘Political Football’  Obama said that in addition to legitimate concerns of
religious organizations, some of the critics were turning it
into a “political football.”  “It became clear that spending months hammering out a
solution was not going to be an option,” he said.  The administration’s original decision created an election-
year split among Senate Democrats, with some Catholics in the
party such as John Kerry of Massachusetts and  Claire McCaskill 
of Missouri joining Republicans in calls to modify or scrap it.  Obama ally Democrat  Tim Kaine , a Catholic and a former
Virginia governor running for the  U.S. Senate  who was critical
of the administration’s earlier plan, said in a statement that
he supports the changes announced yesterday.  Republican Opposition  Republicans indicated they planned to continue the debate.
Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah  quickly denounced what he called “a
so-called compromise,” saying, “This is about religious
freedom and anything short of a full exemption is no
compromise.”  Republican Senator  Roy Blunt  of  Missouri  called the
modification “an accounting gimmick” and said he will keep
pushing for legislation to “reverse this unconstitutional
mandate in its entirety.”  Republicans are seeking to demonstrate unity against
aspects of the health-care law unpopular with their party’s base
and to highlight differences that might gain support from
Catholics and social conservatives.  Catholic voters are a critical bloc in such swing states as
 Ohio ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania  that have competitive Senate
races and are battlegrounds in the presidential election.  An Obama campaign adviser argued that the president’s
stance on availability still is a winning argument in an
election year because it has broad support among women.  Impact on Women  Obama and Sebelius, who was interviewed on  CNN , stressed
that almost 99 percent of women relied on contraceptives at some
point in their lives and that about half of those 18 to 34 have
struggled to pay for it.  “Every woman should be in control of the decisions that
affect her own health,” Obama said.  Campaign and White House officials drew attention all week
to Republican front-runner Mitt Romney’s opposition to the
mandate even though the  Massachusetts  health-care law he
implemented as governor included a similar rule.  “The former governor of Massachusetts is an odd messenger
on this given that the services that this rule would provide for
women around the country are the same that are provided in
Massachusetts and were provided when he was governor,” White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said on Feb. 8.  It’s still too early to tell how the issue plays out
politically, said  Bill Carrick , a Los Angeles-based Democratic
media consultant who has advised several presidential campaigns.  “It’s too muddled,” Carrick said. “This was going to be
a negotiation from the beginning. It was going to take a year to
get it done.”  Calling it “a confusing, complex issue,” Carrick said
there probably won’t “be any big political winners out of this,
or losers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  