-- Obama to Move to Quell Birth-Control Uproar
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-10T15:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/obama-said-to-be-readying-move-to-quell-uproar-over-birth-control-coverage.html
The Obama administration, confronted
with criticism over a contraception-coverage rule that’s
outraged the Catholic Church and divided Congress, is preparing
to announce as soon as today what an administration official
described as an accommodation.  The change is designed to offer religious organizations
that run hospitals and universities more comfort while still
ensuring women have free access to contraception, said an
administration official, who wasn’t authorized to discuss it
publicly.  The official said it doesn’t represent a compromise because
it doesn’t undermine the the Health and Human Services
Department’s rule giving women free access to  birth control .  President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to make a statement at
the White House at 12:15 p.m. Washington time, the
administration announced, without giving a topic for his
remarks.  The controversy was touched off after the administration
said it will enforce a provision of the 2010 health-care
overhaul requiring contraceptives to be provided by employers
who offer health insurance. Church leaders and nonprofit
religious groups that primarily employ and serve people of the
same faith would be exempt, while church-affiliated hospitals
and universities would not.  The decision created an election-year split among Senate
Democrats, with some Catholics in the party joining Republicans
in calls to modify or scrap it.  In the face of opposition from religious leaders, Vice
President Joe Biden yesterday hinted at the possibility of a
compromise before the mandate takes effect. In an interview with
a Cincinnati radio station, he said a “significant attempt”
will be made to find a solution.  ‘Work It Out’  “I am determined to see that this gets worked out, and I
believe we will work it out,” Biden said on radio station WLW.  The White House was preparing to make changes after some
Catholic Democrats in the Senate such as  John Kerry  of
 Massachusetts  and  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri  said they want
the administration to make changes.  “I’ve told the White House that I think they need to find
a compromise that allows women to get access to birth control
through their employer’s health-care coverage, but without
pressing this issue of religious freedom to the extent that the
current scenario does,” said McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat who
also is running for re-election this year.  The intra-party rift is providing an election-year gift to
Republicans. They are seeking to demonstrate unity against
aspects of the health-care law unpopular with their party’s base
and to highlight differences that might gain support from
Catholics and social conservatives.  Catholic Voters  Catholic voters are a critical bloc in such swing states as
 Ohio ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania  that have competitive Senate
races and are battlegrounds in the presidential election.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio, a Catholic, said the
administration’s health-care rule is an “unambiguous attack on
religious freedom in our country,” and he vowed to change it.  The rule was proposed in August by the  Department of Health 
and Human Services to require individual and group health plans
to cover contraceptives among other preventive medical services.
An exemption for “religious employers” left out thousands of
religious-affiliated organizations, including charities, health-
care providers and schools.  During a two-month period, the agency received more than
200,000 public comments. In January, the administration said the
August rule would generally stand, and nonprofit groups that
don’t offer contraception coverage for religious reasons would
have until August 2013 to comply.  Religious groups and lawmakers in both parties lobbied for
a broader exemption, though the administration rejected that.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  