-- Oil Declines From Three-Week High as Greek Bailout Held Back
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-10T21:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/oil-declines-from-highest-level-in-three-weeks-as-greek-bailout-held-back.html
Oil dropped from a three-week high
as euro-area finance ministers refused to approve a rescue
package for  Greece , boosting concern that the European debt
crisis will reduce fuel demand.  Futures fell 1.2 percent after Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman of the group of euro-area finance
chiefs, said yesterday that Greece won’t get financial aid until
it implements an austerity plan. The  International Energy Agency 
also cut its 2012 global oil demand forecast for a sixth month,
citing a “darkening” economic outlook.  “The market rallied earlier this week on signs that the
Greek situation was about to be settled and is now giving back
those gains,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The
longer this crisis continues, the more it will diminish European
economic growth and along with that the oil demand outlook.”  Crude oil for March delivery decreased $1.17 to settle at
$98.67 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract rose for a third day yesterday, climbing 1.1 percent to
$99.84, the highest close since Jan. 19. Prices increased 0.8
percent this week and are up 14 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement fell $1.28, or 1.1 percent,
to end the session at $117.31 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. It was the first decline in nine days,
ending the longest stretch of moves higher since October 2009.
The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate crude was at $18.64, 11 cents narrower
than yesterday’s settlement.  Euro Retreats  The euro retreated from a two-month high against the dollar
before a Greek parliamentary vote on austerity measures this
weekend that Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
amounted to a referendum on euro membership.  George Karatzaferis, the leader of one of three parties
supporting Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , said he
wouldn’t support the austerity plan. He spoke hours after German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin
that Greece was missing debt targets.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  dropped as much as 1
percent. Twenty of the 24 raw materials on the index declined. A
weaker euro and rising dollar reduce the appeal of commodities
as an alternative investment.  “The markets can turn on a dime,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “If we get some
headlines that the situation in Greece is hunky-dory, prices
will run back up.”  ‘Remorseless Picture’  The IEA cut its 2012 global oil demand forecast by 300,000
barrels a day from January’s estimate. The Paris-based agency
predicted worldwide crude consumption will increase by 800,000
barrels a day to 89.9 million barrels a day in its monthly oil
market report today.  Demand will drop in member nations of the Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Development this year as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis slows growth, according to the IEA.  “It’s a pretty remorseless picture of decline for oil
demand throughout the OECD,”  David Fyfe , head of the agency’s
market and industry division, said in a telephone interview from
Paris. “These are mature markets, in which industry recovery is
stuttering, and moving into recession in the case of Europe.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries produced
30.9 million barrels a day of crude oil last month, the most
since October 2008, the Paris-based IEA said. That’s up from a
revised 30.82 million barrels in December.  Chinese Exports  China’s exports fell 0.5 percent in January as trade was
disrupted by the Lunar New Year holiday, which ran from Jan. 22
to Jan. 28 this year. Imports dropped 15.3 percent.  In January, Chinese oil imports surged to a record.
Shipments from overseas rose 7.4 percent from a year earlier to
23.41 million metric tons, or about 5.54 million barrels a day,
according to preliminary data today on the website of the
Beijing-based General Administration of Customs.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in a Feb. 6 report
that  China ’s economic expansion may be cut almost in half from
its 8.2 percent estimate this year if Europe’s debt crisis
worsens, a scenario that would warrant “significant” fiscal
stimulus from the government.  “Concern about Chinese economic growth and the situation
in Greece are raising worries that the global economy may be
headed for a slowdown,” Flynn said.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell more than forecast in
February. The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan preliminary 
index of consumer sentiment dropped to 72.5 from 75 in January.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for 74.8.  The U.S. and China, the two biggest oil-consuming
countries, were responsible for 32 percent of global oil use in
2010, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy
released on June 8. The European Union’s 27 members accounted
for 16 percent of world demand in 2010, BP figures show.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 563,385
contracts as of 4:06 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 669,719
yesterday, 10 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.48 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  