-- On the Web No One Cares If You Write Like a Dog: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/on-web-no-one-cares-if-you-write-like-a-dog-commentary-by-michael-kinsley.html
It’s been going on for too long,
right before our eyes. Inevitably, someone was going to blow the
whistle, and wouldn’t you know it would be Felix Salmon, the
famous financial blogger for Reuters?  The name Felix Salmon (for some reason) always makes me
think of those  plastic singing fish  that were all the rage a few
years ago. You remember: They appeared to be mounted on a board
(also plastic) and they would burst remorselessly into song and
could be impossible to turn off without opening up the back and
taking out the batteries.  I’ve admired Felix’s judgment and foresight ever since the
day, a few years ago, he wisely turned down a job that I offered
him at a new publication. In the end, the publication never came
into existence: Something he saw coming that I did not. Although
he dithered flatteringly, in the end this Salmon refused to be
poached.  Nothing, though, prepared me for the dazzling brilliance of
Felix’s  blog item  this week about the quality of writing on the
Internet. It’s bad, he says, much of it, but that’s good. Well,
maybe not actually good, but not bad. How so? Well, it’s a bit
hard to follow the thread of his argument (thus, some might say
quite unfairly, demonstrating his thesis even as he lays it
out). But his basic point is that on the Web, sheer quantity
trumps quality. He praises the editor of the New York Observer
for dispensing with editors: She “doesn’t have either the time
or the money to have a layer of experienced journalists
reworking her bloggers’ prose before it’s published.” He
continues:  “And so, in the proud tradition of good blogs everywhere,
readers are left with a highly variable product. The great is
rare; the dull quite common. But -- and this is the genius of
the online format -- that doesn’t matter, not any more, and
certainly not half as much as it used to. When you’re working
online, more is more. If you have the cojones to throw up
everything, more or less regardless of quality, you’ll be
rewarded for it -- even the bad posts get some traffic, and it’s
impossible ex ante to know which posts are going to end up
getting massive pageviews. The less you worry about quality
control at the low end, the more opportunities you get to print
stories which will be shared or searched for or just hit some
kind of nerve.”  I believe his “stories which” in the passage quoted above
should actually be “stories that.” But if his point is that no
sane businessperson is any longer going to pay some pedant as
much as $8.50 an hour (or even more!) just to catch this kind of
mistake, he is hard to argue with.  Facts, Schmacts  Occasionally over the years, I have  attempted to argue  that
factual accuracy is overrated. I won’t bore you with the
reasons, but it struck me as a good, solid, counterintuitive
belief to lug around and display occasionally. Never did it
occur to me, until I read Felix’s blog post, that it might be
possible, without seeming insane, to argue that all aspects of
good writing -- accuracy, logic, spelling, graceful turns of
phrase, wisdom and insight, puns (only good ones), punctuation,
proper grammar and syntax (and what’s the difference between
those two again?) -- are all overrated.  Yet I have seen the literary sweatshops where young
graduates of top universities are chained to their desks,
grinding out one blog post after another. An editor doesn’t
hesitate to use his whip: “More! Blog faster! Quantity over
quality!”  “But sir, I don’t know the first thing about fracking,”
says a bleary-eyed intern facing his next assignment. It’s 9 in
the morning, and he’s already written four 1,000-word posts: one
assessing the literary merits of a newly discovered Jane Austen
novel, another about prospects for ostrich farming in  Kenya , and
two predicting the results of tight races in faraway
congressional districts.  “Don’t be such a wuss, Norman,” the editor says. “Everybody
is writing about fracking. You think anyone else has any idea
what it is? It’s got something to do with energy, and I think
we’re against it. What more do you need to know?”  My first reaction to all this is that when a top blogger
declares the death of good writing, my job should get a good
deal easier. Not that I (or anyone else -- except possibly for
George Will) actually achieve good writing most of the time, but
even the aspiration can be exhausting. Now one of our nation’s
leading bloggers has confessed what we all suspected: that bad
writing is inherent to the online world. Felix calmly concedes
that it is spreading inexorably back into print, and claims to
find this a wonderful development. We can all relax and write
badly without guilt.  On the other hand, if bad writing is the norm, what need is
there for publishers to hire writers who can occasionally
produce the good stuff? A job that gets too easy is probably
going to be found superfluous sooner or later. Felix invites
editors to “throw up everything.” Not, perhaps, the ideal
metaphor. It will put me off Salmon for a week.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 