-- One Year Later, Egypt’s Multiple Revolutions Rage On: Roger Owen
-- B y   R o g e r   O w e n
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/one-year-later-egypt-s-many-revolutions-rage-on-commentary-by-roger-owen.html
Saturday marks the first
anniversary of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s downfall,
and it doesn’t look to be a happy one. Sure, there will be
some celebrations in and around  Tahrir Square  by the
battered, but still enthusiastic, remainder of the
multitude of young people who launched the uprising itself
on National Police Day: Jan. 25, 2011.  But this will be overshadowed by two dangerous
divisions: between the army and the Egyptian people; and
between the army and the Obama administration and Congress.  That Mubarak’s overthrow constituted a truly
revolutionary event there can be no doubt. As with other
revolutions, an initial spark -- the uprising in nearby
Tunisia -- was followed by intense popular excitement
leading to the collapse of the old regime and a timetable
for creating a new system of government. Members of the
Mubarak inner circle have been punished, and the deposed
president himself remains on trial for the “premeditated
murder” of unarmed demonstrators.  Presiding over the whole process, with the U.S.’s
blessing, has been the new Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces, which includes both the military high command, led
by 76-year-old Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, and
top officials of the General Intelligence Services, often
military men themselves and now the generals’ principal
source of political advice. Subject to constant, often
daily, pressure from U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , this secretive body is
trying to manage the timetable for building the new
constitutional order. At the same time, it is working to
ensure its own protected position -- including its
substantial budget and its large and corrupt economic
empire.  Military Support  Egyptian public opinion has grown increasingly divided
between those who see the army as the last bastion of
public order and those who fear it as a sinister, often
incompetent force. (The army’s guilty secret is its
incapacity to mount even the simplest of military
maneuvers.) To make matters worse, the Supreme Council of
the Armed Forces is at once in charge of, and dependent on,
a dangerously embittered police force, whose own actions,
whether in trying to clear Tahrir Square or prevent
violence at a Port Said soccer match, have come under well-
justified suspicion.  Since the  Muslim Brotherhood  swept to political power
in the recent national elections, the generals’
relationship with this party has also become a source of
concern. Like it or not, the two groups have to deal with
each other in the new constitutional order, with the
brothers pushing for a version of the parliamentary system
with a relatively weak presidency and the army wanting to
be protected from political oversight and accountability.  Driving this uneasy marriage of convenience is, on
both sides, worry about the parlous state of the economy
and suspicion of lingering revolutionary enthusiasm from
the young. Left on hold, meanwhile, is any real
revolutionary agenda -- to end police brutality and
arbitrary criminal justice, for instance, or to improve the
country’s ramshackle system of education.  Now, on top of all this, comes the arrest of 19
Americans involved with various local nongovernmental
organizations, some of them personally connected to members
of the  U.S. Congress . Why Tantawi and his colleagues on the
Supreme Council have chosen this moment to take on
America’s often-repeated threat to reconsider its $1.3
billion in annual military aid is unclear. Perhaps they are
simply tired of being pushed around? Perhaps they still
think they are indispensable protectors of order? Perhaps
it is their folk memory of the moment in the early 1970s
when President Anwar Sadat’s regime faced down the  Soviet
Union , then  Egypt ’s main supplier of arms.  Diplomatic Realities  Still, the close relationship between the U.S. and
Egypt will probably continue, even if in diminished form.
Egypt is an important American ally, because it borders
 Israel  and the  Gaza Strip , and because it can yet
demonstrate to the rest of the Arab world a successful
transition to democracy. For its part, the Egyptian army is
obviously eager to escape the difficult business of
governing, which has tarnished its image among Egyptians
and eroded the legitimacy it once had as guardian of the
revolution. Hence, no doubt, the Supreme Council’s hasty
decision earlier this week to move up the date for
presidential nominations by one month to March 10.  At the end of its first year, the Egyptian revolution
provides a model for  Libya  -- which awaits elections
leading to a new constitution -- and a counterexample for
states such as  Sudan , Yemen and, above all,  Syria , whose
rulers have fiercely resisted popular uprisings.  Three lessons stand out: First, as with the regime of
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in  Tunisia , the Mubarak government,
powerful and authoritarian though it was, couldn’t
completely subdue civil society. There was considerable
scope for workers to defend their rights and for young
members of the middle class to build solidarity via the
Internet and social media.  Second, when the time came for revolt, the Egyptian
army declined to sweep the demonstrators away by force. The
high command feared that many troops might simply disobey
orders to fire. And though the Syrian regime of Bashar al- Assad has taken countermeasures to ensure the continued
loyalty of at least a few army units, an increasing number
of defectors are unwilling to shoot down their own
countrymen.  Schedule for Revolution  Third, the Egyptian experience has much to say about
the sequence and speed of the timetable that a successful
revolution must follow. Elections for a constituent
assembly must be followed by elections for a new president,
and then the installation of a new government. In this
process, the variety of interests involved makes it
difficult to preserve the unity that came from fighting
against the old regime. Creating and tolerating a system of
pluralist politics demands patience.  A final thought concerns the proper punishment for
those deposed dictators who manage to survive revolution.
Although Mubarak is on trial for the obvious charges of
murder and corruption, his “real” crime was to keep his
fellow Egyptians in a condition of fear, hopelessness and
self-dislike, from which they could be awakened only by
revolution.  The hard fact of the matter is that revolutions are
lengthy and unruly. Overthrowing the old government is the
easy part. Creating an acceptable new political order takes
many long years. Let’s hope the second anniversary of
Mubarak’s fall will give the world something new to
celebrate.  (Roger Owen is a professor of  Middle East  history at
 Harvard University . His books include “State, Power and
Politics in the Making of the Modern Middle East” and the
forthcoming “The Rise and Fall of Arab Presidents for
Life.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Roger Owen at  eowne@fas.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  