-- Mophonics Turns Jingles Into Singles With Mark Foster Grammy Nod
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/mophonics-turns-jingles-into-singles-with-mark-foster-grammy-nod.html
Before “Pumped Up Kicks” became a
top-selling single last year, Mark Foster’s greatest hit was the
music to a TV  commercial  for Muscle Milk, a protein drink.  Now, the singer-songwriter and his band,  Foster the People ,
are up for two awards at the Feb. 12 Grammys, including best
alternative album for “Torches.” For another artist, that
would mean a fast goodbye to the jingle factory day job.  Not Foster. He wrote most of the album’s songs at  Mophonics
Inc. , a Los Angeles-based company that scores TV commercials
and, in a unique partnership, encouraged him to develop his
recording career. Now that he’s made it, Mophonics is benefiting
too, selling compositions he wrote to advertisers including
Cadillac. Foster says he’ll return to Mophonics to write the
next album once his tour finishes.  “Foster the People wouldn’t exist without Mophonics,” the
musician, 27, said in an interview. “Mophonics is kind of a
creative home for me. It’s a very comfortable, creative
environment.”  Foster’s journey with Mophonics illustrates an evolution in
the way songs are used in TV ads. Before 2000, most songs used
for ads were Top 40 hits. Moby, born Richard Melville Hall,
changed that by licensing the album “Play” for TV commercials,
a move that sparked CD sales and got advertisers interested in
lesser-known acts.  Mophonics, whose clients include  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Clorox Co. (CLX) ,
takes the strategy further by recruiting promising composers and
asking them to write two- or three-minute songs, rather than a
30-second jingle that would typically wind up in a commercial.
The use of a snippet in a commercial can help an artist sell the
full-length song.  Rights, Royalties  At the same time, Mophonics’ commercial rights increase in
value with the popularity of the artists. Works from composers
with published songs can earn greater royalties, sometimes more
than double the typical $50,000 rate for a 30-second jingle.  Mophonics has about 120 jingles by Foster that it’s still
licensing, including the one used by  Cadillac . He records today
for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Columbia label.  “The thing we love about Mophonics is that instead of only
composing a custom piece, they look for existing music from up-
and-coming bands, which is what we’re very interested in,”
Bruce Bildsten, executive creative director of  Fallon , the
Minneapolis-based  advertising agency  for Cadillac. “They don’t
just use old music but look forward and help us with searches as
well as composing pieces from scratch.”  Foster had been in Los Angeles for 10 years, waiting on
tables and getting nowhere in his music career when, in 2008, he
met Mophonics’ founder  Michael Frick  and partner  Stephan Altman ,
who hired the aspiring composer.  Lots to Learn  When Foster arrived at Mophonics, he was shocked by how
little he knew about writing music. During his first week,
Foster went with Altman to pitch  Nissan. (7201)  The automaker wanted an
electronic version of a Billie Holiday song it had licensed.  “It was terrifying,” Foster said. “I didn’t read music
and I was trying to figure it out by ear. I was totally freaked
out and I didn’t think I’d last a week.”  Altman said Foster, though untrained, was adept at
combining disparate musical genres without losing his own style.
Foster calls Altman a calming influence.  “I had the benefit of being able to knock on his door or
he’d come over and give me notes,” Foster said. “He was
extremely generous with his time. I honestly learned an immense
amount from him.”  More artists are following Foster’s path. Mophonics also
worked with  Michael Fitzpatrick , lead singer of  Fitz and the
Tantrums , which appeared on “The Tonight Show with  Jay Leno .”
Mansions on the Moon, signed to Pharrell Williams’ Star Trak
Entertainment label, is working on a new album at Mophonics
studios in Venice Beach, blocks from the  Pacific Ocean .  At the Grammys, Foster the People is set to perform with
two other Southern California acts:  The Beach Boys  and  Maroon 5 .  “Everything has changed so much it’s hard to even
comprehend sometimes,” Foster said. “It’s all still kind of a
blur. Myself and everyone in the band, we’re just so grateful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  