-- Foreclosure Settlement Falls Short, Still Worth the Wait: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/mortgage-foreclosure-settlement-falls-short-still-worth-the-wait-view.html
In any out-of-court settlement for
alleged wrongdoing, the test of whether prosecutors got a good
deal rests on the answers to three questions: Does it hold the
miscreants accountable? Does it make victims whole? And does it
prevent similar misconduct in the future?  Thursday’s $25 billion  agreement  by five banks to end a 16-
month investigation of abusive foreclosure practices fails on
the first two counts. And we won’t know for some time whether it
is successful on the third. Nonetheless, the deal is in the
country’s interest because it clarifies the liabilities of banks
that filed bogus court documents to speed up repossessions. That
could clear the clogged foreclosure process and, more
importantly, help bring a moribund real-estate market back to
life.  The banks -- Bank of America Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co .,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Ally Financial Inc.
(the five largest home-loan servicers) -- have committed to
spend the bulk of the $25 billion on reducing the principal owed
by at-risk homeowners. Smaller amounts will go to people who
already lost their homes or are in the  foreclosure  process. The
settlement could help as many as 2 million borrowers, including
many whose mortgages are underwater. Cash payments of up to
$2,000 will go to those whose homes were repossessed from
September 2008 to December 2011.  Since 2007, about 4 million families have lost their homes
or are about to, and an additional 11 million owe about $750
billion more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. Even
taking into consideration that some borrowers acted
irresponsibly and don’t deserve compensation, the settlement
amount is a pittance.  As for holding the banks accountable, several state
attorneys general thought the deal would come up short. Before
signing on, they fought to narrow the banks’ liability releases,
and won substantial concessions. California’s Kamala Harris
retains the right of her state and its large public-pension
funds to sue banks that packaged bad mortgages into securities
and sold them as safe investments.  New York ’s Eric T. Schneiderman, who recently was named co-
chairman of President Barack Obama’s mortgage fraud task force,
played a similarly positive role. He won the right to keep going
with a Feb. 6 lawsuit that claims banks used a dubious
electronic mortgage database to skirt the public recording
system and submit false documents to courts, speeding
repossessions.  The deal does have teeth. It calls for an outside monitor
and for heavy penalties if banks don’t make good on their
commitments. More important, banks will be given credit only for
what they actually accomplish for homeowners -- and not for any
refinancing offers that borrowers refuse. This rightly gives the
victims some leverage.  If a bank falls short of its agreed benchmarks, it must pay
the difference plus a penalty. And it must meet all its
obligations in three years.  The settlement also reverses the banks’ incentives to
foreclose on families rather than keep them in their homes with
loan forgiveness. Until now, banks had been loath to reduce
principal amounts because it meant recognizing losses on their
balance sheets. This deal awards more credit for principal
reduction and less for lowering  interest rates  or extending
payment terms.  Banks have calculated that the settlement is in their
interest, even though it means they may have to continue paying
huge mortgage-related litigation costs. The deal enables them to
predict their legal exposure.  Even better, it could help the housing market recover.
Banks own outright almost half a million homes and have 2
million more in various stages of foreclosure. Such so-called
shadow inventory has been a drag on the market, which after six
years remains depressed, holding back the overall recovery.  With this settlement, banks can clear out their backlog of
stalled foreclosures. In the short run, that may drive prices
down even more, but it will also help the housing market find
its natural bottom faster. Only then can  home prices , which have
fallen by more than a third since 2007, begin to rise again.
Borrowers can finally start to rebuild equity.  Once banks reduce their real-estate inventory, and their
balance sheets recover, they’ll be able to loosen up home-
lending standards to create new mortgages. If this is the result
of a less-than-satisfactory legal settlement, it will have been
worth the wait.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 