-- OSG Says Oil-Tanker Pool Will Halt Trading in Iran After Europe Sanctions
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-10T19:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/osg-says-oil-tanker-pool-will-halt-trading-in-iran-after-europe-sanctions.html
Overseas Shipholding Group Inc., the
largest U.S. crude-tanker owner, said the pool in which its
ships operate will no longer go to Iran after the European Union
agreed to an embargo on oil from the Persian Gulf nation.  Tankers International LLC, which manages a pool of vessels
from seven companies including  OSG (OSG) , told the New York-based
company the trade will end because of “regulations adopted by
the European Union in late January 2012 and other factors,”
Chief Executive Officer Morten Arntzen said in an e-mail today.  Four vessels owned by OSG and managed by Tankers
International, which has its head office in Cyprus, called at
Iran’s largest oil terminal in the past year, including one last
month, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OSG “complies with all applicable laws and regulations
concerning where and to whom OSG trades its vessels,” Arntzen
wrote in the e-mail. “As these laws and regulations change, OSG
will comply with the changes.”  The EU agreed Jan. 23 to a phased-in ban on the purchase,
transport, financing and insurance of  Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  oil. The embargo
still needs to be implemented by the European Commission, the
bloc’s regulatory arm. The sanctions will extend to about 95
percent of tankers because they are insured under rules governed
by European law, Andrew Bardot, the London-based secretary and
executive officer of the  International Group  of P&I Clubs, said
in an interview Jan. 26.  Suspending Dividends  Shares of OSG fell 13 percent to $10.295 as of 2:51 p.m. in
 New York  after the company said it would suspend dividends. OSG
will report a loss of $178.6 million this year, compared with
$204.4 million in 2011, according to the  median  of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  OSG’s Overseas Rosalyn arrived at Kharg Island in  Iran  on
Jan. 27 and departed the next day, ship-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It left about 16 feet deeper in the water, an
indication a cargo was loaded. The Overseas Everest visited July
7, the Overseas Sovereign on Aug. 2 and the Overseas Mulan on
May 2 and Aug. 19.  All four ships are listed as fully owned by OSG on its
website and are managed by Tankers International. The ships fly
the  Marshall Islands  flag, which means they are registered there
for regulatory purposes, according to data on the website of
International Registries Inc. Almost 9 percent of the tanker
fleet is flagged in the Marshall Islands, behind Panama and
Liberia, according to data compiled by Clarkson.  Current Sanctions  “Companies doing business with Iran will find themselves
under increasing pressure to discontinue that activity,” said
Victor Comras, a retired U.S. diplomat who monitored UN counter-
terrorism measures and is now a special counsel to The Eren Law
Firm in  Washington . “With current sanctions, if they can
demonstrate that the ship is not controlled by them, then it
would appear to be a situation where sanctions wouldn’t apply.”  Founded in 1948, OSG has 111 vessels and 3,500 employees,
according to its website. Rates for very large crude carriers,
each capable of carrying about 2 million barrels of oil, fell 10
percent to $28,291 a day this year, Clarkson data show.  Ship owners sometimes group their vessels to coordinate
charters and improve earnings. The Tankers International Pool
operates 43 very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, from OSG and
six other companies, including Antwerp-based  Euronav NV (EURN)  and St.
Helier, Channel Islands-based  DHT Holdings Inc. (DHT)   Western Nations  “All the owners in the pool have stated that they will not
trade Iran because of the consequences,” DHT CEO Svein Moxnes Harfjeld said by phone. “DHT is complying with all relevant
regulations and sanctions and following recent developments our
vessels have been instructed not to trade Iran.”  Western nations are trying to curb Iran’s oil income in an
attempt to stop the nation from developing nuclear weapons. The
government in Tehran says its nuclear program is for civilian
purposes. It is the second-biggest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries and had daily output of 3.55
million barrels in January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in 2010, accounting for
about 50 percent of government revenue and 80 percent of
exports, the U.S. Energy Department estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  