-- Hot Romance, Cupid’s Arrow, Sure Bets on Valentine’s Day in NYC
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/hot-romance-cupid-s-arrow-sure-bets-on-valentine-s-day-in-nyc.html
If you’re unattached and looking for
a sure thing on Valentine’s Day, here’s a tip: Sit down front at
 Joe’s Pub . Your chances of success could be as high as 49
percent.  “People are looking for a night of entertainment and
hoping to meet their next hot romance,” comedian Roslyn Hart
said in an interview.  The star of “Never Sleep Alone,” a cabaret show in which
she appears as “Dr. Alex Schiller,” says her mission is
helping singles find each other.  Seating is arranged for maximum exposure. There’s a voyeur
section for those who prefer to watch and a singles section
nearer the stage for active participants.  Opening night in November, Hart said, resulted in a
reported 47 couples from a sell-out crowd of 200. Any bookmaker
would tell you that just under 50 percent is pretty good odds.  “Never Sleep Alone” starts at 9:30 on Valentine’s Day and
will also be performed every Friday in March. Dress to impress.  There’s an after-party for adventurous mingling. Contact
 Dr. Alex  for details, even if you didn’t get tickets to the
show. Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.joespub.com .  Art for the Heart  At the other end of the spectrum, the  Municipal Art Society 
has organized an early-evening tour of selected Chelsea
galleries on Valentine’s Day.  Art historian Sylvia Laudien-Meo will lead the group past
Damien Hirst’s spot paintings at  Gagosian , Weegee’s photographs
of gritty New York scenes at the  Steven Kasher Gallery  and Doug
Wheeler’s light installation at  David Zwirner .  You will doubtless be more attractive after learning about
contemporary art. Take your looks to places like Bar Veloce for
a bottle of sparkling pinot noir to share or The Tippler in
Chelsea Market for a Top Cat made with Averna amaro.  Information: +1-212-935-2075; www.mas.org/tours.  Power Spot  Another option: power place Michael’s in midtown, where you
can continue the arty conversation amidst the Jasper Johns and
David Hockney canvases.  Sit at the bar and order a Cupid’s Arrow made with Santa
Teresa 1796 rum and Fonseca Bin 27 port. It’s silky and smooth
and has a hint of sweetness.  Bar tender Michael Flannery has lots of good stories about
his life in the business. He can teach you a fair amount about
mixing drinks and you can watch him flame a twist to bring out
the oils in the rind.  At 24 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-767-0555;
 http://michaelsnewyork.com .  Pickup Joints  You never know where you might meet someone.  Crossing the park the other day I caught the eye of a
businessman, then two joggers and, finally, a woman walking four
dogs. Was it my mysterious scarf, my new straight hairdo or my
open heart?  Whatever, consider taking a walk through Central Park,
preferably with a dog. Conversations flow easily as you blubber
over a mutt because of the human companion.  More tips: places with ‘Fatty’ in their names are good
pickup joints.  For instance, Fatty ‘Cue has a convivial bar. And I became
friendly with a real estate lawyer at Fatty Crab over a spicy
Chupacabra tequila cocktail. I actually needed a lawyer for an
acquisition and was happy when he said: “I’m cheap cuz I’m
rich.”  Divorcees  How about a “Divorce Music” CD release party at the
Delancey? There must be lots of newly single people there.  The  Lumiere String Quartet  will play songs from their
latest album, including “The Thrill Is Gone,” “50 Ways to
Leave Your Lover” and “These Boots Are Made for Walkin’.”  Violinist Victoria Paterson, who’s married, says a guy on
the subway started hitting on her when she showed him the CD.  Paterson says the group has a classical wedding CD that
sells well on the Web. She and her husband thought it would be
amusing to come up with the antithesis of a wedding album, and
so the divorce album was born.  “It’s like the yin and yang. Ode to Joy, Ode to Sorrow,”
Paterson says.  The ensemble will play a few tunes not on the album,
including Lady Gaga’s “Bad Romance.” I’ve got high hopes for
this party.  The Delancey is on the Lower East Side at 168 Delancey St.
Information: +1-212-254-9920,  http://thedelancey.com .  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 