-- Total Plans Production Increase, Asset Sales as Profits Rise
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-10T17:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/total-plans-production-increase-asset-sales-as-profits-rise-2-.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, posted a 7 percent increase in profit on higher crude
prices and pledged to raise output and sell assets this year.  Fourth-quarter profit, excluding changes in inventories and
the value of a stake in Sanofi-Aventis SA, rose to 2.72 billion
euros ($3.6 billion) from 2.56 billion euros a year earlier, the
Paris-based company said today in a statement. That was in line
with the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have a strong desire to develop a bolder company,”
Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie told a press
conference today. Total has said it expects output to increase
this year after a decline in 2011 and has pledged to take more
risks in looking for oil and gas.  “Good set of results,” said  Bertrand Hodee , head of oil
research at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. Total is “entering
a period of sustained growth from 2012 onwards.”  Total declined 1.4 percent to 40.58 euros as of the close
of trading in Paris. The stock is down 6.7 percent in the past
12 months.  Output dropped 1.3 percent in 2011. Production in the
latest quarter was unchanged at 2.384 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day, according to the statement. Brent crude prices
climbed to $109.02 a barrel on average in the fourth quarter, 25
percent higher than a year earlier.  Asset Sales  The French driller continues to “actively manage its asset
portfolio with, in particular, a program of non-strategic asset
sales,” Total said.  Production will climb this year with projects in Angola,
Nigeria and Thailand.  In the fourth quarter, the company boosted its stake in OAO
Novatek, the second-largest Russian gas company, to 14.1
percent. Last month, it acquired a $2.32 billion holding in
Ohio’s Utica shale region from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
EnerVest Ltd.  Output growth this year will rise 2 percent to 3 percent,
depending on how production in Syria evolves, Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head of exploration and production, told reporters
at a press conference. “We should be closer to 3 percent than 2
percent.”  The range stems from uncertainty about production in Libya
and Syria, he said. Total’s Libyan output from three fields is
at about two-thirds of the 50,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day that was the company’s share before civil war broke out
while Syrian output of 30,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
has been stopped as civil unrest spreads.  Nigeria, Angola LNG  The company expects output to rise an average of 2.5
percent a year from the end of 2010 to 2015 with production
starting this year at the Usan project in  Nigeria  and Angola
LNG. By 2015, Total will have added 600,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day with 25 startups, de Margerie said.  Net investment will total $20 billion this year, compared
with about $22 billion in 2011, with a 20 percent increase in
funds set aside for “ambitious” exploration, Total said.  Total is pushing harder to make big discoveries by drilling
more frontier exploration wells. So far the strategy has paid
off with successes in Azerbaijan, Bolivia, French Guiana and
 Norway .  The producer has reached an agreement to become a partner
with  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  in  Uganda  and is drilling
wells in  Kenya .  Anadarko Tie-Up  Total this year has sanctioned development of the second
phase of the Ofon field off Nigeria, the offshore Hild field in
Norway and the $34 billion Ichthys LNG venture in  Australia .
It’s also spending $500 million to explore three offshore blocks
with  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  in Ivory Coast.  The company is in talks with Kuwait Petroleum Corp. to
build a refinery in  China , and is developing a crude-processing
plant in Saudi Arabia as it seeks to reduce exposure to European
refining and move into faster-growing markets.  “We are in preliminary discussions with Kuwait which has a
project to invest in China,” Patrick Pouyanne, head of the
chemicals and refining, said at the press conference. “If we
have an opportunity to invest in a big refining, chemicals
platform we would be interested especially with a Middle Eastern
producer.”  Total must further “adapt” its European crude-processing
capacity, de Margerie said, after already cutting 550,000
barrels a day of capacity in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  