-- Love Jeremy Lin Without Asian, Harvard, NBA Stereotypes: Hua Hsu
-- B y   H u a   H s u
-- 2012-02-10T16:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/love-lin-without-asian-harvard-nba-stereotypes-commentary-by-hua-hsu.html
This was the week when the
productivity of Asian-Americans across the country slowed to a
near-halt: There were YouTube clips to be watched and re-
watched, memes to start and articles to be forwarded. The reason
was the unlikely ascent of Jeremy Lin, the Taiwanese-American
point guard for the  New York Knicks .  It all  began  last Saturday, when the undrafted, second-year
Harvard graduate came off the bench to score 25 points in a
victory against the  New Jersey Nets . He was rewarded with a
start on Monday night -- the first of his career -- and he
proceeded to hang 28 points on the  Utah Jazz . It seemed unlikely
that he would maintain this pace, for the only other player to
score 20 points and record eight assists in his first two career
starts had been  LeBron James . But on Wednesday night, Lin scored
23 points and dished out 10 assists. The Knicks won their third
in a row, this time against the  Washington Wizards .  Although Lin isn’t the first Asian-American to play in the
 National Basketball Association , he has already become the most
famous. At some point, a new Lin-centric lexicon emerged to
capture the feverish excitement of Knicks fans, Asian-American
and otherwise. New York had come down with a case of “Lin-
sanity.” He was, to borrow  Charlie Sheen ’s cherished word,
“Lin-ing.” All he did was “Lin” -- a riff on a  DJ Khaled 
song.  The details of Lin’s ascent cohered into a folk tale. The
hard-working, devout son of Taiwanese immigrants, he hadn’t been
highly touted out of high school or college. He had been
underestimated, time and again, by coaches and scouts. His Asian
heritage had been the subject of ridicule from fans and
opponents alike. Yet he had survived, and here he was, excelling
in one of the world’s most legendary basketball  arenas .  Most Exclusive Club  To make it to the NBA means you are a member of one of the
most exclusive clubs in the land. But to gain recognition for
your underdog tenacity and become a cult hero in a city like  New
York : This is an honor that might outlive you. Novelty  T-shirts 
were printed, posters made, tickets sold. Lin even felt secure
enough in his status with the team that he got his own
apartment. (He had been sleeping on his graduate-student
brother’s couch in  Manhattan .) If only the rest of the economy
could be stimulated by such a stellar half-week.  Perhaps all the chatter among fans about Lin being a
fundamental piece of the Knicks’ future has been premature. The
Lin-inspired (Linspired?) three-game winning streak came against
middling competition, and who knows how he will do against the
Los Angeles Lakers tonight. It remains to be seen whether Lin’s
aggressive game can blend with Knicks stars Amar’e Stoudemire,
who left the team this week to attend the funeral of his
brother, or Baron Davis or  Carmelo Anthony , both of whom are out
with injuries.  I spent much of the week e-mailing with friends about Lin’s
future. It felt like a time rich with possibility, the moment
right before Lin’s narrative would be set as either a novelty
enjoying a hot hand or a legitimate NBA player.  For a few days, I didn’t mind the articles that approached
Lin’s background and demeanor clumsily. I smiled as Anthony, in
one oft-forwarded YouTube clip, honored Lin by bowing before
him. I was pleasantly surprised that I never heard a gong or the
adjective “inscrutable” all week. All of this reminded me of
how rarely I encounter news involving Asian-Americans unless I
seek it out.  Maybe this was part of our fascination with Lin, for whom
there was no precedent. It’s a strange sensation seeing someone
who looks like you in an unfamiliar space, particularly a space
that radiates with the glow of minor celebrity. Perhaps this
explains why I still recall a moment 13 years ago when a seldom-
used, Korean-American guard on the  University of California ,
Berkeley’s basketball team entered the late, meaningless minutes
of a blowout victory and valiantly, selflessly drew a foul from
the opposition’s star player.  Few Parallels  Lin’s rise is far more significant. For the Asian-American
athlete, there are few parallels with  Jackie Robinson  or Billie  Jean King  or others who stepped forward to break some kind of
barrier and reshape society’s sense of what was possible. The
promise of these milestones is that they might ultimately mean
nothing -- that Asian-American athletes like Lin might continue
to prove themselves good enough, and that someday their presence
will seem normal and unspectacular.  It may seem like a strange moment to obsess over, a minor
achievement given the broader history of Asians in the U.S., and
a fatally macho one at that. But the lure of identity is, at
root, an imaginary one.  For now, I want to preserve this strange thrill of an
Asian-American from near where I grew up starring for the
Knicks; I want to temporarily shield this experience from deeper
inquiry about cultural capital, politics or the meaning of
meritocracy. It’s here that the irrationality of identity merges
with the irrationality of fandom. We hope against reason and
find meaning in the ephemeral; each new series is an opportunity
to start anew. Clear thinking is the enemy. There are nicknames
to be invented, menu items that need renaming and raps to be
written.  (Hua Hsu, an assistant professor of English at Vassar
College, is completing his first book, “A Floating Chinaman.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Hua Hsu at  huhsu@vassar.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 