-- Tower Bersama Said to Reduce Loan by Using Undrawn Funds
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-02-10T07:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/tower-bersama-said-to-reduce-loan-by-using-undrawn-funds-1-.html
PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure (TBIG)  is
considering meeting its acquisition funding needs by reducing
the size of a loan from an initial target of $325 million and
using undrawn funds from a previous facility instead, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Proceeds from the new loan, which may now be $200 million
to $250 million, as well as the undrawn monies, will be used to
help fund Tower Bersama’s purchase of 2,500 mobile phone towers
from  PT Indosat , said the people who asked not to be identified
as details are private. The new loan’s senior debt will include
both  U.S. dollar  and rupiah portions, with banks funding in the
former receiving a margin of at least 400 basis points over the
London interbank offered rate, the people said.  The acquisition financing package will also include an
additional portion of mezzanine debt, expected to be provided by
Standard Bank Plc, according to the people.  Tower Bersama initially approached banks for a new loan of
as much as $325 million however is expected to reduce that by
using undrawn funds from a $200 million loan which was completed
in September, one of the people said today. About 50 percent of
that facility remains undrawn. The $200 million loan was the
third borrowing under a $2 billion debt program for Tower
Bersama, and the new loan will also be arranged under the same
program.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., DBS Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. and United Overseas Bank Ltd. are arranging the new loan,
three people said earlier this month. It’s expected to be
syndicated to a wider group of banks in a few weeks, said the
people who spoke today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  