-- P&G Said to Seek Termination of Pringles Sale to Diamond
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-10T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/p-g-said-to-seek-termination-of-pringles-sale-to-diamond-foods.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  has decided it
will seek to terminate its sale of the Pringles snack business
to  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) , said three people with knowledge of the
situation, following the accounting probe that ousted Diamond’s
chief executive officer.  P&G, which agreed in April 2011 to sell Pringles to Diamond
for $1.5 billion, must now determine how to exit the deal and
whether Diamond will resist the breakup, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private. If
the sale were to proceed, P&G shareholders would own a majority
of  Diamond’s stock , which fell 37 percent yesterday.  Ending the agreement may leave P&G searching for a new
buyer for Pringles, known for stackable chips in flavors from
loaded baked potato in the U.S. to green seaweed in  China . The
snack business is growing, with scant private-label competition,
said Ali Dibadj, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “It’s an attractive category,” Dibadj, who’s based in New
York, said in an interview. “There may be many buyers out
there, both in snacks and in food.”  P&G fell 0.3 percent to $63.88 at the close in New York.
Diamond rose 1.7 percent to $23.52.  Diamond, which sells Emerald snack nuts, said Feb. 8 it
was putting CEO Michael J. Mendes and its chief financial
officer on leave, as well as restating earnings for the past two
years, after the board found payments to walnut growers had been
booked in the wrong periods.  ‘Very Disappointing’  P&G, based in Cincinnati, had previously said the sale
depended on a favorable resolution of the probe. P&G finds the
results “very disappointing,” Paul Fox, a spokesman, said Feb.
8 in an interview. Pringles has attracted “considerable
interest” from other potential buyers, he said.  “Our position has not changed from last night,” Fox said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are disappointed by Diamond’s
news and we need time to evaluate. In the meantime, we will keep
all our options open.”  A spokesman for Diamond had no immediate comment.  Divesting Pringles would get P&G, the world’s largest
consumer-products company, out of the food business. The company
does sell pet food including the Iams and Eukanuba labels, along
with Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste and Pampers diapers.  P&G’s CEO,  Robert McDonald , is looking overseas to grow the
maker of Olay skin creams and Old Spice aftershave. The company
said last month it expects about 37 percent of revenue to come
from developing markets this year, compared with 35 percent in
2011. Last year, 59 percent of the company’s $82.6 billion in
sales came from  outside   North America , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Diamond, based in  San Francisco , sells Kettle chips and Pop
Secret microwave popcorn. Adding P&G’s stackable Pringles chips
would have boosted its global presence and more than tripled the
size of its snack business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  