-- Papademos Gets Cabinet Approval for 2nd Bailout
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-11T11:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/papademos-wins-cabinet-approval-for-budget-steps-to-secure-second-bailout.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
won Cabinet approval for deeper budget cuts needed to secure a
second package of international aid, preparing the way for
parliamentary vote in his race to prevent financial collapse.  The 287-page document was approved unanimously, said a
government official who declined to be named. The backing means
parliament will probably vote tomorrow on budget measures equal
to 7 percent of gross domestic product over the next three years
and a debt swap to cut 100 billion euros ($132 billion) off more
than 200 billion euros of privately-held debt.  “The social cost this program implies will be limited
compared to the economic and social catastrophe that would
follow if we don’t adopt it,” Papademos told his ministers
earlier, according to a transcript of his comments. “The
completion of the program and financial support will cement our
country’s future in the euro area.”  The support capped a week of tension as European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials argued with Greek
officials over the conditions to secure a 130 billion-euro ($172
billion) rescue package. Papademos on Feb. 9 reached an accord
with leaders of the three parties supporting his interim
government hours before a crucial meeting of euro-area finance
ministers in Brussels, only to be told it needed more work.  Time for Responsibility  “Now is the time for responsibility for all of us toward
our country,”  George Papandreou , the former prime minister of
 Greece  and the leader of the socialist Pasok party, said today
in a televised speech in Athens. “The recipe for the program
isn’t right or wrong. It’s the only one available.”  Antonis Samaras, the leader of New Democracy, the second-
biggest party, said a write-off of debt through a voluntary
exchange will allow the country to move away from the precipice.  “It won’t solve the problem, but it will help,” Samaras
told his party’s lawmakers in Athens, in comments televised live
on state-run NET TV. ‘‘It distances us from bankruptcy, looting,
the chaos that would follow.’’  He said it was self-evident that party discipline would be
imposed during the vote on a second financing package.  “I’m
sure you will all do your duty by your country.”  Samaras also said elections are needed as soon as financing
is secured, as previously agreed on by party leaders.  Ministers Resign  With only weeks remaining before a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20, Papademos saw five ministers resign in two
hours and protesters clashing with police in  Athens  during an
anti-austerity strike.  “It should be evident that whoever disagrees and doesn’t
vote for the new program cannot remain in this government,” he
told his ministers. Political uncertainty, he said, was the main
reason for finance ministers failing to approve the program.  Failure to secure the rescue package threatens 11 million
Greeks with a default that would halt the payment of wages and
pensions and shut schools, hospitals and businesses, Papademos
said. Tomorrow’s vote amounts to a ballot on euro membership,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday in Brussels.  “If we see the salvation and future of the country in the
euro area, in Europe, we have to do whatever we have to do to
get the program approved,” he said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin that Greece was missing deficit goals and had to do
more to meet its bailout commitments.  The  Laos  party, with 16 members in the parliament, said it
would oppose the plan. The party’s four ministers in the
Papademos government resigned yesterday.  Greek Humiliation  “What has particularly bothered me is the humiliation of
the country,” George Karatzaferis, the leader of Laos, said in
televised comments. “Clearly Greece can’t and shouldn’t do
without the European Union but it could do without the German
boot.”  The parties that support Papademos’s interim government
will meet ahead of the parliamentary votes on the new measures.
Lawmakers will convene from both the Socialist Pasok party and
the  New Democracy  party, which leads in opinion polls before
elections due as soon as April. A number of Pasok deputies have
threatened to vote against the bill.  Police in Athens scuffled with protesters as unions started
a 48-hour strike against the austerity measures demanded by the
so-called troika of international creditors who monitor progress
made by Greece.  Higher Debt  Schaeuble, briefing lawmakers in Berlin on troika estimates
relayed to the Brussels meeting on Feb. 9, said current plans
would leave Greece’s debt as high as 136 percent of GDP by 2020,
according to two people in the meeting. That compares with the
120 percent foreseen in the second bailout. Debt was about 160
percent of GDP last year.  The emergency euro-area talks broke up late on Feb. 9 with
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  saying Greece must
turn its budget cuts into law, flesh out 325 million euros in
spending reductions and have major party leaders sign up to the
program so they don’t retreat after the elections. Another
extraordinary meeting was set for Feb. 15.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would allow Greece to make the March bond payment and
contain the threat that speculators will target debt-saddled
nations including Italy and  Portugal .  Strikes Called  The strike called by the private-sector GSEE union shut
down schools, government services, and some public transit for
the second time this week.  “They want to privatize the entire country,” Ploumitsa
Triantafillopoulou, 42, who works for an organization that
promotes day-care facilities for children, said yesterday in an
interview. “All of us here we will lose our jobs. They don’t
care for us. They don’t care for the people of Greece.”  Europe ’s hardline stance follows more than two years in
which Greece failed to carry through promised reforms to tackle
its uncompetitive economy and meet the terms for aid. Greece
blamed its shortcomings on a deepening recession now set to
worsen with figures this week showing unemployment jumping to
20.9 percent in November and industrial production declining.  Bondholders met separately in Paris on Feb. 9 to discuss
accepting an average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-
year bonds in a proposed debt swap. An agreement would slice 100
billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately-held
debt and a formal offer must be made by Feb. 13 to allow all
procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond comes due.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the deal is “practically finalized.”  The measures are aimed at delivering budget reductions
totaling 1.5 percent of GDP this year and range from a 22
percent paring of the minimum wage to lower pension payments and
immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000 state workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  