-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate for Ninth Meeting on Lower 2012 Inflation Estimate
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-for-ninth-meeting-on-lower-cpi-estimate.html
Peruvian policy makers kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a ninth month yesterday on
expectations that inflation will slow to the mid-point of their
target range by year-end amid an improved global outlook.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, held the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecasts of all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Yesterday’s decision represented the ninth straight meeting at
which policy makers kept the rate unchanged, the longest such
streak since 2007.  “This decision takes into account the slower growth being
recorded by some spending components, international financial
risks and the fact that quickening inflation has mainly
reflected temporary supply factors,” policy makers said in
their statement posted on the central bank’s website.  Growth in  South America ’s sixth-largest economy accelerated
for the first time in four months in December as the government
rolled out stimulus spending to counter waning global demand for
its metal and manufacturing exports. At the same time, the
annual inflation rate fell from a two year-high of 4.74 percent
last month.  Policy makers in their statement yesterday said they expect
a 2 percent inflation rate by year-end. Policy makers also said
future rate decisions will depend on the available inflation data.  “In our view, the board is assessing risks to growth and
inflation as balanced. The concerns about deteriorating global
conditions and the possible need to pre-emptively cut rates to
protect the economy from external headwinds are all but gone,”
Nader Nazmi, a senior Latin America economist at BNP, wrote in a
note e-mailed to clients after the decision.  Stimulus, Growth  Peru  unveiled plans in November to spend as much as $3.5
billion to shore up domestic demand on concern recession in
 Europe  could spread to  China  and the U.S., the Andean nation’s
top trading partners.  The economy expanded faster than expected in December as
the government pumped up investment in public works, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said Feb. 7.  Castilla said the government may revise its forecast for
2011 economic growth, which will be reported Feb. 28, to about 7
percent from 6.8 percent.  Public investment jumped 39 percent to a record 500 million
soles ($186 million) last month from a year earlier, according
to the  Finance Ministry . The government is targeting a 30
percent increase this year to compensate for slowing spending by
companies.  Mining Questions  Though the global outlook has improved since the start of
the year, anti-mining protests in Peru may deter investment and
damp domestic demand, said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Newmont Mining Corp (NEM)  suspended its $4.8 billion Minas Conga
gold project in November after two weeks of protests that
sometimes became violent. Opponents to what would be the
country’s biggest-ever investment project resumed street
protests Feb. 1.  Government officials have held talks with communities in
three other mining regions in the past month to stem spreading
unrest.  The government will ask companies including Hochschild
Mining Plc and Hudbay Minerals Inc. to suspend mining operations
in the southern Andes during a 30-day environmental review after
villagers said mines are polluting the area, Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes’s office said yesterday.  Sentiment  Though business sentiment has improved after President
Ollanta Humala revamped his Cabinet in December to better deal
with the protests, investor confidence won’t return to levels
seen prior to his election in June so long as the Conga project
remains on hold, said Hernandez.  Business confidence rose in January for the first time in
three months, according to a central bank  survey  published Feb.
3.  A separate survey by the bank showed economists forecast
that the economy will expand 5 percent this year, compared with
5.3 percent in the previous month’s survey. Inflation
expectations for 2012 declined to 2.9 percent from 3 percent.  Consumer prices fell the most in 15 months in January as
the cost of food and bus fares eased.  Annual inflation slowed to 4.23 percent from December, and
will continue to decelerate this year, creating leeway for the
central bank to ease its monetary policy stance to shore up
demand, said  Roberto Flores , the head of research at Inteligo
SAB, a Lima-based brokerage.  The Peruvian sol has strengthened 0.4 percent since the end
of December to 2.6865 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  