-- Petrobras Slumps After Fourth-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-02-10T15:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/petrobras-fourth-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-rising-costs.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Latin
America ’s largest oil producer by market value, plunged the most
in six months after quarterly profit missed estimates.  Petrobras  fell  6.7 percent to 23.80 reais at 1:38 p.m. in
Sao Paulo, the worst performer in the benchmark Bovespa index.
It earlier fell as much as 6.9 percent, the most since Aug. 8.  Earnings fell short of expectations after a weakening
currency boosted import expenses and costs to install equipment
and pay workers rose. Fourth-quarter net income dropped to 5.05
billion reais ($2.9 billion), or 39 centavos a share, from 10.6
billion reais, or 1.07 reais, a year earlier, the Rio de
Janeiro-based oil producer said yesterday.  “Results fell really short of market expectations,
exposing the company’s inability to capture high  oil prices ,”
Itau BBA analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes wrote in a
report dated yesterday. “Results came in well below our
expectations, particularly due to much-higher import expenses.”  Petrobras was expected to earn  69 centavos a share 
excluding some items, the average of six analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Costs rose because of the installation of new production
equipment in the so-called pre-salt region, an increase in
platform maintenance and stoppages, and higher salaries,
Petrobras said.  A weaker real also curbed profit because it boosted foreign
debt payments. The Brazilian real fell to an average of 1.79 per
dollar in the fourth quarter, compared with 1.70 per dollar in
the year-ago period.  “The drop in profits had a lot to do with the  exchange
rate ,” Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli told
reporters in Rio de Janeiro today.  Costs  Gasoline imports last year quadrupled to 30,000 barrels a
day, refining head Paulo Roberto Costa has said. Oil futures in
 New York  jumped 25 percent in the quarter.  Petrobras said it cost $12.49 to produce each barrel of oil
-- the so-called lifting cost -- up from $10.29 a year earlier.
Costs from unscheduled stoppages and installing equipment in the
exploration and production division increased to 863 million
reais in 2011, from 460 million a year earlier.  “It was a very difficult year with unplanned stoppages,”
Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said. “Costs rose.”  The oil producer plans to spend about $224 billion over
five years as it develops the largest discoveries in the Western
Hemisphere since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. Brazilian reserves
that sit miles below the floor of the Atlantic Ocean trapped
under layers of rock and salt hold an estimated 50 billion
barrels of oil, according to the country’s oil regulator.  The company will invest 87.5 billion reais in 2012, up from
72.5 billion reais in 2011, according to a statement distributed
in Rio today. About 48 percent of its investment budget will be
spent on exploration and production.  New CEO  Petrobras also confirmed yesterday that Maria das Gracas Foster, the company’s natural-gas and energy chief, is replacing
Gabrielli as chief executive officer.  Jose Formigli was named as the head of the company’s
exploration and production business. Formigli was previously the
head of Petrobras pre-salt unit that is in charge of developing
the country’s largest oil fields. Jose Alcides Santoro Martins
will take over as head of the gas and energy unit.  Proven reserves reached 16.4 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, 2.7 percent more than a year earlier, Petrobras said
yesterday. The so-called reserve replacement ratio was 148
percent.  Pre-Salt Reserves  Five of its projects in the so-called pre-salt area may
hold combined reserves of as much as 8.5 billion barrels, the
company said today. The fields are Lula, Cernambi, Iara, Guara
and Parque das Baleias.  Total oil and gas production averaged 2.62 million barrels
a day last year, compared with 2.58 million in 2010. Average
production in  Brazil  was 2.02 million barrels.  Petrobras announced in a separate statement that it will
lease 21 rigs from Sete Brasil Participacoes SA and five from
 Ocean Rig UDW Inc (OCRG)  for 15 years. It will pay Sete Brasil $530,000
per day for the rigs and $548,000 per day to Ocean Rig.  “There was a large increase in costs, imported fuel was a
little bit more expensive and there was more exploration,”
Rafael Andreata, an analyst at Planner Corretora de Valores, who
has a “buy” rating on the stock and doesn’t own any, said in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo  before results were released.  Petrobras sold a record $7 billion in dollar bonds last
week to help finance the biggest investment plan in the industry
at a time when investors are seeking alternatives to European
assets and lower-yielding investment-grade debt.  Borrowing  The company plans to borrow as much as $18 billion a year
through 2015, mainly from international markets.  The sale matched  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s $7 billion offering last
month as the largest dollar-denominated corporate  bond issue 
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refining costs increased because Petrobras has to import
expensive light oil because most of its plants can’t process the
heavy, lower quality oil the company produces in Brazil,  Gianna Bern , president of Chicago-based risk-management adviser
Brookshire Advisory, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “With prices as high as they have been, that’s just
killing their refining business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net 
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  