-- Philippine Peso Gains for 5th Week on Growth Outlook; Bonds Rise
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-02-10T08:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/philippine-peso-set-for-fifth-weekly-gain-on-growth-outlook.html
The Philippine peso had a fifth
weekly rally after policy makers said growth in the Southeast
Asian economy will accelerate.  Government bonds  rose after
inflation cooled.  The currency dropped by the most in two months today as
data showed exports fell by more than economists forecast. An
increase of between 5 percent and 7 percent in the nation’s
gross domestic product is possible in the first quarter,
Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga said on Feb. 8.
That compares with 4.6 percent growth in the year-earlier period.
Ten-year bonds rallied for a third week after consumer prices
rose the least in 13 months in January, climbing 3.9 percent.  “Prospects are that growth may be supported with lower
inflation,” said Estelito Biacora, senior vice-president and
head of private banking in  Manila  at Bank of the Philippine
Islands. “That should translate to lower  interest rates  and
provide room for investments for both portfolio and foreign
direct investments.”  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent this week to 42.490 per
dollar at the close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
The currency fell 0.7 percent today, the most since Dec. 9.  Overseas sales slid 20.7 percent from a year earlier in
December after falling 19.4 percent in November, the  National
Statistics Office  said today. The median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg survey was for a contraction of 17.4 percent.  The yield on the 6.375 percent bonds due January 2022
declined 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 5.10
percent this week, according to noon fixing prices from the
Philippine Dealing & exchange Corp. The rate increased two basis
points today.  Capital inflows are boosting the peso and the central bank
has scope “for participation” in the foreign-currency market
to curb volatility, Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  