-- Pierce, Nowitzki Are Named All-Star Reserves; Duncan, Garnett Miss Out
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/pierce-nowitzki-are-named-all-star-reserves-duncan-garnett-miss-out.html
Paul Pierce  of the Boston Celtics
and Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks are among the 14
reserves chosen by coaches for the National Basketball
Association All-Star game.  Nowitzki is on the roster for the 11th straight year, while
Pierce will make his 10th consecutive appearance. Kevin Garnett
of the Celtics was left out, ending a run of 14 selections in a
row, while  Tim Duncan  of the  San Antonio Spurs  was also omitted,
bringing his streak of 13 straight appearances to a close.  Joining Pierce on the East roster are Chris Bosh of the
Miami Heat, Luol Deng of the Chicago Bulls, Roy Hibbert of the
Indiana Pacers, Andre Iguodala of the Philadelphia 76ers, Joe Johnson of the Atlanta Hawks and Deron Williams of the New
Jersey Nets.  Nowitzki, the Most Valuable Player in last year’s NBA
Finals, is joined on the West team by LaMarcus Aldridge of the
Portland Trail Blazers, Marc Gasol of the Memphis Grizzlies,
Kevin Love of the Minnesota Timberwolves, Steve Nash of the
Phoenix Suns, Tony Parker of the Spurs and Russell Westbrook of
the Oklahoma City Thunder.  Deng, Hibbert, Iguodala, Aldridge and Gasol are first-time
All-Stars. Love and Westbrook head to the game a second time,
Williams earns his third trip, Parker his fourth, Johnson his
sixth and Bosh his seventh. Nash, at 38 the oldest player in
this year’s game, is an All-Star for the eighth time.  The All-Star game will be played Feb. 26 at the Amway
Center in Orlando, Florida. Coaches for the East and West teams
will be determined by the best conference records as of Feb. 15.  Fans already voted for the Orlando Magic’s Dwight Howard,
LeBron James and Dwyane Wade of Miami,  Chicago ’s  Derrick Rose 
and Carmelo Anthony of the New York Knicks as starters for the
East.  The West starters are the Kobe Bryant and Andrew Bynum of
the Los Angeles, Chris Paul and  Blake Griffin  of the Los Angeles
Clippers, and Oklahoma City’s  Kevin Durant .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  