-- Gross Buys Treasuries as Buffett Says Bonds Are ‘Dangerous’
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-10T14:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/pimco-s-gross-buys-treasuries-while-buffett-says-bonds-are-dangerous-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  increased his holdings of Treasuries to the highest
level since July 2010, while billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
called them “dangerous.”  Gross boosted U.S. government and Treasury debt to 38
percent of assets in Pimco’s $250.5 billion Total Return Fund,
the world’s biggest bond fund. The position in January climbed
from 30 percent in December, according to a report on the
company’s  website  yesterday.  Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said
taxes and inflation should dissuade investors from debt. That
puts him in the camp with Laurence D. Fink, chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager,
who said this week investors should have 100 percent of their
holdings in equities because they offer higher returns than
bonds.  “They are among the most dangerous of assets,” Buffett
said yesterday in an adaptation of his  annual letter  to
shareholders on Fortune magazine’s website. “Over the past
century these instruments have destroyed the purchasing power of
investors in many countries, even as these holders continued to
receive timely payments of interest and principal.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.99 percent as of 9:51 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They set a record low
of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  ‘Warning Label’  The difference between 10-year rates and the annual
increase in consumer costs, known as the real yield, was
negative 1.01 percent. The shortfall was as much as negative
2.14 percent in October, which was the most since 1980.  “Bonds should come with a warning label,” wrote Buffett,
who is based in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Berkshire still holds “significant amounts” of debt,
mostly short-term securities, according to the investor letter.  “At Berkshire the need for ample liquidity occupies center
stage and will never be slighted, however inadequate rates may
be,” he wrote. “We primarily hold U.S. Treasury bills, the
only investment that can be counted on for liquidity under the
most chaotic of economic conditions.”  Gross, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , has also
addressed negative real yields, calling them a form of
“financial repression” in his investment  outlook  released last
month.  Pimco is favoring Treasuries due in five, six and seven
years because of the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep short-term
rates low, Gross said Feb. 3 in an interview with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt on the “Bloomberg Surveillance” radio program.  Inflation Outlook  The Fed is “not really afraid of higher inflation,”
making 10- and 30-year Treasuries unattractive, he said.  Central bank policy makers signaled in their Jan. 25 policy
statement that they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at
virtually zero until at least late 2014, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s considering buying bonds to sustain the
expansion. Bernanke told U.S. lawmakers on Feb. 2 that he’s not
seeking faster inflation as he tries to create jobs.  The Total Return  Fund (PTTRX)  has about 8 percent of its holdings
in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities in an “inflation
bet,” Gross said in the Feb. 3 interview.  TIPS Returns  Investors who seek the safety of Treasury bonds will have
minimal returns as the Fed holds down interest rates,  New York- 
based Fink said in a Feb. 8 interview with Susan Li on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up.”  Europe ’s struggle to contain a sovereign-debt crisis has
driven investor demand for refuge assets, making U.S. Treasuries
must-have securities in the past year.  They returned 10 percent in the 12 months to yesterday, and
TIPS handed investors a 17 percent gain, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. A gauge of bonds around the world
returned 7.6 percent, the data show.  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks fell 1.7 percent
in the period after accounting for reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, was 2.20 percentage points. The average over the
past decade is 2.14 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  