-- Gilt Yields Fall Most in Two Months on Greek Debt Concern; Pound Advances
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-10T16:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/pound-heads-for-weekly-loss-versus-euro-as-house-prices-fall-gilts-gain.html
Gilts rose, with 10-year yields
dropping the most in two months, as European finance ministers
held back a bailout package needed to prevent the Greek economy
from collapsing, boosting demand for safer assets.  The pound strengthened against higher-yielding currencies
as George Karatzaferis, who leads a party supporting the
government of Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , said he couldn’t
support the accord worked out for a new financing agreement in
its present form. Sterling also rose for the first time in four
days against the euro after a U.K. report showed producer prices
climbed at the fastest pace in nine months.  “Today’s move is to do with what’s going on in  Europe , it
looks like the Greek deal has a long way to go,” and that is
boosting safer assets, said  Chris Walker , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in London. “We are bearish on pound-dollar
at these levels but we think what’s going on in Europe” will
cause the pound to rise against the euro, he said.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 2.13 percent at 4:29 p.m. London time after
dropping 11 basis points, the most since Dec. 8. The 3.75
percent bond due September 2021 gained 0.87, or 8.70 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,576) face amount, to 113.95.  Greece  is missing its debt-cutting targets, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin. He said
Greece’s plans would leave its debt as high as 136 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020, according to two people who took
part in the meeting. That compares with the 120 percent foreseen
in a 130 billion-euro ($171.3 billion) bailout being negotiated.  Weekly Loss  Karatzaferis said at a news conference in  Athens  that he
continued to personally support Papademos and it was up to the
prime minister if he wanted to retain the four members of the
Laos party as ministers in the government.  The pound strengthened 0.4 percent to 83.7 pence per euro,
trimming its weekly drop to 0.6 percent. The currency gained 2.5
percent against the South African rand, and advanced 0.7 percent
versus the Mexican peso. It fell 0.4 percent to $1.5754.  The cost of goods at U.K. factory gates climbed by 0.5
percent in January from the previous month, the most since
April, the  Office for National Statistics  said. The median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1
percent gain.  Sterling still headed for a weekly loss versus the euro
after an industry report showed U.K. house prices fell to a six-
month low, fueling speculation the  Bank of England  will increase
bond buying to keep borrowing costs low.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  dropped
0.2 percent in January from December, Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL
Property Services Plc said. From a year earlier, values fell 1.4
percent, the quickest pace since September.  The Monetary Policy Committee yesterday raised the target
for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds, less than the 75
billion pounds forecast by some economists.  “We are far from out of the woods when it comes to the
economic data,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the
corporate and institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc
in  London . “There is still scope for some more BOE stimulus and
that pushes the chance of U.K. interest-rate increases far into
the distance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  