-- Pro-Putin Youth Group Denies Cyber Attacks on Kommersant Website
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-02-10T15:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/pro-putin-youth-group-denies-cyber-attacks-on-kommersant-website.html
A youth group that supports Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin , Nashi, denied involvement in cyber
attacks on the website of the Kommersant newspaper, which is
frequently critical of the government.  Kommersant filed a complaint to the Interior Ministry
yesterday alleging that the group was behind attacks known as
“distributed denial of  service ,” or DDoS, that caused the
newspaper’s site to crash repeatedly in 2008.  “We expect that these boys and girls playing politics will
understand that cyber crime is a serious offense,” Kommersant
CEO Damian Kudriavtzev said by phone. Nashi, in a statement on
its website today, denied any wrongdoing.  Repeated cyber attacks disrupted access to several Russian
news sites that air criticism of the authorities during the run-
up to parliamentary elections in December, which were followed
by mass protests at alleged ballot-rigging. Kommersant was
targeted along with media outlets including Gazeta.ru, Slon.ru
and Ekho Mosvky radio, which filed a complaint to Russian
authorities.  A hacker team calling itself Anonymous released hundreds of
e-mails, saying they came from Nashi leaders’ mailboxes. One of
these messages was cited by Kommersant as evidence Nashi planned
the attacks on the website in 2008.  Ekho Moskvy editor in chief Alexei Venediktov says the
authorities response to Kommersant’s complaint will show if they
were involved in the cyber attacks. “If the authorities won’t
react, that could mean they back the organizers of the cyber
attacks, and therefore also are committing a crime,” Venediktov
said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  