-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Rose in December to Six-Month High on Import Growth
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-10T13:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/trade-deficit-in-u-s-rose-in-december-to-six-month-high-on-import-growth.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S. widened
in December to a six-month high as a strengthening economy
prompted bigger gains in imports than exports.  The gap increased 3.7 percent to $48.8 billion from $47.1
billion in November, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. Purchases of goods and services produced overseas
were the strongest in more than three years on record demand for
capital equipment like machinery and semiconductors.  Imports may keep rising as an improving job market underpins
 consumer spending , and businesses rebuild inventories and replace
outdated equipment. At the same time, demand from emerging
markets is boosting sales at companies like  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , buffering the fallout from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and helping to sustain exports.  “Growth in consumer and business demand is pretty good and
that is helping to pull in imports,” said  Jay Bryson , a senior
global economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,
 North Carolina , who projected the gap would rise to $49 billion.
“We will see a widening trade deficit this year as imports grow
faster than exports.”  Stock-index futures slumped on concern over  Greece  as one of
the three party leaders supporting the country’s government said
he cannot vote for the current austerity package. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in March dropped 0.9
percent to 1,335.8 at 8:44 a.m. in  New York .  Survey Results  The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 75
economists called for the deficit to rise to $48.5 billion from a
previously estimated $47.8 billion in November. Estimates ranged
from gaps of $43 billion to $50.5 billion.  For all of 2011, the shortfall grew 12 percent to $558
billion, the most since 2008. Both imports and exports climbed to
records.  Imports advanced 1.3 percent to $227.6 billion, the most
since July 2008. In addition to capital goods, American companies
also bought more consumer household items, automobiles and parts
and crude oil from overseas.  Exports increased 0.7 percent to $178.8 billion, boosted by
record sales of petroleum to buyers overseas. That caused the
 trade gap  excluding petroleum to widen even more than the deficit
overall, rising to $21.9 billion in December from $19.4 billion
the prior month.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit grew to $47.7 billion from $47 billion. The fourth-
quarter average of $46.2 billion was larger than the $45.7
billion in the previous three months, confirming that trade
subtracted from growth over the period.  Growth Accelerates  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent pace in the prior
three months, Commerce Department figures showed on Jan. 27. The
trade gap subtracted 0.11 percentage point from GDP in the final
three months of 2011, after adding 0.43 points in the prior
quarter.  The trade gap with  China  narrowed to $23.1 billion from
$26.9 billion as imports dropped, today’s report showed.  Exports to the European Union climbed 3.6 percent and
imports rose 2.2 percent, leaving the trade gap with the region
little changed.  U.S. exporters globally may continue to see gains.
Caterpillar, the largest construction and mining equipment maker,
posted fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates and
said prospects for global growth have improved. It also projects
more orders as pent-up demand is released and customers replace
older products.  Growing Exports  “We’re expecting 2012 to be another year of good growth,”
 Doug Oberhelman , chairman and chief executive officer of the
Peoria, Illinois-based company, said in a Jan. 26 statement.
“2011 was a record-breaking year for U.S. exports,” which
“supported thousands of jobs in the United States.”  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, expanded 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, exceeding the
Bloomberg survey median forecast. An index of  India ’s services
industry rose in January at the fastest pace in six months, and
manufacturing accelerated.  “The  emerging markets  continue to be very strong,”  Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer of General Electric, said on a
Jan. 20 conference call with investors. “There are a few
challenged markets like Europe and appliances, but on balance, we
have a positive outlook.”  Gap with China  Even with the improvement in December, the trade deficit
with China remains a thorny issue as the U.S. presses the Asian
country to allow its currency, the yuan, to rise against the
dollar. President  Barack Obama , in his State of the Union
address, said last month he is creating a trade enforcement group
that would use investigators and other federal resources to
combat unfair trade practices by nations including China.  China’s overseas shipments decreased 0.5 percent in January
and imports declined a more-than-forecast 15.3 percent from a
year earlier in a month that had four fewer working days than in
the same month in 2011 because of the Chinese New Year holiday,
the customs bureau said today. That pushed the  trade surplus  for
the world’s second-largest economy up to a six-month high of
$27.3 billion, the data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  