-- Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Grew in December
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-grew-in-december-on-higher-imports.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
probably widened in December to a six-month high as imports
outpaced exports, economists said before a report today.  The gap grew to $48.5 billion from the $47.8 billion
shortfall in November, according to the  median  of 75 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. A separate report may show consumer
sentiment in February held close to an 11-month high.  Imports may keep rising this year as an improving job
market underpins  consumer spending , and businesses rebuild
inventories and replace outdated equipment. At the same time,
demand from emerging markets is boosting sales at companies like
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , buffering the fallout
from  Europe ’s debt crisis and helping to sustain exports.  “Domestic demand may pick up while growth in the rest of
the world is not so dynamic,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S.
economist at Unicredit Group in New York. “We’ll probably see a
widening of the trade deficit in the first half of the year as
imports rise faster and exports don’t keep pace.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are scheduled for
release at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from gaps of $50.5 billion to $43 billion.  The U.S. was picking up heading into 2012. The world’s
largest economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent pace in the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures showed on Jan. 27.  Signs the economy was improving have helped boost shares.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 7.5 percent so far
this year through yesterday.  Oil Imports  Rising oil costs may be one reason why imports will
probably keep growing in early 2012. The price of  Brent crude 
traded on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  was $118.63
yesterday, up 10 percent from $107.38 at the end of December.  At the same time, exporters may also continue to see gains.
Caterpillar, the largest construction and mining equipment
maker, posted fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates and said prospects for global growth have improved. It
also projects more orders as pent-up demand is released and
customers replace older products.  “We’re expecting 2012 to be another year of good growth,”
 Doug Oberhelman , chairman and chief executive officer of the
Peoria, Illinois-based company, said in a Jan. 26 statement.
“2011 was a record-breaking year for U.S. exports,” which
“supported thousands of jobs in the  United States .”  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, expanded 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, exceeding the
Bloomberg survey median forecast. An index of  India ’s services
industry rose in January at the fastest pace in six months, and
manufacturing accelerated.  ‘Strong’ Markets  “The  emerging markets  continue to be very strong,”
 Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer of General Electric,
said on a Jan. 20 conference call with investors. “There are a
few challenged markets like Europe and appliances, but on
balance, we have a positive outlook.”  A weaker dollar will help keep U.S. goods competitive.
Since a recent high on Dec. 14, the dollar has declined 3.4
percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners.  The trade deficit with China remains a thorny issue as the
U.S. presses the Asian country to allow its currency, the yuan,
to rise against the dollar. President  Barack Obama , in his State
of the Union address, said last month he is creating a trade
enforcement group that would use investigators and other federal
resources to combat unfair trade practices by nations including
China.  At 9:55 a.m. in  New York , the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan will issue its preliminary February index of consumer
sentiment. Economists project a gauge of 74.8, little changed
from the 75 final reading a month earlier, according to the
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  