-- RadioShack Options Signaling Deal as Short Sales Climb: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-10T15:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/radioshack-options-signal-deal-as-short-sales-reach-4-year-high-real-m-a.html
As short sellers push bearish wagers
against  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  to a four-year high, options traders
are increasing bets that the cheapest U.S. specialty retailer
will become a takeover target.  Almost 24 percent of RadioShack’s shares are currently
 shorted , the most since January 2008 and four times the average
of the Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400 Index, according to New
York-based research firm Data Explorers. After posting the
second-steepest two-year  decline  in the S&P Midcap 400,  Fort
Worth , Texas-based RadioShack trades at 5.8 times profit, the
lowest of any specialty retailer in America worth more than $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While RadioShack’s  earnings  are shrinking because of
stagnant  consumer spending , rising dependence on mobile-phone
sales and lower-than-projected revenue from Sprint Nextel Corp.,
it’s also one of only two companies in the industry valued at a
 discount  to net assets. The cost of calls to buy shares priced
10 percent above RadioShack’s stock reached a five-year high
this week versus puts to sell on comparable one-month contracts,
signaling some traders may now be speculating the company is
cheap enough to attract a takeover offer, said Frederic Ruffy, a
senior options strategist at WhatsTrading.com.  “They are in a tough situation,”  Todd Lowenstein , who
helps oversee about $17 billion for Highmark Capital Management
Inc. in  Los Angeles , said in a phone interview. “You have
people who, in the current scheme, are willing to bet negatively,
but ultimately there’s a price for somebody to come in and say
it’s attractive. Everything has a price. There will be vultures
that will circle and will be willing to step in at a price. This
thing is cheap.”  Declining Profit  Eric Bruner, a spokesman for RadioShack, said the company
doesn’t comment on market speculation.  RadioShack rose 1.3 percent to $7.57 at 10:49 a.m. in New
York.  RadioShack, which opened its first namesake store in  1921 ,
has almost 7,300 locations in the U.S. and  Mexico , including
mobile centers in Target Corp. stores. It sells everything from
GPS navigation systems to metal detectors and mobile phones. In
September, company-operated stores also began carrying Verizon
Wireless products and services.  Last month RadioShack suspended share repurchases and
disclosed preliminary fourth-quarter profit that was a third of
the amount analysts estimated because of holiday promotions amid
“ongoing pressure” on consumer spending and
“underperformance” in the Sprint wireless business.  Short Sellers  The Jan. 30 announcement sent the stock tumbling 30 percent
the next day, the biggest decline in at least 30 years, to $7.18
a share, the lowest since March 2009. RadioShack has now  lost 61
percent  in the last two years, reducing the company’s market
value to $746 million as of yesterday, while the  S&P Midcap 400 
gained 39 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Almost 24 million of the 99.8 million outstanding shares of
RadioShack were being shorted as of Feb. 7, according to  Data
Explorers . In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock on the
assumption the price will decline and enable them to profit by
buying the shares back at a lower price.  At 24 percent, the proportion of bearish bets against
RadioShack is now higher than 98 percent of companies in the S&P
Midcap 400, the data show. Companies in the index have average
short interest of 5.2 percent. A year ago, less than 4 percent
of RadioShack’s shares were being sold short.  Debt Market  The debt market is also signaling a decline as credit
investors pay the most ever to protect against a default. Credit
swaps tied to RadioShack rose to a record $971,105 to protect
$10 million of debt on Jan. 31, the day after it reported
preliminary earnings, according to data provider CMA. Default
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  After losing $1.7 billion in market value in the last two
years, RadioShack has fallen to 5.8 times earnings, the lowest
price-earnings ratio of any U.S. specialty retailer worth more
than $500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industry
average is 18.3 times.  The January stock decline sparked by the disappointing
earnings report pushed RadioShack down to 0.9 times  book value ,
the lowest since at least 1990, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares still trade at a 7 percent discount to net
assets, cheaper than every company in the industry group except
for OfficeMax Inc., the data show.  Best Buy, Sears  “Any time a company is trading at below book value or
below tangible book value, it’s trading below its liquidation
value,” said Highmark Capital’s Lowenstein. “Suitors, whether
strategic or financial, would tend to be very interested in
these kinds of cases.”  RadioShack, which failed to sell itself in 2010, may now be
cheap enough to attract buyers, according to Lowenstein. At
least three private equity firms dropped out of the bidding in
2010, Bloomberg News reported at the time, citing people
familiar with the discussions.  The company operated more than 6,000  retail locations  as of
Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing. Almost all of
RadioShack’s locations are leased rather than owned.  While RadioShack was a compelling takeover target in the
past for  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  or a private equity
firm, it’s now less likely to find a buyer as RadioShack and
rival retailers combat increasing sales on the Internet, said
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc.  ‘Dangerous Situation’  “It’s kind of a dangerous situation in the context that
the business model may be eroding,” Shah said in a phone
interview. “It’s not a cyclical situation, it is systemic. Is
RadioShack cheap? Yes, it is if you have a buyer, and it’s not
clear to me that there is a buyer out there.”  Options traders  are growing increasingly bullish. The cost
of calls to buy the stock versus puts to sell jumped 29 percent
from its Jan. 27 low to a five-year high on Feb. 8. That was the
biggest gain in such a number of days since March 2010,
according to  data  on 30-day options compiled by Bloomberg. As of
Feb. 8, calls that pay off if RadioShack rises 10 percent cost
1.1 times more than comparable puts on one-month contracts, the
data show. The ratio was 1.06 yesterday, the data show.  Some traders may be using RadioShack call options to
protect shares they sold short in case the stock rises and
creates a so-called short squeeze, said Alec Levine, an equity
derivatives strategist at Newedge Group SA in  New York . In a
short squeeze, traders with short positions are forced to buy
the securities to cover their positions and limit losses while
the surge of buying results in even higher prices.  “It’s possible that this is showing just straight
speculative buying on the potential for a takeover,” Ruffy, who
analyzes the options market for WhatsTrading.com in New York,
said in a phone interview. “There’s limited downside at these
levels and potential for big upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 