-- Raiffeisen’s $453 Million Capital Hike Faces Delay on Volksbanken Tiff
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-02-10T12:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/raiffeisen-s-453-million-capital-hike-faces-delay-on-volksbanken-tiff.html
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA) , which is raising capital to meet stricter  bank regulations ,
faces delays to a 342 million-euro ($453 million) capital
measure over a tiff with one of its minority shareholders.  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , which owns 5 percent of
RZB, is seeking to nullify approval of the non-voting capital
sale and an asset purchase linked to it, which was given in a
Dec. 28 shareholder meeting, Volksbanken spokesman Walter Groeblinger said. RZB, the main shareholder of  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , said Volksbanken’s lawsuit in the Vienna
Commercial Court has “no material basis,” according to
spokesman Gregor Bitschnau.  “There are questions regarding the measure, which we want
to have clarified in court,” Groeblinger said by telephone from
Vienna. He declined to elaborate.  RBI shares tumbled in Vienna trading. RZB and Raiffeisen
have until the end of June to fill a 2.1 billion-euro capital
shortfall determined by the European Banking Authority. While
the so-called participation capital challenged by Volksbanken
isn’t recognized as core capital by the EBA, RZB planned to
convert it into common stock later. To help fill the EBA gap,
RZB plans a similar swap of as much as 1 billion euros in
participation capital it has previously issued.  Raiffeisen fell  as much as 8 percent to 26.01 euros in
Vienna trading, the lowest intraday level since Jan. 31. It was
6 percent lower by 1:32 p.m. local time, making it one of the
worst performers in the 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index , which was 2.1 percent lower.  Volksbanken Tiff  RZB and Raiffeisen have completed measures equivalent to
raising 1.4 billion euros, which included making some forms of
capital compliant with EBA rules and reducing assets, the banks
said Jan. 25. Raiffeisen, which is eastern  Europe ’s third-
biggest lender, is also revisiting plans for a rights offering
after its shares nearly doubled from their 12-month low in
November, four people with knowledge of the talks said.  Closely held RZB, 88 percent owned by  eight regional
cooperative banks  led by Raiffeisenlandesbank NOe-Wien AG and
Raiffeisenlandesbank OOe AG, used the approval at the December
EGM to sell the non-voting capital to some of its shareholders
two days later. In a linked deal, it agreed to buy 24 percent of
Czech Raiffeisenbank AS and 13 percent of  Tatra Banka AS (TAT)  for the
same amount from RLB NOe-Wien and from RLB OOe.  Basel Rules  The main rationale for the asset purchases was that they
help both RZB and the shareholders selling them to meet capital
rules introduced by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision.
The rules foresee capital deductions if banks own partial stakes
in other lenders, such as Raiffeisenbank and Tatra Banka.  Volksbanken can use laws protecting minority shareholders’
rights to cause delays as RZB works toward the EBA’s deadline to
fill the capital gap by June. Its move comes after RZB’s
majority shareholders walked away from a deal to buy out
Volksbanken’s stake for about 500 million euros last year.  “From Volksbanken’s point of view, this is an
understandable step, because they were shown a bit of a cold
shoulder last year,” said Wilhelm Rasinger, a lawyer and
president of  Austria ’s small shareholder association, who is not
involved in the case on Volksbanken’s or RZB’s side.  Asset Valuation  Volksbanken, which failed the EBA stress test last year,
planned to sell the RZB stake as one of three main measures to
shore up its capital and repay state aid last year. The only
measure it completed was the sale of its eastern European
business to  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank, due to close next week.  Minority shareholders can challenge majority resolutions of
shareholder meetings in court under Austrian law. Possible basis
for challenges include the argument that some shareholders
gained an advantage at the expense of minority shareholders or
the company. Another possible argument is that they didn’t
receive sufficient information to make decisions at the meeting.  “The valuation of such assets,” like the two bank stakes
RZB is buying from its shareholders, is “something you can
endlessly fight about,” Rasinger said.  The case is 27 Cg 10/12 v at the Commercial Court in
Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  