-- Rand Falls After Central Bank Plans Announcement of ‘National Importance’
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-10T15:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/rand-falls-after-central-bank-plans-announcement-of-national-importance-.html
South Africa ’s rand extended a
decline after the central bank said Governor  Gill Marcus  will
make an announcement “of national importance” with President
 Jacob Zuma  and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan tomorrow.  A press conference will be held at the head office of the
South African Reserve Bank in Pretoria at 3 p.m. local time, the
central bank said in a statement on its website, without giving
further details. Spokesmen for the central bank, National
Treasury and Presidency declined to comment when called today.  “The fact that they’re making the announcement on a
Saturday, when the market is closed, means it is probably going
to be market-moving,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury
strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd.,
said by phone. “There is a lot of speculation swirling about,”
including changes to senior positions, exchange controls or the
inflation-targeting mandate.  The rand retreated as much as 2.6 percent to 7.7847 per
dollar, and traded 2.3 percent weaker at 7.7589 per dollar as of
5 p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst performance out of more than
20 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  “The rand is definitely on the back foot as a result of
this,”  Michael Keenan , an analyst at Absa Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said by phone.  The last time Zuma held a joint press conference with
Marcus and Gordhan was on March 25, when Lesetja Kganyago was
moved from the National Treasury to the central bank as deputy
governor. Zuma last held a press conference on a weekend with
the central bank in July 2009 when he named Marcus as a
replacement for Tito Mboweni for a five-year term from November
of that year.  The other two deputy governors are  Daniel Mminele , who was
appointed in June 2009 and Francois Groepe, who took up his
position at the beginning of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  