-- Rand Retreats on Greece Aid Concern, Central Bank Announcement
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-10T14:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/rand-weakens-set-for-weekly-decline-on-commodities-greek-rescue-concern.html
The rand headed for its first weekly
drop in five as the central bank said it will make an
announcement “of national importance” tomorrow and commodities
fell after European leaders held back a Greek rescue package.  South Africa ’s currency retreated 1.9 percent to 7.7317 per
dollar as of 4:17 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline
this week to 2.7 percent, the most since the five days ended
Dec. 16. It was the worst performer today out of more than 20
emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. Against the
euro, it slipped 1.1 percent to 10.1861.  Governor  Gill Marcus , who is three years into a five-year
term, will make the announcement tomorrow at 3 p.m. local time,
together with President  Jacob Zuma  and Finance Minister  Pravin
Gordhan , the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its website,
without giving further details.  “They’re doing it on a Saturday, so it is probably
something potentially market-moving,”  Michael Keenan , an
analyst at Absa Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “The
rand is definitely on the back foot as a result of this.”  The rand retreated along with stocks and commodities after
European leaders held back a rescue package for Greece. Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his euro-area
counterparts refused to approve a 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) aid package because the government fell short of
austerity demands. George Karatzaferis, who heads one of three
parties supporting interim Prime Minister Licas Papademos, said
he couldn’t back an accord on cuts in its present form.  ‘Risk-Off’  “There will be talk of a general change in tone back
towards risk-off and profit taking,”  George Glynos , an
economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed
comments today. “Given the on-going drama in Greece, this could
very well keep the rand on the defensive for a little while
longer.”  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index  of commodities fell for the
first time in six days and a gauge of emerging-market stocks
slipped the most this year on a closing basis. Commodities
account for about 60 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data.  South African bonds declined on concern the state-owned
transport company’s plan to spend 300 billion rand upgrading its
rail network will add to supply in the market. Transnet SOC Ltd.
will tap international and domestic bond markets, the South
African Press Association reported, citing Public Enterprises
Minister  Malusi Gigaba .  The yield on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage points, to 7.89 percent, the highest
on a closing basis since Jan. 23. The yield has climbed 21 basis
points this week, the most since the five days ending Sept. 23.  “Concern about government debt remains elevated,” Carmen Nel and Mamello Matikinca, analysts at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  