-- RBS Loses 300 Employees After Failing to Find Buyer for Cash Equities Unit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-02-10T09:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/rbs-loses-300-staff-after-failing-to-find-purchaser-for-cash-equities-unit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, cut as many as 300
staff in its  capital markets  and cash equities units after
failing to find a buyer for the businesses.  Most of the employees affected by the decision are London-
based, the bank said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News
today. The lender said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs
at the investment-banking division and sell or close the
unprofitable cash equities, mergers advisory and equity capital
markets divisions. Last month, the bank sold its Hoare Govett
corporate broking unit to  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , transferring
about 50 jobs. It has been unable to find buyers for the rest of
the U.K. equities business.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, decided to
dispose of the units after volatile markets and increasing
regulation rendered it difficult to  generate returns  that beat
the cost of equity.  “Having to cut jobs is the most difficult part of our work
to rebuild RBS,” the Edinburgh-based bank said in the
statement. “After careful assessment of the various approaches
made by interested parties, we have decided to start winding
down parts of our EMEA Equity Capital Markets and cash equities
businesses, and certain associated activities globally.”  The lender remains in active discussions with potential
buyers for various other parts of the units including  Asia  and
the Netherlands, it said in a statement.  Sale Deadline  Lazard Ltd., which is advising RBS on scaling back its
securities unit, has been given until Feb. 23, when RBS reports
year-end results, to find buyers for the remaining businesses.  The government owns 82 percent of RBS after injecting 45.5
billion pounds ($72 billion) of public money into the lender at
the height of the financial crisis, making it the costliest
bailout of any bank in the world.  Hester said this week that restructuring RBS was equivalent
to defusing what he called “the biggest time bomb in history.”
Hester waived his 2011 bonus after the U.K.’s opposition  Labour
Party  said it would seek a Parliamentary vote on the payment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  