-- Treasury Said to Consider Sales of Stakes in Small U.S. Banks
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-10T03:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/treasury-said-to-consider-sales-of-stakes-in-small-u-s-banks.html
The U.S. Treasury Department is
considering selling stakes and allowing mergers involving banks
in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, an Obama administration
official said.  The Treasury is also weighing the restructuring of some of
about 370 remaining TARP banks that received government bailouts
during the financial crisis and allowing third-party investments,
said the official, who declined to be identified because the
information hasn’t been made public.  The Treasury may become “more aggressive in offering
financial incentives on a case-by-case basis to support third-
party money and mergers,” said Kip Weissman, a partner at Luse
Gorman Pomerenk & Schick, P.C. in Washington, who represents
TARP banks. “The weak banks can’t repay the TARP without help
and cajoling.”  After lenders including Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., and Bank of America Corp. repaid taxpayer-funded bailouts,
most firms left in TARP are small or regional banks. The largest
include  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  of Birmingham, Alabama;  Zions
Bancorporation (ZION)  of  Salt Lake City ; and  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  of Buffalo,
 New York .  The possible sale of stakes in TARP banks was reported
earlier by Dow Jones Newswires.  In November, the Treasury said it was working with
investment firm Houlihan Lokey to explore options to help the
government recuperate TARP money from banks.  Under TARP, originally approved by Congress in 2008 as a
$700 billion dollar program to rescue financial institutions,
the Treasury put cash into banks in exchange for equity stakes.
Many bailout recipients repaid TARP funds, plus interest
payments on preferred shares.  The Treasury has estimated that it will profit by about $20
billion on the bank portion of TARP. The U.S. Government
Accountability Office, in a report last month, said the Treasury
has highlighted projected gains while omitting estimated losses
in press releases about federal bailouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis at   mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  