-- Treasuries Gain as Greece Struggles for Plan
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-10T20:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/treasuries-set-for-second-weekly-loss-as-greek-accord-saps-refuge-demand.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in four days as European finance ministers withheld a rescue
package for Greece pending the nation’s approval of fiscal
austerity measures.  Investors  sought  the relative safety of  U.S. debt  as stocks
fell and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told members of
his government they must back deeper budget cuts needed to
prevent financial collapse or quit. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said efforts to spur domestic economic growth are
being blunted by the housing market. Volatility in the Treasury
market increased from an eight-month low.  “Headline risk is here,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in
New York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer
broker. “The indecision makes the market jumpy. People want
yields to go higher, but they are not budging. We were
overdone.”  Yields on 10-year notes slid seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.96 percent at 3:40 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 gained 21/32, or $6.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 11/32. The yield is up four basis
points this week.  A gain of more than one point in the 30-year bond pushed
the yields down as much as seven basis points before trading at
3.11 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1
percent.  Weekend Trade  “We’re seeing good buying in the back end,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “People are not wanting to be short. We’ve got more
today to worry about.” A short is a bet the price of a security
will drop.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 83.2 basis
points, up from 70.2 basis points reached Feb. 2 that was the
lowest level since July 2007. The five-year average is 111.9
basis points.  Treasury market volume rose yesterday to the highest since
Feb. 3. About $305 billion of Treasuries changed hands through
ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, above the one-
year average of $276 billion.  Bidding at the government’s three note and bond offerings
this week totaling $72 billion was weaker than similar sales
last month. Treasury sold $16 billion of 30-year bonds
yesterday, $24 billion of 10-year notes Feb. 8 and $32 billion
of three-year notes Feb. 7.  New Cash  This week’s auctions raises $22.4 billion of new cash as
maturing securities held by the public total $49.6 billion. The
Treasury announced plans to sell $9 billion of 30-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities on Feb. 16.  Euro-area leaders declined to approve a 130 billion-euro
($171 billion) aid package for  Greece  yesterday at an emergency
meeting because the government fell short on austerity demands.  “There are more worries that the Greek deal, that sounded
good yesterday, has more bumps in the road,” Guggenheim
Partners’ Rogan said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers
in Berlin today that Greece is missing its debt-cutting targets,
according to two people who took part in the meeting.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government plans to ask lawmakers to vote on a
second Greek bailout on Feb. 27 if political parties in Greece
meet the conditions needed to win more aid.  Yield Difference  The difference between yields on 10-year German bunds and
10-year U.S. Treasuries  widened  by six basis points, as the
Treasury note yield remained above the bund for the second
straight day. Bunds rose today, with yields falling the most in
a month after European finance ministers held back the Greece
rescue package.  “Everybody got way ahead of themselves on this Greek
deal,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of
Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.
“Now people are coming back to reality. Everybody has to take
risk off because the decision will be made over the weekend.”  The Fed is in the process of replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program
it plans to conclude in June.  Bernanke said efforts to spur economic growth are being
blunted by impediments to mortgage lending, and he called for
further steps to heal the housing market.  Housing Issue  “We have helped lower  mortgage rates  to the lowest point
in many, many decades,” Bernanke told homebuilders today in
 Orlando ,  Florida . “Yet we are not seeing as much activity as we
would like to see.”  Bernanke, who repeated that the pace of the recovery has
been “frustratingly slow,” didn’t discuss the outlook for
monetary policy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for February fell to 72.5 from 75 at
the end of last month. Economists projected a reading of 74.8,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed announced Jan. 25 it will keep its target for
overnight bank lending at virtually zero until at least late
2014. Bernanke said policy makers were considering buying bonds
to sustain the expansion.  The central bank purchased $1.39 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities due from April 2028 to February
2041 today as part of a plan known as ‘Operation Twist,’
according to the New York Fed’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  