-- Redknapp as England Manager Would Cost F.A. $16 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-10T08:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/redknapp-as-england-manager-would-cost-f-a-16-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links.  $16 Million Manager  The Football Association will have to pay Tottenham about
10 million pounds ($15.8 million) in order to appoint  Harry Redknapp  as  England ’s new manager, the  Daily Mail reported .  Spurs chairman  Daniel Levy  put a 5 million pound release
clause in Redknappp’s contract and the F.A. also would have to
pay the remainder of a deal that’s worth a basic 3.1 million
pounds a year, the newspaper added.  Temporary Job  Redknapp is interested in taking charge on a temporary
basis for this year’s European Championships, though the F.A.
will have to persuade him to lead England into the 2014 World
Cup qualifying campaign, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Unless the F.A. can convince Redknapp to take the job long-
term before Euro 2012 starts in June, the governing body will
need to spend July sweet-talking him and then trying to
negotiate a settlement with Spurs, the newspaper added.  Madrid Move  Real Madrid will make an offer for Arsenal captain Robin van Persie in the offseason and offer  Argentina  striker Gonzalo Higuain in return, the Mail reported.  Manchester City  and Barcelona are also keen on signing the
28-year-old Dutchman, who has 16 months left on his Arsenal
contract, the newspaper said.  City Conspiracy?  Former Manchester City midfielder  Patrick Vieira  is
beginning to suspect there is a conspiracy to stop the club from
winning the Premier League title, the  Sun reported .  Vieira, now an executive and ambassador for the league
leader, has been shocked by some of the refereeing decision
against the team this season, according to the newspaper.  “When you look at the last few decisions, you are asking
yourself if something is wrong here, if people don’t want us to
win the league,” the Sun cited Vieira as saying.  Cleverley Return  Manchester United midfielder Tom Cleverley is challenging
for a return in tomorrow’s Premier League match against
Liverpool, the  Independent reported . Cleverley, 22, has been out
since October because of an ankle injury.  Editors: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  