-- Reliance Communications Net Misses Estimates on Debt Costs
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-02-10T13:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/reliance-communications-profit-less-than-estimated-as-debt-costs-increase.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ,
India’s second-largest mobile phone operator by subscribers,
reported quarterly profit that missed analyst estimates on
higher debt costs.  Third-quarter  net income  declined 61 percent to 1.86
billion rupees ($37.6 million) in the three months ended Dec.
31, from 4.8 billion rupees a year  earlier , the Mumbai-based
company said in a statement today. That compares with the 2.21
billion-rupee median of 20 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s flagship company follows bigger
rival  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  in reporting earnings that fell short
of expectations after phone usage slowed and costs increased.
Reliance, which spent 85.9 billion rupees in 2010 at auctions to
buy airwaves for third-generation services, is refinancing
foreign-currency loans to extend their maturity.  “Net income is down year-on-year because of costs related
to 3G spectrum and the rollout of services,” Unmesh Sharma, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities in Mumbai, said before
the announcement. “In the near term, this is going to continue
to be a pressure across the sector.”  Reliance,  India ’s largest mobile-phone operator after
Bharti, had 150 million connections at the end of December,
according to the nation’s telecommunications regulator.  Net sales fell to 48.24 billion rupees from 48.65 billion
rupees a year earlier, according to the statement. That’s lower
than the 52.1 billion-rupee median of 21 analysts’ estimates.  Refinancing Debt  Financial charges at the company almost tripled to 3.78
billion rupees in the third quarter, according to the statement.  Reliance said it will refinance about $1.18 billion of
foreign-currency debt due March 1, according to a company press
release today.  China  Development Bank Corp., Export-Import Bank
of China and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China will help the
Indian operator extend the maturity of the loans by seven years
at an interest rate of about 5 percent.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, fell to 16.1 billion rupees from 16.7
billion rupees a year earlier, while the Ebitda margin declined
to 31.9 percent from 33.3 percent a year earlier.  Stock Performance  Reliance fell 1.2 percent to 94 rupees at close in Mumbai,
before the earnings were announced. The stock has gained 34
percent this year, compared with the 15 percent jump in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex. Bharti has risen 1.9
percent.  Bharti this week reported third-quarter profit fell 22
percent to 10.1 billion rupees. The company’s Indian customers
cut phone usage 7 percent in the quarter, after it raised call
rates.  India’s highest court on Feb. 2 canceled 122 second-
generation mobile-phone licenses, including all the permits used
by the local units of Emirates Telecommunications Corp., or
Etisalat, and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   Etisalat and Telenor had purchased stakes in Indian
companies that won the permits. The court scrapped the licenses,
sold in 2008, saying they were acquired through an arbitrary and
“unconstitutional exercise.”  Reliance won 3G wireless permits in 13 of India’s 22
telecommunication zones in May 2010.  Reliance plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion through a
Singapore listing of its submarine cable assets, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. It may sell 75 percent
of the FLAG Telecom unit of Reliance Globalcom, a subsidiary of
Reliance Communications, in an initial public offering,
according to the person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  