-- Rexel Raises Dividend, Plans Cutbacks in Flagging Spain, Italy
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-10T12:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/rexel-raises-dividend-plans-cutbacks-in-flagging-spain-italy.html
 Rexel SA (RXL) , the world’s largest
distributor of electrical equipment, introduced a more-generous
dividend policy and said it will scale back operations in Spain
and  Italy  as it seeks to hold profit steady through the
financial crisis.  The  company , which sells products from switches to
surveillance gear, will pay out at least 40 percent of its
recurring net income, up from as much as 35 percent previously,
it said today in a statement. It proposed a  dividend  of 65 euro
cents on 2011 earnings, up from 40 cents. Rexel shares climbed
as much as 4.6 percent.  Chief Executive Officer-designate Rudy Provoost is
extending cost cuts as he budgets for stagnant sales in European
markets this year while keeping investors on board. Nations in
southern  Europe  will hinder sales the most, countering growth in
 Asia  and  North America , he said. Rexel boosted net income by 39
percent last year.  “We introduced a restructuring plan in Spain and Italy at
the beginning of the year in order to make sure that these
countries are well equipped to deal with the reality they are
facing from an economic standpoint,” Provoost said on a call.  Cutting costs will help Rexel meet a goal for maintaining
margins at at least the same level as the 5.7 percent achieved
in 2011, he said.  Rexel  shares  rose as much as 70 cents to 15.95 euros at in
Paris trading, and were up 3.1 percent at 12:26 p.m., valuing
the Paris-based company at 4.1 billion euros.  “It is a clear message of the confidence we have” in the
“capacity for company to generate higher figures year after
year,” Chief Financial Officer Michel Favre said at a
conference today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 