-- Energy Loans a Safer Bet Than Congress Anticipated, Review Shows
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/risk-management-needed-for-energy-loan-guarantees-report-says.html
Potential losses from U.S. energy
loan programs are likely to be less than projected by the White
House and Congress, according to an independent analysis that
Democrats said validated support for clean-energy innovation.  The Obama administration ordered the review in response to
pressure from Republicans, who criticized the loans as an effort
to pick “winners and losers” after the collapse of Solyndra
LLC, which won a $535 million loan guarantee.  The long-term loss on 30 U.S.-backed clean-energy and auto
loans might be about $2.7 billion, or $200 million less than the
department’s estimate,  Herbert Allison , a former Treasury
Department official, found in his review released yesterday.  “Mr. Allison identifies less risk for the overall
portfolio than the department’s analysis, and less than Congress
estimated when it set aside a $10 billion reserve in
anticipation of losses associated with funding these emerging
industries,”  Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman, said in a
statement yesterday.  The Obama administration hired Allison, 68, to review the
loan-guarantee programs after Republicans faulted U.S. backing
for Solyndra, a solar-panel maker that filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in September, about two years after winning its loan.
The report was released three days before the White House’s
budget request for fiscal year 2013, which may include support
for loan guarantees.  ‘Just $3 Billion’  “It would be a stunning case of bureaucratic disregard to
declare victory because the government is expecting to lose
’just’ $3 billion,” House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, and Representative
 Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and head of the committee’s
investigation panel that is examining the Solyndra loan, said in
a joint statement.  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the report
offers a “reassurance” that Energy officials were correctly
weighing the risks.  The Allison report shows that the loan program is working,
said Representative Henry Waxman of  California , the senior
Democrat on the House energy committee.  Allison didn’t review loans to Solyndra, of Fremont,
California, or  Beacon Power Corp (BCONQ) ., an energy-storage company
that sought bankruptcy protection in October, after receiving a
$43 million U.S. loan guarantee in August 2010.  Risk Officer  The Energy Department’s estimate of the government’s long-
term cost of the 30 loans being reviewed in the $23.87 billion
portfolio is $2.9 billion, according to the report. Allison
estimated $2.7 billion, reflecting lower potential losses on
loans to two carmakers.  The department should create the position of chief risk
officer to review the chances for default in its loan programs,
according to Allison’s analysis.  It also recommended a “more robust website” to provide
the public with information on the performance of the projects.  “The report makes clear that the department was operating
under congressional requirements to provide loans to projects
that would have trouble obtaining private financing, which is
why Congress appropriated funds for a loan-loss reserve,”
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in a statement.  While Allison found less risk in the loan program than
anticipated by the department, chances for default were higher
for the clean-energy program under which Solyndra and Beacon won
their awards.  Potential Losses  The department estimated a potential loss of $640 million
for eight loans not tied to an electric utility. Allison
estimated $820 million, or a 28 percent increase.  For the 20 projects tied to a utility, the Energy
Department’s loss estimate was $1.55 billion. Allison estimated
$1.7 billion, or 9 percent higher.  “This is less a report than an umbrella to deflect the
criticism that’s pouring down on the administration,”
Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican, said
in a statement. Sensenbrenner introduced a bill that requires an
assessment of the U.S. loan guarantees already awarded.  Congress set aside $10 billion in the clean-energy and auto
loan programs for possible losses, and the Energy Department had
initially anticipated as much as $5 billion in losses, Schultz
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  