-- Romney Still Likely Nominee, Ex-Lawmakers Say
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-11T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/romney-likely-nom-if-he-focuses-on-economy-ex-lawmakers.html
Mitt Romney  most likely will be the
Republican presidential nominee if he sticks to his pledge of
reviving the economy, because conservatives probably won’t
coalesce around rival  Rick Santorum , two of the party’s veteran
politicians predicted.  Former New Hampshire Senator John Sununu and onetime
Representative  Tom Davis  of  Virginia  also urged Republicans in
Congress to agree to a 10-month extension of the payroll-tax cut
and avoid a repeat of political damage they sustained last year.  “They’ll get clobbered again if they’re not careful,”
Sununu said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Former Massachusetts Governor Romney’s losses on Feb. 7 to
Santorum in the party caucuses in Minnesota and  Colorado  and the
nonbinding primary in  Missouri  won’t hurt his front-runner
status because his organization can overpower former
Pennsylvania Senator Santorum or former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , the two ex-lawmakers said.  “It’s still hard for me to see at the end of the day how
anybody but Romney gets the nomination,” said Davis, who once
headed the House Republican campaign effort. “Romney’s strong
on the ground, and that’s been his saving grace.”  Even though social conservatives propelled Santorum to
victory in this week’s contests, the party’s right wing probably
won’t unify against Romney, Sununu said.  ‘Didn’t Coalesce’  “They haven’t been able to do it so far,” Sununu, 47,
said. “They didn’t coalesce with Newt” after his South
Carolina victory on Jan. 21, and “‘they don’t seem to be
coalescing with Santorum now,” he said.  “They obviously haven’t coalesced around  Ron Paul ,” the
Texas representative who’s also in the race, Sununu said.  Still, Romney, 64, must “focus on the economic message and
his experience; those are his greatest strengths,” Sununu said.
“He needs to do that” because “broadly speaking, Republicans,
Democrats, independents, people are focused on the economy.”  Davis, 63, said Romney shouldn’t be distracted from the
economic issues to try to appeal more to social conservatives.  “You have to be yourself in this game,” the former
Virginia lawmaker said. “When you try to be somebody else it
hurts you,” he said. Romney was “hurt” when “he’s gone off
script a little bit” and “become somebody different.”  ‘Edible to All’  While Romney will “never be flavor of the month” with
Republicans, “he’s edible to all elements of the party at this
point,” Davis said.  To position himself for the general election campaign
against President  Barack Obama , Romney shouldn’t “go too far”
in trying to embrace socially conservative voters, Davis said.  “He’s not going to have the passion behind him at this
stage,” Davis said. Yet “once he’s nominated” and running
“head-to-head with Barack Obama the passion will follow.”  The next two contests, Feb. 28 primaries in  Michigan  and
 Arizona , are opportunities for Gingrich and Santorum to try to
overtake Romney.  To narrow the Republican race to a two-candidate contest,
“someone either has to beat Romney in one of those two states
or the same candidate needs to run pretty a pretty close
second,” Sununu said.  Davis said Santorum “has a one-up on Newt with
conservatives” in Michigan, though “his economics are more so-
so.”  Money Advantage  Romney’s financial advantage over Santorum and Gingrich
won’t matter as much in Michigan and Arizona as it will on March
6, when 11 states hold primaries or caucuses on Super Tuesday,
Sununu said. On Feb. 28, “all the press coverage will be
focused on those two races,” he said.  Romney should have won  Colorado (BEESCO) , Sununu said, faulting the
candidate’s advisers for not “driving their organization” in
the state “hard enough.”  A victory there “would have made for a very different
message, tone and momentum going into Feb. 28,” Sununu said.  On the payroll  tax cut , both former lawmakers urged
Republicans and Congress to dispose of the issue, which
Democrats have used to paint their party as obstructionist.  Sununu said House Republicans risk being “hung out again”
if they don’t make a deal with the Democratic-controlled Senate.  House Republicans were blamed for legislative brinksmanship
that threatened the expiration of a payroll-tax cut in December.
The House was forced to accept a two-month extension after the
leaders couldn’t agree on how to finance a full-year’s extension
of the tax cut and long-term  unemployment benefits .  For House Republicans, “the pain is mandatory, the
suffering is optional,” Davis said. “They’ve just got to get
it behind them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  