-- Romney Said to Ready More Detailed Plan to Overhaul Tax Code
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2012-02-10T22:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/romney-to-detail-tax-code-overhaul-soon.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  is preparing to release a more detailed plan to
overhaul the  tax  code soon, said a person who attended a policy
roundtable event with Romney in Washington yesterday.  Romney expressed general interest in consumption taxes and
flat taxes, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the meeting was private. Romney described consumption
taxes as not politically feasible and said flat taxes may open
him to criticism about the potential effect on his personal tax
bill, the person said.  The forthcoming Romney tax plan would lower income tax
rates and curtail deductions, the person said. Romney, who has
been criticized by Republican rival  Newt Gingrich  for being too
“timid” on taxes, may draw from ideas proposed by the
bipartisan  deficit-reduction  fiscal commission led by former
Senator  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles .  Speaking to about 900 people in Reston,  Virginia , this
morning, Romney sketched out the broad points of the tax plan he
previously announced, including immediately cutting the
corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent, and scrapping
investment taxes for middle-income earners.  ‘Broaden the Base’  “Part two,” Romney told the audience during an appearance
before the Northern Virginia Technology Council, “would be to
move our tax system in the direction of the Bowles-Simpson
Commission’s recommendations, where they said, ‘Look, can’t we
lower the rates and broaden the base, by eliminating some
deductions and exemptions.’”  In addition to those changes, the  Bowles-Simpson   
commission, created by President  Barack Obama , called for
restructuring the tax code in a way that would raise more
revenue than the current tax system, an idea that Romney has
rejected.  “Tax hikes, they’re off the table,” Romney said at the
Conservative Political Action Conference today in Washington.  Ed Lorenzen , who served on the Bowles-Simpson commission’s
staff, said in an interview that deficit reduction was the
group’s goal. Using revenue from curtailing tax breaks solely
for tax-rate reduction would make enacting the entire Bowles-
Simpson package more difficult, he said.  Promote Economic Growth  “What the commission tried to do was try to find a way
that could reduce the deficit with revenues as part of the
overall package, but do it in a way that would not harm the
economy and hopefully promote economic growth,” said Lorenzen,
now executive director of the Moment of Truth Project, which was
formed to carry on the commission’s work.  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney, didn’t respond today
to a request for comment on the more detailed tax plan and when
the campaign might release it.  Romney’s Republican rivals have said the tax plan he
released last year doesn’t go far enough to overhaul the U.S.
 tax code .  “What we’re going to do over the month of February is lay
out very big choices,” Gingrich, a former House Speaker, said
on “Face the Nation” on CBS Feb. 5. “I have a very bold tax
plan The Wall Street Journal said was the most aggressive job
creation program. They described Governor Romney’s as so timid
it could have been Obama’s.”  Lower Tax Rates  Romney has proposed extending current income tax rates,
eliminating capital gains taxes for those earning $200,000 or
less a year and dropping the corporate income tax rate to 25
percent from 35 percent. He would also repeal the estate tax and
allow 2009 tax breaks for low-income families to expire.  In contrast, Gingrich has proposed an optional flat tax
with a top tax rate of 15 percent and no taxes on  capital gains .
Former Senator  Rick Santorum  is proposing eliminating the
corporate income tax for manufacturers, cutting the top
individual tax rate to 28 percent and tripling the exemption for
dependent children.  Any new tax plan from Romney will need to surprise voters
to be effective politically, said Chris Chocola, president of
the Club for Growth, which supports low taxes.  “If he’s going to tinker around the edges, then it will
likely be disappointing for him and put him backwards,” said
Chocola, a former member of Congress from  Indiana . “If he’s
going to be bold and original, then it’s going to help him.”  Romney has said before that he would push for a
“fundamental redesign” of the tax code without offering
details on how he would do that.  Romney released his  tax returns  in January, showing that in
2010 he paid 13.9 percent of his $21.6 million adjusted gross
income in federal taxes. Most of his income came from capital
gains and dividends taxed at preferential rates, and his
campaign stressed at the time that Romney would fare better
personally under Gingrich’s tax plan than under his own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  