-- Romney Likely Nominee If He Focuses on Economy, Ex-Lawmakers Say
-- B y
-- 2012-02-10T23:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/romney-likely-nominee-if-he-focuses-on-economy-ex-lawmakers-say.html
Former New Hampshire Senator John Sununu and onetime Representative Tom Davis of Virginia said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that Mitt Romney most likely
will be the Republican presidential nominee if he sticks to his
pledge of reviving the economy, and predicted that conservatives
probably won’t coalesce around rival Rick Santorum.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with two of the smartest
Republican politicians in the land, former Senator John Sununu
and former House Republican Campaign Chief Tom Davis.  Let’s certify. You are both good, loyal Republicans, as
well as being smart. There’s no question of that. But I want to
ask you both: Your party looks in trouble right now. This - this
presidential race has gotten fractured. It’s gotten divisive.
It’s gotten ugly. Is it threatening prospects for the fall?  TOM DAVIS : Look, it’s really early. And once you get a
nominee and they give a speech in front of 25,000 people and
they get on the debate stage with Obama, this stuff gets
forgotten pretty quickly.  HUNT: So no problem, John?  JOHN SUNUNU: I don’t think so. Right now, and in
particular, primaries almost always strengthen the candidates.
Even the tough primaries strengthen the candidates. It brings up
a lot of tough issues, but better they’re brought up now,
because I want a candidate that is able to address tough
questions - and everyone has their weaknesses - and articulate a
message.  If there’s a problem, it will be because six months from
now the nominee has trouble really articulating a clear,
defined, focused message. But I don’t see that.  HUNT: We’re going - we’re going to return to that in just a
minute, but, first, let me ask you about this. The brand name of
Republicans, though, has deteriorated a lot in the last year.
It’s in the 20s in most things now.  DAVIS: Al, it’s been bad for years.  HUNT: But it wasn’t - it’s a lot worse than it was when you
won in -  DAVIS: They fired us in ‘06. They fired us in ‘08. They
didn’t re-hire us in ‘10. They just put a check on Obama. Both
parties are in the trash right now.  HUNT: They are, but the Republican brand name is even lower
than the Democrats, and that’s low.  DAVIS: That’s because we got - that’s because we have our
primaries going on right now, and it’s not a pretty picture. But
we’re going to be just fine at the end of it.  HUNT: John, how about the  payroll tax ? What should the
congressional Republicans do, just extend it? They got clobbered
kind of in December, so what’s the best strategy now?  SUNUNU: And I think that they’ll get clobbered again if
they’re not careful. This is a question of what can pass the
Senate. Now, all legislation isn’t a question of what can pass
the Senate, but when you have something that’s must-pass, right,
we’ve got to get this done, and you have more than 60 senators
agreeing to a full-year extension, you’ve got to pay attention
to that. And if you’re in the House and you ignore that fact,
then you’re going to be hung out again. You’re going to be left
out. And you’re going to be in a tough position when it comes
time to cut a deal.  HUNT: Do you agree, Tom?  DAVIS: I think, look here, the pain is mandatory, the
suffering is optional. I think they’ve just got to get it behind
them.  HUNT: OK. Let’s go back to the presidential race.  Rick
Santorum , he swept three primaries or caucuses this week, no
delegates, but still three pretty impressive wins. There was
pressure on him to get out of the race a week or two earlier
from the Newt Gingrich people. Will there now be pressure on
Gingrich to get out and conservatives coalesce?  DAVIS: No, look, Gingrich has some strong states coming up
for him. He’s got  Georgia  coming up there, which ought to be a
natural. He’s got perhaps  Texas . We’ll see what the judges say
on time. He’s got some southern states,  Ohio , so this is just
going to have to work its way out. It’s still hard for me to see
at the end of the day how anybody but Romney gets the
nomination.  HUNT: Well, do you think there’s any chance, John,
conservatives - the movement conservative - will coalescence
behind Santorum now?  SUNUNU: I think it’s unlikely, if only because we’ve seen
that they haven’t been able to do it so far. They didn’t
coalesce with Newt after  South Carolina . They don’t seem to be
coalescing with Santorum now. They obviously haven’t coalesced
around  Ron Paul . We’ve got two weeks, though, between now and
the  Arizona  and  Michigan  primaries. A lot can happen in two
weeks.  So, you know, I think you’ve got to watch and wait to see
if either Gingrich or Santorum can somehow break out and make
this a genuine two-person race.  HUNT: To get the kind of momentum that they need for those
10 contests on so-called Super Tuesday, one of them’s got to win
or come awful close in Michigan or Arizona, don’t they really?  DAVIS: I think so. Michigan’s proportional, so I think
you’ll see a lot of activity there. Just Santorum is a social
conservative. His economics, I would say, are more so-so. But
the heart of the party are social conservatives, and that’s
where Santorum, I think, has a one-up on Newt with
conservatives.  SUNUNU: But I think you’re right. Someone either has to
beat Romney in one of those two states or the same candidate
needs to run a pretty close second in both states and, again,
define it as a two-person race going into the delegate-rich
Super Tuesday.  HUNT: And money matters. I mean, there are reports now - we
had a report today that Sheldon Adelson has basically told Newt,
you know, we’re not giving any more -  SUNUNU: “I’m done.”  HUNT: Yes, close to that. And Santorum, on the other hand,
the people are saying money’s coming in.  DAVIS: Well, money matters, particularly in primaries, more
than general elections. We’ve seen races move 30 points in a
week in this primary season, so money will make a difference,
but particularly money on the ground, where you have an
organization, not just TV money, which is the kind of money
Santorum seems to be getting.  Romney’s strong on the ground, and that’s been his saving
grace, is he’s had an actual organization in these states, where
the others are kind of flying in with TV and parachuting in.  HUNT: And no one else other than maybe Ron Paul in some
places has any organization.  DAVIS: I think that’s right.  SUNUNU: But I’ll say, I don’t think money will be as
important in Michigan and Arizona, partly because the candidates
now have two weeks. Those are the only two races on the day of
February 28th. And so all the earned media, all the free media,
all the press coverage will be out there focused on those two
states, and the coverage will penetrate through to the voters in
those two states. So money won’t be as important on February
28th as it will be on Super Tuesday.  HUNT: Let me ask this -  DAVIS: - absentee voting and all those kind of things that
helped Romney in  Florida . That made a huge difference.  HUNT: And you have it Ohio and other places. Now, there is,
however, clearly, strong resistance to  Mitt Romney . I agree with
both of you that - and most people - he will be the nominee, but
the resistance is just stronger I think than some of us
expected. What would you have him do right now? If you were - if
he says, all right, John, and then Tom, what’s the best thing I
could do right now?  SUNUNU: Focus on the economic message and his experience.
Those are his greatest strengths. That’s what people want to
hear about. There is an important aspect to the social
conservatives in the  Republican Party , but still, broadly
speaking, Republicans, Democrats, independents, people are
focused on the economy. He needs to do that. He needs to be on
the ground, be working hard, and they need to spend their
resources effectively.  HUNT: Tom, what would you advise Governor Romney?  DAVIS: Well, first of all, you have to be yourself in this
game. When you try to be somebody else, it hurts you. And I
think that’s hurt him, to some extent, as he’s gone off-script a
little bit. He’s become somebody different than who he - he’s
very strong on the economic issues. Those are the issues of the
day.  He’ll never be flavor of the month with the Republican
Party, but he’s edible to all elements of the party at this
point, so he’s got to also position himself for a general
election. You go too far over, you take yourself out of the
general. So he’s doing just fine. He’s got to understand, he’s
not going to have the passion behind him at this stage, but I
will tell you, once he’s nominated and you’re head-to-head with
 Barack Obama , the passion will follow.  HUNT: Speaking of Barack Obama, the White House seems -I
wrote this week that there’s a lot of hubris there. They
actually seem cocky. Should they be, Tom?  DAVIS: Well, of course not. And there are so many variables
in the next 8 or 10 months, his numbers still under 50 percent,
a long way to go in this race. It’s going to be a competitive
race.  HUNT: John?  SUNUNU: Well, I think if there’s any reason that they’re
showing a little bit of overconfidence, it’s because they’ve
had, you know, a couple weeks’ worth of good jobs news, but it’s
going to be a long summer. There’s going to be a lot of new
economic news, and not just in the U.S., but having to do with
the growth of  China ’s economy or the European crisis, the fall
of the euro, et cetera, and those are things that are going to
affect consumer sentiment.  So whatever you think the issues will be in November today,
you’re wrong, because the two or three issues that drive the
election, other than the economy, are yet to be determined.  HUNT: Hey, one thing I’m right on: You two lived up to your
billing as two of the smartest Republicans around. Thank you
very much for being with us.  SUNUNU: Thanks, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610805.56910.2.1.99.7.96>#  #<734998.263818.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 