-- Russian Stocks in ‘Sweet Spot’ to Benefit Over Turkey: Aton
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2012-02-10T22:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/russian-stocks-in-sweet-spot-to-benefit-over-turkey-aton-1-.html
Russian stocks will benefit at the
expense of equities in Turkey and  South Africa  as their lower
valuations lure investors as global risk appetite returns,
according to Aton LLC.  Russia’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at 5.7 times analysts’
earnings estimates for member companies, while the ratio is 11.3
times for South  Africa ’s MCSI Index and 9.5 for Turkey’s MCSI
Index.  “Russia is currently in a sweet spot to receive rotation
of funds out of Central and Eastern Europe,  Middle East  and
Africa’s two major markets, South Africa and Turkey, and hence
relatively outperform,” Aton analysts led by Peter Westin wrote
in a research note e-mailed today.  Materials and finance companies including OAO Mechel,  Evraz
Plc (EVR) ,  Yandex NV (YNDX)  and  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel , which have
consistently outperformed in previous rebounds, stand to
benefit, according to the report.  Coal producer  Mechel (MTLR) ’s American depositary receipts tumbled
the most since Dec. 19, falling 6.8 percent to close at $10.68
in  New York . Yandex, operator of Russia’s most popular Internet
search engine, slipped 3.9 percent to $21.27.  Russia still faces long-term economic problems which have
“severely” intensified its dependency on oil, while this
year’s presidential election may bring “market destabilizing
surprises,” according to Aton.  Energy sales contributed almost 50 percent of Russian
government revenue last year.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is running for his third term
as president after having to leave the position in 2008 because
of a constitutional limit on more than two consecutive terms.
Protesters have taken to the streets of Russian cities after his
United  Russia  party won a reduced majority in parliament in a
Dec. 4 vote amid allegations of ballot-box fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  