-- S&P Downgrades 34 Italian Banks After Reducing Nation’s Rating
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-10T23:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/s-p-downgrades-34-italian-banks-after-cutting-nation-s-grade-1-.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA
and  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  were among 34 Italian
financial firms downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s , after the
credit-ratings company reduced the nation’s grade last month.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, and No. 2 Intesa had their
long-term ratings lowered to BBB+ from A, S&P said yesterday in
a statement. Monte dei Paschi, the No. 3 bank, was reduced to
BBB from BBB+. All three have a negative outlook, S&P said.  Italy’s credit rating was cut two levels to BBB+ from A on
Jan. 13 as S&P said European leaders’ struggle to contain the
region’s debt crisis would complicate the country’s efforts to
finance borrowings. S&P yesterday revised its banking industry
country risk assessment, known as Bicra, for  Italy  to group 4
from group 3, citing mounting risks.  “Italy’s vulnerability to external financing risks has
increased, given its high external public debt, resulting in
Italian banks’ significantly diminished ability to roll over
their wholesale debt,” S&P said in a separate statement on the
country’s financial industry. “We anticipate persistently weak
profitability for Italian banks in the next few years.”  European nations are grappling with a debt crisis now in
its third year as they seek to restore budget order and shore up
the region’s financial industry. Spreads on some Italian banks
are trading as if they were rated at the cusp of investment
grade.  ‘Less Hit’  “Banks in highly indebted countries have a greater
potential vulnerability than in others,” Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said yesterday in a CNBC interview. “By and large,
Italian banks have been less hit by the financial crisis than
the banks in many other European countries.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds of UniCredit
and for Intesa rather than government debt was 508 basis points
on Feb. 9, or 5.08 percentage points, compared with an average
306 basis points in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro
Corporates, Banking Index. European BBB ranked bonds are at 381
basis points and BB debt at 664, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Intesa to A- from A, and Monte dei
Paschi to BBB from BBB+ in a statement on Feb. 6. The credit-
ratings company affirmed its A- rating on UniCredit.  S&P downgrades linked to  Europe ’s debt crisis haven’t
necessarily led to shifts in bond prices, as investors
anticipated declines in creditworthiness. The French 10-year
bond was little changed in the five days after S&P lowered the
nation to AA+ from AAA. The response was the same last August,
when financial markets dismissed the U.S.’s loss of AAA status
by pushing the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to a record
low of 1.6714 percent just seven weeks later.  Italian Output Rises  Italian industrial  production  unexpectedly rose in
December, even as quarterly data suggest that the euro area’s
third-biggest economy may have entered its second recession
since 2009 amid tax increases and budget cuts. Output increased
1.4 percent from November, when it rose 0.3 percent, national
statistics office Istat said yesterday in  Rome .  Output declined 2.1 percent in the three months through
December from the previous quarter, suggesting Italy’s economy
may have contracted in the fourth quarter after shrinking 0.2
percent in the period from July through September.  Bank of Italy Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni told
reporters in Rome on Feb. 9 that he expects the economy to
shrink as much as 1.5 percent in 2012.  UniCredit said yesterday in a press release on its website
that S&P had aligned the bank with Italy’s credit rating and had
maintained the lender’s stand-alone credit profile at a-.  Intesa’s long- and short-term ratings are capped at the
same level as Italy’s and the bank’s stand-alone credit profile
is a-,  Intesa (ISP)  said yesterday in a statement on its website.  UniCredit, Intesa and Monte dei Paschi didn’t respond to e-
mails sent after normal business hours seeking comment.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  