-- Saab Plunges Most in 3 Years as Orders Drop
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-02-10T12:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/saab-plunges-most-in-3-years-as-orders-drop.html
Saab AB (SAABB) , the Swedish maker of the
Gripen fighter plane, fell the most in three years after
quarterly orders were cut in half and earnings missed analysts’
estimates.  Saab declined as much as 16 percent, the most since
February 2009, and was down 9.2 percent at 135.50 kronor as of
1:06 p.m. in  Stockholm .  “They lacked big orders in the quarter,” said Mats Liss,
an analyst at Swedbank in Stockholm who recommends investors buy
Saab’s stock. “ Cash flow  was also on the thin side.”  The manufacturer’s orders dropped to 5.11 billion kronor
from 11.9 billion kronor a year earlier. Saab, which has won a
tentative Gripen jet fighter order with  Switzerland  and is
competing in Brazil, forecast that sales will “increase
slightly” this year compared with 2011.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to 413 million kronor ($62.1
million), or 3.92 kronor per share, from 8 million kronor, or
0.09 krona, a year earlier, the Linkoeping-based company said
today in a statement. The profit missed the average estimate of
474 million kronor in a  Bloomberg survey  of five analysts. Sales
declined 8.8 percent to 7.35 billion kronor.  The shares dropped as Chief Executive Officer Hakan Buskhe
held his earnings presentation in Stockholm. The stock then
pared its decline.  “I have no idea why” the shares plunged, Buskhe said in
an interview after the presentation. “I had just been talking
about us having a record year” in 2011.  Defense spending is decreasing in the U.S. and  Europe ,
while it’s rising in Asia, Buskhe said in the presentation. On a
global level it remains roughly the same, he said.  Brazil’s government has signalled that it will make its
decision on the jet-fighter purchase in the first half of this
year, Buskhe said in the interview. The CEO remains “cautiously
optimistic” that Saab will win that order, he said. Competitors
include  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale fighter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  