-- Santorum Sweep Excites Republicans at Meeting
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-02-10T15:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/santorum-three-state-sweep-excite-republicans-at-annual-meeting.html
Rick Santorum , fresh off victories
in three states, will use a speech to Republican activists to
attempt to solidify his position as the prime alternative to
Mitt Romney in the Republican presidential race.  Santorum, Romney and rival  Newt Gingrich  will each make
their case today in Washington at the annual Conservative
Political Action Conference, a group whose gatherings attract
Republicans motivated by cutting taxes and ending abortion
rights. This bloc has resisted Romney’s candidacy, questioning
his commitment to their causes.  “Santorum and Newt are the last two standing” among
alternatives to Romney, said Jeffrey Lord, a contributing editor
at The American Spectator, a conservative opinion review.
“That’s where the real battle is going to be here.”  In contrast to the 2008 Republican nomination contest, this
year’s battle probably could continue into the next several
months following Santorum’s boomlet. It was during the same
group’s annual gathering in  Washington  four years ago that
Romney ended a presidential bid and endorsed Senator  John McCain 
of Arizona, who went on the claim the Republican nomination.  Battlefield Reset  Santorum’s Feb. 7 wins in  Missouri (BEESCO) , Minnesota and Colorado
reset the presidential battlefield, conference attendees said.
In an interview with  Fox News  yesterday, Romney, the presumed
front-runner, said he expects to “lose a number of states
before we actually get to a point where I get the 1,150
delegates that I need.”  Bruce Montgomery, a 59-year-old manager from Glenwood,
Maryland, who has favored Gingrich, said he’s moving toward
Santorum.  “I am desperately anxious to nominate a conservative who
will then win the election,” he said. “The results of the last
24 hours were surprisingly conclusive.”  “I am not satisfied that  Mitt Romney  is instinctively and
completely and intellectually a conservative,” said Montgomery.
“I think Santorum is.”  Santorum’s momentum is fueled by some Republicans
coalescing around him as a single conservative alternative to
Romney after test-driving several other candidates, including
Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  and Texas Governor
 Rick Perry , who spoke yesterday at the annual conference. Each
ended their candidacies in January.  Straw Poll  Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and the Republican
2008 vice presidential nominee, is scheduled to close the event
tomorrow after an estimated 10,000 attendees cast votes for
their preferred nominee. That straw poll could help shape the
direction of the race, said Al Cardenas, chairman of the
 American Conservative Union , which sponsors the convention.  “This is the ultimate focus group,” said Cardenas. “I’ve
been around for two decades watching CPAC. It’s the first time
that we’ve had a real competitive primary race coincide with
CPAC.”  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who won CPAC’s 2010
and 2011 straw polls and is the fourth remaining Republican
presidential contender, declined a speaking invitation to the
group this year. His son, Republican Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky, appeared before the gathering yesterday.  Santorum’s wins this week were fed in part by voters
motivated by opposition to President Barack Obama’s recent
ruling requiring sectarian schools and hospitals to provide
birth-control coverage to employees, according to religious
leaders.  ‘War on Religion’  “When you have the feeling that the Obama administration
has declared war on religion you want your best soldier going
against him,” said  Richard Land , the president of the
Nashville, Tennessee-based Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics
and Religious Liberty Commission. “You want your paratroopers
going against them, and Rick’s the paratrooper.”  Foster Friess, who has helped fund the super-PAC that
supports Santorum, told Bloomberg Television yesterday that the
candidate’s message is resonating because “he stresses that our
rights come from the Creator, not the government.”  Interviews at CPAC yesterday showed that Santorum’s
outreach to voters who are most concerned about such issues  as
blocking abortion and same-sex marriage may be succeeding.  Matt Novak, a 20-year-old math student from the  University
of Minnesota  in  Minneapolis , said he’s “out of the Romney
phase.”  “I more align myself with his social conservatism,” he
said of Santorum.  ‘Puts Me Off’  Andres Celedon, a 21-year-old public policy student at
Georgia Tech in Atlanta, said he is “defaulting on Romney”
after Santorum’s victories convinced him that he could beat
Obama. “Romney, I like him but there’s something about him that
just puts me off,” he said.  “I’m liking Santorum; he stands up for what he believes
in,” said Celedon. “He’s not like Romney, who seems to just go
with the poll.”  Not all conference-goers were convinced of the chances
Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , would have
against Obama. Casey Constant, a 21-year-old student from
Illinois State in Springfield, said he’s sticking with Romney, a
former governor of  Massachusetts , because he has the best
prospects of getting elected. He called Santorum’s victories
“shocking, really.”  Janet Montgomery, a 57-year-old homemaker from Glenwood,
 Maryland , expressed concern about how Santorum might perform in
debates. “He’s not as dynamic, not as personable,” said
Montgomery, who is supporting Paul.  Gingrich, the former U.S. House speaker, also is holding on
to supporters.  “I’ve seen a lot of Santorum stickers,” said Sheila Ryan,
an executive assistant at a conservative website outside
Washington. “But I like Newt. If he gets the nomination,
conservatives will stick up for him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at   or
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  