-- Romney Calls Himself ‘Severely Conservative’
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/santorum-says-gop-needs-a-conservative-not-hollow-victory-against-obama.html
Mitt Romney , pushing to retain
front-runner status in the Republican presidential race and
build credibility with voters who have resisted him, told party
activists he was a “severely conservative” governor who would
govern that way in the White House.  The former Massachusetts chief executive leads in the hunt
for convention delegates while failing to spark passion among
the anti-abortion and anti-spending voters who form his party’s
backbone. He veered off his prepared script at the Conservative
Political Action Conference in Washington yesterday to drive
home his message that he shares the values of those voters.  Romney, 64, said his upbringing instilled in him belief in
religious liberty and economic opportunity; his business
background as a private-equity executive reinforced his fiscal
frugality; and his government service in Democrat-dominated
 Massachusetts  confirmed his strong opposition to abortion and
gay marriage.  “I fought against long odds in a deep-blue state,” Romney
said, referring to the color designating Democratic-leaning
states in U.S. political vernacular. “But I was a severely
conservative Republican governor.”  Romney embellished prepared remarks circulated by his
campaign, in which he was to describe himself simply as “a
conservative governor.”  ‘Front Lines’  “I have been on the front lines,” he said at the
conference, “and expect to be on those front lines again.”  He sought to burnish his credentials with party activists
after a trio of losses in nominating contests Feb. 7 that
highlighted his political weaknesses. To what degree he
succeeded at CPAC will be partly gauged by how he fares in
straw-poll results disclosed today as the conference ends.  Rivals  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  also addressed the
CPAC gathering yesterday, offering themselves as truer
conservatives than Romney -- though without directly criticizing
him.  Gingrich, 68, who spoke after the other two candidates,
repeatedly decried the “establishment” as having “contempt
for conservative ideas.”  “All of you have seen the Washington establishment and the
Wall Street establishment pile on top of me,” he said. “All of
you have seen them say things that were just profoundly false.
And there’s a good reason for that: This campaign is a mortal
threat to their grip on the establishment, because we intend to
change Washington, not accommodate it.”  Negative Ads  Gingrich was hit with a barrage of negative ads by Romney’s
campaign and its allies in the days preceding  Florida ’s Jan. 31
primary. Romney’s win in that vote and  Nevada ’s Feb. 4 caucuses
established him as the clear favorite for the Republican
nomination, a position then thrown in doubt by Santorum’s three
victories earlier this week.  Santorum, speaking first among the candidates at CPAC,
worked to capitalize on momentum he gained from the results in
Colorado, Minnesota and  Missouri . He urged party activists not
to compromise on a candidate in the interest of scoring a
“hollow victory” against President Barack Obama.  In a speech that targeted Romney without naming him,
Santorum told his listeners that their ranks had “failed
conservatism” in 2008 by tapping a nominee -- Arizona Senator
 John McCain  -- who didn’t share their commitment to opposing
 government spending , gay marriage and abortion rights.  No ‘Hollow Victory’  “The lesson we’ve learned is that we will no longer
abandon and apologize for the policies and principles that made
this country great for a hollow victory in November,” said
Santorum, who wins this week highlighted his appeal with the
party’s base.  “We need conservatives now to rally for a conservative to
go into November, to excite the conservative base, to pull with
that excitement moderate voters and to defeat  Barack Obama  in
the fall,” the former Pennsylvania senator said.  Santorum, 53, said he alone among the remaining Republican
contenders could draw compelling contrasts with Obama, based on
his opposition to the president’s top agenda items, including
the 2010  health-care  overhaul and cap-and-trade legislation to
curb  climate change .  Santorum frequently criticizes Romney for having signed
health-insurance legislation in Massachusetts that contained a
similar provision to the national law requiring medical
insurance coverage. Romney made no mention of that measure
during his speech.  Issue Switches  In introducing Romney, Al Cardenas, chairman of the
 American Conservative Union  that puts on the conference, alluded
to some Republicans’ suspicion of the candidate based on his
changes of position on some core party principles. Romney, for
instance, previously supported abortion rights.  “In each instance, the evolution has been toward the true
conservative point of view,” Cardenas said. “That’s the type
of evolution conservatives welcome and enthusiastically
embrace.”  Santorum, who emphasizes his Catholic faith, in his speech
touted his history of taking the lead in fights to block
abortion rights and gay marriage as he appealed for like-minded
Republicans to rally behind him.  “We’ve worked together in the vineyards,” he said.
“We’ve taken on the tough battles that confront this country. I
know you and you know me. And that’s important.”  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who won CPAC’s 2010
and 2011 straw polls and is the fourth remaining Republican
presidential candidate, declined a speaking invitation to the
group this year. His son, Republican Senator  Rand Paul  of
 Kentucky , appeared before the gathering Feb. 9.  The conference wraps up today with a speech by former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the Republican vice presidential
nominee in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  