-- Schaeuble Signals Germany Is Flexible on Revising Terms of Portuguese Aid
-- B y   J i m   S i l v e r   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-02-10T10:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/schaeuble-signals-germany-open-to-changes-to-portugal-s-bailout-agreement.html
Germany  may be willing to study
revising the terms of  Portugal (EUBDPORT) ’s bailout, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told his Portuguese counterpart in Brussels
in a conversation picked up by Portuguese television.  Germany will “be ready” for an adjustment of the
Portuguese program if needed, Schaeuble told Finance Minister
Vitor Gaspar at a meeting of European officials yesterday. He
said it was key that a decision first be made on Greece.  “That’s much appreciated,” Gaspar said in a  videoclip 
posted on the website of television station TVI.  Portugal  got a 78 billion-euro ($104 billion) bailout from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  last year
after a rising budget deficit and  public debt  drove up borrowing
costs. Spending cuts and tax increases to improve the nation’s
finances have contributed to a recession, with the EU in
November forecasting a 3 percent contraction this year, worse
than  Greece ’s 2.8 percent.  Schaeuble told Gaspar, who worked for six years at the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank , that the German
government faces skepticism at home from the public and members
of parliament who “don’t believe our decisions are serious.”  Portugal isn’t seeking more flexibility for its program,
Gaspar told reporters in Brussels later in comments broadcast by
television channel SIC Noticias.  “We won’t ask for more time or for more money, we will
meet our adjustment program,” he said.  Ireland’s Aims  European finance ministers yesterday held back a new rescue
package for Greece. The ECB should participate in efforts to
reduce Greece’s debt, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said in Brussels
today.  While Ireland isn’t looking to vary the terms of its
bailout, it is seeking European help to lessen the burden of
banking debt it faces after injecting 62 billion euros into the
financial system. Ireland will seek to take advantage of any
“arrangement” that Greece agrees to with the ECB on the
country’s debt, as the government seeks help refinancing the
bailout of the former  Anglo Irish Bank Corp (ANGL) ., Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said on Feb. 8.  Portugal’s aid plan assumes the country will regain access
to medium- and long-term sovereign debt markets by late 2013,
with the program’s last disbursement to be made in June 2014,
the IMF said in December. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  on
Jan. 24 reaffirmed that Portugal won’t ask to renegotiate the
external aid it’s receiving from the EU and the IMF.  International Funding  Passos Coelho said Portugal will be able to continue to
rely on its international lenders as long as it meets the
program’s targets. “If for external reasons that don’t have to
do with the fulfillment of the program, Portugal or Ireland
aren’t in a condition to return to market on the scheduled date,
the IMF and the EU will maintain aid,” he said.  There is no risk of investors being asked to take losses on
Portuguese debt, Passos Coelho said on Jan. 30, as Greece
negotiated a debt writedown with investors.  Portugal won’t need a second bailout if it carries out the
current aid program,  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF mission that
prepared the financial aid plan for Portugal, said on Dec. 21.
The possibility of reviewing Portugal’s fiscal targets shouldn’t
be ruled out if there is a “major deterioration” in the
external environment and that hits the Portuguese economy
“badly,” Thomsen said.  The government plans to trim the  budget deficit  from 9.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2010 to 4.5 percent in 2012
and to the EU ceiling of 3 percent in 2013. Portuguese
government debt is projected to “stabilize” at 112 percent of
GDP in 2013, after reaching 111 percent in 2012, according to
the EU Commission.  The Portuguese government yesterday said the third review
of the financial aid program provided by the EU and the IMF will
start on Feb. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Silver in New York at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  