-- Siemens, Samsung May Vie for $21 Billion Russian Rail Link
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-02-10T14:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/siemens-alstom-samsung-vie-for-21-billion-building-of-russian-rail-link.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  are
among the European and Asian companies that may vie to build and
operate a $21 billion rail link between Moscow and St.
Petersburg before the 2018 World Cup soccer tournament.  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  Bouygues SA (EN)  of  France , Italy’s Finmeccanica SpA
and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and a unit of South Korea’s Hyundai have also
expressed interest in the high-speed link, said Yelena
Shebunina, deputy head of  OAO High-Speed Rail Lines , in an
interview in Moscow. A Portuguese group led by  Brazil ’s Grupo
Andrade Gutierrez SA expressed interest last week, she said.  High-Speed Rail Lines, a unit of state monopoly OAO Russian
Railways, plans to name a shortlist of bidders in September or
October, followed by more detailed negotiations on the
technological, financial and legal aspects of the project before
picking a winner, Shebunina said.  “Russia has never built a high-speed link, even though the
rest of the world has been building them for the last 60, 70
years,” Shebunina said. “The potential candidates have amassed
significant experience and this will be considered when the
winner is picked.”  Russia in its winning World Cup bid pledged to build new
links between cities that will host games by the end of 2017.
The winner of the Moscow- St. Petersburg  contract will own the
right to operate the service for 30 years, Shebunina said. That
track will span about 660 kilometers (410 miles).  Siemens has already submitted documents to take part in the
contest together with local partners, the Moscow-based press
service for  Europe ’s largest engineering company said in an e-
mailed reply to questions, without elaborating.  Hyundai, Samsung  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. said in an e-mailed
statement that it’s “looking at the high-speed rail project in
Russia with much interest,” while Samsung said it hasn’t
decided on entering the bidding process. Finmeccanica also
confirmed its interest in the project. Officials for UniCredit
and Andrade Gutierrez didn’t immediately comment.  High-Speed Rail Lines  is still looking at ways to cut the
estimated cost of the project from 626 billion rubles ($21
billion) to as little as 512 billion rubles, half of which will
be paid for by the government and the other half by the
concessionaire, Shebunina said.  “We are holding consultations on how project costs may be
optimized,” Shebunina said. “The project is to be carried out
in the midst of a crisis, so it’s important to see how costs can
be lowered.”  High-Speed Rail Lines  is also in talks with domestic banks
including VTB Capital, OAO Gazprombank and VEB about helping to
fund the link either through loans or by buying bonds linked to
the project, Shebunina said.  VTB said in a statement it’s following the project “with
interest,” as did VEB. Gazprombank’s press service didn’t
respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  