-- Solar Stocks Surge on Speculation of Rising China Panel Demand
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/solar-stocks-surge-on-speculation-of-rising-china-panel-demand.html
Solar stocks yesterday gained the
most in a month on speculation that demand for panels will
increase in China.  The  Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies
jumped 4.6 percent to $54.82 at the close in New York, the most
since Jan. 11, helped by gains at Chinese manufacturers.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  rose 20 percent,  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  increased 19 percent and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  advanced 13
percent.  The rally may have been sparked by  Renewable Energy Corp.
ASA (REC) , a Norwegian producer of polysilicon, which reported higher-
than-estimated fourth-quarter sales, Pavel Molchanov, an analyst
for Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said by e-mail.  Renewable Energy  told analysts during a Feb. 8 conference
call that there was “a marked pickup in demand,” in the fourth
quarter.  That increase, especially in  China , “sucks up some of the
excess supply,” Molchanov said yesterday. “Hence, Chinese
producers are seeing a much bigger rally than the others.”
Polysilicon is the main raw material in solar cells and rising
demand is a leading indicator of a solar surge.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe, Arizona, rose 7 percent
yesterday and MEMC Electronic Materials Co., a St. Peters,
Missouri-based maker of polysilicon, increased 8 percent.  Investors covering short sales drove up share prices
yesterday, said Jesse Pichel, an analyst with Jefferies Group
Inc. in New York, who said forecasts of rising demand were
“inaccurate.”  Cold weather and anticipated cuts to subsidies in Germany,
the top solar market, are hindering solar installations, Pichel
said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  