-- South African Reserve Bank Announcement Won’t be ‘Market Shattering’
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2012-02-10T16:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/south-african-reserve-bank-announcement-won-t-be-market-shattering-.html
South Africa’s  Reserve Bank  will
make an announcement tomorrow that contains “nothing market
shattering,” Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago said.  A joint announcement by President  Jacob Zuma , Governor  Gill Marcus  and Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  tomorrow will be
“significant,” though won’t impact the currency market,
Kganyago said in a phone interview today, declining to comment
further.  A central bank statement on its website today said Zuma
will hold a press conference with Marcus and Gordhan in Pretoria
at 3 p.m. to make an announcement of “national importance.”
The rand extended its decline after the announcement amid
speculation that senior central bank officials may resign or the
government may change the bank’s inflation-targeting mandate.  The announcement won’t have monetary policy implications or
involve resignations, Johannesburg-based Business Day reported,
citing an unidentified member of the Monetary Policy Committee.
The Mail & Guardian said the announcement was of a celebratory
nature related to tomorrow’s date, which is the 22nd anniversary
of the release of former President  Nelson Mandela  from prison.  The rand retreated as much as 2.6 percent to 7.7847 per
dollar, and traded 1.9 percent weaker at 7.7319 per dollar as of
6:15 p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst performance out of more
than 20 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  The last time Zuma held a joint press conference with
Marcus and Gordhan was on March 25, when Kganyago was moved from
the National Treasury to the central bank as deputy governor.
Zuma last held a press conference on a weekend with the central
bank in July 2009 when he named Marcus as a replacement for Tito Mboweni for a five-year term from November of that year.  The other two deputy governors are  Daniel Mminele , who was
appointed in June 2009 and Francois Groepe, who took up his
position at the beginning of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  