-- Southern’s `Monumental Accomplishment’ Tempered by Fukushima
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-10T05:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/southern-s-monumental-accomplishment-is-tempered-by-fukushima-disaster.html
The chief regulator’s dissent in a
vote that approved the first U.S. permit in 34 years to build a
nuclear reactor is fueling a debate over safety as the first
anniversary of  Japan ’s nuclear disaster nears.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission voted 4-1 yesterday
to award  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta a license to build two reactors
at its Vogtle plant near Augusta,  Georgia . The agency should
have required the company to implement lessons from Japan’s
nuclear crisis last year, said Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , who
opposed the license.  “Right now we know there are things that need to be fixed,
things that need to be changed, or at least things that need to
be analyzed,” Jaczko said yesterday in an interview at NRC
headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland . “For us to issue this
license, and say ‘we’ll deal with them later,’ to me is kind of
putting the cart before the horse.”  It has been less than a year after an earthquake and
tsunami on March 11 caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The
industry has faced concerns about nuclear safety at least since
a partial meltdown at  Pennsylvania ’s Three Mile Island plant in
1979, and the NRC’s authorization of Southern’s reactor may face
a challenge in federal court from environmental groups.  “The chairman’s vote reflects the post-Fukushima reality
that U.S. reactors are not designed to deal with a meltdown”
and will need years’ worth of work “to make them less
dangerous,” Jim Riccio, a nuclear policy analyst for Greenpeace
USA, an anti-nuclear group, said in an e-mail.  Standardized Design  Southern will build the first U.S. reactors to use a
standardized design, which it says will speed construction and
reduce risks.  The agency’s vote is a “monumental accomplishment,”
Thomas Fanning, Southern’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said yesterday in a statement.  “Anything that we learn from Fukushima, I assure you we
will bring to bear,” Fanning told reporters on a conference
call yesterday. The NRC’s review of the planned reactors “has
been thorough, it has been thoughtful and it is complete,” he
said in an interview yesterday.  The NRC is weighing rules to improve safety at existing
plants, and by March 9 it may direct owners to take steps to be
better prepared for power failures.  Improving Safety  An agency task force in July recommended that the
commission implement rules to improve safety at the 104 U.S.
operating reactors, including reviews of seismic and flooding
risks. An industry plan to place emergency pumps and generators
at plants may speed the agency’s review of the proposed safety
enhancements, Martin Virgilio, the NRC’s deputy executive
director for reactor and preparedness programs, said at an NRC
staff meeting with industry officials Jan. 13.  The agency should have required the Vogtle plant to adhere
to all post-Fukushima regulations, such as a potential
requirement to ensure that spent-fuel cooling pools have better
monitoring equipment, Jaczko said. “I’m concerned that we will
have challenges getting all of the Fukushima changes made” at
the Vogtle plant, he said.  The NRC chairman said he will work to make sure the NRC’s
Fukushima-related regulations are applied to Southern’s plant as
the agency considers the rules, which he wants implemented by
2016.  Several environmental and consumer organizations said this
week that they may file a lawsuit in the U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals for the  District of Columbia  challenging the NRC award
of Southern’s reactor license.  Environmental Impact  They will ask the court to direct the NRC to complete
another environmental impact statement to take into
consideration lessons learned after Fukushima, said Stephen A.
Smith, executive director of one of the groups, the Knoxville,
Tennessee-based Southern Alliance for Clean Energy.  “The only way the nuclear power is ever going to be
successful is if you assure accidents like Fukushima don’t
happen,” Smith said in a phone interview. “Cheerleading and
the rush to move forward has overtaken safety,” he said.  The U.S. nuclear industry established its own safety-
monitoring organization, the Atlanta-based Institute of Nuclear
Power Operations, after a partial meltdown at Three Mile Island.
Reactor owners have made technology upgrades at  power plants ,
and plant owners spent more than $2 billion to bolster security
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, according to the  Nuclear
Energy Institute , a Washington-based industry group.  Commercial Facilities  “Probably the most robust commercial facilities on the
planet are nuclear power plants,” Tony Pietrangelo, senior vice
president and chief nuclear officer for the NEI, said in a Jan.
11 interview.  Nuclear accidents at U.S. plants would release less
radiation than previously thought and would cause almost no
immediate deaths, an NRC analysis issued on Feb. 1 determined.  Reactor designers are now implementing more “passive”
engineering, which relies more on the laws of physics to improve
safety, Eric Loewen, chief consulting engineer for GE Hitachi
Nuclear Energy in Wilmington,  North Carolina , said in a phone
interview.  “Usually the laws of physics are a little bit more
reliable than making sure that somebody left a valve open or
making sure that some automated system works,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  