-- Spanish Labor Revamp Cuts Firing Costs, Changes Bargaining Rules
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-10T23:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/spanish-labor-revamp-cuts-firing-costs-changes-bargaining-rules.html
Spain ’s government cut firing costs,
changed wage-bargaining laws and ruled that jobless people on
benefits will have to offer community service in an overhaul of
labor rules aimed at tackling the 23 percent  unemployment  rate.  The  decree , which comes into effect immediately, gives
priority to wage deals made within companies, rather than at
industry or regional level, and makes it cheaper and easier for
struggling companies to fire workers, the government said
yesterday.  Businesses won’t have to seek government approval for group
firings, while unions will no longer be able to cling during a
downturn to wage agreements made during a boom. The decree
bolsters training and offers tax rebates for small companies
that hire from among Spain’s 5.3 million unemployed.  The  People’s Party  won the national election on Nov. 20 on
a pledge to create jobs in a country that’s home to a third of
the euro region’s unemployed and where 49 percent of young
people are out of work. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is risking
the ire of unions as he tries to convince voters and investors
he can cut the highest  jobless rate  in the European Union and
steer the shrinking economy back to growth.  “Steps have been taken that are historic turning points in
Spanish labor relations,” Salvador del Rey, a law professor at
Instituto Internacional Cuatrecasas and the ESADE business
school in Barcelona, said in a telephone interview. “We have
been discussing these issues for years.”  ‘Radical’ Elements  Reducing severance pay, scrapping the need for government
approval of mass firings and changing the rules on wage-
bargaining so that old deals aren’t perpetually rolled over are
the most “radical” elements, del Rey said. Until now, old wage
deals remained valid until a new accord could be approved,
removing the incentive for workers to agree to new conditions
during a downturn.  The decree also clarifies the conditions under which
struggling companies can fire workers and reduces incentives for
workers to challenge dismissals in court. It offers companies
more ways to reduce payrolls without firing staff by making it
easier to opt out of collective wage deals.  The  European Central Bank , the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  have all called for changes to laws
that allowed  labor  costs to rise as much as 5.8 percent in 2009
even as unemployment surged. New rules are the only way to
improve productivity as the nation can no longer devalue its
currency, Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez
said on June 21. Spain’s economy is in a recession and the Bank
of Spain expects a contraction of 1.5 percent this year.  ‘Very Bold Move’  “This is a very bold move because Rajoy is attacking
unemployment from different angles, including labor flexibility,
jobless benefits and youth unemployment,” Ludovic Subran, chief
economist at credit insurer Euler Hermes SA, said in a telephone
interview from Paris. “Rajoy is trying to make sure that
negotiating power is decentralized in a way that helps both the
employer and workers.”  Severance pay for unfair dismissal of people on new open-
ended contracts will be cut to 33 days for every year worked
from 45. Workers fired for “objective economic reasons” will
get 20 days severance pay, and that condition can now be applied
to public-sector workers who don’t have civil-service contracts.  The plan also aims to reduce benefit fraud and stop people
claiming jobless pay while working at the same time, the Labor
Ministry said. Forcing those receiving subsidies to offer
“services” may make it harder for them to work in the
underground economy, while allowing town halls and regions to
offer services they can’t otherwise afford amid plunging  tax
revenue . The government didn’t say what tasks unemployed people
will be asked to do.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  