-- Standard Life Global Fund Bets Against Euro After Success With U.S. Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-02-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/standard-life-global-fund-bets-against-euro-after-success-with-u-s-bonds.html
Standard Life Investments ,
Edinburgh’s largest money manager, is counting on U.S.
technology-related stocks, European bank bonds and a weaker euro
to safeguard capital in its biggest fund for outside investors.  The 11.5 billion-pound ($18.3 billion)  Global Absolute
Return Strategies Fund (SLIGARS)  is positioned for European financial
company bonds to do better than the rest of the credit market,
while investments in their stocks will underperform, Euan Munro,
head of the firm’s multiasset team, said in an interview. The
euro may weaken over the next two to three years as policy
makers try to resolve the debt crisis, he said.  The fund is luring investors trying to reduce risk and
protect their assets, as stock and bond markets give mixed
signals over the state of the economy. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 
Index in the U.S. rose to a seven-month high this week, while
yields on Treasuries are close to record lows. The fund has
grown 12 times in size over the past three years.  “There is always something in the portfolio we are relying
on to come and rescue us when bad things happen,” Munro said.
“Some strategies will surprise us on the upside if economic
growth surprises positively. If growth surprises negatively then
some of our other positions will be the heroes of the hour.”  Last year, the fund benefited most from favoring  30-year 
U.S. government securities over  10-year  bonds, helping it return
5.8 percent over the 12 months to Feb. 8, according to
Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based research firm. That compared
with a 4.9 percent drop in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  over the period.  Worse Calls  Those returns compensated for other strategies not working
as well, such as European and Russian stocks and high-yielding
corporate bonds. Russian equities, which Standard Life bought
for the fund during last year,  fell  in 2011, with the benchmark
Micex index losing 17 percent. It’s up 10 percent this year.  “I certainly wouldn’t be drawing the conclusion at the end
of 2011 that the Russian idea was a bad one and the rates idea
was a good one,” Munro, 41, said on Jan. 26.  The fund is targeting large technology-related U.S.
equities because Standard Life Investments regards them as
better value than smaller companies.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest company by market value, is
trading at 14 times earnings, in line with the average for the
companies in the  S&P 500 Index . The ratio is 32 times for the
 Russell 2000 Index  of mid-cap companies and 23 times for the
 Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reducing Risk  So the fund is betting the  S&P 500 Index  and the  Nasdaq 
will outperform the Russell 2000 Index, Munro said.  “And if the market crashes the big ones tend to do better
than the smaller ones,” he said.  The reason for the fund’s strategy toward the euro,
European financial credit and European bank equities is they
tend to offset each other and reduce volatility, said Munro, who
also helps oversee about 69 billion pounds of fixed income
assets as head of bonds at the Edinburgh money manager.  Standard Life has about 150 billion pounds of assets under
management in total, according to its website.  Any long-term solution for the euro crisis will have to
involve a weaker currency, he said. Any weakening will likely
come through quantitative easing, or buying bonds to spur
growth, which the banks are effectively doing after the  European
Central Bank  provided lenders with 489 billion euros ($650
billion) of three-year loans on Dec. 21, he said.  Steady Returns  The aim of the fund is to produce steady returns, with a
target of achieving 5 percent over the London Interbank
Borrowing Rate, even when markets are volatile. The MSCI World
Index slumped 23 percent between its peak in 2011 on May 2 and
its trough on Oct. 4. The index has since rebounded 19 percent.
During the decline the value of the  fund  fell 0.8 percent. Since
then it has risen almost 7 percent.  “It is important to me that it went sideways during
tumultuous markets,” Munro said. “We had an awful lot going on
last year in terms of the volatility of equity markets.”  The fund was originally set up in 2005 as an internal fund
to manage the staff pension plan before it then became available
to outside investors through a U.K. mutual fund. Munro is
planning to pull in more clients and designed the fund so it
could have as much as 40 billion pounds of assets, he said.  Over the past three years the fund has returned 37.8
percent, ranking second of 19 similar U.K.-registered funds,
which have returned an average of 14.3 percent, according to
 Morningstar . Its 12-month performance compared with an average
loss of 0.8 percent of 27 similar funds.  The fund has about 30 percent of its assets in cash, which
is invested in financial instruments such as derivatives and
futures to let Munro’s team to adjust to market conditions,
while specialist fund managers oversee the remaining assets.  “People often obsess about stock selection decisions,”
Munro said. “What we are saying is that the big risks are how
much equity exposure, how much credit exposure, how much
currency exposure, how much interest rate exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at  at
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  