-- Stop Super-PACs With a Fair Elections Amendment: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-02-10T00:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/stop-super-pacs-with-fair-election-amendment-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
The 2010  Citizens United  v. Federal
Election Commission case is fast becoming as explosive as Plessy
v. Ferguson (1896) or Roe v. Wade (1973). It took nearly 60
years before the  Supreme Court (1000L)  reversed the Plessy endorsement
of “separate but equal” treatment of the races in Brown v.
Board of Education, and opponents of abortion are still waiting
(probably in vain) for Roe to go.  Instead of sitting around hoping that one of the
conservative justices in the 5-4 Citizens United  majority  will
leave the high court during a Democratic administration,
Americans concerned about the degradation of politics should get
cracking on a constitutional amendment that does what the
founders envisioned, namely return power to the people.  Exhibit A for why this is necessary is the 2012 campaign,
which promises to be one of the most corrupt in U.S. history.  Notice how I didn’t say the most negative. Politics has
been a contact sport since at least the election of 1804, when
President  Thomas Jefferson  was accused (accurately, it turned
out) of having an affair with “Dusky Sally” Hemings, a slave.  And expensive campaigns per se aren’t a problem. Aggregate
spending on campaigns went from about $1.5 billion in 2008 to $2
billion in 2010 (an off-year election) and will almost certainly
go higher this year. That would be acceptable if the donations
were relatively small and transparent.  Nixon’s Bag Men  The real issue is whether we can maintain our democracy (or
our republic, if you prefer) under rules that allow a tiny group
of billionaires to buy presidential elections. Strangely enough,
for all the members of Congress bought and sold by the rich over
the last 200 years, winning the presidency, until now, has not
depended on the generosity of a few wealthy men. Even when cash
was delivered to politicians by shady “bag men,” the money
usually went to the party or local bosses and was somewhat
diffused.  When the insurance magnate W. Clement Stone gave President
 Richard Nixon  $2 million in 1972, it looked scandalous and
helped kick off post-Watergate reforms. That verges on small
potatoes today, when black bags couldn’t possibly hold all the
money.  The majority in Citizens United ruled that unlimited
independent campaign expenditures do not “corrupt” our system.
This is so wrong on the facts and so antithetical to our
democratic traditions that it demands a national movement for a
Fair Elections Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Right now, that’s still a goo-goo idea of interest mostly
to wonky reformers and Occupy Wall Street protesters. There’s a
widespread assumption that “process” changes don’t hit people
where they live and thus won’t resonate no matter how many polls
show strong public support.  Congress is so resistant to campaign finance reform that in
2010 Senate Republicans filibustered the DISCLOSE Act, which
merely required a level of transparency in campaign
contributions that the GOP claimed for years to favor.  So does the current climate doom any Fair Elections
Amendment? Not necessarily. Let’s remember that many of the
existing 27 amendments to the Constitution also began with
little support. It’s the job of leaders to build momentum for
change that doesn’t seem possible at the moment.  Properly harnessed, the shame of this year’s election
should help build a movement for constitutional change.
Americans are meeting a whole new cast of unlovable characters
hellbent on being kingmakers.  Billionaire Buddies  Standing just behind  Rick Santorum  during his victory
speech in  Missouri  this week was billionaire Foster Friess, who
is almost singlehandedly keeping Santorum’s campaign afloat. The
same for billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , who savaged Mitt Romney’s
character on behalf of  Newt Gingrich ’s campaign and without
blinking has now promised to do whatever it takes to savage
Barack Obama’s character on behalf of Romney.  Karl Rove  has
already raised $50 million from a handful of wealthy
individuals, many with business interests before the government.
Charles and David Koch plan to raise hundreds of millions at
secret meetings of the superrich that look like something out of
a bad movie.  Then this week the Obama campaign signaled to backers that
it welcomes unlimited multimillion-dollar contributions to the
super-PAC set up by a former White House aide.  Like Obama’s decision to opt out of public financing in
2008, this may seem to make sense politically, but it undermines
his bid to be a transformational president. And he gave up the
moral high ground for little gain. Even if a few Wall Street
executives swallow their misgivings and kick in (a big “if”),
the Obama campaign will never get close to the much-publicized
goal of raising $1 billion.  George Soros , who helped Democrats
get back the Congress in 2006, isn’t the only wealthy Democrat
on the sidelines this year.  So we’re headed for a clear choice between small money and
big money. At the end of 2011, the president had more than a
million small donors, with most giving an average of less than
$100 each; Romney’s super-PACs had fewer than 100 big donors,
with most giving more than $1 million each. (His campaign’s
small-donor fundraising is weak so far.)  In a little-noticed attempt to take some of the sting out
of his decision, Obama tepidly endorsed (through campaign
manager  Jim Messina ) a constitutional amendment “if
necessary.” He should risk the hypocrisy rap and make it a
centerpiece of his second-term agenda.  Moving reform forward requires uniting behind one of the
half-dozen proposed amendments floating around. (Even hip-hop
impresario  Russell Simmons  has one.) The only bipartisan bill --
and thus the one with the best chance over time -- is sponsored
in the House by Democrat John Yarmuth and Republican Walter Jones. Their amendment, comparable to one sponsored by Tom Udall
in the Senate, counters the Citizens United ruling and says
money is not speech, and it authorizes Congress to enact public
financing.  The specifics of how best to clean up the system are less
important now than building a movement. Constitutional change is
disruptive and should always be approached with caution. But the
risk of the  United States  moving from a democracy to a
plutocracy is growing stronger every day.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 