-- Swiss Consumer Prices Decline Most in Two Years on Franc Strength: Economy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-10T11:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/swiss-consumer-prices-drop-most-in-more-than-two-years-on-franc-s-strength.html
Swiss  consumer prices  dropped the
most in more than two years in January as the franc’s ascent
lowered the cost of imported goods.  Consumer prices declined 0.8 percent from a year ago after
falling 0.7 percent in December, the  Federal Statistics Office 
in Neuchatel said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s the
fourth straight drop and the biggest decrease since October
2009. On the month, prices fell 0.4 percent.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  imposed a currency cap of 1.20
versus the euro in September after the franc reached near-parity
with the single currency. While the franc has since weakened,
acting Chairman Thomas Jordan said on Feb. 7 policy makers
“stand ready to take further measures if the economic outlook
and the risk of deflation so require.”  “The decline is mainly induced by the franc’s strength,”
said Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich.
“The economy as a whole is doing too well for the country to
slip into a deflationary scenario. I don’t expect the SNB to
raise its franc limit in the foreseeable future.”  The franc, considered a haven in times of turmoil, was
trading at 1.2095 against the euro as of 12:18 p.m in Zurich,
from 1.2114 yesterday. Against the dollar, it was at 91.25
centimes.  Swatch Earnings  The Swiss currency’s ascent of 9 percent over the past year
is weighing on export demand and adding pressure on companies to
lower costs just as euro-region growth falters. In  France , the
area’s second-largest economy, industrial output dropped 1.4
percent from the previous month, statistics office Insee in
Paris said today. Italy’s manufacturing production slumped 7.7
percent in December from a year earlier.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the largest maker of Swiss watches, on
reported full-year net income on Feb. 7 that missed analysts’
estimates. The franc’s strength, which cuts the value of sales
generated in dollars and euros, cut revenue by about 700 million
francs ($767 million), it said.  The cost of Swiss imported  consumer goods  dropped 1.8
percent in December from the previous month and were down 3.2
percent compared with a year earlier, today’s report showed.
Prices for domestic goods rose 0.1 percent on the month and the
year, respectively.  In the U.K.,  producer-price inflation  slowed to 4.1 percent
last month, the weakest since November 2010, from 4.8 percent in
December, the  Office for National Statistics  in  London  said
today. The  Bank of England , which yesterday pledged to pump an
extra 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) into the economy, expects
consumer-price inflation to fall below its 2 percent target by
the end of 2012.  ‘Risk Scenario’  Jordan said earlier this week that the franc remains “very
strong” and that policy makers “will not tolerate any trading
below the minimum rate” of 1.20 versus the euro. There’s
currently “absolutely no risk of inflation,” he said.  “If the risk scenario of a further escalation of the debt
crisis were to materialize, economic activity in  Switzerland 
would suffer a much more pronounced slowdown,” Jordan said.
“Such a development would lead to a severe risk of deflation.”  European stocks dropped today and the euro weakened against
the dollar after euro-region finance ministers held back a
rescue package for  Greece  at a meeting in Brussels. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index  fell 0.4 percent.  Greece must pass its latest austerity package into law and
identify 325 million euros ($430 million) in spending cuts
before euro-area governments endorse a second bailout plan,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said. Greek
lawmakers are set to convene this weekend to begin voting.  U.S. Confidence  In the U.S., economists forecast a reading of 74.8 on the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
 consumer sentiment , which is little changed from a reading of 75
at the end of January, the highest level in almost a year. The
trade deficit in the U.S. probably widened to $48.5 billion from
the $47.8 billion shortfall in November, according to a separate
survey. Both reports will be published later today.  In  Asia ,  China ’s exports fell and imports slid more than
forecast in January, the first declines in two years, as a
weeklong holiday disrupted trade and commodity prices dropped.  Overseas shipments decreased 0.5 percent and imports fell
15.3 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said. The
median estimate of 30 economists was for a 3.6 percent drop in
imports for the month, which had four fewer working days than
January 2011. The  trade surplus  widened to a six-month high of
$27.3 billion. Trade data in the first two months of the year
are distorted by the timing of the Chinese New Year festival,
which took place in January this year.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, the Australian
central bank lowered its forecasts for growth and inflation this
year. The outlook for consumer prices provides “scope for
easier monetary policy should demand conditions weaken
materially,” the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  