-- Aleppo Blasts Target Syria Security Services; Dozens Reported Dead in Homs
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-10T14:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/syrian-soldiers-killed-by-blasts-in-aleppo-as-army-shells-surrounded-homs.html
Syrian soldiers and civilians were
killed and injured in explosions in the city of Aleppo as
President Bashar Al-Assad’s army shelled and surrounded rebels
in Homs.  The blasts killed at least 25 people and wounded 175, the
state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported, citing the Health
Ministry. They targeted a military security branch and police
headquarters, it said.  Syrian security forces have renewed efforts to crush the
uprising against Assad’s rule since Russia and  China  vetoed a
United Nations Security Council resolution on Feb. 4. The
resolution had aimed to facilitate a political solution to a
conflict that has killed more than 5,400 people since it began
in March last year, according to UN estimates.  Tanks were massing outside opposition-controlled
neighborhoods in Homs, Al Jazeera television said today, citing
activists. Shelling of the city continued, killing 39 people,  Al
Arabiya  reported, citing the Syrian Revolution Committee. At
least 56 were killed nationwide, the channel said.  The attacks in Aleppo caused damage to the two
headquarters and nearby residential buildings, the Syrian news
service said. Images on the  agency’s website  showed workers
searching through rubble and a building with a Syrian flag
draped outside and its windows blown out.  ‘Confidence Shaken’  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah said today that the world’s
confidence in the UN was “shaken” after the Russian and
Chinese veto. “We are in scary days,” the king said in a
speech carried on the official Saudi Press Agency.  The kingdom has joined other Gulf Arab countries in
isolating the Assad government. The Gulf Cooperation Council’s
six members announced on Feb. 7 that they were expelling Syrian
ambassadors from their capitals. Saudi billionaire Prince
Alwaleed bin Talal said Syria may have reached a “point of no
return” on public television’s “ Charlie Rose ” program.  The prospect of civil war has been growing as the daily
death toll mounts and Assad uses tanks and artillery in cities
where the opposition is demanding the end of his rule. More than
300 people have died during the siege of Homs since Feb. 3,
 Human Rights Watch  said yesterday.  ‘Tactically Successful’  “Recent operations against activists and armed wings of
the opposition are proving to be somewhat tactically
successful,” New York-based Eurasia Group, which monitors
political risk, said in an e-mailed note. “At the same time,
the intensity of clashes indicates that it would be very
difficult to fully suppress the uprising. In the next few
months, Syria will transition from civil conflict into civil
war.”  Russia is seeking to broker talks between the Syrian
government and the opposition, while China has suggested further
cooperation at the UN.  France  is pressing for deepening ties
with Syrian protesters. Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu 
is in  Washington  to consult with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta. The  Arab League 
backed a plan for a unity government leading to elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  