-- U.K. Stocks Fall; Cable & Wireless Communications Leads Decline
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-02-10T17:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-k-stocks-fall-on-greek-delay-national-grid-leads-decline.html
U.K. stocks  declined for the fourth
time in five days, with the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  extending its first
weekly drop in a month, after euro-area finance ministers
withheld a rescue package for Greece.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  sank 17 percent after
cutting a forecast for its Panama unit. National Grid Plc
retreated after JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded its
recommendation on the utility.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  led commodity
producers lower as metals prices declined.  The benchmark  FTSE 100  Index decreased 43.08, or 0.7
percent, to 5,852.39 at the close in London, for a 0.8 percent
drop this week. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also retreated
0.7 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.5 percent.  “Trading all week had been dominated by the lack of a
Greek deal,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in
London, wrote in a note. “Heading into the weekend, we have
another Greek deadline to contend with, which will be sufficient
to keep investors on edge for the time being.”  Greek unions held their second strike in a week against
proposed austerity measures as Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos pressed lawmakers to accept conditions for a bailout,
saying a refusal would open the way for the country’s exit from
the euro. The Greek parliament will vote on the measures this
weekend. Euro-region ministers will meet again on Feb. 15.  Greek Pushback  A leader of  Greece ’s governing coalition pushed back
against German demands for deeper budget cuts. George Karatzaferis, who heads one of the three parties supporting
interim Prime Minister Lucas Papademos, said he wouldn’t support
austerity measures worked out for a rescue. He spoke hours after
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in
Berlin that Greece was missing deficit targets.  Cable & Wireless Communications sank 17 percent to 36.33
pence, the biggest drop since 2002. The company said full-year
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization
at its Panama unit will be less than its own projection. The
business has been affected by the high level of competition in
mobile-phone services, the company said.  National Grid (NG/)  dropped 1.2 percent to 632.5 pence after its
stock was cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan.  Anglo American fell 4 percent to 2,746.5 pence, pacing
declines in mining shares. Rio Tinto Group lost 1.1 percent to
3,772 pence and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  declined 4.5 percent to 1,124
pence. Copper, lead, nickel and tin declined in London.  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO)  lost 5.6 percent to 334 pence. The producer of
iron-ore pellets in Ukraine was cut to “hold” at  Renaissance
Capital .  Vernalis Pact  Vernalis Plc (VER)  jumped 29 percent to 25.25 pence, for its
biggest gain since July 2004, after entering a pact with
closely-held Tris Pharma Inc. to develop cough and cold drugs in
a market the unprofitable U.K. drugmaker valued at as much as $2
billion. The deal is likely to push Winnersh, England-based
Vernalis into profitability this year, Chief Executive Officer
Ian Garland said in an interview.  ICAP Plc (IAP)  slipped 3.9 percent to 366.6 pence. The stock was
cut to  “neutral”  from “buy” at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Phoenix Group Holdings (PGH)  slipped 1.5 percent to 561 pence.
The U.K.’s biggest manager of closed life insurance funds
declined after saying it ended takeover talks with private
equity firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  McBride Plc (MCB) , a maker of household cleaning products, added
2 percent to 127.25 pence. The stock was raised to “hold” from
“sell” at Shore Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  