-- U.K. House Prices Fall to Lowest in Six Months on Concerns About Economy
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-02-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-k-house-prices-fall-to-lowest-in-six-months-on-concerns-about-economy.html
U.K. house prices fell to their
lowest level in six months in January as concern increased about
the outlook for the economy and the euro-area debt crisis,
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  fell 0.2
percent from December to 218,992 pounds ($346,840), the groups
said in an e-mailed report in London. From a year earlier values
fell 1.4 percent, the quickest pace since September.  “Our expectation is of more of the same,” Acadametrics
Chairman Peter Williams said in the report. “Much now turns on
efforts to re-stimulate the economy, whether through more
quantitative easing by the  Bank of England  or by the government
in the March Budget.”  The U.K. economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter
as rising unemployment and the government’s budget squeeze
deterred Britons from spending. The Bank of England said
yesterday it will pump another 50 billion pounds into the
economy as the growth outlook remains “weak” and threats from
the European debt turmoil persist.  Out of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics, all apart
from  London  and Wales saw their average values decline on an
annual basis in January, according to the survey. Values in the
capital rose 3 percent from a year earlier.  Nationally, the number of transactions rose by 5.1 percent
to 173,351 in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier,
Acadametrics said. It added that there was an increase in
activity in the buy-to-let sector in 2011, leading to an
increase in transactions. Still, “the absence of first time
buyers, who accounted for up to 50,000 sales per month prior to
the credit crunch, is the major factor why transactions have not
returned to 2006-2007 levels,” it said.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
their index of values.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  