-- U.K. Inflation Probably Slowed to 14-Month Low, Economists Say
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-02-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-k-inflation-probably-slowed-to-14-month-low-economists-say.html
U.K.  inflation  probably slowed in
January to its weakest pace in more than a year as the impact of
a sales-tax increase a year earlier faded and retailers cut
prices to lure shoppers.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.6 percent after a 4.2
percent gain in December, the median forecast of 36 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. That’s the weakest since
November 2010. The  Office for National Statistics  in  London  will
publish the data at 9:30 a.m. on Feb. 14. A day later, the  Bank
of England  will release new economic and inflation forecasts,
which Governor  Mervyn King  will present at a press conference.  The central bank said Feb. 9 it will pump another 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) into the economy, adding to the 275
billion pounds of  bond purchases  it has implemented since March
2009. The stimulus is aimed at preventing inflation falling
below the bank’s 2 percent target amid what it says is a “weak
outlook” for growth.  “We expect consumer-price inflation to trend down
steadily” because of “underlying price pressures being diluted
by weak economic activity and elevated unemployment,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “However, much will obviously depend on what happens
with  oil prices  over the coming weeks and months.”  Brent oil has increased 13 percent on the ICE Futures
Exchange in  Europe  in the past four months, boosted by rising
tension between  Iran  and the West over the Persian Gulf
country’s nuclear program.  Inflation Letter  The data may force King to write his ninth consecutive
letter to the government explaining why inflation is more than
one percentage point above the central bank’s goal. King and
other policy makers forecast that inflation will slow
“sharply” this year.  Britain’s government raised the sales-tax rate to 20
percent from 17.5 percent in January 2011 as part of measures to
reduce the  budget deficit . That increase will drop out of the
annual consumer-price comparison this year.  Separate reports next week may show that  jobless-benefit
claims  rose in January for an 11th month and retail sales
declined, according to surveys of economists.  Jobless claims increased 3,000 in January, according to the
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey before a report due
on Feb. 15. The fourth-quarter  unemployment rate  may have held
at 8.4 percent, the highest in 16 years.  Retail sales  fell 0.3
percent, economists said in another survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  