-- U.K. January Producer Prices Climb Faster Than Expected on Raw Materials
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-10T10:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-k-output-prices-rise-more-than-forecast.html
U.K.  factory-output prices  rose more
than economists forecast in January, led by increased costs for
alcohol, petroleum products and clothing.  The price of goods at factory gates climbed 0.5 percent
from December, the fastest in nine months, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent
gain. Raw material costs rose 0.5 percent.  Companies may find it hard to keep raising prices as the
economy struggles to avoid slipping back into recession. The
Bank of  England , which yesterday pledged to pump an extra 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) into the ailing economy, expects
consumer-price inflation to fall below its 2 percent target by
the end of the year.  “There’s probably a bit of upside news here as far as the
consumer-price inflation figures are concerned next week,” said
David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas in  London . “Still,
its relatively small news compared to the base effects that are
falling out of the index” and consumer inflation “is going to
continue to head downwards at a rapid pace.”  The pound rose as much as 0.2 percent to $1.5837 after the
data were released. It was trading at $1.5837 as of 10 a.m. in
London, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Core Prices  From a year earlier, producer prices rose 4.1 percent last
month, down from 4.8 percent in December and the slowest annual
pace since November 2010, the statistics office said.  In January from the previous month, prices rose in eight
categories and fell in one -- metals, machinery and equipment.  Core producer prices , which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, climbed by 0.3 percent on the month and
2.4 percent from a year earlier, the slowest annual increase in
February 2010.  Input prices rose 7 percent in January from a year earlier,
the statistics office said. That’s the slowest annual increase
since November 2009.  The  Bank of England  will publish new economic growth and
inflation forecasts next week. In November, it projected that
consumer-price inflation will slow to 1.7 percent by the end of
this year from 4.2 percent in December. Britain’s six largest
energy suppliers have cut their tariffs in response to falling
wholesale costs.  In a separate report, the statistics office said
construction output fell 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter from
the previous three months, as previously estimated in  gross-
domestic-product data  released last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  