-- U.S. Shale Gas Exports Face Hurdles, Former Exxon CEO Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-02-10T10:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-shale-gas-exports-face-hurdles-former-exxon-ceo-says.html
Political constraints and concern
production gains at shale fields aren’t sustainable will hinder
the development of liquefied natural gas export plants in the
U.S., former  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  chief Lee Raymond said.  “There is going to be a big debate in the U.S. as to
whether or not they’re going to permit the export of liquefied
natural gas,” Raymond said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.
“Even if you get past the politics, you have to test whether or
not the  resource base  is sufficient.”  New techniques to access the natural gas trapped in shale
rocks, including the use of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal
drilling, have transformed the U.S. into the world’s largest gas
producer. Estimates suggest fields in  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio  and
 Texas  may contain as much as 862 trillion cubic feet of the
fuel, enough to supply the U.S. for over thirty years at current
consumption.  Politicians including Democrats Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon 
and Representative  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts  have said
exports may raise domestic gas prices. In allowing exports, the
U.S. may be “trading away the enormous economic advantage of
having large, low-cost domestic natural gas supply,” Wyden
said in an e-mailed statement on Jan. 6.             “It’s
going to be a little while before people are really confident
that there is going to be a sufficient amount of gas for 30
years to support the construction of an LNG plant,” said
Raymond, who stepped down in 2005. “I’m frankly not sure that
we have enough experience with shale gas to make the kind of
judgment you’d have to make.”  Global Supply  Some gas-industry players are confident the U.S. will
become a major exporter.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  said yesterday that the
U.S. will be able to supply about 9 percent of global liquefied
natural-gas output by the end of the decade. The U.K.’s third-
largest gas producer said the U.S. will have the capacity to
export about 45 metric million tons of LNG a year from 2020.  Rising production of natural gas has driven down prices and
is leading owners of import terminals to explore exports.
Cheniere Energy Inc. has proposed a liquefaction facility at its
Sabine Pass terminal, which would be the first new North
American export project since 1969. BG has a preliminary
agreement to take gas from Sabine Pass.  The cost of building an  LNG (LNG)  terminal runs to billions of
dollars. Cheniere’s Sabine Pass terminal will have a capacity of
9 million tons a year. Construction costs at projects underway
in Australia, have reached $4,000 a ton of capacity, according
to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  ‘Huge Investments’  “If you build any LNG, from a producer’s point of view,
you can only do that from an economic point of view if you’re
assured that you have a long-term competitive supply because
these are huge investments,” Raymond said.  Exxon, the world’s largest energy company by market value,
is pursuing shale exploration in Argentina,  Poland  and the U.S.
The company said earlier this month that two exploratory wells
drilled in a Polish shale formation last year weren’t
commercially viable. The gas discovered failed to flow in
sufficient quantities Texas-based Exxon said Feb. 1.  “There’s lots of shale around the world, but just because
it has the name shale on it doesn’t mean it’s something that
would be economic to try to develop by the technique being used
largely in the U.S.,” Raymond said.  Production of shale gas in  China  would be a “real game
changer,” the former executive added. “China is run by
engineers, it’s not run by politicians.”  “They’re technically competent and they approach things in
the same way a good engineering group at a major  oil company 
would approach things,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  