-- Rail-Truck Duel on Hold to Get Highway Bill Through House
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-10T18:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-railroad-trucking-groups-call-truce-on-heavier-big-rigs.html
The U.S. railroad and trucking
industries called a truce in their lobbying fight over
increasing the size and weight of trucks allowed on interstate
highways.  Members of the  House of Representatives  should “oppose any
floor amendments that would modify any of the truck size and
weight provisions” in the five-year, $260 billion highway
construction bill to be debated next week, Ed Hamberger,
Association of American Railroads chief executive officer, and
 Bill Graves , CEO of the American Trucking Associations, said in
a statement yesterday.  “It’s important that you not have two very large,
significant sectors of the transportation community at each
others’ throats as the bill goes to the floor,” said James Burnley, a former U.S. transportation secretary and now a
trucking industry lobbyist. “That undermines support in what is
an already very, very difficult situation in passing the bill in
either house.”  Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican,
brokered the deal to increase the chances of getting enough
support to pass the bill, Burnley said. Jeff Urbanchuk, a
spokesman for Shuster, declined to provide immediate comment.  The truce doesn’t extend to the Senate, said Sean McNally,
a spokesman for the Arlington, Virginia-based trucking group.
The Senate is considering a two-year, $109 billion spending
plan.  Senate Debate  The Senate version calls for the same kind of truck size
and weight study that the House transportation committee
adopted. That review would assess the effect on highway safety
and bridges.  Republican Senators  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho ,  Susan Collins  of
 Maine  and  Rob Portman  of  Ohio , and Democrat  Herb Kohl  of
 Wisconsin , sponsored a stand-alone heavy-truck bill last year.  The National Industrial Transportation League, which
includes companies such as Cemex Inc. and  Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co ., will support bigger-truck amendments on the Senate floor if
offered or push changes during a House-Senate conference
committee, Peter Gatti, executive vice president of the
Arlington, Virginia-based group, said in an interview. The group
organized a fly-in of executives of trucking and shipping
companies to Washington Jan. 31 and Feb. 1.  The House committee vote was “the first step,” he said.  “The same arguments for inclusion of those provisions are
as strong as they were before,” Gatti said. “Trying to reduce
congestion, taking more trucks off the highway and doing it in a
safe manner all have a great deal of legitimacy.”  Truck Video  The  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee voted
33-22 on Feb. 2 to delay any expansion in use of trucks weighing
more than 80,000 pounds for three years, so the U.S.
Transportation Department can study the potential effect on
highway safety, roads and bridges.  The measure, as originally written by House Transportation
and Infrastructure Chairman  John Mica , a Florida Republican,
would have allowed states to permit more 97,000-pound trucks on
U.S. interstate highways and would have expanded use of double-
and triple-trailers in states that now allow them.  Opponents Mobilize  The language on longer, heavier trucks prompted a lobbying
and public-relations blitz before last week’s vote that included
a YouTube  video , posted by a railroad equipment trade group,
that showed triple-trailer trucks weaving on rainy highways.
Burnley accused railroad interests at the time of running a
“multimillion-dollar propaganda campaign.”  Trucking companies like  Con-way Inc. (CNW)  and shippers including
 Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  International Paper Co. (IP)  were pushing for the
language to improve efficiency as freight volumes are expected
to surge. The rail industry opposed the language, citing a study
that showed it would reduce railroad traffic by 19 percent.  Besides the railroads and their suppliers, big-truck
opponents included highway safety advocates, truck accident
victims, independent truck drivers, the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters and state highway patrols.  Before the deal was announced yesterday, the Railway Supply
Institute, which represents makers of railroad equipment and
technology such as  Wabtec (WAB)  Corp. and Alstom SA, asked its member
companies “to help us keep the pressure on your members of
Congress by urging your employees to call and ask them to vote
’no’ on bigger trucks,” according to a report in Railway Age,
an industry newsletter.  ‘Obviously Disappointed’  The Washington-based institute told members their employees
could call the  Coalition Against Bigger Trucks  toll-free hotline
to be connected to their representative’s office. The coalition,
based in Alexandria,  Virginia , is a railroad industry-funded
group that works with  law enforcement , local government,
engineers, independent truckers and highway safety advocates to
oppose increasing truck size and weights.  “We are obviously disappointed that the weight provisions
didn’t survive in the committee vote, but there are significant
productivity gains in the bill,” McNally, of the trucking
associations, said.  Holly Arthur, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based
railroad association, declined to comment.  Highway Trust Fund  The Highway Trust Fund, which finances U.S. road, bridge
and mass-transit projects, may become insolvent as soon as
October unless lawmakers lock in additional funding sources, the
 Congressional Budget Office  said on Jan. 31. The Senate and
House bills both authorize more in spending than the fund’s
income from fuel taxes.  Since 2009, U.S. surface-transportation funding has
continued through a series of legislative extensions, the latest
of which expires March 31.  The House bill is H.R. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  