-- U.S. Supports Turkey Playing a Leading Role on Syria Crisis
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-10T03:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-looks-to-ally-turkey-to-build-international-support-for-syria-revolt.html
The U.S. is supporting a leading
role for  Turkey  in organizing international pressure on Syria,
as the two allies seek to build a coalition able to back the
Syrian opposition movement and help broker an end to the
violence.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  is in Washington
to consult with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta and lawmakers on regional issues,
including the violence that is dragging Syria toward a civil war.
Iran’s nuclear program and violence in Iraq are also on the
agenda, State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said.  The U.S. and Turkey are seeking each other’s support after
a decade when bilateral ties deteriorated due to disagreements
over Iran’s nuclear program, the U.S. invasion of  Iraq  and Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s stance against  Israel .  The importance of Turkey to the U.S. has been “magnified”
 by the global and regional situation, said Chris Phillips, a
lecturer in the international relations of the Middle East at
the Queen Mary University of  London .  Turkey is “placing itself as the key bridging state
between the West and the wider Muslim and Arab world,” said
Phillips in a phone interview from London. For that to work, he
said, Turkey “needs close relationships with the U.S.”  Davutoglu’s talks in Washington reflect an effort to
bolster a 50-year alliance, said Henri Barkey, a professor of
international relations at Lehigh University in Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania .  International Coalition  Clinton and Davutoglu will discuss on Feb. 13 their efforts
to organize a ‘Friends of  Syria ” group, a coalition of
countries that support the idea of a democratic Syria, Nuland
said yesterday. Turkey unveiled plans on Jan. 8 to establish the
“most broad-based” international coalition to end Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown, with Davutoglu saying it
should include members of the UN Security Council, the
Organization of the Islamic Conference and Arab states.  “It was significant that Turkey turned away” from Syria,
Barkey said in a telephone interview, noting that Erdogan’s
family vacationed in the past with the Assads.  The UN estimates more than 5,400 people have died as Assad
has intensified his attack on the Syrian opposition.  Davutoglu told U.S. lawmakers during a visit to Capitol
Hill yesterday that about 40,000 soldiers have defected from the
Syrian army, some joining the opposition and others fleeing to
Turkey, said Senator John McCain of  Arizona , the top Republican
on the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Backing the Opposition  Turkey fostered the formation of the Syrian National
Council in October in Istanbul, and Davutoglu has met with the
alliance of opposition groups which seeks to overthrow Assad.
Turkey shares a land border with Syria, making it a potential
staging ground if a protected zone is established for the
opposition or for refugees.  Turkey also gives the U.S. and its Western allies political
cover. “It’s important to have a Muslim ally” in the  Middle
East , Barkey said.  Teaming up with Turkey reflects an older style of U.S.
foreign policy, Phillips said. “Americans are going back to
their classic Cold War strategy of rejecting direct intervention
and presence in the Middle East and trying to influence the
region through powerful allies,” he said.  Obama’s Visit  Obama’s first visit to a Muslim country as president was in
April 2009 to Turkey, where he sought to rebuild relations that
soured under former President  George W. Bush  when Turkey opposed
the U.S. invasion of Iraq and prevented the opening of a
northern front for the assault on  Baghdad .  The alliance has flourished since protests in the Arab
world began more than a year ago, even as Turkey’s relations
with Israel slid to a historic low. Erdogan downgraded
diplomatic ties, halted defense purchases and announced plans to
send more warships to the eastern Mediterranean after Israel
refused to apologize for the May 2010 killing of nine Turkish
activists on a humanitarian aid ship that sought to break
Israel’s embargo on the  Gaza Strip .  “It’s not common for Turkey to have such good relations
with the U.S. at a time when ties with Israel are strained to
this extent,” said Suhnaz Yilmaz Ozbagci, a professor of
international relations at Koc University in Istanbul.  Meanwhile, Davutoglu’s “zero-problems” foreign policy is
unraveling as Ankara strives to maintain a tricky relationship
of competing and aligning interests with  Iran . It is also
trading barbs with Iraq due to the rise in sectarian attacks
there after the U.S. troop withdrawal.  Failed Accord  The Turkish premier engineered an agreement with  Brazil  on
Iran’s nuclear program in 2010 and, when the U.S. rejected it,
he jeopardized relations by opposing sanctions on Tehran in the
 United Nations Security Council .  Bilateral ties with the U.S. got a boost when Turkey agreed
in September to host an early-warning radar as part of a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization missile defense shield.  The relationship “isn’t perfect and it won’t be perfect,”
Jane Harman, the former California Democratic congresswoman who
now runs the Wilson Center, a  Washington  policy group, said in a
telephone interview. “But as the Middle East undergoes an
earthquake in terms of realigned governments, this government
has proven that it remains democratic and in most respects
moderate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  