-- U.S. Marines Photographed With Nazi Symbol in Afghanistan
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-10T18:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-marines-photographed-with-nazi-symbol-in-afghanistan.html
Ten U.S. Marines were photographed
in  Afghanistan  with a flag bearing a symbol associated with the
Nazi SS in World War II, in a case the Marine Corps called a
naive mistake.  Reports of the photograph followed the Internet release
last month of a video showing Marines urinating on dead Taliban
fighters, an incident that brought condemnation from U.S.
officials and a military investigation.  The photo with the SS flag was taken in September 2010 in
Helmand Province, when members of a sniper unit based at Camp
Pendleton,  California , posed for a photo with a flag showing the
letters “SS” in the shape of jagged lightning bolts. While the
photo has been circulating on the Internet for months, a protest
yesterday from an advocacy group brought attention to it.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  today called on the Marine
Corps to investigate the incident and “take appropriate
action,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said in a written
statement.  “Racist and anti-Semitic symbols have absolutely no place
alongside the men and women of America’s armed forces,” Little
said.  The Marines weren’t charged with any crime or disciplined
because they didn’t understand the Nazi connotation and thought
that “SS” was short for “scout sniper” -- the elite Marine
unit in which they serve, said Master Gunnery Sergeant Mark
Oliva, a spokesman for the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force.  ‘No Idea’  “They didn’t know what the ‘SS’ stood for,” Oliva said.
“They had no idea it actually connected them to a Nazi-related
organization.”  The Nazi SS, or Schutzstaffel, was responsible for
murdering millions of Jews and others in the Holocaust.  The  Military Religious Freedom Foundation , which is based
in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , and describes itself as a civil
rights group, sent a letter to the Marine Corps commandant,
General James Amos, seeking an investigation.  “The fact that United States service personnel were caught
proudly posing with the emblem of the Nazi SS, which symbolizes
the vile ideology of Hilterian fascism, sends a menacing signal
to religious minorities within the United States Armed Forces,”
 Michael Weinstein , the group’s president, said in a statement.
He called for military leaders to “severely punish all of those
responsible.”  The inspector general for the 1st Marine Expeditionary
Force investigated the flag incident last year and determined
that there was no malicious intent, Oliva said.  “Those involved acknowledged that the symbol could be
misinterpreted and is not in keeping with our Marine Corps ethos
and values,” the Marine force said in a statement.  The Marine Corps is investigating members of a sniper unit
from Camp Lejeune,  North Carolina , who were filmed urinating on
the corpses of three Taliban fighters in Afghanistan. That video
was made between March and September of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  