-- U.S. Money Funds Added Cash to French Banks for First Time in Six Months
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-money-funds-added-cash-to-french-banks-for-first-time-in-six-months.html
U.S.  money-market funds  more than
doubled their short-term loans to French banks in January,
ending six months during which they reduced funding.  The funds owned $8.6 billion of French bank certificates of
deposit,  time deposits , commercial paper and repurchase
agreements on Jan. 31, up from $3.2 billion in December,
according to reports from the eight largest prime U.S. funds
compiled and published in today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter. At
the end of 2010, the equivalent figure was $78 billion.  French banks have had to increase their deposit base to
secure funding after the sovereign-debt crisis spread last year,
spurring concern about the solvency of European financial
institutions. The revival of U.S. money fund investing followed
the  European Central Bank ’s decision to provide three-year
funding for banks in December, allaying some of those concerns.  “There definitely was a shift in sentiment around the
second week in January,” said  Deborah Cunningham , head of money
market funds for Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc. The
ECB’s loans and a reversal of “year-end window dressing” in 
December played the biggest role, she said.  Federated manages $245 billion in U.S.-registered money
funds, according to research firm Crane Data LLC.  Societe Generale  The largest beneficiary among the French banks was  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , which increased funding more than 10-fold to $3.4
billion in January.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
attracted 50 percent and 43 percent more funding from the U.S.
money markets, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Officials for all three banks declined to comment.  The funds cut investments in Swedish and Japanese banks,
each of which suffered a $9.7 billion reduction over the month.
Swiss banks had 5 percent less funding, though banks from all
three countries have retained their haven appeal, with money-
market funding surpassing 2010 levels.  The ECB provided 489 billion euros ($651 billion) to
European banks through a three-year refinancing operation in
December and plans to offer a further series of loans at the end
of February.  The survey included the eight largest prime money-market
funds:  Fidelity Cash Reserves (FDRXX) , JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund,
Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund, Fidelity Institutional Prime
Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund, Wells Fargo
Advantage Heritage Money Markets Fund and Federated Prime
Obligations Fund. Together, they manage $597 billion.  ‘More Confidence’  “There are thousands of banks across  Europe  and we only
invest in a small number that we believe to be among the
strongest institutions representing minimal risk,”  Adam Banker ,
a spokesman for  Fidelity Investments , said in an e-mail.  John Woerth, a spokesman for Vanguard Group Inc., said the
firm’s money funds don’t own any French bank debt. Officials for
JPMorgan and BlackRock declined to comment. A spokesmen for
Wells Fargo didn’t respond to a request for comment.  ECB lending “gave market participants a lot more
confidence that liquidity was in that marketplace,” said
Cunningham at Federated.  Cunningham said higher short-term  interest rates  and
slightly better economic data also helped encourage money funds
to lend more to banks in  France  and other European countries
where they had previously pulled back. Annualized rates for
overnight lending to European banks were about 0.18 percent to
0.23 percent in mid-January after dropping to as low as 0.01
just before the end of 2011, Cunningham said.  The lending figures include repurchase agreements, which
are backed by collateral such as government debt. Collateral-
based repo investments make up a larger part of European overall
funding, showing that counterparty risk remains a concern for
the funds.  European repo deals amounted to $42.8 billion in January,
making up 28 percent of European bank securities held at the
funds, up from 21 percent in 2010. French bank repo funding was
also 28 percent of the total in January, compared with 6 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  