-- Consumer Sentiment Falls More Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-10T20:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-falls-more-than-estimated-to-72-5.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
declined more than forecast in February as growing optimism
about job prospects failed to ease concern wages will stagnate.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan preliminary 
index of consumer sentiment dropped to 72.5 from 75 in January,
a one-year high. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey
called for 74.8. Another report showed the nation’s trade gap
widened in December.  A 22-cent increase in the price of a gallon of gasoline
this year is pinching household finances, serving as a reminder
that the pickup in hiring has yet to boost incomes.  Consumer
spending  may hold up as the report showed more Americans
believed the  jobless rate  will drop than at any time in the past
three decades.  “It’s likely due to the gas prices and some payback for
the strong gains we’ve seen in recent months,” said  Gus Faucher , a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Philadelphia. “The recovery is going to continue and
spending will be good, but not great.”  Stocks dropped on concern that plans to help  Greece  avoid
default were unraveling. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
decreased 0.9 percent to 1,339.26 at 3:23 p.m. in  New York .  Reports from  Europe  today showed Swiss consumer prices
dropped in January by the most in more than two years as the
franc’s ascent lowered the cost of imported goods.  China Slowing  Elsewhere,  China ’s exports and imports fell in January for
the first time in two years and lending grew less than
estimated, adding to signs growth is slowing in the world’s
second-largest economy.  The  trade deficit  in the U.S. widened in December to a six-
month high as a strengthening economy prompted bigger gains in
imports than exports, data from the Commerce Department showed.
The gap increased 3.7 percent to $48.8 billion from $47.1
billion in November. Purchases of goods and services produced
overseas were the strongest in more than three years on record
demand for capital equipment like machinery and semiconductors.  Estimates for consumer sentiment in the Bloomberg survey of
71 economists ranged from 71 to 79.5. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession and 89 in the five years leading to
the 18-month slump that ended in June 2009.  Today’s report contrasts with another confidence measure
released yesterday. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed
to minus 41.7, a one-year high, in the period ended Feb. 5 from
minus 44.8 the prior week.  Expectations Dim  The Michigan survey’s index of  consumer expectations  for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of consumer spending, fell to 68 this month from 69.1 in
January.  The share of consumers who believed unemployment will fall
reached the highest level since 1984, according to the report.  Fewer firings and faster job growth have helped to boost
sentiment since the end of the third quarter, when the
confidence gauge was 59.4. The  four-week average  of jobless
claims fell last week to the lowest since April 2008, Labor
Department data showed yesterday.  The  unemployment rate  in January declined to 8.3 percent,
the lowest since February 2009, while the economy generated
243,000 jobs, the most in nine months, Labor Department data
showed on Feb. 3.  Signs of Strength  Other reports have pointed to strength in the economy.  Investors are accepting lower yields to hold debt from
speculative-grade companies as confidence in the economy grows.
Yields on such debt sank to 7.76 percent yesterday, the lowest
since Aug. 3, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The drop in borrowing costs has helped spur $42.3 billion
in high-yield sales in the U.S. this year, the busiest two-month
period since May and June of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The average American celebrating Valentine’s Day this year
will spend $126, an increase of 8.5 percent over 2011 and the
highest in a decade of surveys by the  National Retail
Federation . The poll of 9,317 consumers was conducted from
January 4-11, 2012 by BIGinsight. It has a margin of error of
plus or minus 1.0 percent.  By contrast, the Conference Board’s index of  current
conditions , which reflects Americans’ perceptions of their
financial situation and whether they consider it a good time to
buy big-ticket items like cars, dropped to 79.6 from 84.2 the
prior month.  Outlook for Incomes  Six out of every 10 households said their incomes will
probably not increase over the next year, according to the
report. Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect
an inflation rate of 3.2 percent over the next 12 months, down
from 3.3 percent in January.  Over the next five years, the range tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expect a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, up from 2.7 percent in January.  Higher fuel costs pose a threat to confidence. A gallon of
regular  unleaded gasoline  climbed to $3.50 yesterday from $3.28
at the end of 2011, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
automobile association. Fuel prices dropped to a 10-month low of
$3.21 on Dec. 20.  “While we’re cautiously optimistic that portions of the
 U.S. economy  are improving, we aren’t planning for a big
increase in market demand,” Thomas Falk, chief executive
officer of Dallas-based  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of
Kleenex tissues, said on a Jan. 24 conference call.  Hourly Earnings  Incomes have yet to follow. Hourly earnings were up 1.9
percent in January on average from the same month in 2011, the
smallest year-to-year gain since April, last week’s report from
the Labor Department showed. For production workers, the 1.5
percent increase was the smallest in records going back to 1965.  Rising stock prices are helping some Americans feel
wealthier. The  S&P 500  gained 7.5 percent so far this year
through yesterday, the best start to a year since 1991.  Consumer purchases  increased 2 percent in the fourth
quarter, less than the median forecast of economists surveyed,
the Commerce Department figures showed last month. Household
purchases climbed 2.2 percent in 2011 after an increase of 2
percent in 2010, the weakest two-year performance of any post-
World War II expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  