-- S&P 500 Snaps Five-Week Advance
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-10T21:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-stock-futures-retreat-as-euro-area-ministers-withhold-aid-to-greece.html
U.S. stocks fell, snapping a five-
week-rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, on concern that
plans to help Greece avoid default were unraveling and as
confidence among American consumers dropped more than forecast.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  retreated more
than 1.3 percent to pace declines among financial companies.
Commodity producers slumped as  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  decreased at least 1.9
percent.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker of thin-film solar
panels, tumbled 10 percent after permitting issues delayed a
U.S. loan guarantee for a power plant in California.  The  S&P 500  declined 0.7 percent to 1,342.64 as of 4 p.m.
New York time, the most since Dec. 28. The benchmark gauge has
fallen 0.2 percent since Feb. 3, snapping the longest weekly
rally since  January 2011 . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
decreased 89.23 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,801.23 today.  “We’ve had a flip-flop that triggered global selling,”
 Frederic Dickson , who helps oversee $28 billion as chief market
strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego , Oregon, said
in a telephone interview. “Investors are responding to the
sudden change in direction or the lack of resolution of the
Greek/European problem that they felt was resolved.”  Global equities tumbled after George Karatzaferis, who
heads one of the three parties supporting interim Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos , said he wouldn’t support austerity measures
worked out for a rescue. He spoke hours after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin that  Greece 
was missing deficit targets. S&P downgraded 34 Italian banks
after reducing the nation’s grade last month.  Consumer Sentiment  Stocks extended losses as the Thomson Reuters/University of
 Michigan preliminary  index of consumer sentiment dropped to 72.5
from 75 in January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey called for 74.8. The gauge averaged 89 in the five years
leading to the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Today’s slump followed a three-day rally that yesterday put
the S&P 500 less than 1 percent away from its peak nine months
ago of  1,363.61 , which was the highest level since June 2008.
The benchmark gauge is up 6.8 percent this year as companies
reported earnings that  beat  analysts’ estimates while better-
than-expected data on manufacturing and employment bolstered
optimism about the world’s largest economy.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index dropped 1.2 percent amid
concern about global economic growth. The Dow Jones
Transportation Average lost 1 percent. All 10 groups in the S&P
500 fell as commodity, financial and industrial shares had the
biggest declines.  Banks Slump  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  slid 1.3 percent as all of its 24 stocks
retreated. Citigroup sank 2.2 percent to $32.93. Bank of America
lost 1.3 percent to $8.07.  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis may curb global economic
growth also drove energy and raw material producers lower.
Copper shipments to  China  fell in January, the first drop in
eight months, while inventories monitored by the Shanghai
Futures Exchange advanced for the ninth straight week to a
record.  Freeport-McMoRan, the world’s largest publicly traded
copper producer, sank 3.2 percent to $44.94. Alcoa erased 3.3
percent to $10.29. Halliburton fell 1.9 percent to $36.06.  First Solar tumbled 10 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$43.91. Exelon Corp. purchased the 230-megawatt Antelope Valley
Solar Ranch One for $75 million in September, and the Tempe,
Arizona-based solar company will have to buy it back if the
project cannot win final construction permits and qualify for
the $646 million U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee, First
Solar said yesterday in a regulatory  filing .  Lower Rating  “First Solar will not be able to recognize revenues from
AVSR construction unless a sale is completed and funded,” Dan Ries, an analyst at Collins Stewart, said today in a note to
clients. He reduced his rating to “neutral” from “buy.”  Apollo Global Management LLC dropped 6.1 percent to $14.40.
The private equity firm that went public last year said fourth-
quarter profit fell 66 percent as market swings hurt its private
equity holdings.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  rose 4.5 percent, the biggest gain in the S&P
500, to $28.94. Excluding some items, fourth-quarter earnings
were 50 cents a share, beating the 48-cent average estimate of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The operator of the New York
Stock Exchange is preparing to discuss its standalone strategy
with shareholders after being blocked last week from merging
with Deutsche Boerse AG.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  surged 18 percent to $89.96. The biggest
professional-networking website reported quarterly sales that
more than doubled and forecast higher 2012 revenue, buoyed by
advertising and subscriptions.  Cash Back  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink, who urged investors this
week to put all their money in equities, said his call was aimed
at getting cash back into the  capital markets .  “It’s important to get cash off the sidelines and back
into the markets so people can get the returns they need and we
can get our economies moving again,” Fink, chief executive
officer of the world’s largest asset-management firm, told
BlackRock employees in Beijing yesterday. “Obviously, everyone
needs a portfolio tailored to their risk-tolerance and goals;
one size doesn’t fit all,” Fink said, according to a transcript
of the comments obtained by Bloomberg News.  Comments by Fink that yields from traditional bonds are too
low to provide meaningful returns for investors have been echoed
by billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who said yesterday that
bonds are among the “most dangerous of assets.” The  Federal
Reserve  has kept borrowing costs near zero, and said last month
that economic conditions may warrant “exceptionally low”
 interest rates  through 2014.  “Too many people are underweight equities, and one of
things I’m trying to do is to get people to think about the
opportunities they’re missing, with valuations at these
levels,” Fink said in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  