-- U.S. Northwest Gasoline Strengthens on Work at BP Oil Refinery
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-10T23:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/u-s-northwest-gasoline-strengthens-on-work-at-bp-oil-refinery.html
Gasoline in the U.S. Northwest rose
to the highest level in nine days after BP Plc reported
electrical maintenance on two gas compressors and flaring from a
third unit at the Cherry Point refinery in Washington state.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
strengthened 2.25 cents to 15 cents below gasoline futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:10 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
narrowest discount since Feb. 1.  London-based BP shut two gas compressors at the 234,000-
barrel-a-day Cherry Point refinery for electrical work that was
scheduled to last until today, according to a notice with state
regulators. The No. 2 reformer debutanizer tower flared for 10
to 12 hours Feb. 8 during testing, another filing shows.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles 
strengthened 1.62 cents to a premium of 21 cents versus gasoline
futures, the highest level since Dec. 30. The same fuel in  San
Francisco  rose 3 cents to a premium of 12 cents against futures
as San Antonio-based Tesoro Corp. performed maintenance at the
Martinez oil refinery in Northern California.  Houston-based ConocoPhillips reported a leak at the
128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo oil refinery in Northern California
yesterday that forced a plant shut, according to a notice to
county regulators.  “The situation has been completely resolved,” the company
said in the filing.  Diesel Spreads  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles was
unchanged at a premium of 1 cent to Nymex heating oil futures.
San Francisco CARB diesel fell 1 cent to a discount of 0.5 cent
to futures.  California-blend gasoline production reached the highest
level for this time of year in six years, according to the state
Energy Commission. Output of the fuel rose 13 percent to 6.3
million barrels in the week ended Feb. 3, the state said.  Carbob inventories jumped 9 percent to 6.41 million barrels
last week, according to the state.  “The biggest build was down south,” Rob Schlichting, a
spokesman for the energy commission in  Sacramento , said in an e-
mail. “It could be preparation for more turnarounds, or just
preparation for the shift to summer fuel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  