-- Ukraine Asks Traders to Limit Wheat Exports Due to Weather
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-02-10T17:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/ukraine-asks-traders-to-limit-wheat-exports-after-drought-damages-plants.html
Ukraine asked grain traders to limit
wheat exports after drought and frosts damaged the winter crop,
Volodymyr Klymenko, head of the country’s Grain Association
said.  “The ministry asked us not to sign too many contracts for
wheat,” Klymenko said in an interview from Kiev today.  The former Soviet state will have to replant almost half of
its winter grains with spring crops, Prime Minister  Mykola
Azarov  said today, according to a statement on the government’s
website. “We had severe frosts in January and we will have to
re-sow 3.5 million hectares (8.6 million acres) with spring
grains,” he said.  Ukraine’s Agriculture Ministry estimated about 8.4 million
hectares of winter grains, most of which was wheat, was planted
for the 2012 harvest. About 1.84 million hectares, of 7.2
million hectares which sprouted, were in good condition, the
ministry said yesterday.  Ukraine’s wheat harvest is seen declining to 13.7 million
metric tons in 2012, Liza Malyshko, a UkrAgroConsult analyst,
said Feb. 7. That compares with last year’s 22.3 million tons,
when the country reaped a record 56.7 million ton grain harvest,
according to the state statistics office data.  This year, the worst drought in at least 50 years weakened
winter grains, most of which is wheat, from September through
November. Low temperatures at the end of January and this month
caused further damage to plants raising government concerns
about meeting domestic demand.  Export Estimate  Ukraine reduced its grain exports estimate to as low as 23
million tons for the marketing year started July 1 after drought
damaged winter grains for the 2012 harvest, Serhiy Kvasha, head
of the agriculture markets department at the  Agriculture
Ministry , said on Dec. 5. He was unavailable to comment when
Bloomberg news phoned his office today.  Grain exports in the country have been restriction free for
a little more than a month. Ukraine taxed barley exports from
the summer through Dec. 31 and corn and wheat from the summer
through October, when the duty was scrapped due to last year’s
record crop. Before the summer, the country’s grain exports were
limited by quotas for seven months following the summer drought
in 2010.  The winter grain damage may be the worst since at least
2003, UkrAgroConsult’s Malyshko said. Ukraine reaped 20.2
million tons that year, the smallest since 1991, when the
country got its independence, according to the state statistics
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  