-- Ultra-Low U.K. Yields Owe More to King Than Osborne, Poll Finds
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-02-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/ultra-low-u-k-yields-owe-more-to-king-than-osborne-poll-finds.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s pledge to eliminate the budget deficit isn’t the main
reason U.K. government-bond yields are at record lows, say most
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Bank of England ’s quantitative-easing program, which
has so far purchased a quarter of outstanding gilts, was
identified as the single biggest cause by a third of 27
economists polled. Just over a quarter said investors fleeing
other European bonds were driving U.K. rates lower, while 22
percent said Osborne’s plan was the main reason. The survey was
conducted Jan. 20 to Feb. 9.  “It’s QE and the flight out of  Europe , although QE
probably has the edge as the most important factor,” said  Marc Ostwald , a gilt strategist and Monument Securities in London.
“The government’s plan is the gloss.”  Osborne says low bond yields vindicate his budget cuts,
which will see more than 700,000 state jobs axed in the tightest
fiscal squeeze since World War II, and set Britain apart from
debt-laden euro-region nations including  France  that have had
their credit ratings cut. The plan, which seeks to erase the
bulk of a budget deficit equal to 9 percent of gross domestic
product, risks pushing the economy into a second recession in
less than three years, the opposition  Labour Party  says.  “Although the fiscal framework is important, we already
had low yields before the austerity program was announced when
the new government came in,” said  Ross Walker , chief U.K.
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The Bank of
England owns a lot of the outstanding stock, and then you have
pension funds and banks who have to hold gilts. The bit of the
market that is de facto free is relatively small.”  More Easing  The Bank of England yesterday pledged to pump another 50
billion pounds into the U.K. economy, raising the target for
bond purchases to 325 billion pounds ($514 billion). The program
will leave the central bank with about a 27 percent of the 1.2
trillion-pound gilt market once the new round of purchases is
completed in May.  “Financial repression is the artificial manipulation of
bond yields by the authorities -- that’s what we did after World
War II, particularly in Britain, and artificial manipulation
probably explains about three-quarters of why bond yields are
this low today,” Danny Gabay, director of Fathom Financial
Consulting, said during a panel discussion in  London  this week.  While yields have fallen since the Bank of England led by
Governor  Mervyn King  began its asset-buying program in early
2009, the sharpest drop came last year as the sovereign debt
crisis led investors to reject the debt of other European
governments.  Bond Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt has fallen 1.65
percentage points to 2.22 percent in the last 12 months. The
yield fell to 1.917 percent on Jan. 18, the lowest since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989. Similar-maturity
government debt yields 2.87 percent in France, 5.13 percent in
 Spain  and 5.45 percent in  Italy .  “The government’s deficit-reduction plan has not only
helped restore confidence in the U.K. public finances and
resulted in lower market interest rates, it has also created
space for the independent Bank of England to keep monetary
policy more accommodative than it otherwise would have been,”
the Treasury said in a statement. “And it has also meant that
the U.K. regained its international fiscal credibility and
marked us out as a safe haven.”  Investors may have little choice when looking to buy
securities other than U.S. Treasuries or Japanese  government
bonds .  Haven Status  “Gilts are undoubtedly being used as a safe haven,” said
 Philip Shaw , chief economist at Investec Securities in London.
“It may be strange that the U.K. is benefitting when it has
such a large  budget deficit . But it’s outside the euro zone, so
it’s attractive. QE isn’t hurting either.”  Eliminating the structural deficit by 2017 is the
cornerstone of Osborne’s economic policy. Deviation from the
program would “be abandoning the deficit plan that has brought
us the stability other nations today crave,” he said on Oct. 3,
the same day that  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Britain’s AAA
credit rating.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
forecasts the U.K. economy will shrink 0.1 percent this year and
grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared with projections in October
for growth of 0.8 percent and 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  