-- Hungary Denies Report on Malev’s Revival as Job Cuts Proceed
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-10T14:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/hungary-denies-report-on-malev-revival-as-job-cuts-proceed.html
Hungary denied a newspaper report
that it was seeking to revive state-owned carrier  Malev Zrt. (MALEV) ,
while keeping open the possibility that a new Budapest-based
airline may be set up in its place.  Malev’s liquidation may begin “in a matter of days,” the
Development Ministry said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Malev is cutting 2,080 of 2,600 jobs, state-run MTI news service
reported today, citing Malev spokeswoman Marta Rona.  Malev, weighed down by debts of 60 billion forint ($269
million), halted flights on Feb. 3 after 66 years in operation.
The European Commission, the regulatory arm of the European
Union, ruled last month that the airline must return the
equivalent of $390 million in  government aid  from 2007 to 2010.  “There is no realistic possibility to keep Malev alive
because of the inherited burdens, the commission’s ruling on the
repayment of state aid and the ban on further state aid,” the
Development Ministry said.  Napi Gazdasag  newspaper reported today that Hungarian
negotiators held talks with  Vnesheconombank (VNECB) ,  Russia ’s state
development bank known as VEB, on a possible loan to revive
Malev. Hungary acquired a 95 percent stake in Malev in 2010 to
replace VEB as a controlling shareholder when a previous
privatization failed.  VEB Debt  Malev owes VEB 112.4 million euros ($148.1 million),
Yekaterina Grishkovets, the Russian bank’s spokeswoman, said by
e-mail. While the bank doesn’t directly own shares in Malev,
it’s a shareholder in AirBridge Zrt., which controls slightly
more than 2 percent in Malev, she said.  A Budapest-based airline “can only be imagined with an
industry investor with a strong capital position and a strategy
that can be reconciled with national interests,” the ministry
said. “All other solutions would just reproduce the problems
that led to the halt of Malev’s operations.”  There are no solutions in sight for creating a new national
carrier, Janos Lazar, head of the ruling Fidesz party’s
parliamentary group, told reporters today in Eger, MTI reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  