-- Turkey’s Low Rates Prevent Household Bankruptcies, RenCap Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-10T15:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/turkey-s-low-rates-prevent-household-bankruptcies-rencap-says.html
Turkey ’s policy of keeping  interest
rates  low has helped households and small businesses avoid
bankruptcy, while increasing the risk of accelerating inflation,
according to  Renaissance Capital .  “Many households and corporates are practically
insolvent,” with low incomes and high debt, Yildiz said. “An
aggressive rate hike would mean these indebted households and
corporates could cause a mass bankruptcy.”  Turkey’s central bank has kept its main rate at a record
low 5.75 percent since August to spur growth, while varying
banks’ cost of funds and reserve ratios in a bid to control the
current-account deficit and inflation.  Inflation accelerated to a three-year high of 10.6 percent
in January, while the 12-month cumulative current-account gap
was $77.8 billion in November, about 10 percent of estimated
gross domestic product. A shortfall of that scale represents a
risk to economic stability,  Fitch Ratings  said in November.  Inflation is likely to reach a peak of 13 percent in the
first half of this year before settling at 10 percent by year-
end, according to the report.  The low rates triggered a “borrowing spree” by poorer
Turks, Yildiz said. About 55 percent of total loans in Turkey
are taken out by individuals with incomes of less than $1,200 a
month, he said.  While short-term rates should be around 15 to 20 percent to
control inflation, political pressure on the central bank from
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and the increasing
indebtedness of households is likely to mean rates remain low,
according to Yildiz.  Turkey’s interbank overnight repurchase rate is currently
9.07 percent, according to an index by Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  