-- Turkey Orders Arrest of Its Own Spies in PKK Investigation
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-10T15:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/turkey-orders-arrest-of-its-own-spies-in-pkk-investigation-1-.html
Turkey  issued arrest warrants for
four current and former employees of the state intelligence
agency in a probe into an organization that officials say is the
urban arm of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK.  The warrants, reported by the state-run Anatolia news
agency, came after the head of the National Intelligence
Organization, Hakan Fidan, refused to testify in an Istanbul
prosecutor’s case against the group, the Union of Communities in
Kurdistan, or KCK. The government says the KCK is the urban arm
of the PKK, which is listed as a terrorist organization by
Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union.  Turkish intelligence officials held meetings with PKK
leaders under government instructions, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters in September.  Erdogan summoned Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin yesterday
to discuss whether the prosecutors have the legal authority to
ask Fidan to testify, Milliyet newspaper reported. Deputy
premier Bulent Arinc said the agency’s employees can’t be
investigated as suspects for their official actions without
approval by the prime minister.  Turkey jailed more than 7,000 people and arrested almost
4,000 as part of the KCK probe, the pro-Kurdish Peace and
Democracy Party said in October. Arrests have continued since
then, with journalists, academics, publishers and politicians
among those charged.  Prosecutors are preparing a 2,500-page indictment that will
name 180 defendants, Radikal newspaper  reported  yesterday. They
will be charged with aiding a terrorist organization, running
the PKK’s ideological training centers in urban areas, and
participating in armed trainings in mountain camps, it said.  The PKK has been fighting for autonomy in Turkey’s
southeast since 1984 in a conflict that has left more than
40,000 people dead, mostly Kurds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 