-- Turkish Current-Account Gap Probably Narrowed in December
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-02-10T12:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/turkish-current-account-gap-probably-narrowed-in-december.html
Turkey ’s  current-account gap 
probably narrowed on an annual basis for the second consecutive
month in December, boosting the central bank’s case that it’s
reducing the deficit.  The shortfall was $6.5 billion, down from $7.5 billion a
year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
 survey  of nine economists. The gap narrowed in November for the
first time since October 2009. The central bank will announce
the figures at 10 a.m. in Ankara on Feb. 13.  Concern over Turkey’s ability to finance the gap helped
drive the lira 18 percent lower against the dollar last year,
the biggest depreciation among emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Limits on credit growth and a weaker lira
are narrowing the deficit and cheap lending by the U.S. Federal
Reserve and the European Central Bank mean financing is
plentiful, central bank Governor Erdem Basci said on Jan. 26.  “The current-account trend is toward narrowing, but it’s
not taking place rapidly and the numbers are still high,” said
Nihan Ziya-Erdem, an economist at Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS,
which forecasts growth of 2.7 percent this year. “The economic
slowdown isn’t as steep as we expected and activity still looks
lively.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , re-elected to a third
term in office in June, aims to slow growth to 4 percent this
year from more than 8 percent in 2011, according to government
plans announced on Oct. 14.  Turkey imports nearly all its energy needs, creating a
trade deficit that’s been widened by domestic demand for foreign
goods. The central bank’s lending curbs seek to restrain that
domestic demand.  The deficit in the 12 months through November was $77.8
billion, about 10 percent of estimated gross domestic product. A
shortfall of that scale represents a risk to economic stability,
 Fitch Ratings  said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  