-- Van Gogh’s Frenzied Flowers, Starry Skies Thrill in ’Up Close’
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/van-gogh-s-frenzied-flowers-starry-landscapes-thrill-in-up-close-show.html
“ Van Gogh  Up Close,” a new
exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, plays down the
usual mythology featuring the ear, the asylums and suicide in a
wheat field in Auvers.  Instead, the show brings us face-to-face with an intimate
side of his art, and illumines Vincent Van Gogh (1853-90) the
fervent naturalist.  The somewhat unsurprising premise -- that Van Gogh painted
nature “close up” -- brings masterpieces and oddities out of
hiding.  Especially remarkable is “Wheatfield” (1888), a
landscape on loan from the Honolulu Academy of Arts. It looks
moist, almost teary, as if it were painted yesterday.  All the pictures date from his fertile, troubled last four
years, during he would leave Paris for Arles, Saint-Remy and
Auvers. In this period, Van Gogh did his greatest work.  In some of these pictures, which have the frontal frenzy of
 Jackson Pollock , Van Gogh is not so much making compositions but
immersing us in intense sensations.  Van Gogh, a failed pastor and largely self-taught artist,
seemed to be searching for something beyond the grass, leaves
and petals, perhaps a source for reflection and meditation.  Solar Systems  He gives haloes to forms. In “Crown Imperial (Fritillaria)
in a Copper Vase,” he transforms wallpaper into a star-studded
night sky. In “Sunflowers” and “Grapes, Lemons, Pears, and
Apples,” he treats still lifes like solar systems, their
objects exploding outward; spinning out of orbit.  Vases whirl. Flowers ignite and rain like fireworks.
“Still Life With Basket of Apples,” in which fruit twist and
turn in a shallow bowl on an uneasy yellow field, suggests a
lifeboat of huddled survivors adrift on a sea of fire.  “Quinces,” a mound of fruit, resembles nude, tumbling,
Rubenesque bodies under a cascading waterfall. And in “Sheaves
of Wheat,” the harvest’s standing pyramidal bundles,
anthropomorphized, become a circle of celebratory dancers.  “Up Close” includes 46 paintings by Van Gogh, and
although the works are uneven, the show really doesn’t need any
padding. Why is nearly half the show devoted to Japanese and
European prints and 19th-century nature photography?  Certainly the flat, shallow plane, delineated shapes and
activated surfaces of Japanese prints heavily influenced Van
Gogh. But here a footnote becomes filler.  Fields of Flowers  There’s also a photography section, a medium Van Gogh
loudly dismissed. It forces unwarranted comparisons with his
paintings. And the show’s last gallery, comprising a dozen fine
European prints, would have made more sense as a prelude.  Yet none of this is reason to stay away from the show’s
masterpieces.  In the naturalistic “Field With Flowers Near Arles,” Van
Gogh conveys -- in the bruised-violet-gray sky, golden light,
and thickening, gathering marks -- the heady moment before a
summer downpour.  And in “Rain,” he pelts us -- puts us at the center of
the storm. “Wheat Fields at Auvers under Clouded Sky” buckles,
zigzags and expands, as if the landscape were stretching to
greet the dawn.  And in the muscular “Road Menders at Saint-Remy,” line,
color and the artist’s emotions interweave. Nature -- made
personal; brought up-close -- is felt as a magnificent force.
Yet so are the artist’s feelings toward her, which quake beneath
the picture’s surface.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 