-- Vernalis Gains Most Since 2004 on Cough-Drug Pact: London Mover
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-02-10T17:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/vernalis-gains-most-since-2004-on-cough-drug-pact-london-mover.html
Vernalis Plc (VER)  surged the most in more
than seven years in London after agreeing with closely-held  Tris
Pharma Inc.  to develop cough and cold drugs in a market the
unprofitable U.K. drugmaker valued at as much as $2 billion.  The shares climbed 29 percent to 25.25 pence, the steepest
gain since July 2004, giving the company a market value of 25.1
million pounds ($39.5 million).  The deal offers potential access to the $2 billion U.S.
prescription cough and cold drug market and is likely to push
Winnersh, England-based Vernalis into  profitability  this year,
Chief Executive Officer Ian Garland said in an interview. A 65.9
million-pound share sale, also announced today, will be used to
hire as many as 200 salespeople and further fund the company’s
pipeline or potential partnerships, he said.  “We have waited a long time for a deal of this nature, and
are delighted that the company has finally executed,” Shawn Manning, an analyst at Singer Capital Markets in  London  who
recommends buying the shares, wrote in a note to clients.  The drugs will be new formulations of six existing
treatments and won’t require efficacy testing, so the first drug
under the new accord could be submitted to regulators as soon as
12 months from now, Garland said. Vernalis will pay Tris, based
in Monmouth Junction,  New Jersey , $5 million up front and later
undisclosed “success-based” milestones.  “What we’ve found in one deal is up to six products with a
very large commercial opportunity, with a fast path to market
and technology protection,” Garland said. “We’re building a
self-sustaining business. This doesn’t depend on us doing
further deals in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  