-- Vietnam Coffee Exports to Producers Almost Double, Volcafe Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-10T14:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/vietnam-coffee-exports-to-producers-almost-double-volcafe-says.html
Exports of Vietnamese coffee to
other producing countries have almost doubled this season,
according to Volcafe, the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F
Man Holdings Ltd.  Indonesia  has been a “strong” importer after production
there fell last year, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader
said. Vietnam is the world’s largest robusta grower and
Indonesia is the third biggest. Ecuador,  India ,  Mexico  and  China 
have also been importing the beans from Vietnam, it said.  “Indonesia is of course a strong importer this season due
to its disastrous 2011 crop,” Volcafe said in a report to
clients and e-mailed today. “We’re estimating a 2 million-bag
growth in robusta demand in all producing countries this year.”  Production in Indonesia slipped to 8.3 million bags of 132-
pounds in the 2011-12 season from 9.3 million bags a year
earlier, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Selling from  Vietnam  increased this week after prices rose
on the NYSE Liffe exchange, Volcafe said. Robusta coffee futures
have climbed 8 percent this year.  “There is plenty of coffee around and a higher London
market triggers keen selling interest,” Volcafe said in the
report. “Volumes traded locally are huge.”  Sellers in Vietnam are pricing their physical beans above
the March contract this week instead of the May, after March-
delivered beans on NYSE Liffe became more expensive than coffee
for May delivery, it said.  Vietnamese coffee for shipment in March and April was at a
premium of $10 a metric ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange in London, down from $20 a ton last week, data from
Volcafe show. The premium would normally fall when the futures
climb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 