-- VIX Wagers Surge After S&P 500’s Best Start Since 1991: Options
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-02-10T01:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/vix-wagers-surge-after-s-p-500-s-best-start-since-1991-options.html
Demand has never been  greater  for an
exchange-traded note that appreciates when U.S. stock volatility
rises, pushed up by speculators after equities posted their best
start to a year since 1991.  The market value of the VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-
Term ETN, which aims to produce twice the daily return of the
 Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, more than
tripled this year to a record $514 million. Issued shares rose
more than sixfold to 33.8 million between Dec. 30 and Feb. 7.  Stocks have gained in 2012 following better-than-estimated
jobs data, driving down measures of equity volatility. Now,
after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 7.5 percent,
investors are buying the ETN in case the advance fizzles and
price swings surge, said Glenmede Trust Co.’s Sean Heron. The
VelocityShares security rose 135 percent in August after S&P cut
the U.S. government’s credit rating, roiling markets.  “It’s a convenient way to own volatility,” Heron, who
manages options strategies at Philadelphia-based Glenmede, said
yesterday in a phone interview. His firm oversees $20 billion.
“People want to own the VIX, people want to be long volatility
and protect their assets.”  Increasing use of exchange-traded VIX products has driven
volume and open interest for its futures to new highs. The
futures have an open interest of about 190,000 and reached a
record 248,976 in June. That’s up from an average of 179,253
last year and 91,481 in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Record Swings  VIX swings widened to a record last year. The gauge’s
three-month realized volatility increased to a record 191.59 on
Oct. 31 as then-Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he
would hold a referendum on the European Union’s bailout plan for
the nation, boosting speculation the country would default. That
was more than double the 92.09 median over the prior decade and
eclipsed the prior peak of 190.44 from December 2008.  Yesterday, European finance ministers held back a rescue
package for  Greece  in a rebuff that left lawmakers in  Athens 
under government pressure to endorse a newly minted austerity
plan or exit the euro. The refusal to deliver a 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) bailout for Greece reflected the euro area’s
frustration with the country’s bickering politicians and the
prospect that they may again backtrack on fiscal commitments not
passed into law.  The VIX jumped to a two-year high of 48 in August after S&P
reduced the U.S. government’s credit rating. Equity investors
bought volatility products after enduring unprecedented price
swings in 2011 when concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis pushed
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to  alternate  between gains and
losses of more than 400 points on four days for the first time
ever in August. Daily share swings in the  S&P 500  averaged 2.2
percent that month, the most for any August since 1932,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Going to Explode’  “If we ever get volatility in the market again, those
things are going to explode,” Dominic Salvino, a specialist on
the CBOE floor for Group One Trading, the primary market maker
for VIX options, said in a phone interview yesterday. “In a
quiet market like this, people who want to trade an instrument
that moves a lot are going to want to find something that’s
leveraged.”  VelocityShares LLC, which is based in Darien,  Connecticut ,
created its first products in 2010. Six exchange-traded notes
tied to the VIX, which tracks the cost of using options to
protect against a drop in the S&P 500, launched that month. The
TVIX, as the leveraged ETN is known, was one of them.  Barclays, VXX  Shares issued on Barclays Plc’s competing  iPath S&P 500 VIX
Short-Term Futures ETN (VXX) , the volatility-tied security with the
largest market capitalization, have also increased,  doubling 
since the end of 2011 to a six-month high of 38 million. The
security is known as the VXX.  “Investors can use these products to gain exposure,” Tim Edwards, a vice president at Barclays in New York, where he’s
responsible for ETN product development, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “Some participants are viewing this as an
attractive buying point.”  ETNs, which are unsecured bank debt, are backed by their
issuer’s credit -- unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold
assets. Banks create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the
level of demand for the securities. That demand doesn’t affect
the price since the ETNs track the performance of an index. Both
the TVIX and VXX notes are based on the  VIX futures .  Money for Lending  Banks issue ETNs to raise funds that they can use for
lending or other purposes. London-based Barclays, which controls
less than half the market, listed the first securities in June
2006. Money invested in the notes has increased to about $16.1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Without a surge in volatility, returns on the notes can
decrease over time. The TVIX has declined 84 percent since its
peak on Oct. 3 as the VIX tumbled 59 percent during the same
period. Barclays’ VXX fell 55 percent while the S&P 500 rose 23
percent from its October low.  “Holding it for a long period of time is usually a bad
play,” Joe Tigay, a VIX options trader at Stutland Equities LLC
in Chicago, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “There is
this rebalancing effect, where every day they have to
recalculate it, and there’s a general bias” downward.  That doesn’t prevent investors from buying ETNs such as the
TVIX, which offer easy exposure to volatility, said  Michael McCarty , managing partner at Differential Research LLC in
Austin,  Texas .  “It’s become one of the favorite long VIX vehicles because
it’s double-levered,” McCarty said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “People want an easy-to-trade solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  