-- VTB Heads for Longest Losing Streak in 3 Months on Share Buyback
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-10T14:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/vtb-heads-for-longest-losing-streak-in-3-months-on-share-buyback.html
VTB Group (VTBR)  headed for its worst
losing streak in three months after  Russia ’s second-largest bank
said yesterday it would cap its share buyback for investors who
lost money in its 2007 initial public offering.  VTB’s shares sank 1.9 percent to 6.76 kopeks by 5:52 p.m.
in Moscow, dropping for a fifth day, the longest losing streak
since November.  The stock surged as much as 4.3 percent on Feb. 2 after
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  told the state-controlled lender
to consider buying back shares from investors who participated
in the bank’s 2007 initial public offering. The buyback will be
capped at 500,000 rubles ($16,600) per person at the 2007 IPO
price of 13.6 kopeks, VTB Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin
said at a briefing in Moscow yesterday.  “The initial news of the buyback sparked some hype but all
the speculative money swept out when the details became known,”
Michael Kart, a managing partner at hedge fund firm Spectrum
Partners Ltd., said by phone. “As of today, investors are
building short positions in the name.” Spectrum currently holds
the stock and did not take part in the IPO, according to Kart.  Kostin said the courts were unlikely to rule in favor of
investors excluded from the buyback.  “Legal action by investors is possible,”  Ivan Mazalov ,
director of Prosperity Capital Management, which manages about
$4 billion in assets in Russia and former Soviet states, said by
phone today. “It’s a risk when a company buys back shares well
above the market price from only a certain number of
investors.” Prosperity did not participate in the IPO, Mazalov
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  