-- Cold May Send U.S. Energy Use Above Normal
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-10T14:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/weather-may-send-u-s-energy-use-above-normal.html
Cold weather in the central U.S. and
snow in the Northeast may push energy consumption above seasonal
norms across much of the country, forecasters said.  Low temperatures are expected to drop into the 20s in  New
York  and about 2 inches (5 centimeters) of snow may fall
starting tomorrow, according to the  National Weather Service . In
Chicago, where 3 inches of snow may fall today, temperatures are
expected to drop to about 15 degrees (minus 9 Celsius) tomorrow.  “To the average person, it’s going to feel nasty,” said
Paul Pastelok, a meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc . in  State
College , Pennsylvania.  Energy use for heating will probably exceed normal levels
across the southern U.S. from New Mexico to central Georgia and
north into Colorado, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Heating demand is expected to reach normal levels through
the Midwest and the Ohio Valley and may be as much as 10 percent
below average in the upper Great Plains and Northeast, according
to Salmon’s forecast.  Traders watch temperature predictions and heating degree
day values to gauge energy use and demand for heating and
cooling. About 51 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Central U.S. Cold  Temperatures across the central U.S. from the  Great Lakes 
to the Gulf of Mexico may be 5 to 14 degrees below normal,
according to a 1- to 5-day forecast by Travis Hartman with MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Lows are forecast to reach 25 in Dallas today and tomorrow;
33 in Houston tomorrow; 23 in Atlanta; 12 in  St. Louis ; and 22
in  Washington , according to the weather service.  “Sub-zero temperatures are entering the far upper Midwest
and Plains this morning as the big weekend cold push initiates
its arrival,” said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Forecasters are split on how soon milder temperatures will
return to the East following the weekend cold snap and how far
they will spread.  In his 6- to 10-day forecast, Rogers predicts most of the
U.S. will be seasonal with just the very northern edge from the
upper Great Plains to northern New England having temperatures 3
to 5 degrees above normal.  Salmon calls for temperatures to be 6 to 10 degrees above
normal for most areas east of the  Mississippi River  in his
forecast for Feb. 16 to Feb. 20.  For Feb. 14, the normal average temperature in New York is
about 35 degrees, according to MDA. It’s about 32 in Boston; 36
in Philadelphia; 47 in Atlanta; 28 in  Chicago ; 49 in Dallas; 44
in Seattle; and 56 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  