-- Weekend Storm Looms for U.S. Northeast as Snow Begins to Fall in Chicago
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-10T19:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/weekend-storm-looms-for-u-s-northeast.html
A storm developing off the East
Coast will probably bring 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of
snow to  New York  and Boston over the weekend, the National
Weather Service said.  Heavy snowfall began in  Chicago  at midday. The Eastern
storm will move south and east of Long Island and mix with
colder air from the north, spreading snow across the New York
area starting late tonight, said  John Murray , a  weather service
meteorologist  in Upton, New York.  Ice and snow have been rare in much of the U.S. this
winter. The two-month start of the season, December and January,
was the fourth-warmest on record with an average temperature 3.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.1 Celsius) above normal, according to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  “There have been glancing blows of the cold but it won’t
stay for the couple of periods where it is brutally cold like we
have had in other winters,” said  Paul Walker , senior
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  Most of New York’s snowfall will come into the afternoon
tomorrow, Murray said by telephone.  “An arctic front will be moving through Saturday night and
we still could see some snow showers Saturday night without much
additional accumulation,” he said.  Boston Snowfall  Snow will begin falling in Boston during the day tomorrow,
said  Charlie Foley , an agency meteorologist in Taunton,
 Massachusetts . The suburbs south of the city may receive 4 to 6
inches, while rain is more likely for Cape Cod and the
Massachusetts islands, he said.  In Chicago, a winter weather advisory was issued for lake-
effect snow that is expected to leave about 3 inches on the
ground before ending tonight, according to the weather service.  Snow covers 28.4 percent of the lower 48 states as of
today, the second-lowest amount for Feb. 10 since records
starting being kept in 2004, said Carrie Olheiser of the
 National Operational Hydrologic Remote Sensing Center  in
Chanhassen, Minnesota. The lowest was 25.1 percent in 2006.  Winter Totals  Since Oct. 1, 7.2 inches of snow has fallen in New York’s
Central Park, about 7.7 inches below normal, according to the
weather service. Last year, 57.7 inches of snow had fallen by
Feb. 10, the agency said.  In  Boston , 6.8 inches has fallen since Dec. 1, 18.6 fewer
than normal. Last year, 71.2 inches of snow had fallen by Feb.
10, according to the weather service.  Twenty-two states from  Montana  to  Maine  had temperatures
for the period ranking in their 10 warmest, according to NOAA.  New York has averaged 5.5 degrees above normal since Dec. 1
and Boston 5.4 degrees above normal, Walker said by telephone.  After the snow moves through New York, high temperatures
will be in the 20s north of the city and in the 30s for Central
Park the day after tomorrow. Temperatures are expected to near
50 later in the week in New York and to be in the lower 40s in
Boston, according to the weather service.  The storm may also bring less than an inch of snow to
Philadelphia overnight, the agency said. Snow may fall in
Baltimore and  Washington , although it isn’t expected to
accumulate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  