-- Wegelin Officials Fail to Show Up for U.S. Hearing in Tax Case
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-02-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/wegelin-called-fugitive-after-failing-to-appear-for-u-s-court-hearing.html
Wegelin & Co. officials facing
criminal charges of helping Americans evade taxes failed to
appear at a  Manhattan  court hearing, and prosecutors called the
270-year-old Swiss bank a “fugitive.”  Wegelin and three of its client managers had been indicted
as part of a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion . Prosecutors
said after the hearing yesterday in federal court that the
client managers also failed to appear and were considered
fugitives.  When no defendants or defense attorneys showed up, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff asked prosecutors for a proposal on
how to proceed. Prosecutors said they will confer with the
 Justice Department  and advise Rakoff on their proposals.  “Unlike an individual, arresting a company is somewhat
difficult,” Rakoff said.  Wegelin, based in  St. Gallen , said in a statement that its
representatives didn’t appear because “the legal prerequisites
to initiating criminal proceedings under U.S. law have not been
met.”  The case can’t begin until the defendant has been served
with a summons, according to the statement. Because Wegelin
hasn’t been properly served, the bank said, it wasn’t required
to appear and proceedings may not begin.  ‘Clear Dilemma’  “The circumstances create a clear dilemma for Wegelin &
Co.: If it were to adhere to current U.S. legal practice aimed
at Swiss banks, it would have to breach Swiss law,” the bank
said. “The bank will, as it has done until now, make every
effort to resolve this matter within the boundaries of
respectful cooperation with the U.S. and obedience to Swiss
law.”  Wegelin is the first overseas bank to be indicted by the
U.S. for aiding  tax fraud , federal prosecutors say. The three
Wegelin client managers at the Zurich branch, Michael Berlinka,
Urs Frei and Roger Keller, were also indicted.  The managers serviced “undeclared accounts” for U.S.
taxpayers, meaning the income derived from them wasn’t reported
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, according to the
indictment. The bank helped Americans hide more than $1.2
billion in assets, the U.S. says.  The U.S. and  Switzerland  are in talks to resolve a U.S.
probe of offshore tax evasion. Wegelin was one of at least 11
banks under criminal investigation by the Justice Department’s
tax division.  UBS Clients  Prosecutors said that Wegelin and the three bankers wooed
U.S. clients fleeing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank. UBS avoided
U.S. prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided tax evasion,
paying $780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It
later disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  By attracting clients leaving UBS, Wegelin opened new
undeclared accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers, according to
the indictment. Most of those accounts were given an internal
code of “BNQ,” indicating the accounts were undeclared.  The effort to woo UBS clients was backed by Wegelin’s
senior management, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Wegelin, 12-00002, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 Dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  