-- Wheat Slumps Most in Four Weeks on Outlook for Adequate Global Supplies
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-02-10T20:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/wheat-declines-to-two-week-low-on-outlook-for-adequate-global-stockpiles.html
Wheat fell the most in four weeks
after the U.S. government yesterday projected record world
stockpiles, easing concerns that food prices will rise and
weather damage will cut supply.  Global stockpiles before the 2012 Northern Hemisphere
harvest will climb to 213.1 million metric tons, 6.2 percent
more than last year, the Department of Agriculture said. World
 food  costs are down 9.9 percent from a record last year, United
Nations data show. Wheat prices fell 4.7 percent this week,
after jumping 11 percent in the second half of January on
concern extremely cold weather would hurt crops in  Europe .  Supplies are “more than adequate,” Jon Marcus, the
president of Lakefront Futures and Options LLC in Chicago, said
in a telephone interview. “You’ll see prices continue to drag,
at least in the short run. There’s plenty around, so it’s not a
concern.”  Wheat futures for March delivery tumbled 2.5 percent to
settle at $6.30 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, capping the biggest one-day drop since Jan. 12 and the
largest weekly decline since December. Earlier, the price
touched $6.2825, the lowest since since Jan. 24.  Ukraine has asked grain traders to limit wheat exports
after drought and frost damaged winter crops, the country’s
Grain Association said. Extreme cold killed 3.5 million hectares
of winter grains in Ukraine, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said
in a statement on the government website. Cold weather has
threatened crops in recent weeks from  Russia  to  France .  The extent of the damage may not be known until it’s time
for Northern Hemisphere winter crops to break dormancy in March
and April, said Louise Gartner, the owner of Spectrum
Commodities in Beavercreek,  Ohio .  “The market is focused more on record world carryovers,
and we’re going to wait until March to see what the cold snap
has done to crops in Europe,” Gartner said in a telephone
interview.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  