-- Whirlpool Hurt by Korean, Mexican Washer Imports, Panel Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-10T18:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/whirlpool-hurt-by-korean-mexican-washer-imports-panel-says-1-.html
Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  is being harmed by
imports of large, residential washing machines made in South
Korea and  Mexico , a U.S. panel ruled in the first step toward
imposing tariffs on the products.  The U.S. International Trade Commission voted 4-1 today in
 Washington  on Whirlpool’s petition for anti-dumping duties on  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  shipments, saying
sales of the products below fair value are harming the Benton
Harbor, Michigan-based company.  The commission is scheduled to release the results of its
investigation by February 2013. The U.S. Commerce Department,
which is conducting its own investigation, is scheduled to issue
a preliminary decision by midyear on actions to offset any
economic harm to U.S. companies.  “Whirlpool Corporation is pleased with the ITC’s
preliminary affirmative injury determination,” Kristine
Vernier, a company spokeswoman, said.  LG said in a statement that it disagrees with the ITC’s
initial determination, and cited the “low threshold” for
agency action at the preliminary stage of the review.  Whirlpool Earnings Cited  “We are confident that LG will prevail in the final ITC
determination,” Chris Jung, president, home appliances for LG
Electronics USA Inc., said in the statement distributed at the
meeting.  Samsung released a statement that also predicted failure
for Whirlpool’s case. “As demonstrated by Whirlpool’s recent
announcement of higher earnings and its continued dominant
market share, we disagree that there is any material injury to
the domestic washer industry,” the company said in an e-mail.  The U.S. imported $1.1 billion of the washers from  South
Korea  and Mexico in 2010, the Commerce Department said on Jan.
20 in a statement. LG is based in Seoul and Samsung’s
headquarters are in Suwon, South Korea.  The U.S. uses more than 300 anti-dumping and countervailing
duties to protect American-made goods, such as honey and bedroom
furniture, from global competition deemed by the Commerce
Department to be unfair and damaging to U.S. companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  