-- Wind Tower Makers in U.S. Hurt by China Imports, Trade Commission Finds
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-02-10T16:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/wind-tower-makers-in-u-s-hurt-by-chinese-imports-panel-finds.html
U.S. makers of wind towers such as
 Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  are being harmed by cheaper imports from
 China  and Vietnam, a trade panel ruled in the first step toward
imposing tariffs on the shipments.  The U.S. International Trade Commission voted today in a
preliminary ruling on a petition from the Wind Tower Trade
Coalition asking the Obama administration to impose anti-dumping
and countervailing duties. The Washington-based ITC will now
proceed with a full investigation.  The coalition’s complaint, filed in December, said
competitors from China use unfair pricing to win U.S. sales. The
group also includes  Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries, a unit of
 Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN) , and Katana Summit.  The U.S. Commerce Department and the trade commission also
have agreed to investigate a separate Oct. 19 complaint from
U.S. solar-panel manufacturers led by the U.S. unit of
 SolarWorld AG (SWV) , which said they are being harmed because China’s
government uses cash grants, discounts on raw materials,
preferential loans and tax incentives to benefit Chinese
companies. Commerce is scheduled to make a preliminary finding
in the case March 2.  The petition on metal towers, which hold aloft turbines
that convert wind into electricity, expanded a dispute over
pricing and government subsidies for alternative energy. The
Commerce Department has agreed to consider the wind-tower
companies request for countervailing-duties against China.  China, Vietnam Imports  The U.S. in 2010 imported towers valued at $103.6 million
from China and $51.9 million from Vietnam, according to the
Commerce Department.  Anti-dumping duties are imposed when imports are sold at or
below the price in the home nation. U.S. prices on towers from
China are 64 percent less than in the domestic price, while
units from  Vietnam  cost 59 percent less, according to the U.S.
companies’ petition. Countervailing duties aim to offset the
benefits of government subsidies to industries.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration filed a complaint
against China at the  World Trade Organization  in December 2010
over support for wind-energy manufacturers using aid tied to
using locally produced content. China agreed to end hundreds of
millions of dollars in such subsidies, the U.S. trade office
said in June.  The U.S. and China have also clashed over access to each
others’ markets for products including steel pipes, poultry,
tires, movies and music.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  