-- Twitter Subpoena Challenged by N.Y. ‘Occupy’ Protester
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-10T19:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/twitter-subpoena-for-records-challenged-by-lawyers-guild-1-.html
Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s subpoena of Twitter Inc. for information about the
account of an Occupy Wall Street protester and Brooklyn-based
writer is improper, the National Lawyers Guild said in a motion
to block the request.  Martin Stolar, an attorney with the National Lawyers Guild,
filed the request to invalidate the subpoena on Feb. 6,
according to court papers posted on the guild’s website. Vance
is seeking information about the “@destructuremal” account of
Malcolm Harris, 22, who was arrested with about 700 protesters
on the Brooklyn Bridge on Oct. 1, according to the filing.  “It’s like swatting a gnat with a sledgehammer,” Stolar
said today in a phone interview. “This is one count of
disorderly conduct for being one of 700 people arrested,.”  There was no indication Harris had a conspiratorial role or
did anything out of the ordinary, Stolar said.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance, said prosecutors
previously subpoenaed Twitter and declined to comment further.  Harris’ Twitter account is described in its tag line as
“TNI, callous revolutionary fervor, trickery ALL TWEETS
PROPERTY OF TWITTER, INC.” Harris, a contributing writer to The
New Inquiry website, focuses on “generational politics,”
according to his biography on the site. His articles include one
on “The Feminization of Abstract Labor” in the film “ Sleeping
Beauty .”  2,200 Protesters  The National Lawyers Guild is providing free defense for
arrested Occupy Wall Street protesters including Harris. The
group has provided attorneys for almost 2,200 people since the
protests began Sept. 17, according to a statement.  Harris told Stolar Jan. 30 that Twitter’s San Francisco
office had gotten a notice from Vance seeking all information,
including his e-mail address, and all Twitter postings from
Sept. 15 to Dec. 31 from an account called “@destructuremal.”
Stolar advised Twitter that he would make a motion to quash the
subpoena and Twitter’s legal department told him it would delay
processing the request based on his intention, according to the
motion to quash.  Jenna Sampson, a Twitter spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment on the filing.
According to Twitter’s privacy policy, it may preserve or
disclose information believed necessary to comply with a law or
legal request.  In the U.K., Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in August
that the government was considering blocking social networks and
messaging services including Twitter as police investigated the
use of such networks to encourage rioting.  In court papers, Stolar said the subpoena “is overbroad,
issued for an improper purpose, and constitutes an abuse of
court process.” At a hearing before Judge Neil Ross in state
 Supreme Court  today, the issue of whether Harris has standing in
court to challenge a subpoena came up, Stolar said. The issue
will be discussed at a future hearing, he said.  The case is People of the State of  New York  v. Harris,
11-80152, Supreme Court of the State of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  