-- Woods Is Six Shots Behind Wi in Season’s U.S. PGA Debut at Pebble Beach
-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-11T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/woods-is-five-shots-behind-wi-in-season-s-u-s-debut-after-four-birdies.html
Tiger Woods trails leader Charlie Wi
by six shots and is tied for 17th place at the midway point of
the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am Tournament, Woods’s first U.S.
 PGA Tour  event this year.  Woods, playing in the tournament for the first time since
2002, is 6 under after two rounds following a 2-under 68 in
yesterday’s second round.  After beginning play for the second day with a birdie on
his opening hole, Woods added birdies on the par-5 sixth, par-3
seventh and par-5 12th holes at Monterey Peninsula Country
Club’s Shore Course. His bogeys came on the par-4 fourth, where
he missed the fairway with his tee shot and yelled a profanity
following his second shot, and on the par-4 16th.  Woods shot a 4-under-par 68 in the first round at the
Spyglass Hill golf course, which had the highest average score
of the tournament’s three courses during the opening round in
 Pebble Beach , California.  Three players scored better at Spyglass in the opening
round than Woods, who ended the first day tied for 15th place.  Wi, from  South Korea , who was 3 under yesterday after a 9-
under 61 opening round, is three shots ahead of American Dustin Johnson entering today’s third round.  Amateur Pairing  Woods finished third in his opening event of 2012 in  Abu
Dhabi  two weeks ago after entering the final round tied for the
lead with winner Robert Rock.  Although he hasn’t had an official PGA Tour win in more
than two years, Woods ended a 749-day winless drought with a
victory in December at the Chevron World Challenge, a limited-
field event he hosts in  California .  This week’s tournament groups professionals with amateur
players. Woods is paired with Dallas Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo  and the duo is 10 under as a team, tied for 50th place in
the Pro-Am. The professionals and amateurs rotate among the
three courses the first three days before the pros play the
final round tomorrow at Pebble Beach.  When Woods won the tournament in 2000 he came from five
strokes back against Matt Gogel in the final round, four months
before he went on to post a 15-shot win in the  U.S. Open  at
Pebble Beach. He last played at Pebble Beach during the 2010
U.S. Open, where he tied for fourth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  