-- World’s Dumbest Traders Were at Credit Suisse: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-02-10T00:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-10/world-s-dumbest-traders-were-at-credit-suisse-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The guilty pleas last week by two
former  Credit Suisse Group (CS)  traders, on charges of falsifying
their company’s asset values, revive an age-old question: How
dumb do you have to be to get criminally convicted for a fraud
you committed while working at a bank deemed  too big to fail ?  It’s a shame the television series “ America’s Dumbest
Criminals ” went off the air more than a decade ago, because the
cases of Salmaan Siddiqui, 36, and  David Higgs , 42, would have
provided wonderful fodder as an example of high finance gone
feloniously brain-dead. Sure, their stories might not have the
same mainstream appeal as, say, the  video  of a gun-wielding
robber at a convenience store who wore a see-through plastic bag
over his head as a disguise.  Still, their forays into illegality were so painfully
dimwitted they deserve to be celebrated, if only to distract us
from a more unnerving aspect of their story: In all probability,
lots of other bankers committed the exact same kinds of acts
during the financial crisis. And the vast majority of those who
did will never be prosecuted, mainly because they weren’t so
dense about the way they did it.  Imagine this: You are a Wall Street trader during the
summer of 2007, specializing in complex mortgage bonds that no
human being is capable of fully understanding. What little you
do grasp about these bonds is that if their values go down too
much, your year-end bonus won’t be as high as you want it to be.  Now You See  You also realize the bonds aren’t as valuable as they once
were, because the market is collapsing. Maybe you don’t know
exactly how much they are worth. But you certainly know grossly
inflated prices when you see them. These are the values you want
to show on your bank’s books. So you huddle constantly with some
of your closest colleagues to cook up ways to make sure the
numbers are much higher than they should be when you go to mark
your trading book to market prices each day.  Normally, this might be a reliable Wall Street strategy for
self-enrichment. The beauty of these assets is they are so
illiquid and trade so infrequently, there is rarely a correct
answer for their proper value. Judgment and subjectivity rule
the day. Even giant overstatements could prove difficult for
auditors to challenge. This is why it’s almost unheard of for
anyone to face criminal charges for intentionally overvaluing
assets like these.  So to get nailed by the cops for mismarking these bonds,
you would basically have to be caught blabbing on tape that you
didn’t believe the values you were putting down for them, during
telephone calls that you knew your employer was recording.
Discussing the innermost secrets of your conspiracy on company
e-mails would increase your odds of getting caught, too. Nobody
in his right mind would do things like that. However, these two
guys, Siddiqui and Higgs, did.  Then, in a highly irregular development, their employer
turned them in. Never let it be said the  Justice Department 
won’t act on a juicy tip about criminal activity at a huge bank,
so long as the tipster is the bank itself, of course. A third
former Credit Suisse trader, Kareem Serageldin, 38, also was
charged; his attorney has said he denies wrongdoing.  Not that Credit Suisse’s actions look all that pure now.
The bank first disclosed in February 2008 that it had discovered
the overvaluations in its trading book. This came a week after
Credit Suisse released preliminary results for the 2007 fourth
quarter. Then in March 2008, the company issued  revised results ,
saying it had written down the bond values in its trading
business by $2.65 billion. The Securities and Exchange
Commission, in a parallel civil  lawsuit , said about $1.3 billion
of that amount was related to the defendants’ trading book.  Nothing Wrong  Looking back, what’s curious about Credit Suisse’s
disclosure is that the bank said all the writedowns were related
to either the fourth quarter of 2007 or the first quarter of
2008. In other words, going by what the bank said then, there
supposedly was nothing wrong with the numbers on the financial
statements that Credit Suisse filed for the third quarter of
2007, which is when the government says the fraud began.  Both the SEC and federal prosecutors said in their
complaints last week that the defendants started mismarking
Credit Suisse’s books in August 2007, during the third quarter.
The SEC said that in September 2007, as a result of the
defendants’ price manipulations, “Credit Suisse’s books,
records and accounts contained false and misleading
information.” Presumably, the amounts involved by then weren’t
immaterial. Otherwise, why would the SEC mention this?  There is no explanation in the government’s court papers
for why Credit Suisse didn’t restate any earlier numbers. A
Credit Suisse spokeswoman, Victoria Harmon, declined to comment,
as did an SEC spokesman, John Nester .  So, back to the original question: Not only does a trader
at a too-big-to-fail bank have to be a total numbskull to get
criminally convicted for fraudulently overvaluing his company’s
most toxic assets. Chances are the bank itself has to turn him
in. It has to deliver the feds an airtight case on a platter,
leaving investigators no real choice but to follow up. Even
then, it may take prosecutors four years to bring charges.  Too bad this story doesn’t come with video.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Weil  in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  