-- MTA Finances Weakening From Bad to Worse With Sandy: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-06T19:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/mta-finances-weakening-from-bad-to-worse-with-sandy-muni-credit.html
As if the flooded tunnels and
crippled subways left by superstorm Sandy weren’t enough, New
York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority may see the penalty
on its debt increase in a sale this week.  The biggest U.S. mass transit system, which normally serves
8.5 million weekday riders through subways, buses and commuter
trains, plans to issue $870 million of bonds for capital
projects and refinancing. Since the storm hit Oct. 29, the extra
yield investors demand on some agency debt is three times the
average of the previous four weeks, according to calculations by
Bloomberg using Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data for
trades of all sizes.  Bond buyers will want more of a cushion given the potential
cost of the hurricane on top of the MTA’s projected deficits,
said Howard Cure at Evercore Wealth Management LLC in New York.  “We were never that enthralled with the MTA prior to
Sandy,” said Cure, director of muni research at Evercore, which
oversees $3.7 billion. “They have an antiquated capital system
that needs a lot of work.”  Triborough Demand  In a gauge of demand for the agency’s debt, the Triborough
Bridge & Tunnel Authority, part of the MTA, priced about $129
million of tax-exempts today. Standard & Poor’s rates the
Triborough securities AA-, two steps higher than the MTA’s
transportation-revenue bonds.  The Triborough issue received $585 million of orders,
including $153 million from individual buyers, and was able to
lower yield spreads during the sale, Aaron Donovan, an MTA
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “TBTA received strong support from both retail and
institutional investors one week after superstorm Sandy hit,”
he said. “Demand was strong, with bonds in every maturity
oversubscribed for.  Ten-year debt priced to yield 2.06 percent, or about 0.36
percentage point above benchmark 10-year tax-exempts, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That level is down from a spread of
0.48 percentage point on a July sale, though up from 0.28
percentage point in a May issue, the data show.  Pat McCoy, finance director for the MTA, said the agency
doesn’t expect increased borrowing costs in this week’s MTA
sale, which was planned before the storm.  ‘Strong Demand’  “What we anticipate is strong demand,” McCoy told
reporters during a conference call last week.  The hurricane killed about 40 people in the most-populous
U.S. city, while flooding subway stations and tunnels below the
East River, suspending service.  Officials shut the MTA Oct. 28 as the storm approached.
Fourteen of 23 subway lines resumed partial operations Nov. 1,
with more service returning each day.  The system loses $18 million in fare revenue daily when all
of its buses, subways and commuter lines aren’t running,
according to MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota. As of yesterday, at
least one subway line remained fully suspended.  The region’s public-transportation infrastructure,
including the city’s 108-year-old subway system, could suffer
$10 billion in physical losses from a storm such as Sandy,
according to a 2011 state study. While MTA officials said they
anticipate that Federal Emergency Management Agency funds and
insurance will pay for the bulk of repairs, the storm pummeled a
transit system already searching for extra revenue beyond fares.  Court Appeal  The MTA is appealing a court ruling barring a payroll-tax
levy that would generate $1.26 billion in revenue this year. The
agency projects deficits totaling $493 million through 2016,
according to bond documents.  An MTA transportation-revenue bond repaid from fares and
maturing in 2037 has traded since Oct. 29 with an average yield
spread of 0.44 percentage point above  AAA munis , up from an
average of 0.14 percentage point in October before the storm,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The interest rate on AAA tax-exempts due in 10 years rose
about 0.03 percentage point today to  1.7 percent , data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Bondholders will temporarily ask for more yield on MTA
securities following the hurricane given the system’s stresses,
said Peter Hayes, head of muni debt at New York-based BlackRock
Inc., which oversees about $105 billion of local bonds.  Filling Gaps  The transit provider will work on filling budget deficits
while bringing the system back to full service and possibly
crafting a plan to keep subways and buses running during such
extreme weather, Hayes said.  “Maybe this is the tailwind they need to help pass through
higher fare increases,” he said.  A proposed fare-and-toll increase is set to begin in March
and generate about $450 million annually.  While the MTA has $1.3 billion of unrestricted cash to help
cover storm costs, it may face a rating downgrade if the impact
is felt over a longer period, Joe Pezzimenti, an S&P analyst,
wrote in a report yesterday.  “The biggest financial issue facing MTA will be bridging
the gap between now and when it receives FEMA reimbursements and
insurance proceeds,” Pezzimenti said in the report. “The
ratings could face stress if the agency experiences material
erosion in its liquidity position.”  The MTA board is set to receive a budget update Nov. 20,
including estimates on lost revenue and storm damage, according
to Pezzimenti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  