-- ACLU of New Jersey Loses Bid for Emergency Access to Ballots
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-07T01:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/aclu-of-new-jersey-files-emergency-petition-over-balloting.html
The  American Civil Liberties Union  of
 New Jersey  lost a bid to have emergency access to ballots
extended for people displaced by  Hurricane Sandy .  “Because of the large volume of complaints from voters who
were not getting a response to their e-mail or fax requests for
ballots, we would’ve liked to have another method that provided
more assurance that the votes of displaced New Jersey residents
would be counted,” ACLU-NJ Acting Executive Director Ed Barocas
said today in an e-mailed statement.  An ACLU attorney had gone before a Superior Court judge in
Newark on behalf of voters who applied to election officials by
e-mail or fax machine for access to a ballot and hadn’t received
a response, ACLU spokeswoman Katie Wang said in a telephone
interview earlier. The organization wanted voters to be able to
use the Federal Write-in Absentee Ballot, Wang said.  After the storm displaced thousands of residents last week,
New Jersey said that residents had until 5 p.m. today to e-mail
or fax the state’s 21 county clerks for a ballot. The clerks
must process those requests by Nov. 9 at noon, and voters must
return their ballot that day by 8 p.m.  “The problem is that when people have made petitions by
fax or e-mail, they haven’t gotten a response,” Wang said. “A
lot of these offices are overwhelmed.”  Wang said that at least 1,500 people have failed to get a
reply from election officials.  Chris Christie  Governor  Chris Christie  said today in Westwood, New Jersey,
that of 3,000 polling places statewide, almost 100 had to be
moved because of a lack of power or damage to the building.
Christie, a Republican, spoke to reporters after meeting with
children returning to school in Bergen County.  Christie said he had heard of some snags with voters trying
to learn the location of their polling place by texting a
statewide system using the number 877877.  “We’ve had very few instances this morning with problems
other than problems with that texting software and they seem to
have been cleared up,” he said. “The only place I’ve heard
about problems so far is maybe a lack of voting machines in
Hoboken.”  Christie urged residents to vote despite the hardships
created by the hurricane.  “I know you’ve got a lot on your plate right now in your
life, but it’s a national election and it’s important to vote,”
Christie said. “It’s important to have your voice heard, and
New Jersey’s voice heard, in the nation as well as state and
local elections. There’s no reason not to.”  Rumors, Confusion  Keisha Tayborn, 39, of South Orange, said rumors and
confusion were swirling before the election about when and where
to vote. Tayborn, a customer service representative at
Cablevision, said co-workers speculated about how to vote by
fax, by e-mail and in person at the county clerk’s office in
 Newark . She said she chose to vote at her usual polling place at
the Marshall School.  “I didn’t want to do that,” Tayborn said of the voting
alternatives. “I don’t feel comfortable with it: You have
hacking, you have fraud and so I just wanted to do it the old-
fashioned way. There really was a lot of confusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  