-- Adoboli Says Initial Lie He Acted Alone Shouldn’t Hold Up
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-11-06T18:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/adoboli-says-initial-lie-he-acted-alone-shouldn-t-hold-up.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG
trader, said after admitting he made unauthorized trades last
year he quickly realized his initial story that he had acted
alone would fall apart once it was scrutinized.  “There’s a problem with my story that I acted alone -- it
just doesn’t hold water,” Adoboli said in a text message to his
girlfriend on Sept. 14, 2011, while he was being interviewed by
UBS managers. “There are too many minuscule pieces of evidence
that will end up ripping the story to pieces.” He was arrested
later that day.  Adoboli, originally from  Ghana , is on trial in London
accused of fraud and false accounting for a $2.3 billion trading
loss. He ended eight days of testimony today by saying the text
messages indicated his realization he would “have to tell more
of the truth about the involvement of others.”  Adoboli is accused of hiding the risk of his trades by
booking fake hedges at the Swiss bank and then hiding profit to
cover future losses before market fluctuations made his
positions untenable. As part of his defense, he claimed three
others on the exchange-traded-funds desk knew of or took part in
the activities and chose to let him take the fall alone.  None of the other traders have been charged.  Prosecutor Sasha Wass said today she misspoke earlier in
the trial when she said the  Crown Prosecution Service  believed
Adoboli had definitely fabricated certain text messages to help
form a defense. Instead, she said, the agency can’t verify
whether they are genuine or not.  The River  “I didn’t recently make it up -- it did happen,” Adoboli
said of the his claim that his teammates knew of the trades. He
cited text messages about a meeting at a bar near UBS’s London
office on Sept. 12, 2011, at which Adoboli said it was decided
who should take the blame for the losses.  “I’m a little upset because the boys sold me down the
river,” one of Adoboli’s texts said, according to phone records
read out in court. “I can understand why, because I’d given
them the option” to say the trades were my responsibility.  The other three traders --  John Hughes , Simon Taylor and
Christophe Bertrand -- all denied attending the meeting.  Adoboli wiped away tears at the end of his testimony after
being shown a photograph of himself and the other members of the
ETF team.  A report by KPMG LLP on how UBS systems failures allowed
the trades to happen found three other instances of unauthorized
trading at the bank.  Colin Bell, the global head of operational risk control at
UBS, testified earlier in the trial that he was aware of the
other incidents. Those cases didn’t involve substantial losses
and may not have involved fraud, he said. In two of the three
instances, the employees were fired. In the other case, the
matter was reviewed and the person still works for the bank, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  