-- Thailand Backs Laos Move to Build Mekong Dam, Surapong Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-11-06T07:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/thailand-backs-laos-move-to-build-mekong-dam-surapong-says-1-.html
Thailand  backed Laos’s decision to
push forward with a $3.7 billion dam on the mainstream Mekong
River, dismissing claims from activist groups that the structure
would damage the environment.  “The Lao government conducted studies that showed the
development will not have environmental impacts as many people
are concerned,” Thai Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul
told reporters today in Vientiane, where he is attending a
summit of European and Asian leaders. “The project will not
cause an impact on fisheries.”  The groundbreaking ceremony will take place tomorrow at the
site of the dam, Viraphonh Viravong, deputy minister of energy
and mining, said by phone yesterday. Shares of Bangkok-based  Ch.
Karnchang Pcl (CK) , which is constructing the dam, gained 0.5 percent
as of the midday break, poised for the highest close in almost
two years, after surging 5.8 percent yesterday.  The hydropower plant is the first among eight that  Laos 
plans to build on the Mekong to expand Southeast Asia’s  smallest
economy  by selling electricity to neighboring countries.  Vietnam 
last year recommended a 10-year delay for all dam projects on
the river, which also runs through Myanmar, Thailand and
Cambodia from its source in  China ’s Tibetan plateau.  “The Xayaburi Dam is the first of a cascade of devastating
mainstream dams that will severely undermine the region’s
development efforts,” Ame Trandem, Southeast Asia program
director for International Rivers, a Berkeley, California-based
nonprofit group that aims to protect rivers and human rights,
said in a statement today. “The food security and jobs of
millions of people in the region are now on the line.”  Ch. Karnchang owns a 50 percent stake in Xayaburi, while
 PTT Pcl (PTT)  has a 25 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Laos at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  