-- Amazon Monthly Prime Option Steps Up Challenge to Netflix
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-06T21:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/amazon-offers-7-99-prime-monthly-subscription-option.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  started a monthly
subscription option for Amazon Prime, a service for shipping and
streaming video, a move designed to entice holiday shoppers and
step up competition with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Prime subscriptions, which have cost at $79 a year, can now
be bought for $7.99 month, according to pricing information on
the  website  of the Seattle-based company.  Free two-day shipping may help Amazon, the world’s largest
online retailer, encourage consumers to make more holiday gift
purchases on its website. The new payment option also
intensifies a rivalry with Netflix, which charges the same price
for monthly subscriptions to its streaming video service.  “Holiday shopping is extremely important for Amazon,”
Sean Kim, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , said in
an interview. “Anything that can get more users to the website
and use Prime is a going to drive more sales.”  Amazon shares advanced 1.4 percent to $237.56 at the close
in New York, while Netflix retreated 2.4 percent to $76.37.  In September, Amazon reached a deal with pay-television
channel Epix to offer films such as “The Hunger Games” on its
Prime service. The multiyear agreement increased the number of
titles available through Prime to 25,000, Amazon said at the
time.  While Netflix has more movies and television shows, the
added benefit of free shipping may lead some customers to try
Amazon as an alternative, Kim said.  “For $7.99 on Amazon, you’re getting less video but you’re
getting all this other stuff,” Kim said.  Pia Arthur, an Amazon spokeswoman, said the company is
testing the monthly subscription service, while declining to
comment further. Joris Evers, a spokesman for  Los Gatos ,
California-based Netflix, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  