-- American Superconductor Rises on Grid Sales, Loss Narrows
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-11-06T21:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/american-superconductor-increases-as-loss-narrows.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a U.S.
maker of wind-turbine components and power-grid electronics,
climbed the most in more than a month as its quarterly loss
narrowed, beating analysts’ expectations.  AMSC increased 3.5 percent to $3.80 at the close in New
York, the most since Sept. 26.  Revenue from American Superconductor’s grid business, which
provides systems designed to improve energy transmission and
distribution, increased 20 percent to $8.9 million in the second
fiscal quarter, ending Sept. 30, as total revenue rose 0.5
percent to $20.9 million, the Devens, Massachusetts-based
company said in a statement today.  “That is where the strength in the business is coming
from,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston, said by telephone today. “With the
hurricane, Sandy, and the epic blackout in  India  that affected
600 million people in July, if that doesn’t show why it’s so
important for major economies to invest in smart-grid
infrastructure, nothing will.”  American Superconductor’s net loss in the quarter narrowed
to $15.9 million, or 31 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$51.7 million, or $1.02, a year earlier, according to the
statement. The company was expected to lose 39 cents, the
average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
in the current quarter will exceed $26 million, the company
said.  Legal Dispute  American Superconductor spent about $300,000 in the quarter
on its legal battle with Sinovel Wind Group Co.,  China ’s second-
biggest turbine maker, Chief Executive Officer Dan McGahn said
today on a conference call with analysts. The company is seeking
more than $1.2 billion in damages in Chinese courts, alleging
that Sinovel violated sales contracts and stole its technology.
China’s highest court agreed in May to hear the case.  “The lion’s share of those expenses are behind us,”
McGahn said. “We still believe there will be a positive
outcome.”  Sinovel contributed about 70 percent of American
Superconductor’s revenue in fiscal 2010 and stopped accepting
shipments in March 2011.  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. is China’s
largest turbine maker by revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  