-- American Suzuki Motor Files for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-07T00:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/american-suzuki-motor-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
American  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , the U.S.
distributor of Suzuki Motor Corp. automobiles and motorcycles,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  to wind down its automotive
division.  American Suzuki had assets of $233 million and debt of $346
million as of Sept. 30, according to Chapter 11 documents filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Santa Ana,  California .
Revenue for fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, was about $1.04
billion, according to court papers.  “After the global subprime recession began in 2008, the
debtor’s continental U.S. automotive sales declined along with
the rest of the U.S. automotive industry,” M. Freddie Reiss,
American Suzuki’s proposed chief restructuring officer, said in
court filings.  American Suzuki said it will redirect all of its operating
resources to its motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle and marine
products businesses. Reiss is a senior managing director in  FTI
Consulting Inc. (FCN) ’s corporate finance and restructuring practice
based in  Los Angeles , according to court filings.  The Brea, California-based company said it plans to sell
substantially all its assets to NounCo. Inc., a unit of Suzuki
Motor Corp. The purchased assets will not include American
Suzuki’s auto sales business. As part of the automotive division
restructuring, American Suzuki will discontinue new automotive
sales after its existing automotive inventory is sold. The sale
is subject to higher and better bids at a court-supervised
auction.  ATV, Marine Products  “The realignment is intended to better position ASMC for
long-term success and is a return to the company’s roots in the
U.S. market, which began with motorcycles and has grown to
include ATV and marine products,” the company said in a
statement.  American Suzuki Financial Services, owed $891,000, is
listed as the largest creditor without collateral backing its
claim, court papers show.  The case is In re American Suzuki Motor Corp., 12-22808,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  