-- Amgen’s Heart Drug Lowers Patient Cholesterol in Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-06T15:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/amgen-s-heart-drug-lowers-patient-cholesterol-in-study.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, said its experimental heart drug lowered
cholesterol levels in patients taking statins such as  Pfizer (PFE) 
Inc.’s Lipitor, keeping pace with rivals racing to be first on
the market with the new class of medicines.  The drug, AMG-145, which targets cholesterol-regulating
gene PCSK9 in the liver, reduced LDL, or bad cholesterol, as
much as 66 percent in patients taking statins, according to a
study presented today at the  American Heart Association  meeting
in  Los Angeles . Some of the patients were also taking Merck &
Co.’s cholesterol treatment Zetia.  Amgen’s drug is one of several that companies are
developing to target the cholesterol-regulating gene PCSK9 in
the liver, a new approach to current therapies that generate $39
billion in annual sales. Some of the world’s biggest drugmakers,
Pfizer,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Sanofi (SAN)  are testing versions.  The therapy from Sanofi and its partner,  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ,’s therapy reduced LDL levels 73 percent in
a study, the companies said Oct. 31 in a statement. Pfizer’s
drug lowered bad cholesterol in patients on statins by 56
percent, the New York-based company said yesterday at the
meeting.  “The bottom line is, the early-stage data look similar,”
 Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in San
Francisco, said in an e-mail. “Amgen appears to be looking
toward monthly injections versus others who are bi-weekly.”  The market for drugs targeting the liver cholesterol gene
may be at least $10 billion, Adnan Butt, an analyst with RBC
Capital Markets in San Francisco, said in an e-mail last week.
In the U.S. alone, about 11 million patients aren’t keeping
their cholesterol low enough with statins and another 1 million
people are intolerant.  Blockbuster Potential  These patients represent “a multi-blockbuster potential
opportunity with room for multiple players,” Butt wrote in a
note to clients on Nov. 1. He said Sanofi and Regeneron are the
furthest along in developing this class of therapy.  In a separate study released yesterday, Amgen reported AMG-
145 reduced LDL by 51 percent in patients intolerant to statins,
after 12 weeks, and 63 percent among those taking it in
combination with Merck’s Zetia.  It also reduced LDL as much as 56 percent in patients with
a genetic disorder called heterozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia, some of whom were also taking statins and
Zetia. HeFH, which affects at least 1 in 500 people worldwide,
elevates LDL as well as total cholesterol and leads to early
cardiovascular disease and death, the  Thousand Oaks , California-
based company said in a statement.  Further Testing  Amgen plans to begin testing the drug in a larger, Phase 3
trial early next year,  said Sean Harper, the company’s
executive vice president of research and development.  “This mechanism appears to be very effective, and safe,”
Harper said in a phone interview. “Our enthusiasm level has
only gone up.”  Three phases of testing usually are required for new drugs
to gain U.S. regulatory approval.  Pfizer also released data on its PCSK9 inhibitor yesterday,
RN 316, showing the drug at its highest dose lowered bad
cholesterol in patients on statins by 80 percent after their
first treatment. Cholesterol fell so low for some in the 135-
person study, they weren’t eligible to get a second dose, said
Barry Gumbiner, lead researcher on the medicine for  New York- 
based Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker.  At the end of the 12-week study, those getting the highest
dose had a decline in LDL of 56 percent. Pfizer didn’t see any
unusual safety signals, Gumbiner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  