-- Manhattan Top-Tier Office Rents Drop Most in Three Years
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-11-06T20:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/manhhattan-top-tier-office-rents-drop-most-in-three-years.html
Rents at  Manhattan ’s best offices had
their biggest drop in more than three years as financial firms
postponed making decisions on space until after today’s
election, CompStak Inc. said.  Rents for “Class A” space in the the largest and most
expensive U.S. office market dropped 7.1 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, according to the New
York-based leasing-data provider. It was the biggest decline
since the months following the credit crash, which led to rent
cuts in late 2008 and early 2009,  CompStak  said in a report.  “A lot of financial institutions are leery about making
decisions in advance of the presidential election, and also some
general unease about the economic climate,” said Michael
Mandel, Compstak’s co-founder and chief executive officer.  Class A rents in Manhattan fell to an average of $58.42 a
square foot as of Sept. 30 from $62.88 at the end of the second
quarter, CompStak said. Unlike reports issued by brokerages,
CompStak tracks rents agreed to, including the impact of such
concessions as free months, rather than what landlords are
seeking.  The report shows that the financial industry, the
traditional driver of  New York  City office rents, is giving way
to technology, media and advertising firms. Those firms tend to
steer clear of midtown Manhattan’s skyscrapers, preferring the
older, low-rise buildings of midtown south, the area roughly
between 34th and Canal streets, Mandel said.  Agreements signed by such firms helped push rents for all
types of Manhattan office space up 1.2 percent to $49.64 a
square foot, CompStak said. Midtown south office rents rose 6.7
percent to $47.98, the sixth consecutive increase. Class B
space, generally found in older buildings with less expensive
finishes, rose 6.8 percent to $40.12 a square foot.  “The midtown south upturn and the increase in Class B
space in general has been enough to offset the significant
decline in Class A space,” Mandel said. “It’s been a
meaningful trend which has really helped to stabilize the office
market in Manhattan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  