-- Apple Says Samsung’s Galaxy Note, Jelly Bean Infringe Patent
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   P a m   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-11-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/apple-says-samsung-s-galaxy-note-jelly-bean-infringe-patents.html
Apple Inc. told a judge that  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy Note 10.1 device infringes its patents,
and sought to add the Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating system to
an existing lawsuit against Samsung in  California .  Apple made the arguments yesterday to U.S. Magistrate Judge
Paul S. Grewal in federal court in  San Jose . Apple’s bid to
expand the lawsuit follows Samsung’s Oct. 1 move to add patent-
infringement claims against the iPhone 5 in the same case. Apple
won a $1.05 billion jury verdict against Samsung on Aug. 24 in a
separate patent case in the same court.  Filings by both companies in their two cases before U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh show no letup in their battle on four
continents to retain dominance in the $219 billion global
smartphone market.  Samsung in August began U.S. sales of the Galaxy Note 10.1,
equipped with a stylus -- a feature Apple’s iPad doesn’t offer,
and which builds on Samsung’s Galaxy Note 5.3, a similarly
stylus-equipped smartphone that came out earlier this year.
Jelly Bean is  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s latest version of the Android
operating system that runs on Samsung mobile devices as well as
Google’s Nexus 7 handheld computer, which was released in June.  No Grounds  Koh on Oct. 1 rescinded a ban on U.S. sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 that she imposed in June, deciding there were no
grounds for keeping the preliminary injunction in place after
jurors concluded in their Aug. 24 verdict that Samsung didn’t
infringe the Apple design patent that was the basis for the
injunction.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, contended the ban
should remain in place because the jury found the Galaxy Tab
infringed other patents at issue in the case.  Andrew Liao, an Apple attorney, told Grewal yesterday that
the Galaxy Nexus is the only phone with Jelly Bean that Apple
seeks to add to the patent complaint. Liao also said Apple wants
to add 17 devices that could use a stylus even though the
products don’t ship with a stylus.  Victoria Maroulis, an attorney for Samsung, said the
company wants to add only one product, the iPhone5, to its
complaint. Maroulis said Samsung opposes the addition of
“stylus products in 17 new devices” to Apple’s claims.  “By adding the stylus, Apple is going to enlarge the case
significantly,” she said.  Grewal didn’t issue a ruling yesterday. He said he was
concerned that if he denied both sides their requests, the
companies may file a new round of lawsuits.  Preliminary Order  The case in which Apple added the Galaxy Note 10.1 and
Jelly Bean operating system is scheduled for trial in 2014.  Apple already has won a preliminary order from Koh blocking
U.S. sales of Samsung’s Nexus smartphone. In August, Apple added
the Galaxy S III smartphone to its list of products that it says
infringe its patents.  In the previous patent lawsuit between the two companies
that went to trial in July, the jury found that Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung infringed six of seven Apple patents at
stake.  Koh has scheduled December hearings in that case to
consider Apple’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight
Samsung smartphone models and the Tab 10.1. She will also
consider Samsung’s bid to get the August verdict thrown out
based on claims of juror misconduct.  The case is Apple v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-cv-
630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose). The previous case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in federal court in San Francisco at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 