-- Arab Bank Wins Dismissal of Israel Terrorism Attack Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-06T21:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/arab-bank-wins-dismissal-of-case-over-terrorist-attack-in-israel.html
Arab Bank Plc won dismissal of a U.S.
lawsuit filed by a former Israeli government official over an
injury he suffered in a gunfire attack he claims was linked to
the Palestinian group Hamas.  U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in  Brooklyn ,  New
York , ruled today that the plaintiff didn’t show enough evidence
that Jordan’s largest bank played a role in the 2008 attack to
send the case to trial.  Mati Gill, a former aide to Israel’s minister of public
security, sued under the Anti-Terrorism Act over the bank’s
alleged support of Hamas, which rules the  Gaza Strip  and has
been designated a terrorist group by the U.S. government.  “Plaintiff must establish by a preponderance of evidence
that the bank recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally, and
proximately caused plaintiff’s injuries, either by the bank’s
own actions or in a conspiracy with Hamas or other terrorist
organizations,” Weinstein wrote in an order. “It cannot do
so.”  The case had been set for trial Nov. 19. In September, the
judge threw out one claim in the lawsuit alleging the bank aided
and abetted the attack.  Suicide Bombers  Separately, families of dozens of victims of other attacks
in  Israel  are also pursuing cases against the bank in Brooklyn
federal court, claiming it helped support Palestinian suicide
bombers. U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon has not yet determined
whether any of those cases will go to trial.  “This is the first Arab Bank case where the court has
evaluated the entire record, and it dismissed the case
concluding that the bank was not responsible for the plaintiff’s
injuries,” a spokesman for the Amman, Jordan-based bank, Bob Chlopak, said in an e-mailed statement.  A lawyer for Gill, Gary Osen, said the bank wrongfully
refused to turn over records of financial transactions from the
time period when the attack occurred.  “In effect, today’s decision rewards the bank for its
refusal to abide by standing orders of the court,” Osen said in
an e-mailed statement. Gill will appeal the ruling, he said.  Gill, a U.S. citizen, was wounded in 2008 by a shot fired
from Gaza, a territory bordering Israel. Under U.S. law, it is
illegal to provide material support or resources to terrorists.
U.S. citizens who are victims of terrorist acts are also
permitted to seek civil damages under the Anti-Terrorism Act.  In 2005, the New York branch of Arab Bank agreed to pay a
$24 million civil penalty to settle U.S. allegations that it
failed to identify and report suspicious transactions involving
possible support of terrorism, according to court papers. The
bank neither admitted nor denied those claims, according to the
papers.  The case is Gill v.  Arab Bank Plc (ARBK) , 1:11-cv-03706, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 