-- Arabtec Revives Plans to Sell Convertible Bonds as Profit Drops
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-11-06T05:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/arabtec-revives-plans-to-sell-convertible-bonds-as-profit-drops.html
Arabtec Holding Co., (ARTC)  the biggest
builder in the  United Arab Emirates  by market value, revived
plans to increase capital and sell convertible bonds as it seeks
financing for expansion amid a decline in quarterly profit.  “The board considered the company’s plans, expansion
strategies and restructuring” at a meeting at the Abu Dhabi
government-controlled International Petroleum Investment Co.
office, Dubai-based Arabtec said in a statement today. “The
board considered the funding options available to the group to
achieve its expansion objectives including the increase of the
capital and/or the issuance of convertible bonds.”  Construction companies in the United Arab Emirates are
struggling after about $757 billion of projects were canceled or
delayed in the aftermath of the 2008 property crash, Citigroup
said in a report Oct. 16. Arabtec last year delayed the sale of
convertible bonds and a rights share offering after its full-
year profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Third-quarter profit  fell to 35 million dirhams ($9.5
million) from 39.1 million dirhams in the year-earlier period,
the company  said in the statement . Arabtec posted a loss of 11.6
million dirhams in the second quarter. The median estimate of
three analysts was for a profit of 11 million dirhams in the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aabar Investments PJSC, the company controlled by
International Petroleum Investment, raised its stake in Arabtec
to 21.6 percent this year.  The shares  gained 68 percent this
year compares 19 percent increase for Dubai’s benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  