-- M&S First-Half Net Tops Estimates as Sales Decline Eases
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-06T16:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/marks-spencer-profit-beats-estimates-as-sales-decline-eases.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc, (MKS)  the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, reported first-half earnings that
beat estimates and forecast an increase in profitability for the
year as it offers fewer promotions.  Gross margins will be “towards the top end” of a range
from unchanged to a 0.25 percentage-point increase, the London-
based company said today as it reported a 5.8 percent drop in
underlying pretax profit and said clothing sales declined at a
more moderate pace in the second quarter.  The retailer is giving fewer discounts than last year
and has increased supplies of popular advertised lines such
as military coats, Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said
on a conference call. M&S is struggling to keep pace with
competitors such as Primark, the budget fashion chain owned
by Associated British Foods Plc, which today reported a
15 percent increase in full-year revenue.  “General merchandise did show signs of a big pickup, but
autumn-winter remains pretty key,”  John Stevenson , an analyst
at Peel Hunt in London, said by phone. “They made some basic
errors with ranges, so we can gain comfort” from the rebound in
sales, said Stevenson, who has a hold recommendation on M&S.  After falling 6.8 percent in the first quarter, same-store
sales at the general-merchandise division eased
1.8 percent in the second three months, the retailer said. The
gross margin in the U.K. widened 0.3 percentage point.  Share Performance  Marks & Spencer  shares rose  as much as 2.6 percent in
London trading and were up 2.4 percent at 397.4 pence at 3:31
p.m. The stock has gained 28 percent this year.  Underlying pretax profit rose to 296.8 million pounds ($474
million) in the six months to Sept. 29, beating the 280 million-
pound median  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The retailer ordered five times as much stock of advertised
lines compared to last year, and sold three times more of those
items in the first four weeks of the season, Bolland said.  “We believe we’ve got good quality in stores and some
excellent backing of trends out there,” such as baroque lace
skirts, the CEO said on the call.  Still, the retailer needs to increase its focus on style,
trends and quality to improve its general merchandise
performance, Bolland told journalists.  Marks & Spencer intends to offer more fashionable clothing
while keeping a high quality level to distinguish its offerings
from those at competitors such as  Inditex SA’s (ITX)  Zara chain, the
CEO said. “What we’re seeing is completely different, we’d like
to be on-trend with a great quality to it, and that’s a
different position.  Style Improvement  “Have we been backing the trends sufficiently in the past?
Probably not,” the CEO said. “We can do it better.”  Bolland said a successful Autograph-brand dress with
military styling, offered at 55 pounds, is an example of the way
forward.  “We’re not fast-fashion but we are certainly following
fashion trends,” the executive said. “Some of the fast-fashion
retailers bring out things against their quality that is also
nearly disposable clothing and that’s what we don’t want to
do.”  Marks & Spencer said sales growth at its food division
accelerated to 1.6 percent in the second quarter from 0.6
percent in the first three months, outperforming the market.  Consumer Caution  Recent business has been “volatile” and M&S said it’s
“cautious” about the outlook for the rest of the year.
“People are a bit more wary now about payday,” Bolland said.  The CEO is 18 months into a three-year turnaround plan
focusing on turning Marks & Spencer into an international,
multichannel retailer. Concept stores with new beauty ranges,
enhanced signage and online browse-and-order points have shown a
2.6 percent in increase in sales, the company said today.  Investors are “very, very supportive of us,” Finance
Director Alan Stewart said on the call.  “The very clear message they give us is that they view
their investment as an investment that they value for the long
term, don’t be distracted from short-term market issues, don’t
be distracted from your strategy and don’t be diverted,”
Stewart said.  Marks & Spencer said yesterday that Frances Russell, the
former director for lingerie and beauty, has been promoted to
director of womenswear, while Victoria’s Secret Chief Creative
Officer Janie Schaffer will join early next year as director of
lingerie and beauty. The effect of the changes will be noticed
when autumn and winter collections are introduced to stores in
July next year, Bolland said.  The retailer also ruled out an online food offer as its
typical basket size of a 20-pound top-up shop is not economical
to deliver to home compared with supermarket chains that cater
more to weekly shopping with 100-pound basket sizes. The CEO
said M&S released 1,000 new food lines in the first half, and
that the products are best seen in the store rather than online.
A further 300 products are planned in the Christmas season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  