-- ARM Shares Rise After Apple Report, MIPS Patents Deal
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-06T16:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/arm-shares-rise-after-apple-report-mips-patents-deal.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , designer of the
most popular chips for smartphones, rose 2.1 percent in  London 
today after it entered a deal for patents and client  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
was said to be exploring ways to replace  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chips in
its personal computers.  The shares climbed 14.5 pence to 709.5 pence. ARM will
provide $167.5 million to Bridge Crossing LLC, a group of
technology businesses that will pay $350 million in cash to  MIPS
Technologies Inc. (MIPS)  to obtain rights to its portfolio, which
includes 580 patents and patent applications, Cambridge, U.K.-
based ARM said in a statement today.  Separately, Apple engineers have grown confident that the
chip designs used for its mobile devices will one day be
powerful enough to run its desktops and laptops, said three
people with knowledge of the work, who asked to remain anonymous
because the plans are confidential. Apple has created designs
for its best-selling iPhone and iPad based on ARM technology.  The Apple news suggests “ARM chips are able to compete in
Intel’s home markets,” said  Paul Morland , an analyst at Peel
Hunt in London. “The bigger factor is this announcement about
the MIPS patents. It’s a defensive move by ARM, but it makes
sense because it protects itself from litigation on the 580
patents.”  Litigation Danger  ARM said the MIPS transaction will support innovation and
remove any potential litigation risk. The patents and patent
applications cover microprocessor design, system-on-chip design
and other related technology fields, the company said.  “Litigation is expensive and time-consuming and, in this
case, a collective approach with other major industry players
was the best way to remove that risk,” ARM Chief Executive
Officer Warren East said in the statement.  The consortium will make licenses to the patent portfolio
available to companies outside the group, it said. ARM will fund
the payment through existing cash reserves.  The transaction is expected to be closed in the first
quarter of 2013, pending MIPS shareholder approval and customary
closing conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  