-- Asian Stocks Rise Before U.S. Vote as Utilities Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-06T10:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/asian-stocks-drop-before-u-s-election-rba-decision.html
Asian  stocks  rose amid lower trading
volume, with gains in Japanese utilities helping pare
yesterday’s losses on the regional benchmark index, as investors
awaited the results of the  U.S. presidential election  and a
once-in-a-decade leadership change in China.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  led a rebound in utilities after
sliding yesterday as advisers to the regulator disagreed on the
earthquake risk to the nation’s only operating nuclear plant.
HSBC Holdings Plc dropped 1.4 percent in Hong Kong after saying
it may face charges tied to money-laundering.  Alumina Ltd. (AWC)  lost
7.9 percent after an Indonesian court stopped an ore export ban
that bolstered demand for the Australian miner’s product.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.2 percent to 122.49 as
of 7:13 p.m. in Tokyo, having earlier fallen as much as 0.3
percent. U.S. voters go to the polls today to choose between
President Barack Obama and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “It’s literally a dead heat,” E. William Stone, chief
investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. His firm manages about
$112 billion. “The market in a lot of ways just reflects that.
It frankly doesn’t know which way it’s going to go. That’s why
everyone seems to be waiting more than normal.”  Asia’s equity benchmark gained 12 percent through yesterday
from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added stimulus
amid a slowdown in global economic growth and the European debt
crisis. Shares on the measure trade at 13.4 times average
estimated earnings, compared with 13.6 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  U.S. Election  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.3 percent today after the
index yesterday gained 0.2 percent. Obama led Romney 48 percent
to 45 percent in a national poll conducted Oct. 31 through Nov.
3 by the Pew Research Center, a survey that was deadlocked at 47
percent each a week ago.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  lost 0.4 percent on volume
15 percent below the 30-day average. South Korea’s Kospi gained
1.1 percent, while Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.7 percent,
with about 26 percent fewer shares trading hands.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  rose 0.2 percent. Stocks held
gains after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia unexpectedly refrained
from cutting its benchmark  interest rate . The bank left the
overnight cash-rate target at a developed-world high of 3.25
percent. Twenty of 27 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
predicted a cut to 3 percent.  Leadership Change  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 0.3 percent, retreating
a second day from its highest close this year. The Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.4 percent.  China’s Communist Party starts its 18th Congress on Nov. 8
in Beijing, when delegates will meet over several days to pick a
new leader. Xi Jinping will probably replace  Hu Jintao  as
general secretary of the party that’s ruled China since 1949.  Japanese  utilities  were the four biggest gainers today on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Kansai Electric Power advanced 7.5
percent to 618 yen, reversing losses yesterday that came as
regulators delayed a decision on whether to allow the utility’s
Ohi plant in western Japan to keep operating. Seismologists, who
meet again tomorrow, disagreed on the plant’s quake risk.  “Shares bounced back today after a selloff yesterday that
was really unwarranted given the fact that the decision on
whether to keep running the Ohi plant comes tomorrow,” said
Hideyuki Suzuki, a senior market analyst at Tokyo-based
brokerage SBI Securities Co. ‘  Declines among Japan’s power producers in the wake of the
Fukushima disaster have driven a gauge tracking Asian utilities
down 2.5 percent this year. That matches the biggest decline
among the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups. A
measure of raw material producers also fell 2.5 percent.  Money-Laundering  Among shares that dropped today, HSBC fell 1.4 percent to
HK$76.70 in  Hong Kong . The lender said it’s likely to face
criminal charges from U.S. anti-money-laundering probes and the
cost of a settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5
billion it has set aside.  Alumina lost 7.9 percent to 87 Australian cents after
Indonesian  Supreme Court  annulled regulation by the energy
minister that banned the exports of mineral ores. The export ban
meant less competition for Alumina, partner in the world’s
biggest producer of the material used to make aluminum.  Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co. (7735)  plunged 16 percent to
406 yen in Tokyo to lead declines on the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average after the chip-equipment maker unexpectedly reversed its
full-year forecast to net loss of 14 billion yen ($175 million)
from 500 million yen profit and canceled an annual dividend of 5
yen per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  