-- AT&T to Unveil Upgrade Plan to Improve Outlook of Rural Business
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-11-06T15:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/at-t-to-unveil-upgrade-plan-to-improve-outlook-of-rural-business.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. telephone
company, plans to tell investors tomorrow that it will extend
high-speed  Internet service  to far-flung customers in an effort
to boost sales in its struggling rural business.  Through a combination of upgrades to the phone lines and
the expansion of its long-term evolution, or LTE, wireless
network, the company would be able to reach customers in rural
areas with faster connections. About 23 percent of AT&T’s 52
million subscriber households can’t get broadband lines,
according to John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS AG.  As rural consumers switch to mobile phones for voice calls,
they’re getting rid of home lines, causing AT&T to lose
customers who might otherwise stick around for broadband speeds.
Instead of attempting to get rid of what it has called an
“underperforming asset,” the company is seeking to revitalize
rural lines. The idea is to get the operation’s sales growth
closer to the 6 percent rate at the rest of the company.  “AT&T has two choices with the rural lines: They either
sell them or invest in them,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst at
Recon Analytics LLC in Dedham,  Massachusetts . “The worst thing
they could do is nothing and let the business decay.”  The plan will be unveiled tomorrow in an event with
analysts, Dallas-based AT&T said last month. Chief Executive
Officer  Randall Stephenson  will lead the meeting.  Yellow Pages  Last year, AT&T outlined a plan to improve its overall
sales performance in part by eliminating slow-growth units. In
April, it agreed to sell a majority stake of the  Yellow Pages 
business to Cerberus Capital Management LP for $950 million.
Along with the directory unit, rural lines were under scrutiny
for “fundamental changes,” Stephenson said in January.  “I think the lines they were looking to sell were
scattered through several states, making it difficult from a
regulatory perspective,” said UBS’s Hodulik. “Also, I’m not
sure who the buyer would be.”  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  sold New England telephone
lines to  FairPoint Communications Inc. (FRP)  in a $2.72 billion deal
in 2008. The company struggled to absorb the costs and debt and
filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2009. While FairPoint emerged
from bankruptcy last year, the episode underscored the
difficulty of acquiring rural lines.  Beyond Reach  AT&T has about 52 million subscriber homes, or about half
the U.S. total, by Hodulik’s estimate. About 30 million of those
homes can receive AT&T’s fastest network service called U-verse,
and another 10 million homes are connected via digital
subscriber lines, or DSL, according to Hodulik.  That leaves about 12 million homes outside the reach of
AT&T’s broadband service. AT&T said in June it was considering
more DSL technology to serve additional rural lines. On a
conference call with analysts last month, Ralph de la Vega,
AT&T’s top wireless executive, said LTE offered possibilities.  “It could serve as an alternative to wired broadband,”
said de la Vega. “In the terms of speed and reliability and
flexibility, it is absolutely very, very possible.”  Any sign that AT&T would chose to invest in its rural lines
would be seen favorably by regulators, who have concerns that
high-speed  Internet access  is not reaching all Americans, said
Recon’s Entner. The move could give AT&T some bargaining points
with regulatory agencies, he said.  “We have to invest in rural America,” Entner said. “I
think it makes sense from both a business perspective and as a
way of pushing the country toward a digital revolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  