-- Tata Steel to Contest 56 Billion Rupee Mining Penalty Notice
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-11-06T09:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/tata-steel-to-contest-56-billion-rupee-mining-penalty-notice.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  India ’s biggest
producer of the alloy, will contest a 56 billion rupee ($1
billion) fine imposed by the eastern state of Odisha, alleging
violations of mining norms.  “We’re contesting both the number and the cause,”
spokesman Charudatta Deshpande said in e-mail today.  The notice coincides with the investigations being held by
a federal government panel that is probing violations of illegal
mining in seven Indian states, including Goa, Chhattisgarh,
Jharkhand,  Madhya Pradesh , Odisha and Karnataka. The panel is
currently assessing mining breaches in Odisha. Goa banned iron
ore mining from Sept. 11 after the panel in a Sept. 7 report to
the lawmakers said the state may have lost 349.4 billion rupees
because of illegal mining.  “Tata Steel will contest this and I don’t think it will
have to pay this fine,” said Goutam Chakraborty, analyst at
Emkay Global Financial Services in Mumbai. “Legally there are
clear doubts about the viability of such a penalty,”  Shares of the Mumbai-based company rose as much as 0.2
percent to 398.6 rupees and traded at 398.2 rupees as of 2:55
p.m. in Mumbai.  Tata Steel received a notice from the provincial government,
Deshpande had said yesterday. The company has been fined a $1
billion for over-mining in the state, the Wall Steel Journal
reported today, citing a person familiar with the matter. The
state has fined several companies for excessive mining, the
report said, citing Odisha’s Director of Mines Deepak Kumar
Mohanty.  While Odisha alleges excess extraction at the Tata Steel
mines, which started about a decade ago, the state knew how much
was being mined based on the taxes it collected, Emkay’s
Chakraborty said. The company has mined in conformity with the
laws and is confident of resolving the issue with the government
amicably, Deshpande said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  