-- Atlantic City, Struggling in Best Times, Faces New Blows
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-11-06T05:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/atlantic-city-struggling-in-best-times-faces-new-blows.html
On Baltic Avenue, Jose Velez pushed
open the door to his two-room apartment, still without heat or
electricity a week after  Hurricane Sandy ’s floodwaters poured
inside.  He sorted through wet clothes, rusted tools and a set of
baby booties -- still in the box -- for a daughter being born at
the hospital. The air was heavy with the smell of mold.  “I got nothing,” said Velez, a construction worker. “The
beach took everything.”  Atlantic City, New Jersey, struggles at the best of times,
with a quarter of its 40,000 people living in poverty. Now, it’s
contending with the lingering blows brought by Sandy, just as a
new storm brews off the East Coast. About 1.4 million utility
customers still had no power yesterday, more than half of them
in New Jersey.  When the storm came through a week ago, there was flooding
in much of  Atlantic City , which perches on a barrier island. It
temporarily shut the casinos, which brought in $3.3 billion in
revenue last year and have been the city’s lifeblood since the
1970s, when gambling was legalized to boost the ailing economy.  Protected by dunes built along the beach, the casinos
opened up again last week, their red marquees lighting up the
night sky. Yesterday on Atlantic Avenue, restaurants were open,
buses running and stores stocked as people went to work.  Paula Sessoms, 57, running errands for the first time in a
week and buying food, waited for a bus. With her electricity
back on since Nov. 4, she said life was getting back to normal.  ‘Still Here’  “We’re just glad the water’s gone,” she said. As she
spoke, a passerby shouted: “Atlantic City: We’re still here.”  The tourists aren’t. With the East Coast still struggling
in the storm’s aftermath, the casinos have been forced to wait.
Late yesterday, rows of  slot machines  were vacant at Bally’s
casino. A few dozen card tables were closed, and at three
others, dealers waited idly for players.  Outside as the temperature dropped into the 30s Fahrenheit
(1 Celsius) was Tenyo Yovchev, who pushes tourists on a cart
along the boardwalk. In an hour, he’d yet to have a single
customer.  “Nobody’s here,” he said. “I’m standing here for
nothing.”  Billy Bryan, a card dealer, was headed to work for the
first time since the storm. He said he didn’t expect business to
be brisk.  “The whole East Coast, they’re digging out,” said Bryan,
54. “They’re not going to want to come down and go gambling.”  Don Kesselman drove from Philadelphia with a friend to
survey the damage. Walking along the boardwalk in front of the
casinos, he was surprised to see it pristine.  “In Philadelphia, people think it’s closed,” he said. “I
thought the boardwalk would be ripped up.”  Ruined Boardwalk  Away from the casinos, the boardwalk is wrecked. Part of it
was in ruins on the city’s north side, where the storm flooded
through a neighborhood. Ruined furniture, thrown away by owners,
speckled street corners up and down the island.  On Tennessee Avenue, relatives have taken turns spending
the night at Kathleen Wilkins’s darkened home, protecting
against thieves. The electric wiring was damaged. Still, the
natural gas works, so they turn on the oven and use it for heat.  Tameika Wilkins, 30, said she’s putting up her sister for
now. “My sister’s got to sleep on my floor,” she said. “What
else can you do?”  Velez, rooting through his apartment, asked himself the
same question. He and his wife had slept in the apartment
Sunday, with no heat or power and the air rank. She didn’t want
to go into labor at the city’s shelter, he said. On Monday
morning, he dropped her at the hospital.  He pulled apart his dresser to show all of the family’s
clothes were ruined and wept. “I got no place for my baby,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Atlantic City,  New Jersey  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  