-- Australian House Prices Advance on Strength in Mining States
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-06T02:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/australian-house-prices-advance-on-strength-in-mining-states.html
Australian  home prices  rose for a
second straight quarter, the first back-to-back increase since
2010, led by gains in the capitals of states at the center of
the nation’s mining boom.  An index measuring the weighted average of  house prices  in
eight major cities advanced 0.3 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months, when it rose a revised 0.6
percent, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The  median estimate  of 15 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was a 1 percent rise.  The data reflects 1.25 percentage points of interest rate
cuts by the RBA from November to June, which have helped boost
 consumer confidence , home lending and building approvals.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  resumed reductions in borrowing costs
last month, as he seeks to strengthen areas outside the
resources industry -- where investment is expected to peak at a
lower level than previously expected next year -- and traders
are pricing in a 50-50 chance of a rate cut today.  “Although it was below expectations, the data does provide
further evidence of a stabilization in house prices,” said Janu
Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The
outlook for housing is promising, given that the lower borrowing
costs are having an impact and the  Reserve Bank of Australia  has
hinted that it wants housing to improve and that’s suggesting
that it will adjust monetary policy to do so.”  Prices rose 1.8 percent in Perth, 0.4 percent in Brisbane
and 0.3 percent in Sydney in the third quarter from the prior
three months, the report showed. They declined 1.1 percent in
Canberra and dropped 0.6 percent in Adelaide, it showed.  The local currency was little changed after the data,
trading at $1.0370 at 12:34 p.m. in Sydney.  Supporting Demand  “Lower-than-average  interest rates  are providing some
support to demand in the economy,” RBA Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said in an Oct. 30 speech. “There is also some sign that
they have led to a slight improvement in the  property market .”  Prices climbed 0.3 percent in the September quarter from a
year ago, today’s figures showed. Darwin rose the most, jumping
8.2 percent, followed by Perth with a 4.4 percent gain.
Melbourne saw the biggest drop, at 2.3 percent, the seventh
straight quarter of declines, the data showed.  Home and apartment prices fell 1 percent in October,
following four months of gains, highlighting a “delicately
balanced” market, Brisbane-based researcher RP Data said last
week. Prices of detached houses slipped 1 percent in October,
while apartment prices slid 0.6 percent, it said.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments surged 12 percent in September from a year
earlier, and climbed 7.8 percent from August, statistics bureau
data showed.  Consumer confidence in the nation rose 1 percent to 99.2,
the Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey taken
during the first week of October showed. Australian home loan
approvals gained 1.8 percent in August from the prior month, the
most since November 2011, as buyers responded to the RBA’s
interest rate cuts.  “The  Reserve Bank  of Australia are aware that there are
preliminary signs of life in the housing market,” Ben Jarman, a
Sydney-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an e-
mail. “But conditions certainly aren’t strong enough yet to
constrain them from cutting rates further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  