-- Australia Sparks Currency Gain by Holding Key Rate: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-06T06:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/australia-holds-key-rate-on-signs-of-global-economy-stabilizing.html
Australia ’s  central bank  kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a developed-world high as
the global economy stabilizes and domestic inflation picks up,
driving the local currency to a five-week high.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at 3.25 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a statement today in Sydney. The move surprised most
economists, with 20 of 27 surveyed by  Bloomberg News  having
predicted a cut to 3 percent. Traders were split 50-50 on
whether Stevens would stand pat or cut.  “With prices data slightly higher than expected and recent
information on the world economy slightly more positive, the
board judged that the stance of monetary policy was appropriate
for the time being,” Stevens said in the statement.  His decision to hold reflects Australia’s standing as one
of the few industrial economies that needs to remain alert to
inflation risks. The nation’s trade-driven economy is reliant on
Chinese resource demand for growth and its currency remains
above parity with the  U.S. dollar  even as America’s expansion
accelerates.  “Unless global conditions take a sharp turn for the worse,
the RBA is unlikely to act,” said Daniel Martin, an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  Singapore . “We think the RBA will
now keep its cash rate on hold until late-2013 to help
counteract lackluster global demand and boost non-mining sectors
ahead of a peak in mining investment.”  Stronger Currency  The Australian currency jumped to $1.0438 after the
decision, the highest level since Sept. 28.  A quarter of Australia’s exports, or about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, goes to  China , and 60 percent of those
shipments are  iron ore . Data this month showed China’s non-
manufacturing industries rebounded from the slowest expansion in
at least 19 months, indicating the world’s second-biggest
economy is recovering from a seven-quarter slowdown.  The Australian government has pressed the central bank to
loosen monetary policy as it bids for a A$44 billion ($46
billion) swing in the budget back to the black in time for an
election late next year. Policy makers cut rates by 1.5
percentage points since October last year in five separate
moves.  The currency’s 57 percent climb in the past four years has
contributed to the loss of 37,000 manufacturing jobs in the past
two years and 70,000 in construction in the past 12 months. The
drop had been absorbed by the nation’s booming resource
industries as companies invest in natural gas, iron ore and coal
output to meet demand in Asia.  Global Slowdown  With benchmark rates near record lows, the U.S. Federal
Reserve,  European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan (8301)  have expanded
their balance sheets since 2008 to try to resuscitate growth.  The fallout from the measures has included surging
currencies in export-driven economies from  Scandinavia  to  South
Korea  to Australia. The so-called Aussie has risen 1.6 percent
since the RBA’s Oct. 2 meeting, when it lowered rates by a
quarter percentage point, and is trading higher than when the
central bank began its easing cycle in November last year.  “Interest rates for borrowers have declined to be clearly
below their medium-term averages and savers are facing increased
incentives to look for assets with higher returns,” Stevens
said. “While the impact of these changes takes some time to
work through the economy, there are signs of easier conditions
starting to have some of the expected effects.”  Inflation Outlook  An Australian government report Oct. 24 showed annual  core
inflation  accelerated last quarter to the mid-point of the
central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range. Retail sales
and building approvals for September jumped more than economists
projected, according to Bureau of Statistics reports released in
the past week.  The economy grew about 4 percent in the first half of 2012
from a year earlier on the strength of resource-industry
investment and  consumer spending . Signs of a slowdown from that
pace are reflected in the  unemployment rate  jumping to a 2 1/2-
year high of 5.4 percent in September.  “With the labor market having generally softened somewhat
in recent months, and unemployment edging higher, conditions
should work to contain pressure on labor costs in sectors other
than those directly affected by the current strength in
resources,” Stevens said today.  Asian stocks  gained, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
rising 0.2 percent at 3:02 p.m. in Tokyo.  U.K. Factories  Later today, the U.K. may say manufacturing production
extended an eight-month decline in September, while German
factory orders probably fell for a ninth month in the same
period, Bloomberg surveys of economists showed. The European
Union’s statistics office is forecast to report producer-price
inflation slowed in September.  On the day of the U.S. presidential elections, the Labor
Department may say job openings in the U.S. rose in September
for the first time in three months.  Still, the weakening of commodity prices last quarter and
the elevated currency prompted mining companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off
projects and cut jobs.  The RBA reiterated its view that the  exchange rate 
“remains higher than might have been expected, given the
observed decline in export prices and the weaker global
outlook.”  Commodity prices fell 2.2 percent in October from the
previous month in Australian dollar terms, an RBA gauge showed
last week. The index has slumped 19 percent over the past year,
it showed.  Commodity Prices  “Key commodity prices for Australia remain significantly
lower than earlier in the year, though trends have been more
mixed over the past couple of months, with some prices
recovering some ground while others declined further,” Stevens
said in today’s statement.  Prices of the nation’s key export, iron ore, have rebounded
almost 40 percent since reaching a three-year low on Sept. 5
after China announced spending on new subways and roads. The
U.S. job market improved as unemployment held below 8 percent
for a second month in October.  Today’s decision was the first since Stevens took the helm
in 2006 that the RBA hasn’t cut or raised rates at its November
meeting, held on same the day as the Melbourne Cup, the nation’s
richest horse race.  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in
Australia who predicted today’s rate pause, said an RBA cut may
still be in the offing.  “The statement still raises enough issues that officials
seem anxious about, including the global outlook, the local
labor market and the persistent strength of the Australian
dollar relative to lower commodity prices,” Walters said.
“This points to probable further policy easing in the period
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  