-- Tax Revamp Under Pena Nieto Outweighs CPI Impact, Carstens Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-06T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/tax-revamp-under-pena-nieto-outweighs-cpi-impact-carstens-says.html
Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said that the benefits of a fiscal overhaul raising
taxes, as  Mexico ’s incoming president is expected to propose,
would outweigh any short-term inflation increase.  “What we know about tax reforms worldwide, when they are
implemented they have a once-and-for-all impact on CPI, but then
the effect on inflation gets diluted,” Carstens said yesterday
in an interview in Mexico City following the conclusion of Group
of 20 meetings. Carstens said increasing government revenue
would provide “a much stronger basis for stronger growth” and
help limit inflation in the “medium and long term.”  President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto has said he plans to
push for changes in the nation’s tax system to wean the federal
government off its dependence on state-run oil company  Petroleos
Mexicanos , whose revenue provides about a third of Mexico’s
public budget.  Carstens is grappling with inflation that’s remained above
the central bank’s target range of 2 to 4 percent since June and
said yesterday the lender is “very concerned” about price
increases. Banxico said in its Oct. 26 decision that it could
raise the 4.5 percent reference rate “soon” should price
increases fail to slow.  Tax Bill  Pena Nieto, who takes office Dec. 1, wants to simplify and
expand tax collection with a bill he plans on presenting next
year and which would take effect in 2014, Luis Videgaray, co-
head of the incoming president’s transition team, said in an
Oct. 26 interview.  The fiscal overhaul would seek to boost taxes as a
percentage of gross domestic product by at least four percentage
points, another Pena Nieto top economic adviser, Ildefonso Guajardo, said in an Oct. 3 interview.  Asked if Pena Nieto would extend a 16 percent value-added
tax to food and medicine, which are currently exempt, Guajardo
said it would depend on what the parties negotiate. Some
lawmakers in both President  Felipe Calderon ’s  National Action
Party  and Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party  have
said in the past they would support adding duties to those
goods.  Stronger Peso      Asked about Mexico’s foreign exchange outlook, Carstens
said the peso has “solid grounds” to strengthen given the
nation’s higher interest rate and faster economic growth than
the U.S., its top trading partner.  The peso was little changed against the dollar at 13.0412
in trading yesterday after appreciating 10.2 percent against the
dollar since the end of May, the best performance among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Overseas investors have poured a record $6.8 billion into
Mexico’s debt securities this year in search of higher returns,
according to EPFR Global, as the  Federal Reserve ,  European
Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan (8301)  propel the rally by holding
 interest rates  near zero through asset purchases such as
quantitative easing in the U.S.  Mexico,  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy, could grow
4 percent this year, Carstens said during a speech in
 Minneapolis  on Oct. 26. The  U.S. economy  is expected to expand
2.1 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “There are solid grounds to expect a subsequent
appreciation of the peso,” Carstens said.  Carstens said more information about the central bank’s
view on  inflation  will be made public this week, when Banxico
delivers its third-quarter inflation report on Nov. 7 and
releases minutes from its most recent meeting on Nov. 9.  The odds of a rate hike have increased, Carstens said,
“but that depends on what happens in the near future, and will
depend on additional information we have in subsequent policy-
making meetings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  