-- May Urges Restraint as U.K. Begins Child Abuse Investigation
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-06T14:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/may-urges-restraint-as-u-k-begins-child-abuse-investigation.html
Home Secretary Theresa May urged U.K.
lawmakers not to use parliamentary privilege to identify people
accused of involvement in child abuse, saying doing so could put
any future trials at risk.  May issued the plea in a statement to lawmakers outlining
plans to examine whether allegations of sexual abuse at a
children’s home in north  Wales  were properly handled after a
victim said a senior Conservative Party figure was involved.
That figure has not been named publicly though speculation has
appeared on the Internet.  “I would like to warn honorable members that if they plan
to use Parliamentary privilege to name any suspects, they risk
jeopardizing any future trial and therefore the possibility of
justice for the victims that I believe the whole house wants to
see,” May said in the House of Commons in London.  Steve Messham, a victim of abuse at the Bryn Estyn home in
the 1970s and 1980s, alleged involvement by a senior figure in
Prime Minister David Cameron’s Tory Party in an interview with
 BBC  television’s “Newsnight” program last week. He said he was
“sold” to men for sexual abuse at a nearby hotel. The BBC
didn’t name the political figure.  A report into the abuse, for which 650 people were
questioned, was published in 2000 by Ronald Waterhouse, a
retired High Court judge, after a three-year inquiry. Messham
said that inquiry did not fully uncover all the harm at the care
home, prompting the current Welsh children’s commissioner, Keith
Towler, to call for a fresh investigation.  Waterhouse Inquiry  The Waterhouse inquiry was set up by the then Secretary of
State for Wales, William Hague, who now serves as Foreign
Secretary.  “The Waterhouse Inquiry sat for 203 days and heard
evidence from more than 650 people,” May said today.
“Statements made to the inquiry named more than 80 people as
child abusers, many of whom were care workers or teachers. But
the report found no evidence of a pedophile ring beyond the care
system, which was the basis of the rumors that followed the
original police investigation, and indeed one of the allegations
that has been made in the last week.”  Keith Bristow, the director general of the National Crime
Agency, will review the way the police handled the original
complaints of abuse and investigate any fresh allegations, May
said.  Nothing “Off Limits’  “There should be no historical sexual abuse of children
that is off limits,” Labour lawmaker Tom Watson told Parliament
today. “Whether you were raped and tortured as a child in Wales
or in Whitehall you are entitled to be heard. The media may be
transfixed by the specter of a pedophile Cabinet minister
abusing children but what actually matters is the thousands and
thousands of children whose lives have been ground into
nothing.”  Parliamentary privilege allows lawmakers to speak out in
Parliament without fear of prosecution. In May of last year, it
was used to identity married soccer player Ryan Giggs, named on
Twitter Inc. as having an injunction over an alleged affair with
a reality television star.  Britain is examining its recent history of child protection
after allegations surfaced of child-sex abuse by one of the
BBC’s most iconic stars, the late Jimmy Savile.  Cameron interrupted a trade visit to the Middle East to
announce the government will ask an independent figure to lead
an urgent investigation into whether the Waterhouse Inquiry did
its properly job. He is seeking to prevent the scandal that has
engulfed the BBC from spreading to his government.  “These are very, very concerning allegations, they’re
dreadful allegations, we must get to the bottom of it as quickly
as possible on behalf of the victims,” Cameron told reporters
in Abu Dhabi today. “That’s why I’ve ordered this rapid
investigation into the previous inquiry to find out whether
there was something wrong with it and make sure the victims are
properly listened to.”  -- With assistance from Thomas Penny and Robert Hutton in
 London . Andrew Atkinson, Tony Aarons  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  