-- Babcock International Stock Falls on Government Contracts
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-06T10:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/babcock-international-stock-falls-on-government-contracts.html
Babcock International Group Plc (BAB) , the
engineering partner helping design the U.K.’s future nuclear
submarine, fell the most in more than a year after reporting an
order-backlog decline as contract awards have slowed.  Babcock  dropped  as much as 4.4 percent to 945.5 pence, the
steepest intraday decline since Aug. 18, 2011, and was trading
down 3.5 percent lower at 10:26 a.m. in London, valuing the
company at at 3.44 billion pounds ($5.5 billion).  Underlying pretax profit from continuing operations in the
six months through September rose 13 percent to 142.7 million
pounds, London-based Babcock said in a statement today. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated 145.6 million pounds. Orders
on-hand fell 3.8 percent from the beginning of the fiscal year
to 12.5 billion pounds, it said. The company said it’s
“confident” of meeting its forecasts.  “The numbers are fine, but the shares had risen on some
expectation of an earnings upgrade,” said Robin Speakman, an
analyst at Shore Capital with a buy recommendation on the stock.
“The reality is, it is perhaps a bit early.”  Babcock said the bid pipeline, or contracts that the
company is targeting, has increased to 13 billion pounds from
9.5 billion pounds six months ago. Deals among those projects
could see a shift in Babcock’s earnings, with nuclear and asset
management becoming more important as U.K. Defense Ministry
activities wane, Chief Executive Officer Peter Rogers said.  Pipeline ‘Plenty’  “There is plenty in the pipeline which we expect to be
awarded in the next six months,” Rogers said in a telephone
interview. Those contract awards should cause the backlog to
surpass 13 billion pounds by the end of the year, he said.  Some government decisions have been slower to materialize,
partly because authorities are being more thorough with tenders
after a planned shift of the West Coast rail franchise to
 FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  from Virgin Trains was abandoned following
technical flaws in the bid process, Rogers said.  “There has been a bit of a Virgin train effect, with
people being very careful,” the CEO said. “That has
exacerbated the slowdown a little bit.”  Babcock has been exploring new business opportunities in
markets such as the  Middle East  and  Brazil . Rogers said he
expects to win contracts in the Middle East in the next 18
months to make good on a commitment made more than three years
ago to grow in that market.  The company is exploring a bid for a naval dockyard program
in Brazil, Rogers said. Although Babcock has identified a
partner for the project, “we are still not certain it is
something we will bid for,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  