-- Baidu Rises as Earnings Drive ETF Higher: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-06T21:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/baidu-rises-as-earnings-drive-etf-higher-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  climbed in  New York ,
and the biggest exchange-traded fund for the nation’s stocks
soared to a six-month high, as better-than-estimated company
earnings bolstered the outlook for Asia’s largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent to 95.71, while the
 iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund  ETF added 0.8 percent to
$38.11, the highest since May 2.  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (SMI)  also surged to a May high after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. upgraded the stock, while  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  rebounded from
a 22-month low as Moody’s Investors Service rated the Internet
company’s debt A3.  Travel website  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  became the
ninth company in the China-US gauge to post third-quarter
earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates today, compared with
eight stocks that reported disappointing results,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. The positive earnings season is helping
Chinese U.S.-traded stocks to their fourth  straight month  of
gains, with data from manufacturing to retail sales bolstering
 China ’s outlook after the economy’s seven-quarter slowdown.  “We are seeing some companies report decent growth,”
Charlie Awdry, who manages the $750 million China Opportunities
Fund at Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said by phone from
 London  yesterday. “We tend to favor consumer-driven and
information technology companies.”  Sinopec Premium  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.8 percent to
1,428.39 as Americans vote in their presidential election. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks traded in
Hong Kong declined 0.3 percent to 10,734.42, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.4 percent to 2,105.99, the biggest one-
day slide since Oct. 26  Chinese equities are likely to outperform the rest of
emerging markets as local consumption drives gains, Manu Vandenbulck, a senior portfolio manager at ING Investment
Management, said in an interview in London yesterday. ING likes
shares of China Mobile Ltd. on expectations mobile-phone use
will continue to climb, Vandenbulck said.  American depositary receipts of  China Petroleum and
Chemical Corp. , the nation’s largest refiner, fell 0.2 percent
to $107.24 in New York, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in its
shares in  Hong Kong . The ADRs traded at 1.1 percent premium over
equivalent shares listed in the Chinese city, the most since
Sept. 14.  Mindray Earnings  Mindray Medical International Ltd. (MR)  tumbled 7.7 percent to
$31.9 in the U.S., the biggest slump in a year, as the Chinese
medical device maker reported earnings and sales that trailed
analysts’ forecasts. The company posted adjusted net income of
42 cents per share, compared with the average of five analysts’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg for 45 cents. Mindray expects
full-year net income to grow at least 15 percent from 2011, they
said yesterday.  The Shenzhen-based company also said that its co-Chief
Executive Officer Xu Hang resigned from the post and will
continue to serve as chairman to bolster corporate governance.  Ingrid Yin, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., is retaining
an outperform rating on Mindray stock as the growth of the
health-care industry in China and  emerging markets , which
account for about 75 percent of company revenue, remains
“solid.” The shares are valued at 13 times estimated earnings
after subtracting cash and are attractive as Mindray is likely
to accelerate growth, according to Yin.  ‘Attractive Prices’  “The third quarter will be the trough,” she said in a
phone interview. “It’s a good company at attractive prices.”  LDK Solar Co., the second-biggest maker of solar wafers,
was the  biggest gainer  on the China-US measure, jumping 13
percent to 98 cents, the highest level in almost four weeks. The
company agreed to terminate a contract to supply products to
Sumitomo Corp. for a $33.4 million settlement. China’s solar
industry is facing problems of oversupply, which have been
cutting profits.  Xinyu, China-based LDK also replaced its CEO and hired five
other board members, according to a Nov. 5 statement.  Baidu, owner of China’s biggest online search engine, rose
2.1 percent to $105.94 in New York as Moody’s rated the company
A3, the same level as Hewlett-Packard Co., the U.S. personal
computer maker. The first-time rating reflects Baidu’s
“dominant” position in the Chinese Internet search market,
Moody’s said in a statement on Nov. 5.  Ctrip.com, the largest online travel agency in China,
jumped as much as 7.2 percent before ending with a 1.3 percent
gain to $20.32 in the U.S. The company reported net income of 35
cents, compared with an average of 31 cents from 10 analysts’
estimates.  SMIC Gains  Semiconductor Manufacturing, a chipmaker based in  Shanghai ,
climbed 6.2 percent to $2.23, the highest level since May 15,
after JPMorgan raised the company to the equivalent of buy, from
neutral. Semiconductor reported third-quarter profit on Nov. 5,
from a loss a year earlier.  VanceInfo Technologies Inc. (VIT) , a Beijing-based information
technology service provider, rose 0.5 percent to $8.02, the
highest level since Sept. 20, as shareholders approved a $875
million merger with HiSoft Technology International Ltd.  VanceInfo and Dalian, China-based HiSoft, which counts
General Electric Co. and Microsoft Corp. as customers, agreed in
August to an all-stock merger in which shareholders would each
own approximately 50 percent of the combined company. HiSoft
will be the surviving listed stock. It gained 0.8 percent to
$10.77, the highest since Sept. 20.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , the nation’s second-biggest
domestic carrier, dropped 3.5 percent to $18 after Credit Suisse
Group AG cut its recommendation to the equivalent of sell. A
territorial dispute between China and  Japan  over islands in the
 East China Sea  is hurting  travel demand , analyst Davin Wu wrote
in a report dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  