-- Bain Says Private-Equity Deals to Rebound: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-11-07T00:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/bain-says-private-equity-deals-to-rebound-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asia ’s private-equity
investments will pick up as early as next year, reversing a
half-decade slump as the region’s improving economic outlook
attracts funds, said Sebastien Lamy, a partner at Bain & Co.  Private-equity deals in the region this year are expected
to match 2011’s $5.3 billion or post a decline, before staging a
rebound over the next two years, Lamy said, citing Bain
research. The investments dropped from a peak of $12.3 billion
in 2007, according to data from the corporate consulting firm.  Transactions will grow as the biggest developing economies
in Southeast Asia, which has a combined population of about 600
million, accelerate even as the expansion in  China  and  India 
slows. Investors almost doubled funds allocated to the two
nations in the three years through 2011, while funds spent in
Southeast Asia stagnated, McKinsey & Co. said in a May  report .  “The overall economic outlook for Southeast Asia remains
solid and we are seeing strong interest by investors,” Lamy, a
partner at Bain in  Singapore , said in an interview yesterday.
“Deal-making in the region will pick up in 2013 or 2014.”  The region is drawing more global players.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the
private equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , said
Oct. 25 it opened an office in Singapore and plans to expand its
business lending to Asian companies amid a shortage of funding
in the region. The New York-based company is seeking to make
more loans including mezzanine financing and investments in
high-yield bonds over the next five years, said Joseph Bae,
managing partner of KKR Asia Ltd.  Powerful Reversal  Navis Capital Partners Ltd., which manages $3 billion of
private and public equities, also said last month that private-
equity investors are set to increase bets in Southeast Asia.  “There is a question mark about prospective returns, given
the slowdown in the Chinese economy,” Navis Managing Partner
Nicholas Bloy said in an interview on Oct. 24. A slowdown of
private-equity investments in Southeast Asia “will reverse
itself very powerfully in the next two or three years.”  Deals in the region may be hurt by the  European debt crisis 
and slowing growth in Asia’s biggest economies, said Larry
Oberfeld, a London-based senior analyst at private-equity
research firm PE Asia.  “There are some uncertainties,” he said by telephone.
“Growth in China is slower than expected, which hampers deal-
making in Southeast Asia. And the concerns surrounding the
European fiscal crisis are also having an impact.”  Some Uncertainties  The rebound in Southeast Asia investments was also delayed
as some deals in  Vietnam  and  Indonesia  were held back, said Lamy
from Bain, the Boston-based consulting company that created
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, which was co-founded by
U.S. presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  In Indonesia, investors are having difficulties finding
companies of the right size, and price expectations between
buyers and sellers are still too wide, he said. Investors in
Vietnam are taking a wait-and-see approach because of the
economic outlook, he said. Vietnam faces a high risk of faster
inflation, Do Thi Nhung, deputy head of the  State Bank  of
Vietnam’s monetary-policy department, said Nov. 5.  “You have had continued fears around inflation and
pressures on the dong,” Lamy said. “Indonesia and Vietnam are
still seen as the most attractive destinations in the region.
However, the wave of deals expected by many for this year will
come later.”  Singapore Funds  The improving outlook of private-equity investments has led
to home-grown firms. Axiom Asia Private Capital, run by former
managers of  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , said
private-equity investments in Southeast Asia are among those
that could deliver better-than-expected returns.  These markets could offer “some contrarian surprises,”
Chihtsung Lam, managing partner at Axiom Asia, said in an
interview on Oct. 8. Axiom was founded in April 2006 by Lam and
two colleagues from GIC Special Investments, the private-equity
arm of Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund.  The government fund, which manages more than $100 billion
of the city’s reserves,  said  in July its holdings in so-called
alternative assets increased to 27 percent from 26 percent in
the year ended March, as private equity and infrastructure
investments rose. GIC also boosted its cash to levels exceeding
the 2008 financial crisis as it pared stocks and bonds.  Significant Roles  GIC and the region’s sovereign wealth funds, including
 Malaysia ’s Khazanah Nasional Bhd., “are primed to play
significant roles” as private-equity investors, Lamy said.  Singapore and Malaysia were “historical sources” for
deals in Southeast  Asia  and they “will continue to offer a
significant deal flow of private-equity investors,” he said.  Funds may eventually turn to smaller markets.  Silk Road
Management , an investor in frontier markets, said last week it
will take stakes in three Myanmar projects by year-end, the
first private-equity deals in the region’s poorest nation as it
emerges from five decades of isolation.  “Southeast Asia is a promising region with very strong
fundamentals,” Lamy said. “People are going to have a foothold
beyond 2014 in countries like Vietnam, the  Philippines  and
Myanmar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  