-- Bats Europe Said to Seek U.K. Exchange License
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-11-06T17:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/bats-europe-said-to-seek-u-k-exchange-license.html
Bats Chi-X  Europe  plans to become the
region’s first alternative trading system to register as an
exchange in a renewed challenge to traditional bourses such as
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   The European unit of Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats Global
Markets Inc. has filed a proposal to become a Registered
Investment Exchange with the Financial Services Authority, the
U.K. regulator, according to two people familiar with the
situation. They declined to be identified as the information
isn’t public.  The company, currently deemed a Multilateral Trading
Facility, is seeking the license to attract business from retail
investors and fund managers who may be legally restricted to
trading on an exchange, the people said. It would also mean
firms could choose to list their shares on Bats Chi-X Europe.
Julia Streets, a spokeswoman for Bats Europe in London, declined
to comment.  The move would make Bats Europe the third exchange in the
U.K., after LSE, Europe’s oldest independent bourse, and  ICAP
Plc (IAP) ’s  Securities & Derivatives Exchange . Bats Europe is one of a
wave of alternative trading systems that opened after European
Union regulations introduced in 2007 opened the door to
competition with incumbent bourses.  Canceled IPO  Bats, the third-largest U.S. equity-exchange operator,
canceled its initial public offering on March 23 after errors on
its computer systems kept its own stock from trading and forced
a halt in Apple Inc. shares.  “Bats Chi-X Europe has been undertaking a host of growth
initiatives since its failed IPO earlier in the year,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, wrote in
a report today. “This seems like a natural progression for the
company to further legitimize its business.”  Founded by a high-frequency trader in 2005, Bats was
steered to prominence by brokers trying to hold down fees as the
 New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market acquired their
biggest electronic rivals. The company became an exchange in the
U.S. in 2008.  Better System  The firm, whose name stands for Better Alternative Trading
System, rose to prominence in tandem with the proliferation of
electronic firms that now dominate the buying and selling of
equities in the U.S. Bats’ owners include Morgan Stanley, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Citigroup Inc. and Chicago-based Getco LLC.  LSE shares erased gains and fell as much as 9 pence, or 0.9
percent, to 955.5 pence on the news of Bats Europe’s license
application. They later recovered, rising 0.7 percent to close
at 971 pence in London.  “We expect this announcement, which could take a year to
establish, to have little impact on LSE’s market share,”
Lenardos wrote today. “We expect intense competition to always
be present in the exchange industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  and @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  and @AndrewJRummer on Twitter 