-- BMW Sticks to Growth Plans After Quarterly Profit Rises
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-11-06T14:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/bmw-profit-beats-estimates-as-china-growth-offsets-europe.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  stood by
plans to increase 2012 profit after third-quarter earnings beat
analyst expectations, helped by gains from auto loans.  The world’s biggest maker of luxury cars is pushing to
boost deliveries next year, led by growth in the U.S. and China.
Backed by new models like an extended version of the 3-Series
sedan, the Munich-based company plans to increase sales in China
by more than 10 percent, outpacing the market.  “We expect our attractive product lineup to generate
positive momentum” in 2013, even as  Europe  stagnates and global
growth slows further, Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner
said today on a conference call.  Buoyed by growth in  Asia  and the U.S., BMW has largely been
unscathed by the sovereign-debt crisis, which is set to cause
the biggest drop in European auto demand in nearly two decades
this year. Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz has lowered profit targets
and initiated a cost-cutting plan because of the slowdown in
Europe and aging models. BMW said today that it doesn’t need a
special savings program.  Third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes rose 14
percent to 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), lifted by a 16
percent gain in profit at the financial services division. The
figure beat the 1.74 billion-euro average of 11  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 14 percent to 18.8 billion
euros. Net income jumped 16 percent to 1.29 billion euros.  Pricing Pressure  “The only little hair in the soup is the auto segment, in
which pricing pressure in Europe weighed on the margin,” said
 Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler.
“But they also earn money with the financial services. The
focus shifted a little bit.”  BMW was down 0.2 percent at 64.34 euros as of 3:40 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading, after earlier  falling  as much as 2.6 percent.
The stock has climbed 24 percent this year, valuing the company
at 41.1 billion euros and making it worth more than Daimler,
which also makes heavy-duty trucks and buses.  Ebit at BMW’s carmaking division fell 9.3 percent to 1.65
billion euros, burdened by higher development costs and
“intense competition,” the company said. That led to a
decrease in the margin to 9.6 percent from 11.9 percent a year
earlier. Incentives burdened its return on sales by as much as
1.2 percentage points, CFO Eichiner said.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, the world’s second-largest luxury-car
brand, reported a margin of 10.5 percent last quarter, outpacing
the 6.4 percent at Mercedes.  Rising Risks  “Like the rest of the sector, we are now beginning to feel
some headwind,” Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said.
“Competition is intensifying and risks are increasing.”  Still, the German manufacturer, which also makes BMW and
Husqvarna motorcycles, stuck to its full-year target of beating
2011’s pretax profit of 7.38 billion euros.  BMW also forecasts higher automotive profit and margins at
the division to be at the “upper end” of a range of 8 percent
to 10 percent of sales for the full year as long as the global
economy doesn’t worsen further. It said today that declining
markets may have a “perceptible impact” on its auto business.  The company also plans to deliver more than 1.7 million
cars this year, posting new sales records at its BMW, Mini and
Rolls-Royce brands. BMW said today that it expects further
growth in sales in the fourth quarter.  BMW has defended its sales lead over Audi this year,
boosted by 33 percent growth in  China  and a 7.1 percent advance
in the U.S. Global deliveries rose in October by more than 12
percent, the company said today.  Sales Lead  Lifted by demand for the 1-Series compact and 3-Series
vehicles, the manufacturer delivered 1.11 million BMW cars and
sport-utility vehicles in the first nine months of 2012,
compared with Audi’s 1.1 million. Mercedes delivered 965,000
vehicles. Audi and Mercedes have both vowed to take the top spot
from BMW by the end of the decade.  To fend off its rivals, BMW will invest 200 million euros
in a new assembly facility in  Brazil  to produce 30,000 vehicles
annually. The move counters Audi’s plans for a 150,000-unit
plant in San Jose Chiapa,  Mexico , as both carmakers target
growth in  Latin America . BMW will also start producing Mini
vehicles at a former  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  plant in the
Netherlands from 2014.  To prepare for a further slowdown in Europe, BMW has
negotiated measures with labor representatives at its German
plants that allow it to ratchet back production. The agreement
lets the carmaker cancel shifts and curtail breaks if needed.  BMW has also shifted “tens of thousands” of cars that
were originally targeted for Europe to the U.S. and Asia this
year as sales weaken in the crisis-hit region,  Ian Robertson ,
the brand’s sales chief, said last month. CFO Eichiner said
today that the company will act “vigorously” if the market
decline accelerates.  “BMW is well prepared for more challenging times,” said
 Tim Schuldt , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Equinet. “They have
a relatively young model lineup, but it’s going to be difficult
for them to grow again in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  