-- BowLeven Rises Most in Four Months on Accord With Petrofac
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-06T17:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/bowleven-rises-most-in-four-months-on-agreement-with-petrofac.html
BowLeven Plc (BLVN) , the U.K. oil explorer
focusing on Cameroon, jumped the most in four months in London
after finding a partner to help it develop a permit in the
central African nation.  BowLeven rose 7.7 percent, the biggest gain since July 6,
to 80.50 pence, valuing the Edinburgh-based company at 237
million pounds ($379 million).  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , a U.K. oil and gas engineering company,
agreed to provide BowLeven with access to as much as $500
million for the first stage of the development of the  Etinde
permit  off Cameroon, BowLeven said today in a statement. The
Scottish explorer plans to supply gas from the MLHP-7 block
fields to Ferrostaal AG from 2016 to make fertilizers in the
African country.  “It took us six month to consummate it,” Chief Executive
Officer Kevin Hart said in a phone interview. “The working
assumption is that the funding will cover all” of the first-
stage development costs.  Vitol SA, one of the world’s largest oil traders, is
BowLeven’s partner in the Etinde area.  “A lot of the value in here isn’t just in the gas it’s
also in the liquids production as well,” Hart said. BowLeven
will be marketing oil separately to the planned agreement with
Ferrostaal.  Finalize Deal  BowLeven expects to finalize the gas sale agreement for
about 70 million cubic feet a day to Ferrostaal by July next
year, according to Hart. It may also supply as much as 15
million cubic feet a day to substitute fuel oil burning at a
power station located nearby the fertilizer plant.  “The project offers Petrofac the opportunity to provide
integrated services covering onshore and offshore facilities
development, drilling services and training and operations,”
 Andy Inglis , of Petrofac Integrated Energy Services, said in a
separate statement.  BowLeven plans to integrate the Sapele discoveries in the
second phase of the Etinde project development. The area holds
about 1.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent resources in the
Deep Omicron deposit.  “It will be a relatively modest subsequent investment,
because of the infrastructure that will be put in place,” Hart
said. “We are probably looking at two or three wells, an
unmanned platform and a pipeline.”  The oil explorer held about $120 million in cash and
expects to receive about $60 million for drilling the IM-5
appraisal well on block MLHP-7, it said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  