-- Brazil to Include Investments in Fiscal Target, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-11-06T16:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/brazil-to-include-investments-in-fiscal-target-mantega-says.html
Brazil ’s government said for the first
time this year that it will designate some investments as savings
in order to reach its 2012 primary  budget surplus  target.  Government tax cuts have made it more difficult to reach the
primary surplus target of 139.8 billion reais ($68.7 billion), or
about 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said to reporters in Brasilia.  “We are experiencing weaker tax collection this year and we
are implementing large tax cuts,” Mantega said. “That means we
are giving up some tax income.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has increased
expenditures and cut taxes for companies and consumers to revive
Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy, which is forecast to grow 1.5%
this year. The tax cuts total 45 billion reais this year, Mantega
said. The budget surplus before interest payments in September was
the smallest since July 2010 and less than half economists’
forecasts, as stimulus spending outpaced tax revenue growth.  The amount of investment that will be counted as part of the
primary surplus has not been determined, Mantega said. The
government is authorized to deduct as much as 42 billion reais in
investments, he said. The move “does not signify weakening of
public accounts,” he added. “Public debt will continue to
fall.”  Brazil’s primary surplus for the first nine months of the
year came to 75.8 billion reais, down from 104.6 billion a year
earlier, the central bank said last month. The central
government’s expenditures over the first three quarters grew 11.8
percent from a year earlier, outpacing revenue growth of 6.9
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 