-- Cablevision Falls on Surprise Loss After Paying Down Debt
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-06T21:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/cablevision-reports-surprise-loss-after-paying-down-debt.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  fell after
a $61 million charge to extinguish debt and the defection of
video subscribers helped fuel a surprise third-quarter loss.  Cablevision tumbled 6.3 percent to $15.49 at the close in
New York, for the biggest one-day loss since May 3. The stock
has risen 8.9 percent this year.  Cablevision, which has 3 million customers on the East
Coast, has struggled to gain video subscribers as it competes
with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS, which offers service in
an area that covers about 50 percent of the Bethpage, New York-
based company’s users. Cablevision’s rising capital expenditure
has crimped profit as spending on plants and operations jumped
41 percent this year.  “We expect fourth quarter 2012  capital expenditures  to be
significantly higher than during the comparable 2011 period,”
Gregg Seibert, the company’s chief financial officer, said on an
analyst conference call today after the results were released.  The company reported a third-quarter loss of $3.8 million
from continuing operations, or a loss of 1 cent a share, from a
profit of $39.3 million, or 14 cents, a year earlier, according
to a statement. That compared to an average analyst estimate for
a profit of 16 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Total capital expenditure for the nine months through Sept.
30 was $809.2 million, up from $574.5 million a year earlier,
according to the statement.  Cablevision lost 10,000 video customers in the period,
about 2,000 more that the average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Verizon’s FiOS  “It seems Verizon really hasn’t toned down promotions as
much as people think,”  Todd Mitchell , an analyst with Brean
Capital LCC in New York, said in an interview before the
earnings report was released. FiOS added 119,000 video
subscribers in the quarter.  FiOS lowered rates for new customers after temporarily
raising them and has extended the promotional pricing “beyond
the introductory periods,” Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan 
said on the conference call.  Cablevision added 28,000 Internet customers, topping the
average analyst projection of 22,000. The company also gained
22,000 voice subscribers, in line with estimates. Average
revenue per video customer was $154.83, trailing the $155.68
average analyst estimate.  Third-quarter sales rose 1.2 percent to $1.69 billion,
matching analysts’ estimates.  While not included in third quarter earnings, Cablevision
“will likely incur significant storm-related costs” due to
 Hurricane Sandy  next quarter, Tom Eagan, an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity Corp., said in a note to clients before the
company released results.  Hurricane Sandy  Cablevision has cited about $16 million of costs associated
with  Hurricane Irene . The company may have to spend more than
double that for Sandy, Eagan wrote. Cablevision said Nov. 2 it
would credit customers for days when service was affected by the
storm. The credits and damage costs may result in a decline of
as much as 30 percent in adjusted operating cash flow in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, Eagan wrote.  “We’ve not yet estimated the full financial impact of last
week’s storm on our company,” Seibert said on the conference
call. “Suffice to say that the impact could be significant.”  Cablevision still has more than 502,000 customers without
power, the company said today.  In addition to its customers in New York,  New Jersey ,
Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania, Cablevision also has
about 300,000 subscribers in  Colorado ,  Utah ,  Montana  and  Wyoming 
from its 2010 acquisition of the company now known as Bresnan
Broadband Holdings LLC.  Cablevision is exploring a sale of Bresnan after several
acquisitions of cable systems have been announced this year at
favorable prices compared to the value of publicly traded cable
stocks. While the company has received unsolicited interest in
the unit, there’s no guarantee a deal will happen, Dolan said on
today’s call.  (Cablevision held a conference call at 11 a.m. New York
time to discuss the company’s results. To listen, visit
 http://www.cablevision.com/investor/index.jsp .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  