-- Cameron Seeks Sovereign Wealth Fund Cash on Middle East Tour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-06T11:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/cameron-seeks-sovereign-wealth-fund-cash-on-middle-east-tour.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  met
the heads of three of the  United Arab Emirates ’ largest
sovereign wealth funds today, seeking investment for British
projects including wind farms.  “Emirati investment in the U.K. across a range of sectors
-- including real estate, banking, sport and infrastructure --is
vital to our economy back in Britain,” Cameron said in an
interview with The National, an Abu Dhabi-based newspaper. “So
we will continue to do all we can to make the U.K. an attractive
and accessible investment destination.”  The prime minister’s office said before the meeting that he
was due to see Masdar, Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. and
Emirates Nuclear Energy Corp. Masdar has invested in the London
Array offshore wind farm, which began powering British homes
last month.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  has invested in the
U.K.’s North Sea oil fields.  With energy prices for Britons rising, and the country
emerging from recession, foreign investment offers Cameron the
possibility of economic stimulus and lower fuel bills. He moves
on to Saudi Arabia later today, where he’ll meet  King Abdullah 
to discuss issues including Iran, Syria and terrorism.  Britain is aiming for 15 percent of its energy to come from
clean sources such as solar and wind by 2020, compared with 9.4
percent currently. There are divisions between the Conservatives
and their Liberal Democrat coalition partners over the pace of
expansion for land-based  wind turbines .  Human Rights  Cameron discussed yesterday the possible sale of Typhoon
jets. In an interview today, he defended selling weapons while
also talking to students about the importance of democracy and
 human rights .  “It is my job to get good deals for Britain, which means
jobs in the U.K., investment in the U.K. but at the same time
not compromising on our strong views about human rights which we
raise with all of these countries,” Cameron told reporters. “  “I came here to the United Arab Emirates wanting the
strongest possible long-term defense partnership between our two
countries and that’s exactly what we’ve agreed with Typhoon, and
that is a very good outcome for both our countries and for jobs
in the U.K.,” he said.  The U.A.E. and Britain plan to establish a defense and
industrial partnership involving close cooperation around
Typhoons, the countries said in a joint communique today. The
defense alliance would mean a collaboration on a “number of new
technologies.”  Cameron wants to arrange the sale of more than 100 planes
to the region in the coming year in deals that would be worth
more than 6 billion pounds ($9.5 billion) to British companies.  Cameron’s office said  Saudi Arabia  had signaled it is
interested in placing a second “substantial” order of Typhoon
jets, on top of the 72 jets the country has already. The U.A.E.
has shown interest in ordering as many as 60 jets. The Typhoon
is built by Eurofighter GmbH, made up of BAE Systems Plc,
Finmeccanica SpA and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  