-- Canadian Dollar Gains With Stocks, Commodities on Risk Appetite
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-06T22:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/canadian-dollar-gains-with-stocks-commodities-on-risk-appetite.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened
against the majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts as
rising U.S. stocks and raw materials boosted appetites for
higher-risk assets.  Canada’s dollar gained along with the currencies of fellow
commodity exporters as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index (SPX)  of 24
raw materials rose 2.3 percent after the Reserve Bank of
Australia kept interest rates unchanged, signaling the global
economy is stabilizing. The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the
loonie for the image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, may
strengthen to a more than two-week high if it breaches the key
resistance level of 99 cents per U.S. dollar, as markets await
the results of the U.S. presidential election.  “No matter who wins tonight, moving in to the next year,
the U.S. is going to be outpacing our counterparts, and that’s
going to boost the Canadian and Mexican economies -- the tide
raising all boats,” said John Doyle, director of markets in
 Washington  at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “The
RBA not cutting rates was the biggest headline today and so you
saw a boost in commodities.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.4 percent to 99.21 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5:05 p.m. in Toronto. It gained last week
from the weakest level in almost three months, C$1.0019. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0080.  The S&P 500 Index added 0.8 percent. Futures of crude oil,
the nation’s largest export, rose as much as 4.2 percent to
$89.22, the highest level in two weeks.  Technical Analysis  The loonie may strengthen to 98.46 cents per U.S. dollar,
last reached on Oct. 19, if it breaches resistance at Friday’s
high of 99.21 followed by 99, George Davis, chief technical
analyst for fixed income and currency strategy in Toronto at
Royal Bank of  Canada , said in a note to clients. It will find
support at 99.42, followed by 99.62 and 99.84. The bank
recommends buying U.S. dollars on dips, with a stop-loss at 99
on an hourly closing basis.  Canadian bonds fell, with the yield on the country’s two-
year security rising five basis points, or 0.5 percentage point,
to 1.11 percent. The 1 percent note maturing in January 2014
declined 9 cents to C$99.78. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note added four basis points to 1.80 percent.  Athabasca Oil Corp. is proposing the biggest Canadian-
dollar denominated junk-bond sale ever as it plans to expand
production by 20 times by the end of the decade.  The C$600 million ($602 million) of notes will be issued in
a private placement with a maturity in 2017, the company said
yesterday in a statement. The bond would rank as the largest
speculative-grade issue denominated in Canadian dollars and
Athabasca’s first since it become a public company in 2010.  Purchasing Managers  Canada’s Ivey purchasing managers’  index  was 58.3 in
October on a seasonally adjusted basis, following a September
reading of 60.4, according to a statement on the website of
Western University’s business school.  Readings of more than 50 indicate purchasing by governments
and companies advanced.  Australia ’s dollar gained as the nation’s central bank kept
its benchmark interest rate unchanged as the world economy
stabilizes and domestic inflation picks up, pushing the local
currency to a five-week high. The overnight cash-rate target at
3.25 percent was unchanged today, the central bank said in a
statement in Sydney. A cut to 3 percent was expected, according
to 20 of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘In Sympathy’  “The Aussie and kiwi are both up, and the loonie lifted in
sympathy,” Greg Moore, currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , said in a phone interview. The kiwi refers to New
Zealand’s dollar. “We’re in a wait-and-see mode before the
elections, and volatility going forward is the best bet.”  Voters in the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner,
decide today between giving President  Barack Obama  another four
years or replacing him with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .
The next president will need to address a so-called fiscal cliff
of more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts
that take effect in 2013 unless Congress can reach a budget
compromise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  