-- Central Petroleum Sees Exploration Starting by April
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-08T04:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/central-petroleum-sees-exploration-with-total-starting-by-april.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story published on Nov. 6 to
say that Total is funding 80 percent of exploration.)  Central Petroleum Ltd. (CTP) , the company
that agreed to form a shale gas partnership in central  Australia 
with France’s  Total SA (FP) , expects exploration to begin by April.  “This area is considered to be highly prospective,”
Richard Cottee, chief executive officer of Perth-based Central
Petroleum, said in a phone interview.  Total, Europe’s third-biggest oil producer, will fund 80
percent of a $60 million stage one exploration program in the
Southern Georgina Basin, Central Petroleum said in a statement.
Total may commit a further 80 percent of as much as $130 million
for stage 2 and 3 exploration should they proceed. That follows
 Statoil ASA (STL) ’s agreement in June to invest as much as $200
million in a drilling program in the Northern Territory basin
with  PetroFrontier Corp. (PFC)   Shares of Central Petroleum, which have more than tripled
since the start of the year, were at 19 Australian cents at 3:27
p.m. in Sydney trading.  The accord is subject to approvals from Queensland state
and Northern Territory regulators and Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board, Total said today in an e-mailed
statement. Total has the potential to own as much as 68 percent
of the four exploration permits and operate 90 percent of the
acreage at the end of the program’s three stages, it said.  Central Petroleum doesn’t have a need for further funding
after the Total agreement and another exploration partnership
with Adelaide-based  Santos Ltd. (STO)  announced last month.  “The balance sheet is properly underwritten, and we don’t
need to go to the market,” Cottee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  