-- Chelsea Turns to Remy as Cheaper Striker Option: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-06T06:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/chelsea-turns-to-remy-as-cheaper-striker-option-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Cheaper Option  Chelsea is looking to sign Marseille’s Loic Remy or Porto’s
Jackson Martinez after owner  Roman Abramovich  decided Atletico
 Madrid ’s 46 million-pound ($73.6 million) asking price for
Radamel Falcao is too high,  the Daily Mirror reported .  Remy, who plays for the French national team, would be
available for 15 million pounds, and Martinez has scored nine
goals in the same number of league appearances, the newspaper
said. While Abramovich still backs striker  Fernando Torres , the
London team wants to add attackers, the Mirror added.  Spurs Move?  Tottenham may move for Liverpool’s Andy Carroll, who is on
loan at West Ham, in January to add to its attacking options,
 the Daily Mail reported.   While West Ham has a 17-million pound option to buy the
England national team striker at the end of the season,
Liverpool may accept an offer in January to raise funds to help
rebuild its squad, the newspaper said.  Shawcross Offer  Stoke wants to sign defender Ryan Shawcross to a contract
extension before his agreement expires in 18 months as the
Potters try to fend off interest from Manchester United and
Spurs,  the Daily Telegraph said.   The 25-year-old arrived from United for 1 million pounds in
2008, and has attracted attention from his former club and
Tottenham after making the England national team, the newspaper
added.  Fulham Talks  Fulham is trying to negotiate a new contract with captain
Brede Hangeland as the defender can leave on a free transfer at
the end of the season and may attract interest from overseas
clubs,  the Daily Mail said.   The 31-year-old, who earns about 40,000 pounds a week, is
also captain of  Norway , and can negotiate a contract with a
foreign team after January, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  