-- Chile Policy Makers Were Unanimous in October Rate Decision
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-06T11:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/chile-policy-makers-were-unanimous-in-october-rate-decision-1-.html
Chilean policy makers were unanimous in
their decision to keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5
percent last month, according to minutes of the meeting posted on
the central bank website today.  The central bank last changed borrowing costs in January,
when it made a quarter-point reduction that surprised economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers didn’t discuss changing
borrowing costs in October after last considering a change in May
when they studied a quarter-point increase.  Since May, inflation has eased below the central bank’s 3
percent target even as economic growth has exceeded estimates made
by analysts in every month except one. Economists polled monthly
by the central bank expect policy makers to keep borrowing costs
unchanged for at least 17 months as they weigh the local impact of
the Euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “The main external risk is related to the outcome of the
European crisis,” central bank board member Enrique Marshall said
in an Oct. 31 presentation. “The main internal risk is that
internal demand won’t moderate as expected.”  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views of
average borrowing costs, increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.96 percent yesterday from the end of
September.  Gross domestic product in the world’s largest copper miner
increased 5.4 percent in the first nine months of 2012 from last
year, according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on central
bank data. The government as a result may increase its growth
forecast for 2012 beyond 5 percent, the  Finance Ministry ’s
Macroeconomic Coordinator Rodrigo Cerda said Nov. 5.  At the same time, inflation may fall below the central bank’s
forecast for December of 2.5 percent, Marshall said in the
presentation. Economists in the central bank poll, published Oct.
10, forecast 2.1 percent inflation in December this year and 3
percent at the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 