-- China Leaders Mull Intra-Party Democratic Reform: Reuters
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/china-leaders-mull-intra-party-democratic-reform-reuters.html
Chinese president  Hu Jintao  and his
heir-apparent Xi Jinping have proposed that candidates should
outnumber available seats in elections for the elite Politburo
this week, Reuters said, citing three unidentified people.  The Politburo, which now has 24 members, is the second-
highest level of power in China from which the highest decision-
making body, the Politburo Standing Committee, is chosen.
Members of the Politburo are elected by about 200 members of the
 Central Committee  which is in turn chosen by more than 2,000
delegates at the 18th Communist Party Congress, which opens in
Beijing on Nov. 8.  Under Hu and Xi’s proposal, there would be as many as 20
percent more candidates than Politburo seats, according to the
Reuters report yesterday. It was unclear if competitive voting
would also be extended to the Standing Committee, the  news
agency  reported.  Elections for the most senior members of the party, held
every five years, have previously been mainly rubber-stamp
formalities, vetting choices agreed on ahead of time by party
power-brokers.  Xi, currently the vice president, is almost certain to
become the party general secretary at the congress and then the
nation’s president in March.  Li Keqiang , now a vice premier, is
expected to take over from  Wen Jiabao  as premier. The exact
lineup of the Politburo Standing Committee that rules the party,
and therefore the country, won’t be known before the end of the
party congress.  Hu wants expanded intra-party democracy as a legacy and the
change would also help Xi’s image, Reuters said, citing an
unidentified person. Xi, 59 may face economic growth of 7
percent in 2013, the slowest in 23 years, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s largest bond
fund.  -Michael Wei. Editors: Joshua Fellman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Michael Wei in
Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or  mwei13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Michael Wei  in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  