-- Churchill Biography That Sparked Cult Is Finally Done: Review
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2012-11-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/churchill-biography-that-sparked-cult-is-finally-done-review.html
Eight years after William Manchester’s death, the final volume of “The Last Lion,” his
epic biography of  Winston Churchill , has finally appeared.  His friend Paul Reid took over Manchester’s notes and wrote
“ Defender of the Realm ,” which appears with both names on the
cover.  “The Last Lion” made an entire generation of American men
fall in love with Churchill.  The first two stylishly written volumes -- “ Visions of
Glory ,” which took Churchill from his birth in 1874 to 1932;
and “ Alone ,” which covered his years in the political
wilderness to 1940 -- ignited the Churchillmania that hasn’t
quite crested yet.  Why was “The Last Lion” such a triumph? You have to go
back to the bleakish days of the early 1980s. The culture wars
were cranking up in reaction to the years of Carter malaise,
when a particularly virulent form of liberal self-hatred
dominated the agenda.  “The Last Lion” was an unapologetic celebration of a
giant, who in addition to resisting the Nazis also happened to
be an engaging bundle of talents and eccentricities.  Is “Defender of the Realm” as good as the first two
volumes? Of course not. Should you buy it? Yes, because while
waiting for its publication you have probably also devoured the
eight volumes of the authorized biography (if not the companion
collections of documents), as well as “In Search of Churchill”
by Martin Gilbert (1994), “Eminent Churchillians” by  Andrew
Roberts  (1994), “Churchill” by Roy Jenkins (2001), “Franklin
and Winston” by  Jon Meacham  (2003) and “In Command of
History” by David Reynolds (2004). Am I missing any?  Crowded Bookshelf  Why, yes, as a matter of fact. There’s “In Churchill’s
Shadow” by David Cannadine (2002), Richard Holmes’s “In the
Footsteps of Churchill” (2005), Carlo D’Este’s “Warlord”
(2008) and Max Hastings’s “Finest Years” (2009), as well as
“A Daughter’s Tale” by Mary Soames (2011), “The Churchills:
In Love and War” by Mary Lovell (2011) and Barry Singer’s
“Churchill Style” (2012).  I could list a further 50 titles, all well done, all worthy
and all in some way inspired by the success of the two original
Manchesters, which introduced and explained Churchill to a new
generation of readers.  Political Football  What began as a celebration is now, as  Christopher Hitchens 
put it, a cult. Successive American presidents have even played
political football with the great man’s head, deciding whether
or not to display a Churchill bust in the Oval Office.  “Defender of the Realm” concerns itself almost entirely
with Churchill’s finest hours, as British prime minister during
World War II. Reid, a newspaper feature writer without a book to
his credit, has stitched together a very serviceable, in-depth
narrative that nicely conveys the challenges facing Churchill,
both without and then with allies.  This is Reid’s book, not Manchester’s, yet even this would
have been impressive had it appeared on Manchester’s schedule,
say in 1994 or ’95. Coming out now, this is familiar ground,
worked over by more talented showmen. It remains a story worth
telling.  Of course, you wonder what might have been. Manchester
wouldn’t have quoted Mollie Panter-Downes, who wrote a letter
from  London  for the  New Yorker , more than 50 times, no matter
how good her observations. He probably wouldn’t have described a
commando raid and concluded that upon its completion,
“everybody would get the hell out of town.” Or this: “The
alliance was looking all hat and no cattle.”  And I don’t think Manchester would have let a sentence like
this pass: “Soon after Harriman left for Moscow, Ed Murrow and
his wife, Janet, began frequenting Pamela’s salon where, not yet
24, she led England’s best and the brightest in discussions that
parsed the political mysteries of their age.” No.  “The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Defender of the
Realm, 1940-1965” is from Little, Brown (1,182 pages, $40). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s Municipal Market,
and author of “The Encyclopedia of Municipal Bonds.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Patrick Cole  on philanthropy and
 Katya Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in  New York  at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 