-- Citigroup Says Singapore Monetary Authority Probes Rates
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-06T16:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/citigroup-says-singapore-monetary-authority-probes-libor.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, received requests for information from the
 Monetary Authority of Singapore  related to probes into the
rigging of benchmarks used to set interbank loan rates.  “Certain Citigroup subsidiaries have received additional
requests for information and documents from various domestic and
overseas regulators and enforcement agencies, including the
Monetary Authority of Singapore,” the New York-based company
said today in a regulatory filing.  Regulators worldwide are probing lenders about their roles
in setting the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, after
Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($463
million) for manipulating the rate for profit. Banks including
UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have suspended some
traders in  Singapore , where the central bank has broadened its
probe to include products tied to foreign exchange.  Citigroup said it continues to cooperate with all of the
investigations. Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for the New York-
based company, declined to comment on the Singapore request. The
bank has been in Singapore since 1902 and employs more than
9,500 people there, according to Citigroup’s  website .  Singapore authorities said in September they were
investigating the use of products called non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, derivatives that traders use to speculate on
the movement of currencies and are subject to domestic
restrictions. UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, put at least two
traders on leave and Edinburgh-based RBS suspended one director
amid internal probes, people familiar with the matter said last
month.  RBS Fine  RBS, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, said last
week it expects to pay a fine in coming months to settle Libor
probes.  Japanese regulators in December banned Citigroup for two
weeks from trading in products tied to Libor and the Tokyo
interbank offered rate, or Tibor, after bank staff attempted to
influence the rates. Brian Mccappin, head of the bank’s Japanese
brokerage unit, resigned.  Citigroup also said it has received requests for
information from a “consortium of state  Attorneys General ” in
the U.S. The bank previously disclosed that it received data
requests from the  New York  and Connecticut attorneys general.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  