-- CN Rail, CP Rail Surging With Crude Oil Moving by Trains
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-06T21:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/cn-rail-cp-rail-surging-with-crude-oil-moving-by-trains.html
Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  and
 Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , the country’s No. 1 and 2
carriers, are rushing to build terminals to load oil beyond the
reach of pipelines in some of  North America ’s remotest regions.  Canadian National is in talks to build more oil terminals
after an agreement last month to construct a facility serving
Manitoba and Saskatchewan, Chief Executive Officer Claude Mongeau said in an interview. “Rapid-deployment terminals” as
little as a tenth of that size also are in the works, he said.  Cargo from Alberta’s oil sands is buoying Canadian National
while  Canadian Pacific (CP)  benefits from tracks serving  North
Dakota ’s Bakken Shale formation.  Canadian Pacific  opened a rail
hub in the state this year and is investing C$90 million ($90.4
million) to upgrade a Saskatchewan-to-Minnesota line.  “Crude by rail is becoming a reality,” said  Walter Spracklin , a transportation analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto. “Before, it was a theory.”  Rail transport of crude in North America has jumped by
about 360,000 barrels a day in the past year -- the equivalent
of adding a “major” pipeline, according to Steven Paget, an
analyst at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary. Those shipments
have soared as community protests slow new pipelines and oil
finds occur outside the current pipe network.  New Business  As recently as two years ago, Canadian National didn’t haul
any crude. Now it projects moving about 30,000 oil carloads in
2012. Petroleum and chemicals produced 16 percent of the
Montreal-based railroad’s C$7.4 billion in revenue in 2012’s
first nine months.  Canadian Pacific predicts reaching an annual rate of 70,000
oil-tank cars by early 2013, after running only about 500 such
loads in North Dakota in 2009. Through three quarters this year,
the Calgary-based carrier got 22 percent of its C$4.2 billion in
sales from the industrial and consumer products category, which
includes oil and gas.  The shares of Canadian Pacific have gained 35 percent this
year on optimism that changes under new CEO  Hunter Harrison 
would increase profit as urged by  William Ackman , the activist
investor who championed his hiring in June. That outstripped
Canadian National’s 8.6 percent advance. Canadian Pacific slid
0.5 percent to C$92.87 at the close in Toronto, while Canadian
National fell 0.6 percent to C$87.04.  Neither carrier will disclose how much it’s spending on the
infrastructure that crude shipments require. An oil terminal may
cost “a few tens of millions” to build, said David Tyerman, a
Canaccord Genuity Inc. analyst in Toronto.  Capital Spending  While that pales next to the 20 percent of sales devoted to
 capital expenditures  at each railroad, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg, the companies must weigh how much to invest in oil-
hauling operations against the risk that future pipelines will
move that crude.  “It’s really hard to gauge the long-term prospects of
demand because a lot of this is being driven by lack of pipeline
capacity,” Tyerman said in a telephone interview. “Even the
rail industry is trying to temper its expectations because it
doesn’t want to build its business plans around something and
then have that not happen.”  Access to the  Bakken  shale formation and  Pennsylvania ’s
Marcellus shale gives Canadian Pacific an advantage over
Canadian National in pursuing more oil and gas shipments, said
RBC’s Spracklin, who rates both railroads as sector perform.  “All CN really has is the Canadian  oil sands ,” he said.
“CN doesn’t have the same scope of access to the number of
shale plays that CP does.”  Bakken’s Reach  The Bakken, a 360-million-year-old shale bed two miles
underground that geologists believe holds a 15,000-square-mile
region of oil in North Dakota alone, extends into Montana,
Manitoba and Saskatchewan.  Canadian Pacific’s so-called logistics hub in Van Hook,
North Dakota with  U.S. Development Group LLC , can handle 15 to
17 crude trains a month, with the potential to almost double
that capacity, the companies said. The railroad opened a crude
loading terminal in Estevan, Saskatchewan, last year.  “I hear so many stories about the opportunities, it scares
me,” Harrison told analysts on an Oct. 24 conference call. “If
you put it all together, it’ll make people forget the Gold Rush
in 1849.”  Canadian National  has the only rail line into Fort
McMurray, the hub of Alberta’s oil sands region, as well as the
Montney gas fields. The terminal being built with Tundra Energy
Marketing Ltd. near Cromer, Manitoba, will be able to load
30,000 barrels of crude, the equivalent of about 50 tank cars,
daily starting in the second quarter of 2013.  More Partners  “To get to something like 60,000 carloads of crude next
year, we need to have more origin points going to more
destinations,” Mongeau said. “That will take place with
partnerships like the one we just announced with  Tundra .”  Talks are under way with “many” potential partners, he
said, while declining to identify them. The smaller, pop-up
terminals can handle five to 15 tank cars daily and be ready
“within a couple of months,” he said in the interview.  “They are here today, and two years from now they will be
somewhere else,” Mongeau said. “These shale-drilling plays are
fast-depleting plays, so you have to keep moving to capture the
production at origin.”  Canadian National’s newest project was announced yesterday,
a terminal in Mobile,  Alabama , to unload crude bound for Gulf
Coast refineries. The carrier’s partner is Arc Terminals LP.  Rising Output  Rising oil output will boost both railroads. Crude
production in  Canada , most of which comes from  Alberta , will
probably more than double to 6.2 million barrels a day by 2030
from last year,  according  to the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  “One of the advantages with rail is that it can go
anywhere,” said Tyerman, the Canaccord analyst. “Speed to
market is also an advantage for rail, so there would probably be
a market even if there was more pipeline capacity.”  Producers also can earn more by shipping crude by rail to
markets where pipelines don’t go.  Gross profits for producers shipping bitumen -- the
feedstock for heavy oil refineries -- by rail are about $18 a
barrel higher than by pipeline, FirstEnergy’s Paget said in his
Aug. 16 report. A new transcontinental pipeline would cost about
$5 billion to build, Paget said.  Brandon Snow, manager of the C$1.3 billion Cambridge
Canadian Equity Corporate Class fund in Toronto, which owns
Canadian National shares, said the question for railroads would
be how long those advantages remain in place.  “The crude where it’s being produced now is not where it
was produced historically,” he said. “It’s not where
refineries are set up to accept it. So you have this situation
where rail is the quickest and cheapest way to rectify the
situation, but it doesn’t mean that in the long term, rail is
the answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  