-- Colombia’s Peso Surges as Seized Brokerage’s Trading Taken Over
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-11-06T19:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/colombia-s-peso-surges-as-seized-brokerage-s-trading-taken-over.html
Colombia’s peso rose the most in four
months as the government said  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  will take over bond
trading of the country’s biggest brokerage after it was seized
by authorities.  The peso appreciated 1 percent to 1,811.62 per U.S. dollar,
the biggest rally since June 29 on a closing basis, as the
announcement bolstered investor confidence that the takeover of
Interbolsa SA’s brokerage won’t disrupt the country’s financial
markets.  The government reached an agreement with Bancolombia, the
nation’s largest bank, early this morning as part of its effort
to prevent the collapse of Interbolsa’s brokerage from
curtailing trading and sparking a broader crisis. Officials
seized the brokerage on Nov. 2, a day after the parent company’s
stock sank 30 percent amid a funding shortage.  “People were seeing a risk of non-compliance” on trades
Interbolsa was involved in, said  Camilo Perez , the head analyst
at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s second-biggest bank. “The
fact that a trustworthy party will take over those operations
brings confidence back into the market.”  Chief Financial Regulator Gerardo Hernandez told reporters
in Bogota that government bonds managed by Interbolsa are worth
1.6 trillion pesos ($883.2 million). An existing 20 billion peso
fund, known as Fogacol, will be available to provide financing
to local brokerages if they face cash shortages, Hernandez said.  Funding Shortage  Colombia’s financial authorities stepped in after
Interbolsa’s brokerage said last week that it couldn’t make a
payment on a 20 billion peso loan, saying it faced a
“temporary” funding shortage.  The stock exchange suspended  trading  in Interbolsa on Nov.
2 for five trading days, and Hernandez said that day that the
government may decide within two months whether the brokerage
should be liquidated. The brokerage was also excluded from
Colombia’s market makers program after it was seized by
authorities, said Juan Manuel Quintero, the head of local debt
sales at the Finance Ministry.  The financial squeeze was specific to Interbolsa and
doesn’t represent systemwide weakness, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said in a Nov. 4 interview in Mexico City.  The brokerage is solvent, and excessive risk-taking tied to
Interbolsa’s structuring of repurchase agreements on shares of
textile company  Fabricato SA (FABRI)  caused the liquidity crunch,
Cardenas said. He said there is “no risk” to Interbolsa’s
50,000 account holders, echoing comments by President Juan Manuel Santos, who said that the savings of the brokerage’s
clients are protected.  Interbolsa also has an investment fund unit that had more
than 2 trillion pesos of assets under management as of April,
according to the company’s website. The company also operates a
brokerage in  Brazil .  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
bonds due in July 2024 was little changed at 6.25 percent,
according to the central bank. The currency extended its rally
this year to 7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  