-- Commerzbank Can Appeal Dresdner Bonus Ruling: U.K. Court
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-06T12:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/commerzbank-can-appeal-dresdner-bonus-ruling-u-k-court.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-
largest lender, won the chance to appeal a U.K. court ruling
forcing it to pay about 50 million euros ($64 million) in
bonuses to more than 100 Dresdner Kleinwort bankers.  Judge Andrew Longmore said at a London hearing today that
there are grounds to appeal the May decision and told
Commerzbank to consider trying to negotiate a settlement with
the bankers until any appeal is heard.  “This is a major case for all the banks, which will affect
what bank bosses can say about bonuses,” employment lawyer  Paul
Quain , who isn’t involved in the case, said in an e-mail.
“Irrespective of whether Commerzbank ultimately wins or loses,
the clear message for City businesses is that they need to be
very careful saying one thing about bonuses in a team meeting,
then changing their mind later.”  The economic slump that began with the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. led banks to seek government
bailouts, slash bonuses and scale back their investment-banking
divisions. Commerzbank, which took an 18.2 billion-euro bailout
from  Germany , said at the Dresdner trial it was entitled to cut
bonuses by 90 percent because of record losses at the division.  Judge Robert Owen ruled in May that a 2008 promise by then-
Dresdner Chief Executive Officer Stefan Jentzsch to guarantee a
400 million-euro bonus pot was binding, even though Frankfurt-
based Commerzbank discovered losses of 6.5 billion euros when it
took over the division the following year.  Reasonable, Responsible  Mark Levine, a lawyer representing a group of the Dresdner
bankers, declined to comment after today’s hearing.  Andrew Walton, a Commerzbank spokesman, said “it was
reasonable and responsible to reduce the bonuses” and the bank
has successfully defended claims brought by other employees in
Germany and  Italy  over bonus cuts.  “We view it as an encouraging sign that we will be able to
defend our position,” he said in an e-mail.  Commerzbank has said that profit in the second half of the
year would fall “significantly” from the 644 million euros of
net income it reported for the first half, citing higher
provisions for bad loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  