-- Copper Futures Post Biggest Gain in Almost Three Weeks
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-11-06T19:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/copper-rises-for-first-day-in-three-as-base-metals-climb.html
Copper futures posted the biggest
gain in almost three weeks on speculation that demand will rise
in  China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals, as
new leaders take steps to boost the economy.  Pressure is mounting on China’s officials to expand
stimulus as they start a once-a-decade  power transfer  on Nov. 8
after the economy slowed for seven quarters in a row. Copper
also gained as the dollar fell against a basket of major
currencies, increasing the appeal of the metal as an alternative
investment.  “People are thinking the Chinese leadership change may
mean more aggressive policy measures” on the economy, Harry
Denny, a broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “With the new leadership, we may
see more of the infrastructure projects that a lot of people had
expected in the third quarter.”  Copper futures for December delivery gained 1 percent to
settle at $3.506 a pound at 1:24 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Oct. 17.
Yesterday, the price touched $3.4485, the lowest since Sept. 5.  “I suspect the market will shift to focusing on political
and economic developments in China,” Nic Brown, the head of
commodity research at Natixis SA in  London , said in an e-mail.
“We’re starting to see signs of recovery in Chinese data, which
might be expected to strengthen further once the new political
team finally takes its place.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.7 percent to $7,700 a metric ton ($3.49 a pound).
Aluminum, nickel, lead, zinc and tin also gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  