-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall for Second Day; Dow Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-06T22:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-little-changed-as-americans-vote.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
dropped for a second day as Greek bonds rose and as American
voters headed for the polls to elect the country’s next
president.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.6
basis point to a mid-price of 96.3 basis points at 5:32 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
earlier touched as low as 95.9.  Greece ’s 10-year bond yield dropped 63 basis points to
17.22 percent at 11:59 a.m. in New York on optimism
international creditors will agree on an aid plan after European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
a deal needs to be reached in the next week. An agreement may
allay investor concern that the  European debt crisis  will weaken
the global recovery and impair corporate balance sheets.  U.S. voters will decide today between giving President
 Barack Obama  another four years in office or changing course
with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “My gut is you’ll have risk assets go to work after the
election regardless of who wins,” Scott Carmack, a portfolio
manager at Leader Capital Corp. in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a
telephone interview.  The next president will need to address a so-called fiscal
cliff of more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts that take effect in 2013 unless Congress can reach a budget
compromise.  Fiscal Cliff  Credit risk could increase if one party wins the presidency
and another wins control of Congress, Stephen Antczak, Citigroup
Inc.’s New York-based head of U.S. credit strategy, said in a
telephone interview. “In that scenario the fiscal cliff becomes
more of a challenge.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The average relative yield for investment-grade bonds has
fallen 1 basis point below the average cost to protect the debt
with credit swaps, JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote in a Nov. 2 note to clients. It’s the first time
average bond spreads have fallen below protection costs in 14
months, they said.  ‘Cautious’ Outlook  “We do not view this as a positive signal for bond
markets,” the analysts wrote, saying the  Federal Reserve ’s
commitment to buy $40 billion of bonds a month is driving yields
on the debt lower while credit-swaps markets are reflecting a
“more cautious” outlook.  Dow Chemical (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical company by sales,
issued $2.5 billion of bonds in a two-part offering. The company
sold equal amounts of 3 percent, 10-year securities to yield 145
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and 4.375
percent, 30-year debt with a 160 basis-point spread, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
decreased 6 basis points, led by spreads on the bonds of  utility
companies , which narrowed 25 basis points.  Credit swaps tied to  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  declined 13.2 basis points
to 116.8 basis points, as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The company’s stock rose the most intraday since July 23 as
speculation surfaced that Walt Disney Co. may be talking to the
maker of games such as “Magic: The Gathering” and “Monopoly”
about a possible buyout.  “The company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation,”
Wayne Charness, a spokesman for Hasbro, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  