-- Credit Suisse to Form Aventicum Capital With Qatari Fund
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-11-06T23:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/credit-suisse-to-form-asset-manager-aventicum-capital-with-qatar.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Qatar
Holding LLC, a unit of the Persian Gulf emirate’s sovereign-
wealth fund, agreed to form asset manager Aventicum Capital
Management to boost investments in  emerging markets .  The joint venture, to be overseen by Credit Suisse Qatar
head Aladdin Hangari, will operate out of two hubs including a
Doha-based unit focusing on investments in the  Middle East ,
 Turkey  and other frontier markets starting in early 2013, the
bank said today in a statement. It will also have an
international business based in an unidentified location.  Hashem Montasser, formerly head of asset management at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE, was appointed chief executive officer and
chief investment officer of the Doha unit. Martin Keller, Head
of Asset Management EMEA for Credit Suisse, will serve as
chairman of the board for the joint venture, the bank said.  Qatar  and Credit Suisse are boosting ties after the nation
took a 6 percent stake in the bank and bought its London
headquarters. The country, which has the world’s third-largest
gas reserves, is snapping up assets across the globe as it seeks
to reduce its energy dependency and has $30 billion to invest
this year, Qatar Investment Authority board member Hussain Al Abdulla said in April. QIA is a Qatari wealth fund.  Morgan Stanley  Qatar is also weighing a potential stake in Morgan
Stanley’s commodities unit, Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin
Jassim Al Thani said Oct. 15. The bank has been considering
options for its commodities business, run by Colin Bryce and
 Simon Greenshields , both 56, amid new rules and a pledge by
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  to shrink the fixed-income
and commodity trading division to help improve returns.  Economic expansion and high  oil prices  are driving
prosperity in the Middle East, boosting demand for wealth and
asset management services. The Qatari economy is set to expand
about 6 percent this year, the fastest pace in the Gulf
Cooperation Council, according to a survey of 12 economists
compiled by Bloomberg. That surpasses the expected average
growth of 1.3 percent for the Group of 10 industrialized
nations.  Private wealth in the Middle East and  Africa  may rise 6.6
percent annually to $6.1 trillion in 2016 as the region’s oil-
rich economies continue to prosper, the  Boston Consulting Group 
said in June. Wealth in the region increased to $4.5 trillion
last year, up 4.7 percent from $4.3 trillion in 2010.  Qatar Expansion  Credit Suisse announced in November that it was planning to
expand in Qatar in 2012 by providing asset-management services
to local and international investors, once it had secured
regulatory approvals. The bank’s board of directors met in Qatar
about a year ago, and it’s also been shifting staff to Doha from
Dubai, two people familiar with the matter said in September.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, rose 2.1
percent to 22.59 Swiss francs at 12:41 p.m. in Zurich.  The government-run Qatar Financial Center Authority,
charged with expanding the country’s financial services
industry, announced a strategy in 2010 to make Qatar a hub for
asset management as well as reinsurance.  The joint venture’s international business will start later
next year, according to the statement. No further information on
the unit was given.  Hangari will report to the venture’s board, as well as to
Bob Jain, Credit Suisse’s head of alternative asset management,
according to Suzanne Fleming, a spokeswoman for the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  