-- Crude Rises a Second Day as Storm May Curb U.S. Gasoline Supply
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-06T13:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/crude-advances-for-second-day-as-equities-gain-euro-recovers.html
Crude rose for a second day in New
York amid forecasts that U.S. gasoline supplies dropped after
 Hurricane Sandy  forced the shutdown of East Coast refineries.  West Texas Intermediate crude advanced as much as 0.9
percent. Gasoline supplies fell 1.5 million barrels, or 0.8
percent, to 198 million in the seven days ended Nov. 2,
according to the median of nine analyst estimates before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. The fuel advanced as much as
1.4 percent to $2.6571 a gallon. U.S. voters decide today
whether to return  Barack Obama  as president or elect his
challenger  Mitt Romney .  “The devastation and fuel shortages brought on by
Hurricane Sandy are still being felt across the product complex
in the U.S.,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a London-based analyst
at VTB Capital who correctly predicted last month that Brent
would slide.  WTI for December delivery climbed as much as 75 cents to
$86.40 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and traded at $86.02 at 1:23 p.m. London time. The
contract traded at $84.34 yesterday, the lowest intraday level
since July 12. Prices have dropped 13 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement was 93 cents higher at
$108.66 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $22.57 to  New York- 
traded WTI.  Brent-WTI  Brent’s premium to WTI has grown amid maintenance at the
North Sea fields that underlie the Brent contract.  Morgan Stanley increased its forecast for the Brent-WTI
spread in the fourth quarter to about $20 a barrel from $17.50
previously because of the disruptions. The premium will average
about $19 in November and December, the bank said in a report e-
mailed today.  Fifteen of 16 Forties oil cargoes were deferred in October
and at least 60 percent of consignments in November were
delayed. That’s an unprecedented number of disruptions,
according to a survey of five traders yesterday, three of whom
have been involved in this crude market for more than 10 years.  Colonial Pipeline Co. began deliveries from its Linden,  New
Jersey , fuel tank farm to customers with operable terminals and
is working with facilities that haven’t reopened to ensure
service is restarted promptly, according to  Steve Baker , a
company spokesman.  Phillips 66 plans to resume operations at the 238,000
barrel-a-day Bayway plant, the largest single refinery on the
U.S. East Coast, after repairing the electrical equipment that
was primarily damaged by Sandy, the Houston-based company said
on its website. Process units are “in good condition,” it
said. The refinery was one of seven plants with a total capacity
of 1.29 million barrels a day that halted production or cut
rates because of Sandy.  Distillate Drop  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, probably declined 1.25 million barrels,
or 1.1 percent, to 116.7 million, according to the median of
responses before the Department of Energy report. A decrease of
that size would leave inventories at the lowest level since June
2008. All of the respondents forecast a decline.  Crude inventories probably rose 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 374.6 million barrels last week, according to the
median of responses in the survey.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along its lower
Bollinger Band around $83.76 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures rebounded after reaching this
indicator the past two days, signaling buy orders may be
clustered close to it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  