-- CVS Profit Tops Estimates on Former Walgreen Customers
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-11-06T21:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/cvs-profit-tops-estimates-on-former-walgreen-customers.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest
provider of  prescription drugs  in the U.S., posted third-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates and raised its earnings
forecast for the year after winning customers from  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Net income rose 16 percent to $1.01 billion, or 79 cents a
share, from $868 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier,
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS said today in a statement.
Excluding some items, profit was 85 cents a share, topping the
84-cent average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CVS boosted revenue 13 percent to $30.2 billion after
luring shoppers from Walgreen, which last year ended a contract
to sell prescriptions to customers of employee-benefits manager
 Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX)  CVS stepped up marketing and
promotions to retain those customers after Walgreen and  Express
Scripts  renewed their contract in September.  “CVS is retaining more Walgreen scripts than we originally
expected,”  John Heinbockel , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities
in  New York , wrote today in a note. He rates the shares a buy.
The “retail segment results remained robust.”  CVS rose 0.5 percent to $46.88 at the close in New York.
The shares have advanced 15 percent this year.  The company said today it expects to keep at least 60
percent of the prescriptions it gained from Walgreen’s dispute
with Express Scripts. The company previously said it expected to
keep at least 50 percent of those prescriptions in the fourth
quarter.  Pharmacy Sales  Retail pharmacy same-store sales increased 4.3 percent,
helped by a “significant” benefit from former Walgreen
customers, CVS said. That equated to the retention of about 6.5
million to 7 million prescriptions formerly filled by Walgreen,
Chief Executive Officer Larry Merlo told analysts today on a
conference call.  “The retail pharmacy business continued to capitalize on
the market disruption resulting from the impasse between two of
our competitors, and our retention of the prescriptions we
gained during that impasse has been strong since their dispute
was resolved,” Merlo said in the statement.  Adjusted profit this year will be as much as $3.41, CVS
said today. That’s higher than a previous forecast of a maximum
of $3.38. Analysts estimated $3.37, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  