-- Cyprus Seeks $1.3 Billion Loan From Russian Banks, Alithia Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-11-06T12:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/cyprus-seeks-1-3-billion-loan-from-russian-banks-alithia-says.html
The Cypriot government is in talks to
obtain a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) loan from Russian banks
that plan to back oil and gas exploration off the eastern
Mediterranean island’s coast, Alithia reported.  Cyprus had sought a 5 billion-euro loan from the Russian
government. That request has been reduced to 1 billion euros and
redirected to banks that will finance development of Block 9 in
Cyprus’s offshore exclusive economic zone, the Nicosia-based
newspaper reported today, citing an unidentified government
official.  The government decided last month to start talks with a
group consisting of France’s  Total SA (FP) , Russia’s OAO Novatek and
 GPB Global Resources  for Block 9. Neoklis Sylikiotis, the
Cypriot minister of commerce, industry and tourism, said on Aug.
22 that the country could receive as much as 300 million euros
in signature bonuses from bids to explore for natural gas.  GPB is a unit of OAO Gazprombank, Russia’s  third-biggest
lender by assets , and operates in Africa,  South America  and the
 Middle East , according to the bank’s  website .  The government’s decision in principle to grant a license
to Total, Novatek and GPB is related to President Demetris Christofias’s negotiations with the so-called troika that
oversees euro-area bailouts, the newspaper said without
elaborating or saying where it got the information.  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
an international bailout.  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment on the Alithia
report when contacted by  Bloomberg News . A government spokesman
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment. A Gazprombank
official couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  