-- Czech Yields Fall to Record Low Before Bond Sale on Rate Cut
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-11-06T15:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/czech-yields-fall-to-record-low-before-bond-auction-on-rate-cut.html
The Czech government’s borrowing
costs tumbled to a record low before tomorrow’s debt sale as an
unexpected interest-rate cut last week overshadowed concern that
fiscal-austerity plans may be rejected.  The country will offer 6 billion koruna ($304 million) of
fixed-rate securities maturing in September 2015 and floating-
rate debt due in 2023, the  Finance Ministry ’s website  shows .
Yields on three-year notes fell two basis points to 0.31 percent
by 3:46 p.m. in Prague, the lowest since Bloomberg began
tracking the generic index in 1999. The 2015 paper was last sold
on March 21 at a yield of 2.08 percent.  The central bank has lowered its benchmark rate three times
since June to counter a second recession in three years, with
the last cut a week ago to 0.05 percent, the European Union’s
second-lowest after  Denmark . Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek
said on Oct. 28 the government will have no reason to remain in
office if it can’t pare the  budget deficit . Parliament may start
debating tax increases proposed by the administration tomorrow
amid opposition from a group of ruling-coalition lawmakers.  “Low interest rates will probably keep shorter-term bond
yields down for several quarters,” Marek Drimal, an economist
at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, said by phone yesterday. “We
expect longer-term yields to gradually rise because of political
instability in the  Czech Republic .”  Benchmark yields on 10-year koruna debt has retreated 169
basis points, or 1.69 percentage points, this year, cutting the
 premium  over comparable German bunds to 47 basis points today,
the least since April 2010. The spread on the three-year debt
fell to a four-year low of 26 basis points today.  Austerity Hurdle  Premier Petr Necas has pledged to trim the 2013 deficit to
less than the EU’s cap of 3 percent of gross domestic product
for the first time since 2008. The cabinet, which is struggling
to gain a majority backing for its austerity measures, is
working on an alternative budget draft with additional spending
curbs in case parliament rejects the higher taxes, Kalousek said
yesterday.  “Given global risks and domestic fiscal developments, it
is possible that the current level of Czech bond yields is
overdone,”  Michal Brozka , chief analyst at the Prague-based
unit of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in e-mailed
comments yesterday. Investors should sell koruna debt due in
five years or more, the Austrian bank said in a Nov. 2 report.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the country at A1, its
fifth-highest grade and the best in emerging  Europe  alongside
 Estonia . Czech debt is the cheapest to insure against non-
payment in the region, with credit-default swaps at 79 basis
points today, after touching 77 last week, the least since June
2011. That compares with 74 in Aaa-rated France and 88 in A2-
ranked  Poland .  ‘Track Record’  The swaps, which decline as perceptions of creditworthiness
improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “A track record of policy and market credibility” allows
investors to ignore the Czech political turmoil as “background
noise,” Nicholas Spiro, the managing director of London-based
Spiro Sovereign Strategy, said in an Oct. 29 phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  