-- Dana Gas Gains on Bets Bonds Won’t Be Converted: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-06T12:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/dana-gas-gains-on-bets-bonds-won-t-be-converted-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  rose the most in almost
a month as the fuel producer pursues a so-called standstill
accord with holders of its overdue Islamic bonds and investors
bet the company’s debt won’t be converted into equity.  Shares of the Sharjah, United Arab Emirates-based company
gained 2.5 percent, the most since Oct. 10, to 41 fils at the
close in Abu Dhabi. The stock fell 4.8 percent the prior two
trading days as Dana Gas failed to give details on its plans for
the almost $1 billion of 7.5 percent debt that matured Oct. 31.  Dana Gas sold the convertible sukuk in 2007 with the option
for investors to exchange the notes for shares at 1.926 dirhams.
The stock slumped  77 percent  since the end of that year,
including an 8.9 percent drop in 2012, partly because the gas
producer faced payment delays due to political instability in
 Egypt  and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, its primary sources of revenue.
Shareholders were concerned that some of the debt would be
converted into equity, thereby diluting their holdings.  With a share price below 1 dirham, it isn’t “structurally
possible” for the sukuk to be converted, said  Yazan Abdeen , who
helps oversee about $250 million as ING Investment Management’s
 Middle East  and North Africa fund manager in Dubai. “As long as
there is no equity dilution risk, then the possible scenarios
that are present at the moment are aligned with the interest of
the equity holders.”  Talks Continue  The company and a committee of bondholders “are currently
negotiating the necessary standstill and lock-up agreement which
the parties are working together to conclude soon,” Dana Gas
said today. Under such accords, creditors agree not to make an
effort to collect debt payments or claim assets backing a
security.  Dana Gas was the  most traded by  volume on Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which rose 0.5 percent.  The missed deadline spurred concern holders of the debt may
attempt to seize the company’s assets in Egypt. The bonds, which
comply with Islam’s ban on interest, are secured against assets
in the North African country, as well as Dana Gas’ Sajaa Gas
Private Ltd. and United Gas Transmissions Co. units.  Bondholders need to confirm whether they want the trust
holding the assets backing the notes to be dissolved, Dana Gas
said yesterday.  “As part of these convertible sukuks, investors have the
right to convert them to equity, but as the conversion price is
much higher than the market, they will probably decline,” said
Mohammed Ali Yasin, managing director of  Abu Dhabi  Financial
Services Co., the brokerage unit of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC . “This is part of the negotiations, in my mind, and the
unwinding of the sukuk, which could also mean that we are closer
to successful negotiations of re-financing the majority of that
debt.”  Five analysts  recommend investors  buy the Dana Gas shares
while two have a hold rating on the stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  