-- Dana Gas Asks Bondholders for Standstill After Payment Miss
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-11-06T15:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/dana-gas-asks-bondholders-for-standstill-after-payment-miss-1-.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  said it’s in talks for
a so-called standstill agreement with bondholders after the
United Arab Emirates fuel producer failed to pay almost $1
billion in Islamic debt on maturity last week.  The company and a committee of bondholders “are currently
negotiating the necessary standstill and lock-up agreement which
the parties are working together to conclude soon,” Dana Gas
said in a statement to the Abu Dhabi bourse today. Under a
standstill accord, creditors agree not to make an effort to
collect debt payments or claim assets backing a security.  The missed payment spurred speculation debt-holders may try
to seize the company’s gas fields in Egypt since the 7.5 percent
sukuk are partly secured by them. Political instability in the
North African nation and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, Dana Gas’
biggest sources of revenue, led to payment delays this year.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, and London-
based  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  together own more than 50 percent of the
notes, according to a Dana Gas official who asked not to be
named citing company policy.  “It would be surprising at the current stage for Dana Gas
to have received formal notice that the creditors were moving to
seize the underlying assets given the lack of a formal
declaration of default,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based
strategist at Religare Hichens Harrison, said yesterday. “It is
likely a deal can be made to extend payment.”  Shares Recover  The fuel producer, which is based in the U.A.E. emirate of
Sharjah, missed the Oct. 31 deadline to repay the principal and
interest on the convertible securities sold in 2007, amounting
to $920 billion. Bondholders need to confirm whether they want
the trust holding the assets backing the notes to be dissolved,
Dana Gas said in a statement yesterday.  Dana Gas shares  surged  as much as 7.5 percent to 43 fils in
 Abu Dhabi  on volumes almost four times the three-month daily
average. The stock, which traded at 41 fils at the close in the
U.A.E. capital, had fallen to the lowest level in almost two
months yesterday. Abu Dhabi’s benchmark ADX General Index rose
0.5 percent today.  Shares of the fuel producer rose as investors bet the
company’s debt won’t be converted into equity since the stock
has plunged 77 percent since the end of 2007. The conversion
price was set at 1.926 dirhams at the time of the sale.  ‘Hands on Equity’  Still, sukuk-holders and the company may consider a debt-
for-equity swap for part of the outstanding sum so that Dana Gas
can reduce the absolute amount of debt it needs to repay, Chavan Bhogaita, head of the markets strategy group at  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , said by phone today.  “It isn’t inconceivable that bondholders like BlackRock
and Ashmore may be looking to get their hands on some of the
company’s equity, if they actually believe in the underlying
business,” Bhogaita said. “Distressed debt investors often go
into these situations with a view to being able to drive a
restructuring and to have the potential to get their hands on
some equity, if that is their objective.”  The other alternative would be to extend the entire amount
for a certain number of years at a new coupon, Bhogaita said. A
spokesman for BlackRock Inc. in  London  declined to comment when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  The company is negotiating with holders of the securities
to alter the terms on the debt, including extending maturities,
Dana Gas said Nov. 1. Third-quarter profit of the fuel producer
fell 27 percent, missing an estimate of EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  Dana Gas appointed Deutsche Bank AG, Blackstone Group LP
and Latham & Watkins LLP to advise on the restructuring, while
sukuk-holders hired investment bank Moelis & Co. and law firm
Linklaters LLP.  In addition to the  Egypt  assets, Dana’s sukuk is secured
against the company’s Sajaa Gas Private Ltd. and United Gas
Transmissions Co. units, part of a venture to supply Iranian gas
to the U.A.E. that hasn’t started yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  