-- Death Threats Plague Business as Karachi Gangs Prepare for Polls
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-11-06T02:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/death-threats-plague-business-as-karachi-gangs-prepare-for-polls.html
The death threat came in a seven-line
handwritten note that included a menacing insert: a spent bullet
casing taped to the bottom of the page.  “If you don’t deliver us 1 million rupees ($10,440), we’ll
cut you into pieces and kill your entire family,” read the
unsigned letter that was delivered to a  Karachi  shopkeeper by a
messenger he didn’t know and then passed to police.  Such threats aren’t empty in a city of 20 million people
that’s riven by deadly turf battles rooted in  Pakistan ’s
turbulent history. In the first eight months of this year, 1,345
people were killed in Karachi violence, compared with 1,715 in
the whole of 2011, according to the  Human Rights Commission of
Pakistan , which cited criminal gangs and “political patronage”
for the clashes.  Businesses in the nation’s commercial capital are bracing
for a surge in extortion demands as parties representing the
city’s ethnic communities seek to use their hired guns to build
financial war chests ahead of parliamentary polls due in the
first half of next year. Thousands of traders have already quit
the Arabian Sea port city with others set to follow.  “This battle is getting dirtier as the election looms,”
said Mubarak Ali, a historian who taught at Sindh University for
27 years and headed the  Goethe-Institut  German cultural center
in Lahore. “Political parties can’t disown these extortionists
and gangsters. They are the people who arrange funding for them,
mobilize voters and are willing to take up arms to gain
control.”  Economy Decline  The lawlessness in Karachi, home to the nation’s stock
exchange, its central bank and the Pakistan headquarters of
multinational companies such as  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  and Standard
Chartered Plc, has hurt the city’s economy, with its
contribution to the country’s gross domestic product declining
to 45 percent from 60 percent two years ago.  Karachi now generates 53 percent of the country’s tax
revenues, down from 63 percent in 2010, according to the SITE
Association of Industry, which represents 3,000 industrial units
in the city. Political instability, a war with Taliban
insurgents and record energy shortages have also deterred
investors.  The downward spiral in law and order has persuaded more
than 30,000 traders to leave Karachi in the past two years, said
Atiq Mir, chairman of All Karachi Traders’ Alliance, which has
650,000 members. At least 40 percent of Karachi’s shops are
coerced into making  extortion payments , known in the Urdu
language as bhatta, Mir said.  Final Straw  Kidnapping is another favored way to raise funds. In the
nine months ended Sept. 30, 106 cases were reported, compared
with 113 in the whole of 2011, according to the Citizens-Police
Liaison Committee, a crime monitoring group run by businessmen.
The Karachi Chamber of Commerce & Industry has put up banners
across the city demanding the government address extortion,
kidnapping for ransom and political killings.  The nation’s human rights commission reported 125 cases of
kidnapping for ransom in Karachi in 2011, the most in a decade.
The actual number of abductions is bound to be higher as many
families refuse to register cases, the report said.  Eight months ago, police set up a special unit to combat
the rising wave of extortion. The unit received 200 complaints
up to Sept. 5, said Wasif Qureshi, a deputy superintendent of
police who also heads the team. That’s a fraction of the real
number of incidents as traders often prefer to pay up rather
than go to the police and risk being attacked, he said.  Grandchildren’s Names  The final straw for Mohammed Munir came on Jan. 21 when he
received a call from someone he didn’t know who demanded he pay
one million rupees within a week or he’d be killed.  “The caller knew the names of my grandchildren and the
school they go to,” Munir, 62, said in an interview. “I
thought, that’s it. I’ve had my good days, but I don’t see how
my grandkids will survive in this environment.”  Eight weeks later, he moved his family to the eastern city
of Lahore where he and his two sons are trying to rebuild the
small plastics trading business they ran in Karachi, the
family’s home for 40 years.  Organized extortion first emerged in Karachi in the 1980s
as neighborhood gangs demanded money from businesses in return
for protection from rival outfits, said Tauseef Ahmed Khan,
chairman of the mass communications department at the  Federal
Urdu University  in Karachi. After 1985, political parties
supporting the demands of the city’s ethnic groups adopted the
gangs as a way of enforcing their writ, complicating police
efforts to rein in the violence, he said.  “No government agency can guarantee our security,” Arshad
Vohra, SITE chairman, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Business has suffered a lot and even employees are not safe
leaving or entering factories.” Factory owners who refuse to
make extortion payments have been attacked and have had their
businesses vandalized, he said.  Top Judge Probe  Karachi’s ethnic mix shapes its political landscape. The
 Muttahida Quami Movement  represents Urdu-speaking immigrants
from  India  who settled in Pakistan during partition in 1947,
while the  Awami National Party  draws support from Pashtuns, a
community that has grown rapidly as fighting between the army
and Taliban guerrillas intensified in the country’s northwest.
The  Pakistan Peoples Party  of President Asif Ali Zardari is the
third major party in the city.  The three parties formed a fragile governing alliance to
run Karachi and Sindh province following the 2008 election, a
coalition that splintered in September when the ANP quit blaming
the MQM, which gets 90 percent of its National Assembly seats
from the city, for fueling the killings and extortion.  Pakistani Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who
initiated a probe into the killings after violence surged last
year, said in his report that all the parties were to blame.  ‘Slipping Away’  “There are criminals who have succeeded in making their
ways in political parties,” according to the report. “The
parties should denounce their affiliation with them in the
interest of the country.”  There are few signs of that happening with politicians
saying their parties aren’t involved in the violence.  “A political party cannot afford such a thing,” Wasim
Aftab, an MQM leader, said in an interview Sept. 21 when asked
about responsibility for rising extortion and the killings. “It
can’t tyrannize its people.” He rejected allegations his party
was involved.  “The extortion money is part funding politicians and the
rest goes into the pockets of gangsters,” said Haji Muhammad
Adeel, a Peshawar-based leader of the ANP, blaming the violence
on rivals. “Karachi is slipping away from the government’s
control. This city should be handed over to the army.”  IMF Loan  Interior Minister Rehman Malik denied any link between
extortionists and politicians.  “These are just mafias,” he said in a Sept. 18 interview.
“You have these criminal activities in all the major cities of
the world, including  New York  and  London .”  With no sign that the city’s political leaders are willing
to confront the insecurity, the nation’s top court resumed its
investigation as Karachi traders threatened to strike.  The turmoil in Karachi adds to the woes facing Pakistan,
where tensions between elected politicians and the military,
record power cuts and the insurgency along the border with
 Afghanistan  have stifled growth in the $211 billion economy.
Gross domestic product expanded three percent on average in the
last five years, below the 7 percent or more which analysts say
is needed to create jobs for the 2 million people joining the
workforce every 12 months.  Confrontations with the U.S., the country’s largest aid
donor, over how to tackle the militants, and the suspension of
an $11.3 billion International Monetary Fund loan in May 2010
after Pakistan failed to meet conditions attached to it have
added to the country’s economic plight.  Debenhams, Mango  “If Karachi sinks Pakistan will sink with it,” said Nasim Beg, executive vice chairman of Arif Habib Investments Ltd. in
Karachi, which oversees 35 billion rupees in stocks and bonds.
“Karachi’s problems are related to economic frustration and
disparity. Ultimately, politicians have to work together to
create jobs and save this city from total chaos.”  Karachi remains home to many global companies and its
expanding population, educated workforce and better
infrastructure still give an unparalleled advantage to
businesses operating from the city, according to Beg.  British retailer  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , Nine West Group Inc., and
Spanish clothing chain Mango all chose Karachi for their first
Pakistan outlets this year.  Lack of Confidence  Still, without an urgent remedy to the levels of violence
afflicting Karachi, “we may see companies cut and move their
operations to other cities or even to foreign countries,” Saad
Amanullah Khan, president of the American Business Council, said
in an e-mail. “Some businesses continue to do well. If not
burdened with security issues, they would have done even
better.”  A Sept. 26 survey of the members of the  Overseas Investors
Chamber of Commerce & Industry  showed just 16 percent of
respondents expect to expand business in Pakistan and had a
positive outlook for increase in sales and profit for the next
six months.  Extortionists avoid targeting units of foreign companies
which are considered less prone to pressure than more vulnerable
local businesses, Asif Jooma, the chamber’s president and
managing director of Abbott Laboratories (Pakistan) Ltd., said
in an interview.  For small traders, dealing with the threats has become part
of doing business, said Rehan, a store owner who agreed to give
only his first name during a visit to Karachi’s Bolton Market, a
wholesale market for a range of products. Rehan recalled an
incident near his apartment building in July when about three
dozen armed men on motorbikes “took the police hostage.”  ‘Quite Deadly’  Speaking at his electronics appliances store overlooking a
police station, Rehan said the men “went to all the shops in
the market one by one and took money. Some paid 5,000 rupees,
some 10,000 rupees. Those who didn’t have money were told to pay
later.”  “When someone comes, we humbly give them what they want,”
said the owner of a sporting goods store who didn’t want to
identify himself for fear of being targeted. “We don’t argue or
talk or even look them in the eye. They’re quite merciful if you
comply, they’re quite deadly if you don’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  