-- Deceit Behind Danish Bank Bust Impossible to Catch, FSA Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-07T14:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/deceit-behind-danish-bank-failure-impossible-to-catch-fsa-says.html
Denmark ’s financial watchdog defended
its failure to prevent alleged accounting fraud at the nation’s
latest bank insolvency after lawmakers called for a probe into
the regulator’s practices.   Toender Bank A/S, which declared bankruptcy on Nov. 2 after
an inspection by the Financial Supervisory Authority revealed
impairments big enough to wipe out the regional lender’s equity,
was guilty of a “massive misrepresentation” of its financial
health that more rigorous scrutiny wouldn’t have uncovered
earlier, FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said.  “It’s massive non-compliance with the laws and
regulations, and we can never be 100 percent sure that this
won’t happen again,” Noedgaard, whose office is based in
Copenhagen, said in an interview yesterday. After going over the
accounts of 90 of Denmark’s roughly 105 banks, “we haven’t seen
anything like this before,” he said.  More than a dozen regional lenders have collapsed since
Denmark’s housing bubble burst in 2008, threatening to push the
nation into its second  recession  in less than a year. The
 International Monetary Fund  said Nov. 5 that the FSA should
broaden its oversight of Denmark’s regional lenders and even
consider enforcing risk-based  deposit insurance .  Default Swaps  Toender Bank, which less than two months ago raised $5
million in new hybrid capital, was declared insolvent after the
FSA’s inspection revealed 319 million kroner ($55 million) in
bad loans.  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , Denmark’s third-largest listed lender,
took over the bank’s 18,000 customers and assets, though it
won’t assume Toender’s hybrid or supplementary capital.  Credit-default swaps on Denmark rose to the highest level
in almost two weeks when markets opened Nov. 5. The 57-member
index of listed Danish bank stocks fell to its second lowest
level in almost three months. The index rose today in Copenhagen
to 1010.42.  The bank’s failure should prompt an investigation into the
FSA’s oversight practices, Benny Engelbrecht, a business affairs
spokesman in Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt’s Social
Democrat party, told Borsen.  Business Minister Annette Vilhelmsen will seek an
investigation into Toender Bank’s sudden failure to see whether
criminal charges are warranted, she told the newspaper. The
collapse should also lead to tougher rules for bank auditors,
she said.  BDO Investigation  Toender Bank’s auditor, BDO, said it’s halting in internal
investigation and will instead work with the Business Ministry
to determine whether its employees complied with regulations.
The accountancy employs more than 1,000 people in 29 offices
throughout Denmark, according to its website.  “BDO welcomes the ministry’s investigation,” Stig Holst
Hartwig, the company’s managing director, said by phone. “Until
that review is finished, we have no further comment.”  Toender Bank wasn’t on the FSA’s list of lenders risking
insolvency because there were no signs it faced bankruptcy,
Noedgaard said.  “Taking into account the massive misrepresentation, it
raises a question of” incompetence at the auditor level,
Noedgaard said. “Clearly, what we found was that the second-
quarter report from Toender Bank was not in any way compliant
with the accounting rules.”  Misstated Writedowns  Toender Bank said in August its writedowns were 32.5
million kroner in the first six months, about one tenth the
amount the FSA found in bad debt. The bank reported a three-fold
increase in net income and said its solvency ratio -- a measure
of financial strength -- was 17.3 percent at the end of June.  The FSA is now reviewing the lender’s 2011 accounts to
determine whether the bank also misstated writedowns for that
year, Noedgaard said.  “It’s hard to imagine all losses came within six months,”
Noedgaard said. “The numbers here are of an order of magnitude
-- the distance between the accounting of the bank and what we
deem to be the real picture -- are beyond anything we have seen
over the last three years.”  The Danish Shareholders Association said yesterday it is
considering legal action after its members about 260 million
kroner. The Copenhagen-based group may seek damages “for a
portion of the losses in the scandalous bank failure,” it said
in an e-mailed statement.  Risk-Based  “The surprise here is that -- based on all the available
information, from accountants, what they reported to us, what we
got from other banks -- nothing has pointed to there being a
problem,” Noedgaard said. “We do risk-based supervision, which
means we go to places where there are signs there might be
problems. We don’t go as often where there aren’t signs of any
problems and where the banks are quite small.”  Noedgaard said Toender Bank’s collapse doesn’t raise the
risk of more failures. The FSA has 3.2 percent of Denmark’s
banks under intensified supervision because of possible solvency
issues.  Denmark’s government, which last year became the first in
 Europe  to enforce bail-in legislation that led to senior bank
creditor losses, has pushed through five bank rescue packages,
including measures to encourage consolidation.  Three regional banks failed the central bank’s latest
stress test, published Oct. 25. A fourth bank would be close to
breaching capital rules, while the nation’s four biggest
lenders, including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , all passed.  Nicholas Rohde of Niro Invest Aps., who correctly predicted
the failure of Fjordbank Mors A/S, Amagerbanken A/S and Max Bank
A/S in 2011, ranks Basisbank A/S, Andelskassen JAK and
Sparekassen Lolland A/S as Denmark’s worst-capitalized banks, he
said last month.  “We have been through 90 of the 100-plus banks over the
last three years, since 2009, and those few banks we haven’t
been to are smaller,” Noedgaard said. “Our estimate of 3
percent with potential solvency problems is still valid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  