-- Demand for Options to Hedge Against Treasury-Yield Drop Surges
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-11-06T17:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/demand-for-options-to-hedge-against-treasury-yield-drop-surges.html
Demand for options that profit if
Treasury yields fall this week has surged as traders speculate
that the outcome of the Presidential and Congressional elections
will give U.S.  government bonds  a boost.  Open interest in calls, which gain in value if the 10-year
Treasury futures’ price rises, that expire on Nov. 9 increased
by about four times as much as that for puts, on Nov. 2, CME
Group Inc. data shows. Puts appreciate if bond prices fall,
which occurs when yields rise. Open interest in the calls rose
by almost 30,000 contracts while puts rose about 8,000. Total
volume on all weekly options that day for the CME Group’s
Treasury futures reached a record high since the contracts begin
in 2011 for this period before expiration.  Treasury 10-year notes were little changed as Americans
head to the polls to decide whether President  Barack Obama  or
challenger  Mitt Romney  will guide the world’s biggest economy.
With national and state-level data showing Obama with a slim
edge over Romney, investors are buying options to hedge short-
term swings in rates.  “People are hedging not just the election but also with
the risk that we may not know the results by tonight or even
tomorrow morning,” said  John Brady , managing director of global
futures and options at futures broker R.J. O’Brien & Associates
in  Chicago , in an interview. “This thing could drag on. If that
is the case, people expect the equity market to not like it and
a risk-off environment, which would benefit Treasuries.”  Open Interest  Puts grant the right to sell the underlying futures, and
calls grant the right to buy. Open interest is the total number
of contracts that have not been closed, liquidated or delivered.  Open interest in the November so-called week-2 options,
which expire on Nov. 9, had record open interest seven days
prior to expiration for any week 2 series contracts, of 58,816,
CME Group data showed on Nov. 2. While total open interest in
all November weekly options, at 77,500, was a also record high
for this time prior to expiration. Trading volume in the weekly
options on Nov. 2 was the third highest ever at 85,258
contracts, with 45,000 in the Nov. 9 expiring contracts, CME
data show.  The CME Group, the world’s largest futures market, began
trading the weekly options last year to provide traders and
investors a tool to hedge and speculate on short-term swings in
2-, 5-, 10- and 30-year, as well as so-called ultra Treasury-
bond futures. The CME’s ultra-bond contract designates
Treasuries with maturities of 25 years or more for delivery,
while the exchange’s 30-year bond future allows delivery of
government bonds that mature in 15 years or more.  ‘Election Fever’  “There is a lot of betting going on with these options on
the impact of the election on the  bond market ,” said Sean Tully, managing director in  New York  of interest rate products
at CME Group, in an interview. “Most of the demand is driven by
global macro hedge funds. These funds could have large
outstanding positions and want to hedge them through the
election in case there is an unexpected outcome or could be
taking advantage of the volatility they expect in the
marketplace because of the election.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  dropped less than two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.71 percent this week, from 1.72
percent on Nov. 2.  Futures contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specific
amount of a commodity or security at a specific price and time.
Unless the contract is offset before the settlement date,
participants in the contract must buy or sell the underlying
asset.  “Demand for the options has surged due to election
fever,” said Jim Lee, head of U.S. derivative strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  