-- Deutsche Bank Rejects FERC Penalty for Market Rigging
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-06T14:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/deutsche-bank-rejects-ferc-penalty-for-market-rigging.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s energy trading
unit denied manipulating power markets and told the U.S. Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission it should drop a proposal that the
bank pay a $1.5 million fine and give up $123,198 in profit.  FERC’s enforcement staff, in a Sept. 5 order, said Deutsche
Bank Energy Trading LLC submitted false information related to
its energy trading in California in early 2010.  “The legal position enforcement has taken here is
radical,” the unit of the Frankfurt-based bank said in a filing
posted today on FERC’s website. “If the commission does not
abandon these deeply flawed allegations now, they will be
overturned by a federal district court.”  Agency spokesman Craig Cano said FERC had no comment on the
filing. “The commission will consider the response,” he said
in an e-mail.  FERC also is investigating alleged manipulation by traders
from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  as part of an
increased effort to monitor markets where electricity is bought
and sold. Since January 2011 the agency has announced 11 market-
manipulation probes, and in March it reached a record $245
million settlement with Constellation Energy Group Inc. over one
of those cases.  Deutsche Bank said in its filing that the energy-trading
unit “did not intentionally trade against its interests,” as
the regulatory’s enforcement unit concluded after an
investigation.  ‘Arbitrage Opportunities’  “Traders saw arbitrage opportunities -- the chance to ‘buy
low and sell high’ -- because prices” at one power-delivery
point were “significantly” lower than at another location,
according to the filing.  The agency’s enforcement office took the position that
“knowingly trading in two related markets is per se unlawful
market manipulation, even if the trading is profit-seeking in
both markets,” Deutsche Bank said in its filing. “Accepting
that mistaken contention would mark a sea change in commission
precedent.”  FERC on Oct. 31 proposed a record $469.9 million in
penalties against London-based Barclays and an additional $18
million on four of the company’s former traders who allegedly
gamed markets in the Western U.S. It gave Barclays and the
individuals 30 days to respond.  The agency is investigating a unit of New York-based
JPMorgan for allegedly gaming energy markets in  California  and
the Midwest, resulting in at least $73 million in improper
payments to generators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  