-- Diageo Shrinking Johnnie Walker to Grow in Latin America
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-11-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/diageo-seeks-latin-american-drinkers-for-double-digit-growth.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, expects products including new varieties of Johnnie
Walker whisky to drive sales growth in Latin America as it
targets emerging middle-class consumers and women.  The maker of Smirnoff vodka will continue to see “double-
digit” growth in the region after reporting gains of 19 percent
in organic net sales and 22 percent in operating profit last
year, Randy Millian, the president of Diageo’s Latin America and
Caribbean unit, said in an interview in Miami. He declined to be
more specific.  Diageo, which sells products including Johnnie Walker Red
Scotch whisky in countries from  Brazil  to Costa Rica, is relying
on  emerging-markets  growth to offset stagnant markets in  Europe .
While the  Latin America  and Caribbean region represented 12
percent of  sales  and 11 percent of operating profit last year,
Diageo wants Brazil to become one of its top three markets by
2017, alongside the U.S. and U.K. Millian said he’s confident of
the distiller’s prospects in the country even as the pace of
economic growth slows in emerging markets.  “From a macro-economic point of view, yes, it probably has
slowed down,” the executive said. Still, for Diageo “we won’t
see much of a slowdown” in Brazil and the rest of the region.  Millian said spirits “are relative underdogs” compared
with beer in the region, where alcohol sales are dominated by
brewers  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   Diageo’s main focus in  South America  is “continued
leadership” in Scotch, as well as improving its sales of vodka,
rum and the recently purchased cachaca brand, Ypioca.  Jose Cuervo  The London-based distiller agreed to buy Ypioca in May for
900 million reais ($453 million). The acquisition of the
Brazilian spirit expanded Diageo’s distribution in the country
to 250,000 outlets and “gives us a brand we can take
internationally with the right message,” Millian said.  Diageo is also interested in  Jose Cuervo  tequila and has
hired banks to explore the possibility of gaining control from
the Beckmann family, people familiar with the plans said in
April. The company, which distributes the brand outside  Mexico ,
hasn’t come to a deal yet with the Beckmanns, Millian said.  “I would hate to lose Cuervo, but to do a deal that
doesn’t make sense to our shareholders wouldn’t make sense,” he
said. If the company fails to conclude talks before Diageo’s
distribution agreement for the brand ends next year, “we have
plan Bs, but we don’t want to get further into that,” he said.  Wider Range  Diageo will look at “anything if the right opportunity
comes along,” Millian said. It doesn’t need to team up with any
of the brewers across Latin America to improve its route to
market, he said, even though it did assess an acquisition of
Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes. The Brazilian brewer
was bought by Kirin Holdings Co. in November 2011 in a deal that
valued it at $3.62 billion.  “We took a look and decided to go with Ypioca,” he said.  Diageo is expanding the range of drinks it sells across the
Latin America and Caribbean region, primarily through creating
new varieties of existing brands, such as different flavored
variants of Gordon’s vodka, as well as selling brands such as
 Johnnie Walker  in smaller pack sizes to enable consumers with
less disposable income to experience the drinks. It’s also
created products including Nuvo that will appeal to women.  Scotch whisky will continue to be the main driver of growth
across the region, even as vodka sales rose 19 percent last
year, driven by Smirnoff and Ciroc, Millian said.  “Is vodka going to have the transformational effect it did
in  North America ? I don’t think so,” he said. Demand is still
strong for clear spirits “if you have the right brands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  