-- Dish Rises on DirecTV Merger Talk as Customer Growth Stalls
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-06T22:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/directv-s-subscriber-gains-slow-dish-posts-loss-on-legal-costs.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  gained after
Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said the second-largest U.S. satellite TV
company and its larger rival DirecTV should consider a merger to
address a slowing pay-TV market.  Both companies “have to consider” a combination given the
lack of growth remaining in the U.S. video business, Ergen, the
world’s 87th wealthiest man and Dish’s founder, said during a
conference call today. No deal discussions have taken place, he
said.  “I think it’s something that probably both companies will
look at,” Ergen said.  The second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider reported a
loss of 19,000 net subscribers in the third quarter, a smaller
decline than the average analyst estimate of 36,000. DirecTV
posted fewer subscriber gains in the U.S. and  Latin America  than
analysts projected.  Dish jumped 3.4 percent to $36 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 26 percent this year.  DirecTV (DTV)  shares fell
0.3 percent to $50.51,  up 18 percent  this year.  Darris Gringeri, a DirecTV spokesman, declined to comment
on Ergen’s remarks. Both Ergen and DirecTV Chief Executive
Officer Mike White have said a combination would benefit
consumers by giving more power to a joint entity to push down
programming costs on content providers.  Subscriber Miss  DirecTV added 67,000 net U.S. customers, less than the
99,000 average analyst estimate. The company has sought to
entice subscribers with National Football League Sunday Ticket
promotions, which give new customers access to all Sunday
football games for free for a year. DirecTV also lowered the
price for Sunday Ticket for current customers. The promotions
have led to a 50 percent increase in paying customers for the
package, White said during a conference call.  Net income  attributable to DirecTV rose to $565 million, or
90 cents a share, from $516 million, or 70 cents, a year
earlier, the El Segundo, California-based company said. Analysts
had estimated 92 cents on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 8.4 percent to $7.4 billion, in line with
the average analyst estimate.  DirecTV added 543,000 net subscribers in Latin America,
fewer than the 585,000 estimate from nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The results were “underwhelming,” said  Marci Ryvicker , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York.  Latin American customer additions fell from 645,000 in the
quarter ended in June. Last year, DirecTV reported 574,000 new
Latin American users in the third quarter, an increase from the
prior three-month period.  Dish Loss  Dish reported a surprise net loss of $158.5 million,
compared with a profit of $319.1 million a year earlier.
Analysts had predicted a profit of $251 million, the average
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Dish recorded litigation-related expenses of $730 million
in the period, the cost of settling with  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  over Voom, the suite of high-
definition television channels that Dish terminated more than
four years ago. AMC and Cablevision sought $2.4 billion in
damages before settling. The settlement was announced Oct. 21,
in the fourth quarter, even though the charges were assigned to
third-quarter earnings.  Sales fell 2.2 percent to $3.52 billion, trailing the $3.56
billion average analyst estimate.  Dish is awaiting Federal Communications Commission approval
to use its airwaves to transmit mobile video and data. The
Englewood, Colorado-based company has said it’s searching for a
partner that already has a wireless network, letting it avoid
spending billions on building a new one. Dish said it still
plans on hearing from the FCC by the end of the year.  Merger Chances  Approval of a merger between DirecTV and Dish would become
more probable if Dish is given approval to enter the wireless
business, letting it compete against a broader array of
companies, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. Ergen said a transaction would be
approved by either a Republican or Democratic administration if
“it was good for the American public.” The  U.S. presidential
election  takes place today between President  Barack Obama  and
Republican  Mitt Romney .  Dish and DirecTV attempted to combine in 2002. The deal was
blocked by regulators after it was deemed anti-competitive.  “The industry has changed since the last time Dish pursued
that kind of a transaction,” with phone companies offering
television service and more video options online, White said in
a September conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  