-- Dish Reports Quarterly Loss as Customer Acquisition Costs Climb
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-06T11:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/dish-reports-quarterly-loss-as-customer-acquisition-costs-climb.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, reported a surprise third-
quarter loss and revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The net loss was $158.5 million, compared with a profit of
$319.1 million a year earlier, the company said in a regulatory
filing today. Dish recorded litigation-related expenses of 
$730 million in the period. Analysts had predicted a profit of 
$251 million, the average estimate compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Dish lost 19,000 net subscribers in the quarter, a smaller
decline than the average analyst estimate of 36,000. Subscriber 
acquisition costs jumped 15 percent to $453 million.   Some investors have overlooked Dish’s failure to gain
customers amid the Englewood, Colorado-based company’s plans to
get into the wireless business,  Craig Moffett , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in an interview
before the release. While customer turnover, or churn, has
dropped, the lack of growth is worrisome, he said.  “They are still struggling to find their footing,”
Moffett said. “Their costs are rising faster than their
revenues, with a price-sensitive customer base in many rural
areas. They’ve stabilized their churn rate but not enough to
make the business really grow.”  Sales fell 2.2 percent to $3.52 billion, trailing the
$3.56 billion average analyst estimate.  Dish is awaiting Federal Communications Commission approval
to use its airwaves to transmit mobile video and data. The
company has said it is searching for a partner that already has
a wireless network to avoid spending billions on building a new
one.  Dish fell 1.6 to $34.83 at yesterday’s close. The shares
have risen 22 percent this year through yesterday.  DirecTV (DTV) , the
largest U.S. satellite TV company, reports earnings later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  