-- Dollar Declines Versus Major Counterparts as U.S. Goes to Polls
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-06T22:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/dollar-rises-to-eight-week-high-versus-euro-before-u-s-election.html
The dollar fell against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers as voters headed to the polls to
decide whether President  Barack Obama  or challenger  Mitt Romney 
will guide the world’s biggest economy for the next four years.  The U.S. currency touched an eight-week high earlier
against the euro before the world learns which candidate will
help shape policy ranging from the Federal Reserve chairmanship
to the so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect in 2013.
Australia’s dollar gained against all but one of its major
counterparts after the central bank unexpectedly refrained from
cutting  interest rates  today.  “Even if we get an election result, the larger implication
is what happens with the fiscal cliff,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in telephone interview.
“People are all watching because there is that small chance
that we don’t know by the end of the night how things turn out,
and that would mean increased uncertainty.”  The dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.2814 per euro at 5 p.m.
 New York  time after appreciating to $1.2764, the strongest level
since Sept. 11. The U.S. currency rose 0.1 percent to 80.35 yen.
The euro gained 0.2 percent to 102.97 yen.  The U.S. currency has gained 0.7 percent over the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The euro dropped 1.2
percent and the yen declined 1.6 percent.  Aussie, Naira  Australia’s currency rose to a five-week high against the
dollar after  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens 
and his board left the overnight cash-rate target at 3.25
percent. Twenty of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
a cut to 3 percent.  “The RBA was expected to potentially cut rates today and
they didn’t,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “As a result,
the Aussie dollar rallied.”  The so-called Aussie advanced 0.7 percent to $1.0435 after
rising to $1.0448, the strongest since Sept. 28. The currency
gained 0.8 percent to 83.85 yen, a five-month high.  Nigeria’s naira snapped two days of declines against the
dollar as Barclays Plc said it will add the nation’s debt to its
emerging-market local-currency government bond index from March
2013.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer gained 0.3
percent to 156.925 a dollar. The naira has increased 3.4 percent
this year, the second-best performer in Africa, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Presidential Election  A national  poll  conducted by the Pew Research Center Oct.
31-Nov. 3 showed Obama leading Republican challenger Romney, 48
percent to 45 percent. The survey showed them tied at 47 percent
a week ago. The final tracking poll by  ABC News  and the
Washington Post had the Democratic incumbent taking a lead of 50
percent to 47 percent in a survey of 2,345 likely voters
conducted Nov. 1-4.  After an initial boost, the U.S. currency would likely
decline against most of its counterparts except for the yen as
investors’ willingness to take risk increased with a Romney
victory,  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, wrote Oct. 23
in a note.  The greenback would probably weaken with an Obama win amid
politicians’ handling of the so-called fiscal cliff before
leveling out on restrained risk-taking, he wrote.  Yield Search  Romney has said he disagrees with the Fed’s measures to
stimulate the economy and would replace Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke. A win by Obama would signal continued dovish central-
bank policy, said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist based in New York at Societe Generale SA.  “It’s a low-yield environment,” Galy said. “That means
the search for yield continues, and especially in places that
are going to benefit from Fed easing. That would be, for example
 Mexico . That would be, to a lesser extent,  Canada .”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell 0.2 percent to 80.75 after gaining during the
previous four days.  The euro fell against higher-yielding counterparts as Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras struggled to get the members of
three-party coalition to support a package of further austerity
measures, which will be voted on as soon as tomorrow.  Spain, Germany  “All this uncertainty that continues to linger is proving
to be quite damaging for the euro,” said Sonja Marten, a
currency strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s difficult
to see how we can get out of this quickly.”  Spain  said yesterday it is working on a review of income
and spending in its welfare system as it heads toward a deficit.
The country is relying on European aid for its banks and
potentially seeking more to shore up its public finances.  German  factory orders  fell the most in a year in September,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Orders, adjusted for
seasonal swings and inflation, slumped 3.3 percent from August,
when they dropped a revised 0.8 percent.  “The euro is being sold as the market focuses on the risks
surrounding Greece and Spain,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an
analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. in  Tokyo . “German data
have been weakening and there are concerns the country may fall
into a recession. You can’t buy the euro in the current
environment.”  Europe’s currency is likely to extend its 1.3 percent drop
in the past three sessions against the  U.S. dollar  this week,
according to IG Markets Securities Ltd., which cited trading
patterns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  