-- Dominican Republic Congress Backs Tax Hikes to Cut Deficit
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-06T23:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/dominican-republic-congress-backs-tax-hikes-to-cut-deficit-1-.html
The Dominican Republic’s Congress
approved a series of tax changes today in an attempt to trim a
fiscal deficit forecast to reach 8 percent of gross domestic
product by year end.  The tax overhaul, which has been opposed by several
economic sectors and was protested by thousands of demonstrators
nationwide this morning, was approved by 106 of the 184
legislators present in a first-round vote, according to Santo
Domingo-based newspaper Diario Libre. A second vote on the bill
is expected to be held in congress Nov. 8.  If approved, the tax overhaul will increase the national
sales tax to 18 percent from 16 percent and raise levies on
several national products, including tobacco and alcoholic
beverages. Paired with government spending cuts that accompany
the package, President Danilo Medina said he hopes the tax
changes will reduce the fiscal deficit by as much as 4 percent
of GDP in 2013.  Medina, who assumed the presidency on Aug. 16, referred to
the tax measures as a “bitter pill to swallow,” but a
necessary sacrifice to “redirect the economic growth and
sustainable development of the country.”  “If we don’t change the tax structure, the country’s
fiscal situation will become unsustainable and generate a crisis
and loss of confidence in the national economy,” Economy
Minister Temistocles Montas said in a statement published on the
ministry website.  Thousands of protesters marched nationwide this morning to
protest the tax increases. At least two people were injured
during the demonstrations, though the marches were mostly
peaceful and controlled, according to according to Santo
Domingo-based CDN Noticias.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  