-- Driver Shortage Boosting Dedicated U.S. Trucking Business
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/driver-shortage-boosting-dedicated-u-s-trucking-business.html
Retailers and grocery stores are
among companies increasingly using dedicated-fleet services as a
shortage of drivers constrains U.S. trucking capacity while the
economy heals.  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. (JBHT)  and  Werner Enterprises
Inc. (WERN)  are among carriers benefiting from an “accelerating
trend” that’s helping to buoy the trucking industry, according
to John Larkin, managing director in Baltimore at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. Dedicated-fleet services -- provided by a carrier
that allocates a fleet of trucks to specific customers -- are
“in vogue” because shippers want to eliminate the uncertainty
related with procuring vehicles, he said.  These services now are “the preferred approach to lock in
capacity” for core shipments, Larkin said. Further, because
customers are charged the same amount whether a truck is empty
or full, they can better manage their costs in the event of a
shortage by negotiating rates for “defined, predictable
routes” in advance, he added.  Businesses also can preserve capital, while avoiding
expenses from accidents and other risks associated with
operating their own trucks, said Vincent McLoughlin, chairman of
Cardinal Logistics Management Corp.  The Concord, North Carolina-based carrier sees more
interest in dedicated-contract carriage services, particularly
from retail and building-supply companies, boosting revenue for
this $330 million business, he said. Cardinal Logistics provides
supply-chain consulting, warehousing and distribution to
 AutoZone Inc. (AZO) ,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and other customers.  Driver Hiring  J.B. Hunt has made “significant efforts in driver hiring
due to shortened lead times for contract start dates,” the
carrier said in an Oct. 11 statement. This shows demand is
accelerating as customers want quicker access to dedicated-fleet
services, said Larkin, who maintains a “hold” recommendation
on the company.  Retail sales rose  1.1 percent  in September following a 1.2
percent increase in August, the best back-to-back showing since
late 2010, according to Commerce Department data.  Building supplies also are rebounding as the housing market
improves. New-home construction starts jumped 15 percent in
September from the prior month to an  872,000 annual rate , while
residential permits -- a proxy for future construction -- rose
to 890,000, based on Commerce figures. Both were the best since
July 2008 and exceeded the median forecasts of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Expanding Business  While J.B. Hunt’s dedicated-services business is expanding,
growth slowed in the third quarter, when this segment accounted
for 21 percent of the Lowell, Arkansas, carrier’s total
operating revenue, down from 23 percent a year ago, and revenue
rose 1.4 percent, compared with 7.2 percent in the first quarter
of this year.  This could be a result of the sluggish economy, Larkin
said. “You can read between the lines to conclude what we
already knew, that the third quarter was pretty soft.”  Gross domestic product grew at a 2 percent annual rate in
the three months ended Sept. 30, more than the 1.8 percent
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg but trailing
the 2.8 percent average for the five years before the recession,
according to data from the Commerce Department.  The average number of trucks in J.B. Hunt’s dedicated-
contract services fleet grew 4.8 percent to 5,153 in the three
months ended Sept. 30, company data show. The increase was
“more or less in line with expectations,” Larkin said.
Meanwhile, Omaha, Nebraska-based Werner Enterprises has a long-
term goal that one-third of its revenue will come from
dedicated-fleet operations, he said.  Onerous Operations  It’s onerous for shippers to operate their own trucks, said
Charles Clowdis, managing director of transportation advisory
services at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
That’s because they must cope with Department of Transportation
regulations, including pending and recent rules from its Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration.  There’s a shortage of qualified drivers, as some rules have
made it more difficult to add workers, while other industries --
such as construction -- have poached potential employees,
Clowdis said. This “phenomenon is getting worse,” which could
hinder hiring even more, though dedicated contracts tend to
appeal to potential drivers because they have an established
route each day or week, increasing the likelihood they can be
home more often, he added.  Though rates may be a bit higher for customers to use
dedicated-fleet services, supermarkets and retailers like this
option because it’s “better to have capacity when they need
it,” Clowdis said. A sense of urgency also is fueling the
increased popularity, even if shippers have to pay when there
isn’t merchandise to fill the trucks, Larkin said.  As a result, the benefits appear to be outweighing the
costs as more customers of Cardinal Logistics are looking “more
critically” at this option, McLoughlin said. “Why invest in
the trucks if you don’t need to?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  