-- DSM Seeks Partners to Take Over Part of Caprolactam Capacity
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-11-06T12:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/dsm-seeks-partner-to-take-over-some-caprolactam-lines-correct-.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM)  may take on partners for
some caprolactam operations in North America and  Europe  as it
moves away from low-margin commodity chemicals used in basic
plastics, Chief Financial Officer Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said.  About two-thirds of DSM’s volume of the benzene-based
chemical used in carpets and other goods is sold externally and
management is “looking for ways to reduce exposure” in this
area of the business, Schwalb told journalists on a call. The
rest of the caprolactam produced is used internally.  “We do not talk about divestment necessarily but different
ways of reducing our exposure to the merchant market,” Schwalb
said. That may involve an accord “where we operate the lines
and they own the assets and capacity.”  DSM’s caprolactam business suffered as demand in the
automotive and construction industries decreased, and lower
prices relative to the raw material benzene squeezed margins,
resulting in a negative impact of 105 million euros ($134
million). DSM is looking to extend cost-cutting measures with
Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma today predicting that
markets will remain “tough.”  Third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization dropped 20 percent to 270 million euros, in
line with analysts’ estimates. Shares of the vitamin, nutrition
and high-tech plastics company gained 4.4 percent to 41.1 euros
as of 1:08 p.m. in Amsterdam.  Carpet Maker  DSM has already struck an agreement with U.S. carpet maker
Shaw Industries that purchased part of DSM’s caprolactam
capacity for their own use and “that kind of exposure reduction
could also play a role,” he said.  A joint venture to produce caprolactam in Nanjing with
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  is going ahead as the nation is
an importer of the chemical. While “it makes sense” to invest
in  China , DSM faces a challenge in merchant caprolactam in North
America and Europe, Schwalb said.  “The fact that they are looking for a way to lower the
impact from caprolactam is a positive,” Fabian Smeets, an
analyst at ING, said by phone. Smeets has a hold rating on DSM.  Analysts including ABN Amro’s Mutlu Gundogan have urged the
disposal of materials units, which could boost DSM shares to 50
euros, Gundogan said. DSM isn’t contemplating such a move as it
wouldn’t create shareholder value, Schwalb said today.  Pharma Partner  DSM is in a prolonged hunt for a partner for a custom-drug
production business. It teamed up with Sinochem for an anti-
infectives unit, yet finding a similar partnership for drugs has
so far proved elusive because it’s harder to match interests and
agree on valuations and governance. Discussions are underway,
according to the CFO.  “Partnership discussions are not easy and take time,”
Schwalb told reporters.  Quarterly sales fell 1 percent to 2.3 billion euros.  Sijbesma is cutting 1,000 jobs across the company’s
operations. The executive had to lower a profit target for 2013
in September against the background of deteriorating economic
conditions.  He’s used 2.3 billion euros in acquisitions to steer the
company toward higher-margin enzymes, nutritional ingredients
and specialty plastics, where demand is growing more quickly.
About two-thirds of profit now stems from nutrition supplements,
vitamins and animal feed.  Purchases include baby-food ingredients maker Martek
Biosciences and Tortuga, a Brazilian maker of supplements for
cattle. On Oct. 26, the company announced the purchase of
Cargill’s cultures and enzyme business for 85 million euros.  Schwalb said the current acquisition budget stands at about
1 billion euros and there may be two to three potential
purchases in the future. DSM is nearing the point where it will
seek to consolidate the takeovers it’s completed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  