-- Duck & Waffle Serves Snacks, Expensive Wines 40 Floors Up
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/duck-waffle-serves-snacks-expensive-wines-40-floors-up.html
If the Duck & Waffle were at street
level, it would be a very good, informal restaurant with a
quirky and eclectic menu and unstuffy professional service.  To find a venue of such quality occupying a prime location
40 floors up, atop the  Heron Tower  -- on the edge of  London ’s
City financial district -- is a cause for celebration.  You might expect to be charged an arm-and-a-leg after
making it past the elegantly frocked bouncerettes at the
entrance, and hopping on board the express elevator, which
disgorges you into the arms of more greeters.  It’s a pleasure to find that the snacks are about four
pounds ($6.45), most small plates seven pounds or less and many
of the large dishes cost less than 15 pounds. The other good
sign, as you take in the spectacular views, is that chef Daniel
Doherty is almost always there at the front of the open kitchen.  I have eaten at Duck & Waffle several times over the past
couple of months and I wouldn’t have been back if I didn’t like
the food and the view. The shocker is  the wine list . It’s among
the least appealing I have encountered in a good restaurant:
expensive, with a few unpleasant options if you drop below 40
pounds.  The menu is thematically heterogeneous, which roughly
translates as a mixed bag. If you are light of appetite, you
might choose the scallop, served with apple, black truffle and
lime, atop a slab of Himalayan salt. It looks pretty and is also
functional, as you can rub salt in your wounds after picking a
wine.  Yellowfin Tuna  There are also native oysters, or you might enjoy yellowfin
tuna with watermelon, balsamic and basil.  (The restaurant is the sibling of Sushisamba, two floors
down. Both belong to Samba Brands Management, which operates
Sushisamba in  New York , Miami,  Chicago  and  Las Vegas .)  Most dishes are very big on flavor, from the barbecue-
spiced crispy pig ears, through the bacon-wrapped dates
(Linguica sausage, with a dandelion salad) through to my
favorite: Herdwick mutton slider, with harissa and charred-
tomato jam. If you are feeling porky, there’s also thinly sliced
pig’s ear with olive oil and Amalfi lemon.  It’s rich and hearty fare, very much of its time and place
in that the dishes are good for autumn and this sort of food --
big flavors, small portions -- is currently popular in London.
Duck & Waffle holds its own against its earthbound rivals and
punches above its weight in terms of consistency and
professionalism for a restaurant with a view.  That’s mainly down to Doherty -- formerly of the Old
Brewery at the Royal Naval College in Greenwich -- and
restaurant manager, Gavin McGowan Madoo, a veteran of Bar
Boulud.  The menu can be confusing first time round. Some portions
are small and others are large. The five pre-dessert sections --
Snacks & Breads; Raw; Small Plates; Brick Oven; For the Table --
are the culinary equivalent of a dodgy sat-nav for trying to
plot your way through a meal. It’s worth the trip.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 30 pounds a head for food.  Sound level? About 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Leave time for a visit to the bar.  Special feature? The view.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? **1/2.  Duck & Waffle is at 40th Floor, Heron Tower, London, EC2N
4AY. Information: +44-20-3640-7310 or  http://duckandwaffle.com/   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Warwick
Thompson  on London stage and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 