-- The NCAA’s Dubious Bet Against New Jersey
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-11-06T23:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/the-ncaa-s-dubious-bet-against-new-jersey.html
Here’s a simple way for the four
major professional sports leagues and the NCAA to do more than
 Bruce Springsteen , Jon Bon Jovi and maybe even FEMA to help New
Jersey recover from  Hurricane Sandy : Drop their lawsuit against
the state’s plan to allow sports betting.  New Jersey was already hurting when Governor  Chris Christie 
signed into law last summer a bill allowing gambling on sports
at casinos and racetracks. Now the state has borne the brunt of
a hurricane that flooded  Atlantic City , washing away a chunk of
the oldest boardwalk in America. Sports betting could help New
Jersey turn things around, not only bringing in an estimated
$150 million a year in taxes and licensing fees, but also
filling its casino hotels on big sports weekends.  The betting is supposed to begin on Jan. 9, 2013 -- if it
isn’t blocked by an inane and hypocritical lawsuit from the very
leagues that stand to gain the most from it.  The  National Football League ,  National Basketball
Association ,  National Hockey League ,  Major League Baseball  and
National Collegiate Athletic Association  claim that  New Jersey’s
law will threaten the character and integrity of sporting
events. In other words, introducing oversight and regulation
into what is currently a $380 billion illegal industry will
somehow invite foul play. It will be interesting to hear  Paul Clement , the former U.S. solicitor general representing the
leagues, make that case to a judge.  Discounted Tattoos  No one does moral outrage like the NCAA, promoter of the
ideal of the “student-athlete” -- a clever legal confection
designed to ensure that college athletes are never compensated
as university employees. A $500 million (nonprofit, of course)
enterprise, the NCAA has no problem with coaches making
millions, but heaven have mercy on any “student-athlete”  who
swaps  branded gear for discounted tattoos.  And the NCAA is very disappointed in Governor Christie. So
disappointed, in fact, that  it canceled  several collegiate
championship games scheduled for New Jersey in 2013. Yes, it’s
true: The Division III men’s volleyball championship will not be
held in Hoboken next year.  A small price to pay, sure, but the message is clear. If
the NCAA can do this, what’s to stop it from preventing more
lucrative postseason tournaments from taking place in  New
Jersey ? Or in other cash-starved states, for that matter, should
their governors get any ideas?  And remember, the Division I men’s basketball championship
tournament generated about  $770 million  in revenue last year.
(The NCAA even squeezes sponsorship fees from the manufacturers
of the ladders that the winning team uses to cut down the nets.)
Why do so many people freak out when Norfolk State upsets
 Missouri  in the first round? March Madness, baby! They all had
$20 riding on Mizzou going deep into the tournament in their
(illegal, by the way) office pool.  It’s hard to say what played a bigger role in the rise of
the NFL: television or the invention of the point spread. I grew
up watching Jimmy the Greek,  amateur historian  and betting
analyst for “The NFL Today” on CBS, dole out pregame advice to
gamblers. The only thing that’s changed since then is that the
“expert advice” is now available everywhere, most ubiquitously
on ESPN -- broadcast partners with the NFL -- whose analysts are
usually just as concerned with who’s going to “cover” as with
who’s going to win.  The NFL hasn’t had any trouble embracing fantasy football,
directing teams to display appropriate statistics on their
Jumbotrons during games and forever fine-tuning its mobile
application to maximize its value to the estimated 24 million
people who play fantasy football every year -- surely, just for
fun. What’s more fun than winning a few thousand bucks off a
group of friends and acquaintances?  Dubious Rationale  The NFL knows that without gambling it would be no more
popular than -- gasp -- baseball. (People bet on baseball, too,
but the standard system for gambling on baseball games, money
lines, is a lot more complicated than just betting the spread.)  That hasn’t stopped pro football or the NCAA from cuing the
indignity, much as they always do whenever the subject of sports
betting comes up. This time, however, they and the other leagues
have actually filed suit. What’s their rationale?  Sports gambling is illegal in New Jersey under a
constitutionally dubious  federal law , the Professional and
Amateur Sports Protection Act. It was spearheaded by none other
than Senator  Bill Bradley  in 1992, before the emergence of
online, offshore sports betting.  It’s not the job of professional sports leagues or the NCAA
to defend outdated laws. But the leagues and the NCAA no doubt
want to curry favor with a federal government that provides them
with the various exemptions they need to run their businesses
basically however they please.  For the leagues and the NCAA, it’s a sure bet. They can
continue to spout their pious rhetoric about how gambling
undermines public faith in sport, even as they enjoy ratings and
revenue inflated immeasurably by fans with a financial stake in
the outcome of every play of every game. When the law is
inevitably struck down, expect the leagues and the NCAA to
publicly bemoan the court’s decision -- and then dive headlong
into the new world of legal sports gambling, making sure they
get a piece of the action.  Meanwhile, Christie will be forced to drain his battered
state’s scant resources to fight a protracted legal battle
against a deep-pocketed cartel that wins even if it loses. These
are not exactly fair odds.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Josh Barro on  the unimportance of the 2012 vote ,
Justin Wolfers on  better election predictions  and Tobin Harshaw
on  the perils of tweeting your ballot .  Plus, the editors on  the dangerous rise of euro-skepticism  and
Randal C. Picker on  how tech companies tie their hands  with
antitrust settlements.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 