-- East Coast Fuel Drops As Philadelphia Refineries Ramp Up
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-06T20:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/east-coast-fuel-drops-as-philadelphia-refineries-ramp-up.html
Fuel declined in New York Harbor
today as Philadelphia Energy Solutions returned the Point Breeze
and Girard Point refineries to full rates and tankers prepared
to make deliveries to the U.S. East Coast.  The 355,000-barrel-a-day Philadelphia plants, which make up
the largest refining complex on the East Coast, were previously
operating at reduced rates because of  Hurricane Sandy . About 21
petroleum tankers are set to arrive in New York Harbor over the
next four days as Phillips 66’s  Bayway refinery  and  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s
Port Reading unit remain shut.  “We are producing at full strength and we have been
actively engaged with the U.S. Department of Energy helping to
relieve gasoline and diesel fuel supply disruptions in the
region’s hardest-hit areas,” said Cherice Corley, an Energy
Solutions spokeswoman based at the Pennsylvania refinery.  Reformulated gasoline  in New York Harbor declined 4.5 cents
to trade at a premium of 20 cents a gallon over futures on the
New York Mercantile Exchange at 2:36 p.m. Conventional motor
fuel fell 9.5 cents to premium of 14.5 cents.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  fuel weakened 3.75 cents to 12.25
cents over heating oil futures.  Five of the 21 ships headed for New York are carrying
gasoline, while five are transporting naptha, four hold crude
oil and three are carrying fuel oil, according to Charles Rowe,
a spokesman for the U.S. Coast Guard in Staten Island, New York.  The fuel will help to supply the region as the Bayway
refinery in New Jersey remains shut while damage to equipment is
being repaired. Bayway plans to resume normal operations in two
to three weeks, Houston-based  Phillips 66 (PSX)  said in a statement on
its  website . The plant has a capacity of 238,000 barrels a day,
making it the largest single refinery on the East Coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  