-- ECB’s Constancio Rebuffs Report Spain Violated Debt Rules
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-11-06T00:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ecb-s-constancio-rebuffs-report-spain-violated-debt-rules.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  downplayed a report that the Bank of  Spain 
violated collateral rules when it assessed the quality of assets
pledged by Spanish banks in return for ECB loans.  The asset valuations under question were “much, much
lower” than those reported and the issue presented no concern
because the amount available in the pool of capital far
outstripped liquidity the banks drew, Constancio told reporters
yesterday in Mexico City after a Group of 20 finance meeting.  “The whole question had no practical implications
whatsoever and no costs or losses to anyone,” the No. 2 ECB
official said. ‘The issue has been completely settled,
corrected, overcome.’’  German newspaper  Die Welt  reported Nov. 5 that Spanish
treasury bills used as collateral in refinancing operations only
partially fulfilled ECB requirements and banks received as much
as 16.6 billion euros ($21.2 billion) of loans they shouldn’t
have if quality rules had been strictly followed.  The Bank of Spain said yesterday it had correctly applied
the collateral rules. The discount on Spanish debt pledged as
collateral is based on the credit rating of DBRS Inc., said a
Bank of Spain spokesman who asked not to be named in line with
the central bank’s policy.  Toronto-based DBRS rates debt issued by the Spanish
government at ‘A Low,’ its seventh-highest investment-grade
rating. That’s two steps higher than  Fitch Ratings  and three
steps higher than Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s . The ECB takes smaller discounts on securities with an A-
rating, according to the central bank’s website.  The Bank of Spain yesterday applied a valuation of 95.067
percent to 2 billion euros of Spanish treasury bills due 2014,
according to the Madrid-based central bank’s  website . That is
lower than the 96.66 percent closing price of the securities,
according to Bloomberg prices.  The ECB applies a 1.5 percent discount to zero-coupon
government debt with a residual maturity between one or three
years and a rating better than A minus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Mexico City at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Mexico City at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  