-- Pennsylvania Power Plant’s Bond Issuer, Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-06T21:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/edison-international-funding-unit-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Homer City Funding LLC, the issuer of
bonds for the Homer City generating station operated in
 Pennsylvania  by a unit of  Edison International (EIX) , filed for
bankruptcy court protection.  Homer City, formed to issue debt securities, listed assets
and debt of $500 million to $1 billion each in Chapter 11 papers
filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Edison in September agreed to transfer control of its Homer
City coal-fired power plant east of Pittsburgh to General
Electric Capital Corp. That agreement is subject to consent by
more than two-thirds of bondholders, according to a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “The restructuring transactions contemplated by the plan
will improve the financial health and future operational
viability of the facility,” Homer City said in court papers.
Under the proposed plan the reorganized company will be jointly
owned by units of GE Capital and by  MetLife Inc. (MET)   Homer City’s debt includes $466 million in 8.734 percent
notes due in 2026 and $174 million in 8.137 percent notes due in
2019, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg News. The
bondholder trustee is Bank of New York, court papers show. Homer
City failed to make its Oct. 1 payment on existing bonds.  California Utility  The plant is owned by GE Capital and was leased by Edison
Mission Energy. As issuer of the bonds, Homer City Funding is a
special-purpose financial entity.  Edison Mission Energy is a unit of Edison International.
Southern  California  Edison Co., another Edison International
unit, is California’s second-largest utility, providing power to
14 million people, according to the company’s  website .  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) , based in San Francisco, owns California’s largest
electric utility.  The Homer facility, located about 45 miles (70 kilometers)
from Pittsburgh, includes three coal-fired electric generating
units. Edison Mission Marketing & Trading Inc., an affiliate of
EME Homer City, sells energy and capacity from the facility. EME
Homer City operates the facility.  The company filed what is known as a prepackaged
bankruptcy, having solicited votes from creditors on a
reorganization plan before seeking court protection, according
to court documents.  Bondholder Agreement  Holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding principal
of the existing bonds agreed to vote to accept the plan, Homer
City said. The company is asking the court to hold a Dec. 6
hearing for both approval of the disclosure statement and
confirmation of the plan.  Edison Mission Energy may be forced into bankruptcy should
it fail to pay a $97 million interest payment due Nov. 15,
Edison International said in a Sept. 30 regulatory filing.  Edison Mission can’t guarantee the interest payment and
doesn’t expect to have enough cash to repay $500 million in
unsecured debt due in June 2013. Edison Mission began
negotiating with bondholders in June.  The case is In re Homer City Funding LLC, 12-13024, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  