-- Telefonica Deutschland Profit Gains on Wireless Data
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-06T08:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/telefonica-deutschland-profit-gains-on-wireless-data.html
Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG,
the  Telefonica SA (TEF)  unit that sold shares to the public last week,
said profit rose in the third quarter as more customers used
mobile phones to go online.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization
climbed 13 percent to 339 million euros ($434 million), lifting
the profit margin by 1.9 percentage points, the Munich-based
company said today. Frederic Boulan, an analyst at Nomura, had
estimated operating profit of 330 million euros.  Telefonica Deutschland is valued at about 6.6 billion euros
following Europe’s biggest initial public offering this year.
The carrier, which operates under the O2 brand in a market less
hit by Europe’s debt crisis, vies with Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus for
the position of the third-largest wireless company in  Germany 
behind  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   The stock slipped 1.2 percent to 5.86 euros at 9:34 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . It has gained 4.6 percent since its Oct. 30 debut.
Madrid-based Telefonica, Spain’s largest phone company, is
scheduled to release earnings tomorrow.  Telefonica Deutschland’s mobile-service revenue rose 5.6
percent to 812 million euros as the share of clients using
smartphones rose by 5.7 percentage points to 24.3 percent. Its
shares are rated buy by two  analysts  that have begun covering
the company following its IPO.  Most Indebted  Telefonica, the Spanish parent with more than 58 billion
euros of net debt, is Europe’s most indebted phone company.
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is reversing a decade-long
expansion strategy as it rushes to avoid a downgrade of its debt
ratings. The company also plans to sell shares of its Latin
American unit and divested a $1.4 billion stake in  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  in July.  KPN, based in the Hague, last month reported a 32 percent
drop in profit, citing increasing price competition in Germany.
E-Plus in April introduced a 20-euro flat rate for mobile voice
and data connections under the Yourfone brand, undercutting its
rivals by more than a third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  