-- Telefonica Czech Net Declines as Clients Curb Spending
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-11-06T16:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/telefonica-czech-net-declines-as-clients-curb-spending.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS (SPTT) , the
country’s biggest telecommunications company, said third-quarter
profit fell 20 percent as clients spent less on calls and
competitive pressures eroded prices.  Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 was 1.76
billion koruna ($89 million) from 2.21 billion koruna a year
earlier, the Prague-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue fell 4 percent to 12.6 billion koruna.  Revenue from mobile business deteriorated “modestly” as
residential clients curbed spending on calls, Chief Financial
Officer David Melcon said in the statement. The sales decline
from fixed operations decelerated, helped by revenue from data
and other services.  Telefonica Czech, a unit of  Spain ’s largest
telecommunications company, has been battling a steady decline
in earnings, which peaked in 2005, by streamlining operations
and laying off employees. The operator plans to deploy new
generation mobile technology and a fiber optic network to boost
income from Internet data services and compensate for a decline
in traditional voice offering.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization, or
Oibda, fell 12 percent to 5 billion koruna in the quarter. The
Oibda margin declined to 39.8 percent in the quarter from 43.4
percent a year earlier.  Telefonica hasn’t changed its approach to dividend policy
and its intention to distribute cash to shareholders, Melcon
said in an analyst call today. The company, which still has
“room” for capital reduction, will communicate the proposal
with the full-year results, Melcon said.  ‘In Line’  Telefonica fell 1.9 koruna, or 0.5 percent, to 388 koruna
at close in Prague trading.  The results are “in line” with estimates, although
revenue is “slightly” below, Cyrrus AS analyst Jiri Simara
wrote in a note to clients. Cyrrus has an “accumulate”
recommendation on the stock.  Telefonica said that it opened its network to a virtual
operator Bleskmobil, run by publishing house Ringier Axel
Springer CZ, as of Nov.7. The company is also competing in an
auction for 4G mobile network frequencies run by the Czech
telecommunications regulator.  “We’re very interested in acquiring all the spectrum we
can,” Chief Executive Officer Louis Antonio Malvido said in the
conference call.  Debt Option  The company has a “very strong” balance sheet to take any
debt that is necessary to cover the spectrum purchases and
clearly this is one of the options being analyzed, Melcon said
in the call.  Revenue from Slovakia represented almost 10 percent from
total sales in the nine months ended Sept. 30, the company said
in the statement.  Telefonica reiterated its full-year guidance for
“limited” margin erosion in 2012 and a cap on capital
expenditure of 6.2 billion koruna. The company said it set a
record day for share capital reduction for Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  