-- Elliott Carter, Methuselah of American Composers, Dies
-- B y   D a v i d   M e r m e l s t e i n
-- 2012-11-06T02:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/elliott-carter-methuselah-of-american-composers-dies.html
Elliott Carter, the American composer
whose long life and career produced a remarkable coda of
creativity in his 90s, has died. He was 103.  Carter died today in New York, the  Associated Press 
reported. Boosey and Hawkes, the music publisher, didn’t give a
cause of death, AP said.  Called America’s great musical poet by critic Andrew
Porter, Carter was feted on his 100th birthday, Dec. 11, 2008,
with a concert at  Carnegie Hall  that included the New York
premiere of a piece for piano and orchestra titled
“Interventions,” which he had composed at 98. Daniel Barenboim
was at the piano while  James Levine  conducted the Boston
Symphony Orchestra.  Levine, an important supporter of Carter, led the same
orchestra in the October 2005 New York premiere of the
composer’s “Three Illusions.” The crowd cheered with such
fervor that Levine repeated the work’s middle portion, “Fons
Juventutis” (“Fountain of Youth”), a fitting tip of the hat
to Carter’s vitality.  His late-in-life fecundity provoked an inevitable question:
What if he hadn’t lived so long? Though several great composers
had bursts of creative energy near their deaths --Mozart and
Schubert among them -- only Carter produced so much good music
at such an advanced age.  ’Now I’ve Found It’  “The earlier part of my life I felt I was more or less
exploring what I would like to write,” Carter told the  New York 
Times as he turned 100. “Now I’ve found it out, and I don’t
have to think so much about it.”  Of the traits that characterized Carter’s music, his
insatiable desire for change -- be it in meter or mood -- was
the most important and consistent. He was fond of comparing his
music to jazz. Like jazz, his music would dart about, riffing
off itself and expanding both its formal and emotional reach in
the process.  Textural clarity and economy of means were also hallmarks
of his complicated scores, even those for large orchestral
pieces. Though he claimed to be unmoved by public taste, his
works showed profound personal feeling. Soft edges balance even
sharply angled works, such as the Piano Concerto (1964-65) and
the Cello Concerto (2001), composed for Yo-Yo Ma.  Piano Compositions  Through 1980, his writing for solo piano consisted of two
works, the revolutionary Piano Sonata of the mid-1940s and
“Night Fantasies” (1980), which the pianist-scholar Charles
Rosen, a Carter intimate, termed “perhaps the most
extraordinary large keyboard work written since the death of
Ravel.” Then, in 1994, without obvious explanation, Carter
began composing for the piano as never before, producing six new
works of distilled power by 2007.  This flowering was encouraged, and maybe even provoked, by
some of the era’s most important conductors. Besides Levine,
Pierre Boulez,  Daniel Barenboim , Oliver Knussen and Christoph von Dohnanyi all commissioned works from Carter.  His life, which began in  New York City  on Dec. 11, 1908,
spanned the 20th century, and so did his musical evolution.  In his early years he was encouraged by no less than the
composer Charles Ives, whose recommendation helped Carter attend
 Harvard College , where he majored in English. Like  Aaron Copland 
and many other important composers, Carter studied in Paris with
the formidable pedagogue Nadia Boulanger.  Duke Ellington  Back in the U.S., Carter worked on the early compositions
that would define his sound.  “I remember my First Symphony, which is rather
conservative and somewhat jazzy, was played down at  Cooper
Union ,” he  told   National Public Radio  in 2008, “and Duke
Ellington was in the audience. And he came back and said, ‘It
seems to me, Mr. Carter, you’re interested in jazz.’”  By 1950 he had jettisoned his Stravinsky-inspired
neoclassicism for territory mapped by Arnold Schoenberg. Though
not a serialist per se, Carter in his mature period embraced
many serialist principles while allowing himself the freedom to
structure pieces as he saw fit. After “Night Fantasies,”
though, his work became even more expressive.  He finally opted to write an opera, “What’s Next?” in
1997-1998, becoming by a considerable distance the oldest
composer to undertake such a project, especially as a novice.
Postmodern in conception and with influences as varied as
Pirandello and Jacques Tati, the 40-minute, one-act work is
typically fresh and not a little elliptical; the final line of
 Paul Griffiths ’s libretto is “What --,” followed by clattering
percussion and a soprano wail.  To contact the writer of this story:
David Mermelstein at  Dmermelstein33@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  