-- Emirates NBD Sees 2013 Retail Revenue Up 15% on Dubai Rebound
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-11-06T09:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/emirates-nbd-sees-2013-retail-revenue-up-15-on-dubai-rebound.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, seeks to boost revenue from
its retail business by as much as 15 percent next year and has
board approval to hire 200 staff to expand the business.  Revenue will be driven mainly by the bank’s small and
medium-sized company business as well as growth in personal
banking products like credit cards and  wealth management  as
Dubai’s economy rebounds, Suvo Sarkar, Emirates NBD’s head of
retail banking, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday. The
company will also add relationship managers in its small and
medium enterprise business and sales staff, he said.  “Retail is a key growth sector for the bank,” Sarkar
said. “You will see us being more aggressive on small and
medium enterprise lending in the future than we have been in the
past,” he said.  Banks in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, are
seeking to increase their retail businesses, including auto,
personal and home loans after the global credit crisis pushed
large companies to cut back on borrowing. Emirates NBD’s revenue
from retail banking made up 43 percent of the total in the
third-quarter and grew 15 percent in the nine months through
September to 3.28 billion dirhams ($893 million), according to
its results.  The Dubai-government-controlled bank has more than 50,000
small and medium-sized companies or SMEs as customers, with a 24
percent share of the SME market, Sarkar said. Emirates NBD had
22 billion dirhams in loans and deposits from SMEs, with loans
making up about 10 percent of the total, he said.  Double-Digit Growth  “Whether it is the SME business, the affluent segment,
personal banking, all of those are growing at double-digit
rates,” Sarkar said. “Retail spending has grown 23 percent
this year on our credit cards and loss rates on them are at
historical lows which is a sign of confidence in the economy.”  Dubai, the second-biggest of seven emirates in the U.A.E.,
is recovering from a crash in property prices, helped by a
rebound in tourism, trade and transport. Dubai’s gross domestic
product is expected to accelerate to 4.5 percent in 2012 from 3
percent in the previous year, the government said in February.  Emirates NBD also aims to increase retail customer deposits
by 20 percent next after a 14 percent rise in September from a
year ago to 86.1 billion dirhams, according to Sarkar.  “Our biggest challenge is getting  service  quality to our
customers and our single biggest effort in the last six month
and for the next 18 months will be to fix service,” Sarkar
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  