-- Ericsson Says Telecom Services to Outpace Equipment Sales
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-11-06T08:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ericsson-says-telecom-services-to-outpace-equipment-sales.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone networks, said the market for
telecommunications services will expand faster than demand for
equipment as customers demand better performance from devices.  The market for telecommunications hardware will grow by an
average 3 percent to 5 percent a year through 2015 as smartphone
use increases, with services expanding 5 percent to 7 percent
industrywide and the market for support solutions rising 9
percent to 11 percent, Stockholm-based Ericsson said in a
statement today.  “This development will naturally imply a future business
mix for Ericsson with more recurring software and services
revenues,” Chief Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said in the
statement. “However, hardware will always be part of the mix
and a key differentiator for Ericsson.”  Wireless carriers are cutting back on network investments
as a slowing economy and competition hurt subscriber growth. To
offset the slower demand and rivalry from Huawei Technologies
Co. and Nokia Siemens Networks, Ericsson is trying to sell more
services such as network management and maintenance.  Third-quarter net income fell 43 percent to 2.18 billion
kronor ($325 million), Ericsson said Oct. 26. The gross margin,
or proportion of sales remaining after production costs, slid to
30.4 percent from 35 percent, missing the 32.2 percent average
of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Vestberg is at an investor presentation today in  Stockholm ,
where he plans to outline a list of goals for achieving compound
operating-profit growth of 5 percent to 15 percent as required
in the executive performance stock plan.  Ericsson rose as much as 0.9 percent to 59.9 kronor and was
trading up 0.1 percent at 9:33 a.m. in Stockholm. The shares
have declined 16 percent this year, valuing the equipment maker
at 196 billion kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  