-- EU Court Says Slovenia, Serbia Must Pay Savers of Banks
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-06T16:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/eu-court-says-slovenia-serbia-must-pay-savers-of-banks.html
The  European Court for Human Rights 
ruled in favor of three Bosnian citizens who sued Slovenia and
 Serbia  for lost savings when the collapse of Yugoslavia in the
early 1990s split up two former state banks, setting a precedent
for others trying to recoup their money.  The Strasbourg, France-based court said Serbia must pay
Sakib Sahdanovic and Slovenia must compensate Emina Alisic and
Aziz Sadzak each 4,000 euros ($5,124), accordoing to the ruling
posted today on its website.  “Slovenia and Serbia should undertake all necessary
measures within six months in order to allow the applicants and
all others in their position to be paid back their ‘old’
foreign-currency savings under the same conditions as those who
has such savings in domestic branches of Slovenian and Serbian
banks,” the court said.  Savers from former Yugoslav republics such as  Croatia , and
Bosnia-Herzegovina have filed lawsuits in European courts
seeking to retrieve their savings from banks including the
predecessor of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. more than two decades
after the disintegration of the Yugoslav federation. The dispute
broadened when Slovenia threatened to tie up Croatia’s planned
European Union membership bid.  Slovenia will ratify Croatia’s EU membership quickly once
issues surrounding NLB are solved, Foreign Minister Karel Erjavec said last month.  Croatia, which needs Slovenia to ratify its July 2013
entry, has barred NLB from operating on its soil while the
dispute persisted. The government in Zagreb asked Slovenia in a
Oct. 2 letter to jointly approach the  Bank for International
Settlements  to find a solution even though the Basel-based bank
rejected a mediator’s role in 2010.  The dispute has strained relations between the two
countries ever since they gained independence from  Yugoslavia  in
1991 along with a border dispute that the two nations agreed to
settle via a special tribunal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  