-- EU Regulator Can Seek Damages in Elevator Cartel, Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-06T16:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/eu-regulator-can-seek-damages-in-elevator-cartel-court-says-1-.html
The European Union’s antitrust
regulator can seek damages from elevator makers it fined for
illegal price-fixing including  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis
unit and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the EU’s highest court ruled.  EU law “does not prevent the commission from bringing an
action, on behalf of the EU, before a national court for
compensation for loss caused,” by a cartel, the  EU Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg, said in a ruling. The decision is final
and can’t be appealed.  The European Commission sued Otis and ThyssenKrupp along
with rivals  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  and  Kone Oyj (KNEBV)  for 7.1 million
euros ($9.1 million) in Belgium because it said it purchased
elevators and escalators for EU buildings at increased prices.
The lawsuit is based on the EU’s own antitrust ruling that found
the companies colluded to raise prices.  The Brussels Commercial Court examining the commission’s
claim asked the EU tribunal whether regulators could represent
other EU institutions in a lawsuit and whether it could sue
companies it fined for cartel behavior.  The commission’s buildings -- including the Berlaymont, its
headquarters in Brussels with 45 elevators and 12 escalators,
and the European Union court buildings in Luxembourg -- had
equipment installed at “bloated” prices because of the
companies’ illegal price-fixing, the commission said in 2007.  Fine Reduced  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker was fined 479.7
million euros, reduced last year to 320 million euros on appeal.
Otis was fined 224.9 million euros, Schindler 143.7 million
euros and Kone 142 million euros in 2007.  Karla Lindahl, a spokeswoman for Kone in Espoo,  Finland ,
declined to comment citing the pending litigation. Barbara
Schmidhauser, a spokeswoman for Hergiswil, Switzerland-based
Schindler, declined to comment because the company was still
analyzing the ruling.  Otis and ThyssenKrupp didn’t respond to e-mails and calls
seeking comment.  Antony Gravili, a spokesman for the commission, said
regulators welcomed the ruling.  The case is  T-199/11 , European Union, represented by the
European Commission v. Otis NV and Others.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at   awhite@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Bodoni in  Luxembourg  at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 