-- Yen Rises on Greece, U.S. Uncertainty; Aussie Advances
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-11-06T09:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/euro-near-8-week-low-on-greece-aid-concern-slowing-data.html
The yen rose against the euro for a
third day, as investors sought the currency as a haven amid
concern  Greece  will struggle to win bailout funds and before the
U.S. presidential election today.  The Japanese currency strengthened against all but one of
its 16 major peers ahead of data that may add to signs the
sovereign-debt crisis is hurting  Europe ’s economic growth. The
Australian dollar climbed to the highest in five weeks after the
Reserve Bank unexpectedly left interest rates unchanged.  “Greece would struggle to receive aid should the austerity
measures fail to be approved by parliament,” said Masakazu Sato, a Tokyo-based foreign-exchange adviser at Gaitame Online
Co. “The yen may be bought in a bid for safety as attention
shifts back to Greece.”  The yen gained 0.3 percent to 102.42 per euro at 9:04 a.m.
 London  time, after having risen 0.9 percent in the last two
sessions. It strengthened 0.3 percent to 80.13 per dollar at
8:14 a.m. London time, after touching 79.96.  The euro was little changed at $1.2776, after reaching
$1.2767 yesterday, the weakest since Sept. 11.  As Greece seeks a 31 billion-euro tranche of its bailout
package this month, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is facing
down a revolt in his three-party coalition. The leader of the
Democratic Left reiterated Nov. 4 his party’s opposition to
changes in the labor law demanded by international creditors.
While no date has been set for a vote on that bill, it may come
as soon as tomorrow. The budget vote is slated for Nov. 11.  Economic Slump  Spain said yesterday it is working on a review of income
and spending in its welfare system as it heads toward a deficit.
The country is relying on European aid for its banks and
potentially seeking more to shore up its public finances.  Klaus Regling, managing director of the European Stability
Mechanism rescue fund, said yesterday the 17-nation euro area
needs more time to overcome the Greece-triggered troubles
because the region is experiencing its “most severe crisis in
80 years.”  The final  reading  on a composite index measuring euro-area
services and manufacturing was at the lowest in more than three
years and unchanged from preliminary data on Oct. 24, according
to the median of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News
before the report today.  German Data  German factory orders declined 0.4 percent in September
from the previous month, a economist separate survey shows.  The euro weakened for a fifth day against a basket of nine
developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  “The euro is being sold as the market focuses on the risks
surrounding Greece and Spain,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an
analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. in  Tokyo . “German data
have been weakening and there are concerns the country may fall
into a recession. You can’t buy the euro in the current
environment.”  Ishikawa said the shared currency this week may decline to
$1.2739, near the 38.2 percent retracement of its rise from the
July 24 low to the Sept. 17 high, citing Fibonacci analysis. The
analysis method is based on the theory that prices rise or fall
by certain percentages after reaching a new high or a low. The
level was last reached on Sept. 7.  “The euro has broken the $1.28 level after falling below
its 200-day moving average and technical indicators are
suggesting further declines,” he said.  U.S. Election  The dollar weakened against the yen as the  extra yield  two-
year U.S. Treasuries offered over the same maturity Japanese
government bonds narrowed. The spread was 17 basis points
yesterday, the least since Oct. 16.  Americans vote today, with the national  poll  conducted by
the Pew Research Center Oct. 31-Nov. 3 showing President  Barack
Obama  leading Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  48 percent to 45
percent. The survey showed them tied at 47 percent a week ago.
The final tracking poll by  ABC News  and the Washington Post had
Obama taking a lead of 50 percent to 47 percent in a survey of
2,345 likely voters conducted Nov. 1-4. The margin of error was
plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues on the
Federal Open Market Committee last month affirmed the decision
in September to buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities
each month without specifying the total size or duration of the
purchases. Romney has said he wouldn’t appoint Bernanke to a
third term.  Weaker Dollar  “Obama is looking like he will be re-elected and with the
market expecting the Fed to maintain its current easy monetary
policy under him, the dollar may weaken,” said Gaitame Online’s
Sato.  The so-called Aussie climbed after Reserve Bank of
 Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens and his board left the
overnight cash-rate target at 3.25 percent. Seven of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the decision, with
the other 20 seeing a cut to 3 percent.  “The RBA was expected to potentially cut rates today and
they didn’t,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “As a result the
Aussie dollar rallied.”  Australia’s currency touched $1.0438, the highest since
Sept. 28, before trading at $1.0425, 0.6 percent above
yesterday’s close. It advanced 0.4 percent to 83.57 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  