-- Euro-Area Factory, Services Output Contracts for 9th Month
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-06T10:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/euro-area-manufacturing-services-output-contracts-for-9th-month.html
Euro-area  services and manufacturing
output  contracted for a ninth month in October, adding to
evidence that the single-currency bloc’s economy is in a
recession.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries dropped to 45.7 from 46.1 in September,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s below an
initial estimate of 45.8 on Oct. 24. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  “The euro-zone downturn appears, if anything, to be
deepening rather than easing,” said  Howard Archer , an economist
at IHS Global Insight in  London . “It already looks highly
probable that the euro zone is headed for further economic
contraction in the fourth quarter.”  At least five euro area countries are already in recession,
and fiscal turmoil is showing signs of spreading to the region’s
core nations. Economic confidence fell for an eighth month to
the lowest in more than three years in October, adding to signs
the slump extended into the fourth quarter.  The euro was little changed against the dollar after
today’s report, trading at $1.2791 at 10:51 a.m. in Brussels.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.4 percent.  An indicator of services output dipped to 46 from 46.1 in
September, today’s report showed. A gauge of manufacturing in
the 17-nation euro area fell to 45.4 from 46.1.  ‘Weak Domestic Demand’  “The final  euro-zone  PMI reading came in at a level
historically consistent with the region’s economy contracting at
a quarterly rate of around 0.5 percent, confirming the picture
painted by the earlier flash estimate,” Markit senior economist
Rob Dobson said in the report. “Sentiment is still being hit
hard as companies worry about the dual impact of weak domestic
demand and a slowing global economy.”  European companies are facing a struggle to maintain sales
as demand from consumers in Europe weakens. Continental AG Chief
Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said on Oct. 31 that “the
road is becoming rockier” as Europe’s second-largest maker of
car parts stuck to 2012 earnings targets after growth in  North
America  and  Asia  offset weakness at home. Meanwhile Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, said on Oct.
31 that third-quarter profit fell 82 percent as it continued to
purge soured real estate assets.  The  European Central Bank , which has pledged to purchase
 government bonds  along with the euro-area rescue fund to fight
the fiscal crisis, is forecast to leave its  benchmark rate 
unchanged at its Nov. 8 meeting, according a Bloomberg survey of
63 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  