-- Ex-UBS Banker Bagios Pleads Guilty in Tax-Evasion Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-11-06T17:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ex-ubs-banker-bagios-pleads-guilty-in-tax-evasion-case.html
Christos Bagios, a former banker at
UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  arrested amid a U.S. crackdown
on offshore  tax evasion , pleaded guilty to helping Americans
cheat on taxes from 1993 to 2009.  Bagios admitted today in federal court in West Palm Beach,
 Florida , that he conspired with five Swiss bankers when he
worked at Zurich-based UBS, where he spent 15 years before
joining Credit Suisse in 2009. Bagios, a Greek citizen who lived
in Switzerland, was sentenced to time served. He spent 37 days
in custody after his arrest on Jan. 26, 2011, in  New York .  “He’s relieved,” Bagios’s attorney, Matthew Menchel, said
after the hearing. “He’s excited to go home to be with his wife
and family.”  Bagios cooperated with prosecutors probing his former UBS
colleagues and customers. He pleaded guilty to a document known
as a criminal information, admitting he helped nine clients who
didn’t declare accounts to the  Internal Revenue Service . One
married couple from California had an undeclared “black”
account and a declared “white” account.  “In furtherance of a plan to repatriate to the  United
States  approximately $470,000 from their undeclared ‘black’
account, Christos Bagios permitted the customers to move the
funds through the declared ‘white’ account that he managed,”
according to a statement of facts filed in court today.  Offshore Crackdown  Bagios is one of about two dozen foreign bankers, lawyers
or advisers charged since 2008 in the U.S. crackdown on offshore
tax evasion. Seven current or former Credit Suisse bankers were
indicted last year. Prosecutors also have charged about 50 U.S.
taxpayers. UBS, the largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it helped Americans cheat on
taxes, and turning over data on secret accounts.  At least 11 other banks are under criminal investigation.  Bagios and his coconspirators told clients “not to
disclose their undeclared accounts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other banks to
the U.S. government, including the IRS,” according to the
criminal information, filed Oct. 16.  In 2009, after Zurich-based UBS told U.S. customers that
they needed to close undeclared accounts, Bagios told a client
that he could potentially move his funds to an undeclared
account at a Swiss cantonal bank, according to the statement of
facts.  ‘Home Confinement’  Since his release after 37 days in custody, Bagios spent 19
months in “conditions similar to home confinement,” according
to his plea agreement entered in court today. His family in
Switzerland made brief visits to see him in Florida. His mother
died and he was unable to attend her funeral in  Greece .  While Bagios’s conduct was serious, it was “not as
egregious” as that of other colleagues at UBS, according to his
plea agreement.  Bagios was fired from Credit Suisse in February 2012,
according to the court documents.  U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra, who accepted Bagios’s
plea and sentenced him, granted his motion for emergency travel
documents so he can renew his Greek passport and leave the
country “as soon as practicable.”  The case is U.S. v. Bagios, 12-cr-60260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida ( Fort Lauderdale ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , federal court at 
   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in  West Palm Beach , Florida, federal court at
   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  