-- Mexico Bond Yields Rise to Seven-Week High on CPI; Peso Advances
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-11-06T23:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/mexico-bond-yields-rise-to-seven-week-high-on-cpi-peso-advances.html
Mexico ’s peso bond yields climbed to
a seven-week high after central bank Governor Agustin Carstens
said policy makers are “very concerned” about the pace of
inflation in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  The yield on local bonds due in 2021, known as Mbonos, rose
two basis points to 5.45 percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico City. It’s
the highest close since Sept. 17. The peso advanced 0.6 percent
to 12.9607 per dollar, pushing its gain in 2012 to 7.5 percent.  Policy makers are facing inflation that has remained above
the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent since
June. The annual  inflation rate  increased to 4.77 percent in
September from 4.57 percent the previous month, the national
statistics agency said on Oct. 9. Whether or not the monetary
authority raises benchmark borrowing costs will depend on “what
happens in the near future,” Carstens said yesterday in an
interview in Mexico City.  “Essentially what they’re saying is, ‘We’re much more
hawkish,”  Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America fixed-
income research at IdeaGlobal said in a telephone interview from
Belle Mead,  New Jersey . “What Carstens is essentially telling
you is that if you hold Mbonos your real return is going to be
diminishing.”  The central bank said in its Oct. 26 monetary policy
decision announcement that it could raise the 4.5 percent
reference rate “soon” should price increases fail to slow. The
bank is scheduled to deliver its third-quarter inflation report
tomorrow and releases minutes from its most recent meeting on
Nov. 9.  Emerging-Market Currencies  The peso rose with most emerging-market currencies as
voters in the U.S., the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports, decide today between President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . The next president will need
to deal with more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect in 2013 unless Congress can
reach a budget compromise.  Trading volume is light, according to  Eduardo Suarez , a
Latin America strategist at Scotiabank in Toronto. “People are
just waiting for tonight,” he wrote by e-mail.  One-month historical volatility on the peso, which measures
the magnitude of the peso’s fluctuations over the period, was
8.01 percent, compared with 8.95 percent a month ago, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  