-- Fairfield Greenwich Settles Claims of Madoff Investors
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-07T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/fairfield-greenwich-settles-claims-of-madoff-investors.html
Fairfield Greenwich Group, the
biggest operator of “feeder funds” that channeled money into
 Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, agreed to a settlement that may
pay defrauded investors as much as $80.3 million.  The deal, to be funded by Fairfield Greenwich founder
Walter Noel and other individuals associated with the firm,
resolves claims by a class of investors who lost money to
Madoff’s fraud, according to documents filed yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. Fairfield Greenwich placed about
$7 billion with Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  The settlement, which needs a judge’s approval before
taking effect, provides $50.3 million to the class, which will
get an additional $30 million if that money isn’t used to
resolve other legal claims. A provision in the agreement allows
Fairfield Greenwich to cancel the settlement if too many
investors opt out of the deal to pursue individual claims.  Last year, a bankruptcy judge approved a $212 million
settlement between the trustee liquidating Madoff’s defunct firm
and Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich Sentry Partners LP, two
bankrupt funds related to Fairfield Greenwich.  “This is an excellent result for the defrauded investors
in the largest group of Madoff ‘feeder funds,’” David Barrett,
a lawyer at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP and co-lead counsel to
the investor class, said in an e-mailed statement. The investors
continue to pursue claims in the case against Citco Group Ltd.
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, according to Barrett.  The case is Anwar v. Fairfield Greenwich Group Ltd., 09-cv-
118, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  