-- Fed’s Williams Says Bond Buying May Exceed $600 Billion
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-11-06T06:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/fed-s-williams-says-bond-buying-may-exceed-600-billion.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President John Williams said the central bank may buy more than
$600 billion in bonds by extending its third round of
quantitative easing well into next year.  The Federal Open Market Committee last month affirmed its
decision in September to buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities each month without specifying the total size or
duration of the purchases. Williams, who holds a vote on policy
this year, was among the first Fed officials to advocate open-
ended bond buying.  “It should be at least that big but I would think it would
probably be bigger given my view on how slow the economy is
going,” Williams said yesterday, referring to his Aug. 31
comment that the Fed should purchase $600 billion in bonds in a
third round of asset purchases.  “It’s going to take a long time for unemployment to come
down and growth to really pick up,” Williams said to reporters
after a speech in  Irvine ,  California .  The central bank’s unprecedented bond-buying may boost
economic growth without spurring inflation, Williams said in the
speech to students and faculty at the University of California,
Irvine.  Research shows the Fed’s three rounds of asset purchases
have been “effective in stimulating growth” by raising prices
for financial assets and reducing borrowing costs for businesses
and consumers, said Williams, 50, the bank’s chief since March
2011. While the unconventional easing poses some risks of
inflation, policy makers don’t see signs of unstable prices, he
said.  ‘Policy Action’  “A policy tool with uncertain effects should not be
discarded,” Williams said. “Conducting monetary policy always
involves striking the right balance between the benefits and
risks of a policy action,” including higher inflation and
excessive risk-taking.  The FOMC at its Oct. 23-24 meeting reiterated that it plans
to hold the benchmark  interest rate  near zero through mid-2015.  Fed policy makers should turn to unorthodox ways of
boosting growth and easing financial conditions after keeping
the main interest rate close to zero since December 2008, he
said. Guidance about how long rates will remain low is a main
tool in encouraging spending on purchases such as cars and homes
or business capital-spending, Williams said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note slumped
0.03 percentage point to 1.68 percent yesterday. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rallied 0.2 percent to close at 1,417.26,
extending this year’s advance to 13 percent. The gauge rallied
to 1,465.77, the highest close since December 2007, on Sept. 14,
a day after the Fed announced its third round of bond purchases.  Low Rates  The FOMC’s announcement in August 2011 that it would keep
rates low through mid-2013 caused Treasury yields to decline 0.1
percentage point to 0.2 percentage point, which is a “big”
drop, Williams said yesterday.  “The ripple effect through financial markets lowered the
cost of credit for all kinds of borrowers,” he said.  The Fed will determine the duration of asset purchases and
the total amount of buying based on how quickly the economy
recovers, Williams told reporters after the speech. While the
U.S. is “one of the stronger economies in the developed
world,” and gains in housing and labor markets are likely to be
sustained, recovery “is just going to be a long slog,” he
said.  Selling the assets will probably occur “at a gradual
pace” after policy makers decide the expansion is strong enough
to warrant removal of accommodation, he said.  “As we move forward we’re going to start removing, at some
point, accommodation, and we’re looking for that perfect soft
landing,” Williams said.  “We’ve learned a lot about how to do that kind of
balancing act and I feel pretty positive about our ability at
least to get that roughly right,” he said. “The thing that’s
hard to predict is where the economy is going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  