-- Fired Bankers’ Lawsuits Fail as Judges Tire of Bonus Claims
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-06T12:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/fired-bankers-u-k-lawsuits-fail-as-judges-tire-of-bonus-claims.html
Fired bankers suing for unfair
dismissal and unpaid bonuses have found little success at
 London ’s specialty employment courts as continuing anger over
the financial crisis has left judges unsympathetic.  The adverse decisions from the U.K. Employment Tribunal
come after London bankers had a run of legal successes with
courts ruling they were entitled to large bonuses written into
contracts before the economic downturn. The latest round of
cases have largely been based instead on wrongful termination,
where the banks have been able to make stronger arguments.  A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker, fired for mispricing
aluminum trades, discovered the new reality the hard way Oct.
17, when a London judge threw out his suit for not properly
explaining how “a large number of errors” he made benefited
his trading book by about $400,000. Other claims tossed this
year involved securities manipulation and threats from
colleagues.  “In the current climate there is little sympathy for
bankers,” said Andreas White, an employment lawyer at Kingsley
Napley LLP in London. “Banking is the only industry where
claimant employees are even less popular” than their bosses.  Bankers have turned to London courts as job cuts in the
financial industry have continued. Financial firms in Western
Europe have eliminated around 45,000 jobs this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG (UBSN)  on Oct. 30 said it would cut 10,000 jobs globally
amid plans to scale back its U.K. investment banking unit to
focus on  wealth management . About 100 traders at the fixed-
income unit in London were put on leave and sent home on full
pay, according to a person familiar with the process.  Eat Cake  “The bankers are right to feel very aggrieved,” said Jo Keddie, an employment lawyer at Winckworth Sherwood LLP. “UBS
appears to want to have its cake and eat it since it has put its
bankers on special leave and effectively placed them in limbo.”  Zurich-based UBS, however, is one of the banks to score
victories at London employment tribunals this year.  A former UBS trader, Ramon Braga, lost his unfair dismissal
case in July after he was fired when the bank found he
manipulated security values to benefit a colleague. The judge
said he had “fundamentally damaged the trust between himself”
and the bank.  One employment lawyer said that the verdicts from the
tribunal don’t reflect the true nature of the claims because
about 60 percent of cases settle before trial. Of the cases that
had a full hearing between April 2011 and March 2012, 12 percent
were successful, according to statistics released by the U.K.
 Ministry of Justice  in June.  Self Defeating  “It’s a self-defeating group of cases that fall before the
tribunal,” said Gareth Brahams, a lawyer at Brahams Dutt
Badrick French LLP, who represents employees. “The cases that
are being fought by the banks are the ones they are pretty sure
they can defend successfully.”  Employment tribunal cases feature caps that limit damages
in many instances to 72,300 pounds ($115,000) unless there is
proof of discrimination or retaliation for whistle blowing.  “Because there are compensation caps for unfair dismissal
claims, dismissed employees might look to bring discrimination
or whistle-blowing claims to leverage higher settlements,” said
Andrew Taggart, a London lawyer at Herbert Smith LLP.  ‘Strikingly Low’  A senior investment banker at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , who
claimed he was threatened by a manager and unfairly dismissed
for reporting it, lost the portion of his tribunal suit related
to whistle blowing in April. The judge ruled that while he was
unfairly dismissed, the firing had nothing to do with the
arguments. The court limited damages to the cap, in contrast to
the banker’s complaint about his “strikingly low” 867,896-
pound bonus.  “No compensatory award is appropriate,” tribunal judge
Anthony Snelson said. “The claimant must be content with a
finding that his dismissal was unfair.”  While the U.K government is seeking to restrict damages at
the specialty tribunals even further, claims in the trial
courts, known as the  High Court , can reap unlimited rewards.  Two former  Investec Plc (INVP)  traders brought a bonus dispute to
the High Court Sept. 7. Andrew Brogden, who led the lender’s
structured equity-derivatives desk in London between 2007 and
2011, and his deputy Robert Reid, said the bank failed to pay
6.3 million pounds in bonuses for the financial year ending
March 31, 2011.  Bonus Claims  “Huge bonus claims involve figures that are completely
outside the scope of normality for most people,” White said.  The nation’s  Supreme Court  last month potentially expanded
the number of cases that could go to the High Court, ruling that
public workers in Birmingham could file discrimination claims
there after the six-month statute of limitations at the
employment tribunals has expired.  “This means that equal-pay claims could be viewed as more
lucrative and worthwhile pursuing by staff -- a worrying
prospect for employers,” said Lisa Mayhew, an attorney at
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP in London.  The results from the High Court have been mixed this year
after several pro-banker rulings immediately after the financial
crisis.  In the largest employment dispute stemming from the crisis,
a group of more than 100 Dresdner Kleinwort bankers won bonuses
totaling about $64 million from Commerzbank AG when a London
judge in May found the German lender broke its promise on pay
awards. Commerzbank today won the right to appeal when a London
judge found it had grounds to challenge the decision.  Decimal Point  In another decision, a trader in March lost his case
against JPMorgan after a missing decimal point in his employment
contract led him to believe his salary would be 10 times what
was offered. Kai Herbert, an unemployed currency trader, stood
to win 580,000 pounds if successful.  Herbert “took the commercial risk of accepting the offer,
knowing full well that the figure was an error,” Judge Henry
Globe said in his March judgment. He accused Herbert of “gross
exaggeration,” and ordered him to pay 85,000 pounds in costs.  Before this year, the High Court generally ruled in favor
of bankers in disputes over bonuses in the face of public anger
about the financial crisis triggered in part by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  A former  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  managing director, an ex-
Seymour Pierce Ltd. investment banker and a derivatives trader
who had worked at Rabobank International, in 2010 all won
rulings on unpaid compensation claims.  “Many cases coming through were contractual, but now we’re
seeing more fact-reliant cases that perhaps aren’t as strong,”
said Sean Nesbitt, a lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP. “The
tribunal isn’t disposed to being sympathetic towards
opportunistic claims.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  