-- Canada’s Flaherty Says Decisions on Takeovers May Take So
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/flaherty-says-canada-takeover-decisions-may-take-time.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  said it will be “some time yet” before his government
rules on takeovers in  Canada  by  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. as it reviews its foreign
investor rules.  Asked if the issue had been raised at a meeting in Mexico
City of finance ministers and central bankers, Flaherty said he
held some discussions with colleagues about the Canadian
government’s efforts to write up new regulations to deal with
investments by state-owned companies.  “As you know these transactions that are proposed in
Canada are subject to review and are being reviewed carefully
now and there will be decisions but it will be some time yet
before decisions are made,” Flaherty told reporters in Mexico
following a meeting of G-20 officials. “It’s very important in
terms of the long-term policy of the government of Canada that
we get this right.”  Canada extended its review of Beijing-based Cnooc’s $15.1
billion takeover of Nexen  for a second time on Nov. 2, re-
setting the deadline to Dec. 10 and citing the need for a
thorough review. The country blocked a C$5.2 billion bid by
Malaysian state-run oil firm Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for
Calgary-based  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Oct. 19.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has said he would clarify
Canada’s foreign investment rules in a “policy framework” to
be released when the government decides on the Cnooc’s bid  --
the largest foreign acquisition by a Chinese company.  Flaherty said he spoke to some G-20 colleagues from
countries that have had similar experiences, without specifying
officials. Flaherty had a meeting with Australian Treasurer
Wayne Swan in Mexico City on Nov. 4.  “Other countries have had experience in the area in which
we’re involved right now,” Flaherty said. “I listened and
asked some questions about what their experiences have been.”  “I had actually some very good discussions with some of
them about how they approached the issue and how they managed it
and it’s complex,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in  Mexico  City at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  