-- Frantic Dogs, Cats Await as Saviors Drive to the Rescue
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/frantic-dogs-cats-await-as-saviors-drive-to-the-rescue.html
We’re on our way to a house near
Midland Beach where a dog and a cat were left behind four days
earlier.  Sinkholes scar roads and sidewalks. Trees and utility poles
are down.  Staten Island  is still in shock in the aftermath of
 Hurricane Sandy .  The Humane Society of the U.S.’s animal-rescue  team  is
trying to save the pets left behind in evacuated homes.  This little dwelling has been knocked off its foundation
and is tipping in the muck.  Troy Snell drives the rescue truck as Rowdy Shaw navigates
with a laptop and Patrick Kwan fields the incoming calls.  Firemen trying to investigate a gas leak remain outside,
held at bay by the dog barking from the other side of the door.  “In a disaster area you need to prepare for the worst,”
says Shaw, putting on a thick pair of gloves. “Assume every dog
is angry.”  The rescuers’ gear includes poles fitted with nets to catch
cats, other poles with slip nooses for bigger animals and long
tongs for snakes. They assemble a large plastic carrier to hold
the dog and a smaller one for the cat.  Relieved Canine  Shaw is able to enter the house and calm the big dog -- a
shepherd-chow mix weighing about 80 pounds -- and get him inside
a carrier. Two firemen carry the animal to the truck. The dog
seems almost relieved to be with people again, even as he is
secured in a plastic cage and strapped onto the bed of the
truck.  The rescuers don’t find the cat.  The  Humane Society  is one of the organizations working
within  New York City ’s  Animal Planning Task Force , a creation of
the  Office of Emergency Management , to find stranded animals and
bring them to their owners or safe shelter elsewhere.  “New York has put policies in place that others should
look at,” says Kwan. “Animal-friendly policies, like allowing
pets in shelters with their owners and allowing them on public
transportation.”  The policies have made life a little easier after the
disaster, he says: “We’re getting dozens of calls for rescues,
instead of hundreds or thousands.”  They take the big shepherd-chow to Susan E. Wagner High
School, a makeshift shelter. Hundreds of people and their pets
have been here for days.  It’s an emotional scene when the dog’s owner, Barbara
Larson, is reunited with her pet. She has long hugs for Bear and
the rescuers. That the dog is safe is the first piece of good
news she’s had in a disastrous week.  “The animals are the only things they have left,” says
Kwan. “The woman who lives there, her house is gone, and all
she has are her pets.”  Stranded Shark  In a few minutes, Kwan has other rescue requests for the
team. There’s a cat at one house, a pit bull at another. A call
comes in asking if the crew can rescue a shark stranded in an
inland pond. They can’t, but they can tackle the other calls.  While the truck creeps through traffic, people approach
with pleas for help. One man just lost his Yorkie. Another wants
to know if he can get an insulated dog house for his recently
homeless pet. A woman asks if the rescuers can remove dead
animals from an abandoned house.  There’s not much they can do for these immediate requests,
but they are able to recover the cat and the pit bull. Back at
the shelter the owners are overjoyed.  The Humane Society has set up two centers in the area -- in
Monmouth County,  New Jersey , and Nassau County on Long island --
from which they will coordinate rescues in the coming days. The
two shelters are housing close to 200 animals, and the Humane
Society plans to set up two additional shelters in the coming
days.  It has posted hotline numbers for people in need, a
Facebook page devoted to the cause, and a website through which
people can help. Donors also can text ANIMALS to 20222 and
donate $10 to support the Humane Society’s  Disaster Relief Fund .  Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on  art , Richard
Vines on  dining .  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 