-- Freddie Mac Won’t Seek Treasury Aid After Third-Quarter Profit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-11-06T14:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/freddie-mac-won-t-seek-treasury-aid-after-third-quarter-profit.html
Freddie Mac  said a strengthening
housing market resulted in a third-quarter profit that means the
company will avoid increasing its debt to taxpayers for a second
straight quarter.  The U.S.-owned mortgage financier, based in McLean,
 Virginia , had net income of $2.9 billion for the three-month
period that ended Sept. 30 after accounting for a $1.8 billion
dividend payment to the Treasury Department for the government
stake, the company said today in a statement.  “ Freddie Mac (FMCC) ’s strong financial performance this quarter
was driven by favorable market conditions, including the
continued improvement in the housing market, as well as our
ongoing efforts to minimize losses on our legacy book,” Freddie
Mac Chief Executive Officer Donald Layton said in the statement.  The company’s inventory of delinquent loans is the lowest
in two years, Layton said. The third-quarter delinquency rate on
single-family loans backed by Freddie Mac fell to 3.37 percent
from 3.45 percent in the second quarter.  Net income fell from $3 billion in the third quarter as
Freddie Mac increased reserves for credit losses, Layton said.  Freddie Mac and Washington-based  Fannie Mae  have taken
almost $190 billion in U.S. assistance since they were taken
into federal conservatorship in September 2008 amid losses on
risky loans that pushed them to the brink of insolvency.  Freddie Mac has paid $21.9 billion in dividends, about a
third of the amount it has taken in Treasury aid.  Starting next year, the two taxpayer-owned companies will
cease paying dividends of 10 percent to the Treasury and will
instead pay any profits above a permitted capital reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  