-- Fugitive BTA Ex-Chairman Loses Appeal Against Jail Term
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-11-06T14:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/fugitive-bta-ex-chairman-loses-appeal-against-jail-term.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former  BTA Bank
JSC (BTAS)  chairman who is on the run from authorities, lost an appeal
to overturn a 22-month jail sentence for contempt, costing him
the right to defend himself at a civil trial starting tomorrow.  “It is difficult to imagine a party to commercial
litigation who has acted with more cynicism, opportunism and
deviousness towards court orders than Mr. Ablyazov,” Judge
Maurice Kay said in the written ruling at the U.K. Court of
Appeal in London today.  The former Kazakh bank executive has been in hiding since
February after he was found in contempt for violating a 2009
asset-freeze order in the civil fraud case against him by lying
about his assets and moving money.  BTA, which was the biggest lender in  Kazakhstan  before it
defaulted on $12 billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of
lawsuits against Ablyazov and Roman Solodchenko, the bank’s
former chief executive officer, claiming they took more than
$6 billion from the bank using fake loans, back-dated documents
and offshore companies. Both men have denied the claims.  A trial in which the bank is seeking to get back $2.1
billion in assets is scheduled to begin tomorrow and last for
three weeks. The judge in that matter declined to remove himself
over bias claims from Ablyazov’s lawyers on Nov. 1.  Ablyazov’s “lies on oath are a fact which cannot be
ignored,” Judge Nigel Teare said when refusing to recuse
himself. “My approach would be no different from that of any
other judge.”  Highest Court  Lawyers for Ablyazov said they have applied to the U.K.’s
highest court for permission to appeal today’s ruling that
blocks him from fighting the civil claims.  “Mr. Ablyazov continues to maintain his right to defend
the claim,” attorneys from Addleshaw Goddard LLP said in an e-
mailed statement. “He is also seeking to protect his right to a
fair trial by appealing” Teare’s decision not to recuse
himself.  The court’s ruling reinforces BTA’s position that
“bringing these proceedings was the most legitimate,
transparent, and effective way to recover misappropriated
assets,” Pavel Prosyankin, a managing director at the Almaty-
based bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is also a
ringing endorsement of the allegations of dishonesty that the
bank has been pursuing against Mr. Ablyazov since 2009.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  