-- Gardner Denver Said to Draw Interest From SPX, Buyout Firms
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-11-07T21:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/gardner-denver-said-to-draw-interest-from-spx-four-buyout-firms.html
Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI) , an industrial-
equipment maker with a market value of about $3.5 billion, has
drawn interest from strategic bidder  SPX (SPW)  Corp. and at least four
buyout firms, said three people with knowledge of the process.  Private-equity firms Bain Capital LLC,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
 Onex Corp. (OCX)  and TPG Capital are also looking at the Wayne,
Pennsylvania-based company, said one of the people, who asked
not to be identified because the process is private. Bids are
due this week, the people said. SPX has a market valuation in
line with Gardner’s, at about $3.4 billion.  With at least five potential suitors interested in Gardner,
there is increased likelihood that the company will be sold
following pressure from activist investor ValueAct Holdings LP,
said one of the people. The investment firm, which  owns  more
than 5 percent of the stock, urged Gardner to consider a sale
after Chief Executive Barry Pennypacker resigned in July.  Gardner dropped 1.5 percent to $70.52 as of 4 p.m. New York
time, while SPX fell 5.3 percent to $67.42.  Gardner hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to defend itself
against ValueAct, according to the people familiar with the
situation. On Oct. 25, the company announced it was studying
options including a sale or merger. Michael Larsen, Gardner’s
chief financial officer, is serving as interim CEO.  Vikram Kini, a spokesman for Gardner, and Ryan Taylor, a
spokesman for SPX, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Compressors, Pumps  Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman for Bain at Stanton Public
Relations & Marketing,  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG at
Owen Blicksilver Public Relations, and Christine Anderson, a
spokeswoman for for Blackstone, declined to comment. A
representative for Onex didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Reuters previously reported that Bain, Onex, TPG and
Blackstone were among the private-equity firms considering an
offer for Gardner.  Founded in 1859, Gardner  operates  in 34 countries and makes
compressors, pumps and other products for industries including
manufacturing and energy exploration. Because of slowing demand,
it is now focused on boosting margins, including the
restructuring of its European operations, according to a July 20
conference call with analysts.  The company was spun off from  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  in
1994. Charlotte, North Carolina-based SPX makes industrial
equipment and provides services for manufacturing companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  