-- Gasoline Use Falls to Eight-Month Low on Sandy, MasterCard Says
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-06T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/gasoline-use-falls-to-eight-month-low-on-sandy-mastercard-says.html
U.S. gasoline demand slid 2.4 percent
last week to an eight-month low as  Hurricane Sandy  disrupted
travel and supply distribution on the East Coast, according to
data from  MasterCard Inc. (MA)   Drivers bought 8.455 million barrels a day of gasoline in
the week ended Nov. 2, down from 8.661 million the prior week,
MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report showed today.  The biggest decline came in the  New England , which dropped
3.9 percent. Consumption across the Central Atlantic region,
which includes  New York  and New Jersey, sank 3.6 percent as
refineries, fuel terminals, ports, pipelines and filling
stations shut in the wake of the largest tropical storm on
record in the Atlantic.  Demand might have been lower except that the seven days
included in the report include the weekend before the storm’s
Oct. 29 landfall in  New Jersey  when drivers were filling their
tanks before the hurricane, said John Gamel, a gasoline analyst
and director of economic analysis for SpendingPulse.  “Then, we did see a sharp decline Tuesday and Wednesday
after the storm,” Gamel said in an interview. “There
definitely is pent-up demand out there. A lot depends on what
supply they can get to the affected areas.”  Fuel consumption nationwide last week and over the past
four weeks was 2.4 percent below a year earlier. The four-week
average has been down from the previous year every week but one
since March 18, 2011.  Lowest, Highest  The lowest demand this year through Oct. 26 was 8.01
million barrels on Feb. 10. The highest consumption level
reached was 9.36 million barrels on May 25.  The average pump price fell 10 cents in the past week to
$3.52 a gallon. Drivers are paying 2.6 percent more than a year
earlier. Prices reached a year-to-date peak of $3.94 on April 6.  The report from Purchase, New York-based MasterCard is
assembled by MasterCard Advisors, the company’s consulting arm.
The information is based on credit-card swipes and cash and
check payments at about 140,000 U.S. gasoline stations.  Visa Inc. (V)  is the biggest payments network company by
transactions processed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  