-- Gazprom Awaits Arbitration as RWE Gas Price Talks Stall
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-11-07T14:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/gazprom-fails-to-reach-pricing-deal-with-rwe-awaits-arbitration.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , the Russian gas exporter
that agreed to price discounts with almost all of its European
clients out of court, will pursue a solution with RWE Transgas
AS in arbitration after talks failed.  “Gazprom Export was ready to find a mutually coordinated,
reasonable solution, as with other long-term European partners
previously, but as of today the talks with RWE Transgas on
revising price conditions have not met expectations,” the
Russian company said yesterday by e-mail. “The parties have to
continue the search for a solution in arbitration.”  RWE Transgas , the Czech unit of  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, has urged Gazprom to base long-term gas-supply
contracts on the  spot market  rather than on  oil prices , which
have climbed 90 percent in the past four years. It’s among
European utilities putting pressure on the Moscow-based exporter
after the 2008 recession cut demand, dragging down spot prices.  RWE is seeking a solution next year at the latest, with or
without arbitration, Sabine Jeschke, a spokeswoman for RWE
Supply & Trading GmbH, said by phone from Essen, Germany. “We
want to find a structural solution, not a one-time price
reduction but a successive change from oil-linked prices.”  Gazprom, which supplies a quarter of  Europe ’s gas, has
agreed to revise prices for Germany’s EON AG,  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI) 
and  Poland ’s  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  as it
seeks to keep market share amid cheaper coal deliveries from the
U.S. and an expansion of liquefied natural gas.  Polish Deal  The Polish utility, known as PGNiG, secured a price
discount yesterday of 10 percent to 20 percent, Poland’s
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told TVN CNBC television.
The compromise will help PGNiG raise earnings by as much as 3
billion zloty ($930 million) this year, according to the
company, which agreed to withdraw arbitration against Gazprom.  EON (EOAN) , Germany’s largest utility, said in July its accord
with Gazprom would add about 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion) to
half-year results, and also dropped its arbitration case.  Gazprom’s only remaining legal dispute over prices is with
RWE Transgas, whose insistence on using spot prices contrasts
with European peers that agreed to accept discounts. Gazprom
Export lost a separate arbitration case with the Czech company
last month over the so-called take-or-pay rule, which obliges
customers to take delivery of minimum volumes or pay for them.
Gazprom said it may appeal the Vienna tribunal ruling.  ‘Last Resort’  Arbitration over pricing is a “last resort,” Gazprom
Export said yesterday, adding that it will be “grateful” if
the process leads to a commercially viable solution that
considers the interests of both parties.  The state-run gas exporter has already provided $4.2
billion in retroactive discounts to customers including EON and
Eni, eroding profit. Yesterday’s PGNiG deal is also retroactive,
covering 2011 and 2012, the Polish company said.  “One should anticipate further discounts as competition
pressure is building up in Europe, leaving Gazprom few
opportunities to defend its positions,” Ildar Davletshin, an
energy analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone.  More than half of Europe’s gas supply is bought through
long-term contracts linked to the price of oil, and that will
remain the case until 2014, according to Societe Generale SA.  While the Russian exporter  insists  the European gas market
doesn’t have sufficient liquidity to base gas prices on spot,
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, one of Gazprom’s clients, said the oil-linked
pricing system is unsustainable.  Price Guidance  “Everything is leading to spot prices becoming reference
points, first in France, Benelux, Germany and Scandinavia, and
then eastern Europe,”  Alexei Kokin , an analyst at UralSib
Capital in Moscow, said by phone today. “It doesn’t matter
where it’s based, the spot market gives price guidance.”  Gazprom first agreed to “consider” spot prices for some
European customers following a wave of contract renegotiations
at the start of 2010. Its retroactive discounts this year left
the take-or-pay clause intact and kept the oil link, without
raising the weight of spot indexation.  Market rates were taken into account in its accord with
PGNiG, without being directly included in the pricing formula,
Gazprom said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  