-- Greek Debt Leads Advance on Bailout Optimism
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-06T16:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/german-two-year-notes-gain-for-fifth-day-before-factory-report.html
Greece ’s bonds rose for a second day
on optimism the nation’s creditors will agree on an aid plan
after European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said a deal needs to be reached in the next week.  Spanish and Italian securities gained for the first time in
three days amid optimism a Greek accord would boost demand for
 Europe ’s lower-rated assets. Austria’s bonds advanced as the
country sold debt at record-low yields. German 10-year bunds
halted a four-day gain as U.S. voters go to the polls to decide
whether President  Barack Obama  or challenger  Mitt Romney  will
guide the world’s biggest economy for the next four years.  “There is anticipation of a positive outcome from Greece’s
parliament and talk about a potential debt buyback,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 London . “That helps support demand for peripheral bonds. People
are also watching the U.S. election.”  Greece’s  10-year yield  dropped 63 basis points, or 0.63
percentage point, to 17.22 percent at 4:46 p.m. London time. The
2 percent bond due in February 2023 rose 1.395, or 13.95 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,279) face amount, to 32.435.  Italy’s  10-year yields  declined 10 basis points to 4.89
percent, while Spain’s fell 10 basis points to 5.66 percent.  Austerity Measures  Euro-region leaders must agree on a way forward for Greece
by Nov. 12, Rehn said yesterday at a meeting of Group of 20
finance chiefs in Mexico City.  Greek lawmakers must ratify a bill of austerity measures to
ensure speedy payment of the next bailout tranche and avoid
bankruptcy, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told parliament’s
finance committee today. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras must
face down dissent within his three-party coalition to get the
measures approved.  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in euro-region
markets today, followed by  Austria , according to measures of 10-
year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  Austria auctioned 660 million euros of 10-year bonds at an
average yield of 1.888 percent, the country’s debt agency said.
The nation also sold 660 million euros of seven-year notes at an
average yield of 1.218 percent.  The yield on the nation’s  10-year bond  fell five basis
points to 1.89 percent after dropping to 1.88 percent, the
lowest since Aug. 3.  German Bunds  German bunds were little changed even after a report showed
the factory orders fell the most in a year in September as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and slowing economic growth
prompted companies to reduce investment.  Manufacturing bookings slumped 3.3 percent from August,
when they dropped a revised 0.8 percent, the  Economy Ministry 
said in Berlin.  The benchmark 10-year bund yielded 1.44 percent, while the
two-year note yield was also little changed, at minus 0.01
percent. A negative yield means investors who hold the security
until it matures will receive less than they paid to buy it.  “We are bearish on euro-area growth and yields are likely
to stay low in core countries like  Germany ,” said Mohit Kumar,
head of European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. “Core bonds are also underpinned by  risk reduction  into
the year-end and the uncertainty ahead of the U.S. election.”  German bonds returned 3.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities gained 2.5 percent and Austria’s rose 8.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  