-- Goldman, JPMorgan, Springsteen, Robin Hood Aid Victims
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-11-06T18:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/goldman-jpmorgan-springsteen-robin-hood-aid-victims.html
After  Hurricane Sandy  ravaged his
home state of New Jersey last week, rock star Jon Bon Jovi cut
short a London press tour and flew to New York, where he
performed in a live telethon to support the storm’s victims.  Rock and pop royalty quickly signed up to participate in
the NBC television benefit “Hurricane Sandy: Coming Together,”
including Briton Sting; Staten Island-born  Christina Aguilera ;
 Bruce Springsteen , another New Jersey native; and Long Islander
 Billy Joel .  The show last Friday raised $23 million for the  American
Red Cross , adding to about $35 million in donations the
organization has already received, said spokeswoman Karen
Stecher.  Artists, entertainers, corporations and the financial-
services industry have contributed or pledged talent, work and
money to recovery efforts for Sandy victims, as the death toll
has risen to at least 177, and property damage totals about $50
billion, according to  Moody Analytics  Inc.  “I’ve never seen a time like this,” said Kathleen
DiChiara, president and founder of the  Community FoodBank of New
Jersey  which she launched from the trunk of her car in 1975.
“When I was handing out sandwiches on Sunday, a woman told me
that she and her sister take turns letting their cats sit on
their laps to keep to them warm because they have no
electricity. The food need is huge.”  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the New York-based investment-banking
firm, said it would donate $1 million and all net trading
commissions earned tomorrow to the Hurricane Sandy relief
effort. Its more than 3,800 employees can also donate their
salary for the day to charity.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Citi Foundation donated $1 million to the
 Red Cross .  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and its employees will contribute $1
million to $2.5 million (depending on employee contributions) to
the recovery effort, according to an internal memo obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The  Robin Hood Foundation , the New York-based poverty-
fighting charity supported largely by Wall Street donors, said
it will hand out about $3 million by today for the purchase of
food and blankets and for emergency cash grants. The nonprofit
has raised more than $9 million since last Friday for its relief
fund.  Small Gifts  “Our experience after 9/11 has shown that small cash
disbursements -- as little as $100 or $200 -- can be critical to
needy families in the days following a catastrophic event,” Lee Ainslie III, Robin Hood’s board chairman and fund manager at
Maverick Capital Management LP, said in an e-mail to donors last
week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  offered $5 billion in capital for
lending to small and midsize businesses affected by the storm.
The company’s foundation will also give $5 million to the relief
effort. That figure includes $2 million to the Red Cross
emergency response, $1 million in matching funds for employee
donations to the Red Cross, United Way and World Vision, and as
much as $2 million to local agencies for recovery efforts.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it would match $5 million in
funding for small business pledged by New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  to provide loans. (Bloomberg is the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.)  ‘Fast Access’  “Many small businesses in our communities have been
devastated by this disaster, and fast access to capital will
help them get back on their feet more quickly,”  Lloyd Blankfein , Goldman’s chairman and chief executive, said in a
release.  The investment bank and its  Goldman Sachs Gives , a donor-
advised fund to which the company’s partners contribute, also
will donate as much as $5 million to Sandy’s clean-up and
recovery effort.  The Red Cross has provided shelter to about 9,000 people at
113 facilities in nine states, Stecher said. It’s also deployed
more than 4,000 disaster workers in the region and 240 response
vehicles, or more than two-thirds of its U.S. fleet, she said.  The  United Way of New York City  has received about $2
million from corporations including JPMorgan,  Bank of America
Corp ., Deloitte LLP, Federal Express Corp. and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
More donations will be required to help the needy over the
coming months, said Sheena Wright, United Way’s chief executive
officer.  ‘Immediate Support’  “There is certainly a huge need for immediate support,”
said Stacey D. Stewart, president of United Way U.S.A., based in
Alexandria, Virginia. “What we experience time and time again
is that it takes quite a while to recover, and it’s the United
Way that will be there for the long haul.”  The Union, New Jersey-based Salvation Army chapter has
spent more than $50,000 to help those without shelter, food or
electricity and needs more donations.  “When the sun came out and the water went away after
 Hurricane Irene  last year, a lot of people who weren’t impacted
went about their daily lives, and you can’t blame them,” Brenda
Beavers, the state director of human services for the Salvation
Army  New Jersey , said by phone. “But we still have people in
New Jersey who have yet to recover from that storm.”  Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on  art , Richard
Vines on  dining .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 