-- Gold Jumps Most in 7 Weeks as U.S. Fiscal Cliff Awaits
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-06T20:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/gold-may-advance-as-investors-await-u-s-presidential-election.html
Gold jumped the most in seven weeks,
tracking gains in equities and commodities, on speculation that
the U.S. will take additional measures to spur economic growth,
regardless of the winner in today’s presidential election.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
advanced the most in a month, led by energy and metals, while
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained. The dollar fell.
Whether President  Barack Obama  or Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  wins today, the next president will need to address a so-
called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts that take effect in January unless Congress
can reach a budget compromise.  “The slowdown concerns remain, and the fiscal cliff is so
huge that there is no quick solution,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at
FuturePath Trading in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.
“Whoever comes to power cannot fix the problems immediately.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose 1.9 percent to
settle at $1,715 an ounce at 1:53 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Sept. 13.
Prices are up 9.5 percent this year, heading for a 12th straight
annual gain as the  Federal Reserve  keeps  interest rates  at
record lows to spur growth.  UBS AG’s Edel Tully said Romney’s election may lead to a
united government and stronger dollar, hurting gold. Bullion’s
rally may be at risk if Romney wins as he may replace Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  at the end of his term and easing
could end earlier than expected,  Francisco Blanch , commodities
research head at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said yesterday.  Close Call  The national polls show a close race between Obama and
Romney, and the candidate taking the  oath of office  at the U.S.
Capitol on Jan. 21, 2013, will be the one who garners at least
270 electoral votes. The presidential election could be
effectively settled shortly after 8 p.m. New York time.  “The wait is over, and we are seeing a relief rally across
the board,” Carlos Perez-Santalla, a broker at PVM Futures Inc.
in Hoboken,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.  “The
monetary policies that either will announce will help push gold
higher.”  Prices also rallied today as the dollar declined, traders
said. The dollar fell as much as 0.2 percent against a basket of
currencies, heading for the biggest drop in a week.  Silver futures for December delivery advanced 2.9 percent
to close at $32.034 an ounce in New York, the biggest increase
since Sept. 13.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery rose 1 percent to close at $1,558.30 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery gained 2.8 percent to
$620.15 an ounce, the most since Aug 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  