-- Google Partner Babylon Seeks $115 Million From Nasdaq IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-06T14:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/google-partner-babylon-seeks-115-million-from-nasdaq-ipo-3-.html
Babylon Ltd. (BBYL) , the Israeli translation
software provider that has a partnership with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , will
seek to raise $115 million in an initial U.S. public offering of
shares that it wants to list on the Nasdaq stock exchange.  The Or Yehuda, Israel-based company plans to use the funds
from the sale to cover marketing costs as it expands business
and “may also use a portion of the net proceeds to make
acquisitions or investments in complementary companies or
technologies,” according to a prospectus filed yesterday with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Babylon’s stock has surged 253 percent this year, outpacing
a 13 percent advance for the benchmark TA-25 Index, as income
increased due largely to an advertisement revenue-sharing
agreement with Google, the most-used Internet search engine. The
sale comes amid investor concern a change to the Google
agreement could endanger future earnings.  “We derive the substantial majority of our revenues from
our agreement with Google, and the termination of, or our
failure to renew, this agreement could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations,” Babylon said in the
filing.  Shares of Babylon, which also said it would stop paying
dividends for “the foreseeable future” to fund its expansion,
fell as much as 5.3 percent to 31.65 shekels, before trading at
32.09 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. Today’s  volume 
of 1.08 million shares traded was 165 percent of the three-month
daily average.  “Investors were hoping they’d raise double that amount,”
said Beni Dekel, a senior equity analyst at the  Union Bank of
Israel (UNON)  Ltd., referring to Babylon’s intention to raise $115
million. The amount listed in the filing is preliminary and may
still change, Dekel said.  Click Fee  Babylon said on Oct. 17 that Google’s advertising policy
changes weren’t expected to significantly impact its
performance. The software provider’s third-quarter profit surged
six fold after revenue more than tripled.  Controlling shareholders Reed Elsevier Ventures 2004
Partnership LP and Israeli online gaming entrepreneur Noam Lanir
may sell shares in the IPO, according to the filing. Citigroup
Inc. and Jefferies Group are the sale’s lead underwriters, the
company said.  Google accounted for more than 80 percent of Babylon’s 2011
revenue, according to the filing. The company licenses Google’s
search results for a fee and receives a percentage of any
advertising revenues generated when a user clicks on a sponsored
link provided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  