-- Green Energy Push Helps Double Huaneng Bond Sales: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-06T07:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/green-energy-push-helps-double-huaneng-bond-sales-china-credit.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) ,
China’s largest electricity generator, is more than doubling
debt sales this year as the government promotes expansion into
clean-energy industries that are retrenching globally.  The unit of China Huaneng Group plans to issue 5 billion
 yuan  ($801 million) of one-year notes today, pushing its sales
this year to 35 billion yuan from 15 billion yuan in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the
group’s October 2013 notes has fallen 70 basis points this year
to 4.25 percent. Average yields for utilities’ debt worldwide
have dropped 74 basis points to 2.74 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  China, the world’s biggest emitter of carbon dioxide, will
raise its non-fossil fuel use to 15 percent by 2020 from around
8 percent, even as  Europe  and the U.S. scaled back support for
renewable energy.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest wind-
turbine maker, defaulted on a bond and U.S.-based Solyndra LLC,
a solar panel maker, went bankrupt. Huaneng Group plans to
increase its proportion of low-carbon emissions and green energy
to 25 percent of its total generation by 2015, according to its
website.  “Raising money through bonds is still cheap compared to
bank loans, which currently go with a 6 percent interest rate,”
said Shi Yan, a utilities analyst at UOB Kay Hian Investment
Consulting ( Shanghai ) Co. New energy projects “need a lot of
 capital spending ,” she said.  Borrowing Costs  Huaneng Renewables Corp., the group’s wind power unit, sold
a total of 2 billion yuan of notes last month, according to a
stock exchange filing at the time.  China ’s new energy industry
is expected to benefit from the start of a renewable energy
quota system, as well as monetary policy easing, according to a
company filing in August.  Sun Zhiyong, Huaneng Group’s Beijing-based spokesman, did
not answer two telephone calls to his office seeking comment on
the company’s bond sales.  The nation will implement a system dictating the amount of
renewable energy that provinces and cities must consume, buy
into their grid and produce, the official China News Service
reported earlier this year.  Liquidity Improves  Falling borrowing costs are also helping power companies in
China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, to expand
construction of new plants, after the central bank reduced rates
to 6 percent in July following the first cut in more than three
years the previous month. Average yields on the country’s top-
rated 10-year corporate bonds have fallen 6 basis points this
year to  5.12 percent . The yield on the similar-maturity
benchmark government bond has risen 17 basis points to 3.59
percent.  “Liquidity is better than 2011 in the  interbank market  so
it’s easier for power companies to sell bonds this year,” said
Qin Shengyao, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China Investment
Securities Co., which is owned by a government investment arm.
“The lower borrowing costs are also motivating the companies to
sell bonds.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to reduce carbon dioxide
emissions as much as 45 percent by 2020 from their 2005 level,
prompting energy companies including China Huaneng Group to
expand their wind, solar and hydro-based production.  Emission Requirements  “With higher environmental and emission requirements
taking effect in the next couple of years, Huaneng would have to
rely on low-emission new energy segments to reach its emission
reduction goals clearly ordered by the central government,”
said Leo Wu, a Shenzhen-based utilities analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. The company also wants to raise more funding for
expansion in traditional coal-fired power stations as long-term
energy needs are expected to grow, Wu said.  China’s yuan rose 0.01 percent to 6.2449 per dollar as of
9:54 a.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.2371 on Oct. 29, the
strongest level since the government unified the market and
official exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring sovereign notes
against non-payment fell 2 basis points to this year’s low at 64
basis points on Nov. 5, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if an issuer fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Expansion Plans  Investors are confident the government, which owns Huaneng,
will ensure it has no problems with its debt, according to UOB
Kay Hian’s Shi.  “The better mood in the  bond market  certainly will help
Huaneng raise more money,” she said. “It should use this
window to raise money not only for expansion but also for its
expiring debt.”  Huaneng Group plans to invest 100 billion yuan in new
energy such as in solar and water projects in  Tibet  within the
next decade, according to a report from the official Xinhua News
Agency on Oct. 4. Besides supplying for local consumption, part
of the electricity would be sent to more populous provinces,
according to the report.  “Huaneng Group wants to expand its new energy portfolio,”
Guotai Junan Securities’s Wu said. “Special subsidies from the
government could also make returns on those investments on new
energy look attractive in the longer term.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  