-- Green Moon Upstages Overseas Runners to Win Melbourne Cup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-06T07:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/green-moon-wins-a-6-2-million-melbourne-cup-horse-race.html
Locally-trained outsider Green Moon
won the 152nd running of the A$6.2 million ($6.5 million)
Melbourne Cup, upstaging international horses who were favored
to take  Australia ’s richest race.  Prepared by Robert Hickmott and ridden by Brett Prebble,
Green Moon won the 3,200-meter (2-mile) handicap at Flemington
Racecourse by a length ahead of fellow Australian-trained stayer
Fiorente to claim the A$3.6 million first prize. U.K.-trained
Jakkalberry finished third.  “I’ve had some great highs and you think you can never
get any higher until you reach the pinnacle,” Prebble, who flew 
in from  Hong Kong  for the race, said in a televised interview. 
“At 1,200 I knew nothing could go with him if he sustained the 
journey. I was very confident they weren’t going to pick him up 
and he ran all the way through to the wire.”  Purchased by Australian property developer  Lloyd Williams 
last year and formerly trained in the U.K., Green Moon won a
race that bookmakers had expected to be dominated by horses
trained in  Europe . It was Williams’s fourth Melbourne Cup winner
and the first since Efficient in 2007.  French-trained runners Americain and Dunaden, who won the
past two editions, finished out of the top 10 after starting the
24-horse race as the joint favorites. Third-favorite Mount
Athos, trained in England by Luca Cumani, finished fifth.  ‘Big Weight’  “We nearly fell after the start,” Dunaden’s jockey  Craig
Williams  said, after last year’s winner finished 14th carrying
the top weight of 59 kilograms. “Slow pace, big weight.”  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) , Australia’s largest racecourse
betting company, paid A$22.50 locally for a winning A$1 bet and
A$7.40 for a top-three place on Green Moon. Fiorente paid
A$11.80 for a place and Jakkalberry returned A$16 for finishing
third.  Although the first two past the post were trained in
Australia, both were previously based in  England . With Kelinni
running fourth ahead of Mount Athos, Glencadam Gold and
Mourayan, the first seven finishers were born in Ireland,
according to Racing Victoria.  Green Moon, which finished seventh in last month’s Cox
Plate after starting that race as the favorite, went past
longtime leader Glencadam Gold with about 300 meters to go and
stayed ahead down the finishing straight.  ‘My Turn’  It was Prebble’s first win in the Melbourne Cup, billed in
Australia as the race that stops a nation. His previous best was
third place aboard the Williams-raced C’est La Guerre in 2008.  “I’ve been riding a long time now and I’ve had plenty of
opportunities but finally it was my turn,” added Prebble, 35.  The 18-carat gold trophy was presented by the Duchess of
Cornwall, the wife of the U.K.’s Prince Charles, to Williams’s
son Nick, who was representing the family at the track.  “It’s another Melbourne Cup for team Williams,” Nick
Williams said at the presentation. “We put a lot of money in
and a heck of a lot of effort and to get this result is
terrific. This is what we bought him for and this has been the
plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  