-- Iceland Sees Mortgage Bubble Threat From Foreign Cash
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-11-06T09:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/iceland-sees-bubble-threat-from-foreign-cash-mortgages.html
Iceland’s lawmakers are searching for
ways to keep their economy from lurching into another asset
bubble as offshore investors forced to keep their money in the
country channel it into the housing market.  Apartment prices have soared 17 percent since April 2010
and are now just 1.7 percent below the pre-crisis peak in March
2008, Statistics Iceland estimates. The boom stems from currency
restrictions imposed in 2008 to prevent the collapse of the
Krona after the country’s biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion
of debt.  While those controls helped cauterize a capital exodus and
propel a recovery, it left about $8 billion in offshore kronur
that can only flow into Icelandic assets, inflating demand for
housing and mortgage bonds. The government is now seeking to
correct the imbalances, which risk plunging the island into yet
another boom-bust cycle just four years after the banking
industry dragged the economy through its  worst recession  since
World War II.  “There’s every reason to look into whether parliament
should pass legislation to limit the investment options for
offshore kronur holders,” Sigridur Ingibjorg Ingadottir,
chairman of the Parliament’s welfare committee in Reykjavik,
said in an interview. This should include “preventing investors
from using offshore funds to invest in the real estate market,”
she said.  Economic Recovery  The capital controls and Iceland’s decision to allow its
banks to renege on their obligations to bondholders underpinned
the country’s economic recovery after the 2008 meltdown
triggered a recession that lasted into the first quarter of
2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund  and
economists including Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman .  The island’s gross domestic product will expand 3.1 percent
this year and 2.2 percent in 2013, the central bank estimates,
after contracting as much as 6.8 percent in 2009 and another 4
percent the following year. The krona plunged as much as 80
percent against the euro in the offshore market in October 2008
and the island was forced to seek an aid package led by the IMF
to avoid national bankruptcy.  The capital controls now pose the biggest threat to
Iceland’s recovery, according to rating companies  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and the
Washington-based IMF. The central bank estimates the measures,
which are being phased out in steps, won’t be gone until 2015.
Finance Minister Katrin Juliusdottir said in an interview
published Oct. 1 that some form of currency control will stay in
place until Iceland adopts the euro even though the island has
yet to complete European Union accession talks, started in 2010.  ‘Abnormal Situation’  “The  capital controls  have created an abnormal situation
and they lead us to believe that the economic situation is
better than it really is,” Ingadottir said. “We’re living in
an artificial world with the Icelandic krona, which isn’t a real
currency. We just prop the krona up like a real currency with
legislation which protects her for the time being.”  Offshore kronur investors have pumped money into housing,
helping inflate prices. According to Registers Iceland, the
average house price was 34.2 million kronur ($270,000) last
week.  Property sales in Iceland rose 88 percent in the week
through Nov. 1 to 139, from a year earlier, according to
Registers Iceland. The aggregate value of homes sold doubled to
4.8 billion kronur ($38 million), the office said.  Losing Customers  Housing bonds have also become a preferred target for
offshore krona investors because Iceland’s $7.9 billion mortgage
market dwarfs its other asset classes. The investors have put
their money into bonds issued by the state-backed mortgage
provider, the Housing Finance Fund, which has about 60 percent
of Iceland’s home-loan market. HFF is now struggling to stay
afloat as it loses ground to commercial banks expanding their
product range to grab a bigger share of the mortgage market.  HFF, which has been required by law to sell loans linked to
the  consumer price index , is losing customers to banks selling
regular mortgages as inflation exceeds 4 percent. HFF is now at
risk of missing payments to creditors as it relies on the state
for support, according to Moody’s.  “The risk is that there may potentially be a default at
the HFF level, which is not paid for in time by the
government,” Oscar Heemskerk, a senior analyst at Moody’s, said
by phone on Oct. 12. “At the same time, the government has
strong reasons to fulfill their implicit guarantee. So we expect
that investors get their money back.”  Cash-Flow Gap  Since Iceland’s 2008 banking meltdown, in which Kaupthing
Bank hf, Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki Islands hf together
defaulted on $85 billion, policy makers have struggled to
rebuild the island’s financial markets. Proposed legal changes
include a motion still being discussed in parliament to split
retail and investment banking.  Iceland’s capital controls have made life harder for HFF,
according to Styrmir Gudmundsson, a  fund manager  at Jupiter
Capital Management hf. The restrictions have kept yields low,
helping Icelanders to take out cheap loans at commercial banks
and prepay their mortgages at HFF. Yet the state-backed mortgage
provider doesn’t have the same prepayment option toward its
creditors, creating a cash-flow gap, Gudmundsson said.  “As the yield on HFF bonds keeps declining, and the fund’s
duration gap becomes wider, HFF’s financial position becomes
more difficult,” he said. “The capital controls have had a
considerable impact on the Housing Finance Fund.”  ‘Asset Bubble’  “We can assume that there’s an asset bubble expanding
now,” said Ingadottir, whose committee oversees HFF. “The
development in the real estate market is abnormal.”  Parliamentary elections in April are likely to make matters
worse for HFF, as politicians shy away from passing any costs on
to taxpayers, according to Gudmundsson.  Iceland needs to decide whether it wants to rescue HFF
“through the tax system or the pension system,” he said. “So
in fact this is a question on which generation should suffer the
losses. The silver bullet solution is probably a mix of these
two alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  