-- Million-Dollar Traders Replaced With Machines Amid Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-11-06T16:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/million-dollar-traders-replaced-with-machines-credit-markets.html
Wall Street’s credit-derivatives
traders, who before the financial crisis commanded $2 million of
annual pay, are being replaced by machines as banks cut costs
and heed new regulations.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, fired its head of
credit-default swaps index trading, David Gallers, last week,
with no plan to fill the position, according to two people
familiar with the matter. Instead, the bank replaced Gallers
with computer algorithms that trade using mathematical models,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because moves
are private.  UBS joins  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in using computer programs to trade financial
instruments that once generated some of their biggest fees. With
regulators preparing rules under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
reform that will push swaps toward exchange-like systems to
improve transparency, credit dealers are going digital as
automated trading makes humans too expensive.  “It’s natural to push away from humans and large size to
machines and small size,” Peter Tchir, the founder of  New York- 
based TF Market Advisors, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
been gaining momentum.”  $250 Million  UBS’s algorithm, which can trade as much as $250 million of
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade index and $50
million on the speculative-grade benchmark in one transaction,
was introduced last month, the people said.  Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS, declined
to comment, as did Gallers.  Automated trading of swaps marks a shift in a market where
transactions historically have been negotiated over the phone
after dealers, acting as a go-between for clients, send out
indicative prices by e-mail. The dealers offer to buy a swap
from a client at one price and sell the same contract to another
for a higher amount, profiting from the gap, known as the bid-
offer spread.  Outstanding contracts ballooned to more than $62 trillion
at the market’s peak in 2007 from $632 billion in 2001 as the
derivatives gained popularity as a way to wager on debt without
owning bonds or loans, data from the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association show.  Human Costs  As late as 2005, managing directors on credit-derivative
trading desks were being paid an average $250,000 in salaries
and $1.75 million in bonuses, Michael Karp, co-founder of
executive-search firm Options Group, said in a 2006 interview
with Bloomberg News.  Building an algorithm may cost a few hundred thousand
dollars, said Tchir, a former credit-derivatives trader.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Dow Chemical Co., the largest
U.S. chemical company by sales, is planning its first benchmark
bond issue this year. Volkswagen AG,  Europe ’s biggest carmaker,
sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) in bonds that will
automatically convert to shares at maturity to boost liquidity
following the purchases of Porsche and Ducati.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose 0.22 basis point to 10 basis points as
of 11:48 a.m. in New York. The gauge, which widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of government securities and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds, has
climbed from 8 basis points on Oct. 17, the lowest intra-day
level in Bloomberg data back to 1988.  Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX investment-grade index, a credit swaps
benchmark that investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.5 basis point to a mid-
price of 96.4 basis points, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 3.3 to 126.2.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Itau Unibanco Holding SA are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 234 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:50 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Brazil ’s biggest bank
by market value sold $1.87 billion of 5.125 percent subordinated
notes yesterday that are due in May 2023, Bloomberg data show.  Dow Offering  Dow, the maker of chemical, plastic and agricultural
products, may offer 10-year securities and 30-year debt as soon
as today, according to a person familiar with the transaction,
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Benchmark offerings are typically at least $500 million.  The company last issued benchmark debt in November 2011,
selling $1.25 billion of 4.125 percent, 10-year notes and $750
million of 5.25 percent, 30-year bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds due November 2021 traded at
109.4 cents on the dollar to yield 2.94 percent on Nov. 1, Trace
data show.  Volkswagen’s three-year notes will pay an annual coupon of
5.5 percent, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker said in a
statement today. The minimum conversion price has been set at
154.50 euros and the maximum at 185.40 euros.  Swaps Volumes  Trading volumes in the current version of the Markit CDX
high-yield credit swaps index have declined 20.4 percent through
Oct. 26 from last year, according to Barclays analysts led by
Brad Rogoff. The firm cited data from the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. , which runs a central credit-swaps repository.  Market makers have slimmed down as regulators have ordered
them to raise capital to prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded
bailouts that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Banks will hold more reserves against riskier
assets under the rules, known as Basel III. Swiss capital rules,
applicable to UBS and Credit Suisse, are among the most
stringent.  “I don’t think it’s driven by a desire for efficiency as
much as a desire to control costs,” Bonnie Baha, head of global
developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP,
which oversees more than $45 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The cost of a major trading error which could
possibly be avoided by having a real human person sitting and
thinking about things will far outweigh the personnel costs they
save by firing all these guys.”  ‘Natural Fit’  Credit Suisse’s program, which started in early 2011, is
“a natural fit with our other strong electronic-trading
businesses in rates, FX, and commodities,” said Jack Grone, a
spokesman in New York for Switzerland’s second-biggest bank.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
didn’t immediately comment.  Barclays’s algorithm was designed to handle smaller trade
sizes and began in April 2011 with the capacity to handle
transactions as large as $25 million on the investment-grade
index and $5 million on the high-yield benchmark, according to
Drew Mogavero, head of U.S. credit-swaps trading. Those sizes
have since doubled, he said.  For smaller trades in which there’s less at stake, “we
want to automate that process as much as possible and free up
the sales people and traders,” Fred Orlan, head of global
credit trading, said in a telephone interview. “We want to
spend our time driving ideas and solutions to things that have a
bigger impact on clients’ overall returns, so that’s really what
we’re here for.”  Liquidity Response  The algorithm is designed to respond to liquidity in the
market, so the bid-offer spread widens and tightens according to
flows, Mogavero said. In liquid markets, trading odd lots
through the algorithm typically cuts down that spread, he said.  “It’s not hard to envision an environment given the growth
and popularity of algo trading of indices where the sizes
continue to increase,” Mogavero said.  The programs so far are primarily used when markets have a
balance of buyers and sellers and are driven by dealers to make
markets or hedge their own books, according to Nancy Davis,
director of derivatives in New York at AllianceBernstein LP.  Barclays shut off its algorithm in Europe in May, deciding
conditions and market structure weren’t yet suitable to support
it, according to two people familiar with the decision.  Market Share  Dealers are “definitely fighting for market share,” Davis
said in a telephone interview. “Once you get plugged, it just
becomes operationally easy to trade, so that’s what the rush is
to get all these algos out. It’s kind of a race to say who has
the best plug-and-play-model right now to gain market share. I
don’t think there’s a clear winner or loser at this point.”  Clearing and margin required by Dodd-Frank will also change
the cost structure of trading, and algorithms may be one area
where traders will be required to post less capital relative to
other types of transactions, she said.  Algorithms may also get a boost if CDX futures get
traction, Davis and Tchir said.  “You’ll see more people do it, and as these products
become more easy for people to trade electronically there will
be more participants” from firms such as Citadel LLC,
Susquehanna International Group LLP, or Knight Capital Group
Inc., Tchir said. “They’ll be able to add their algos to it
once it becomes more mainstream.”  Like Stocks  The increasing popularity of algorithms is an example of
how credit markets are becoming more like stocks, Tchir said,
citing so-called  E-mini S&P 500 futures , with a contract value
of $70,513 as of yesterday and trading volume of as much as $200
billion a day with no real market maker, he said.  Banks will probably be successful in block trading or in
systems resembling so-called dark pools where large orders are
traded without identifying the brokers and institutions that buy
and sell, he said. There will be “fewer market makers, but
those that remain will provide very large-size block trades,”
he said.  Computer-driven transactions and high-frequency trading
have come under increased scrutiny after the so-called flash
crash in May 2010, when a 20-minute plunge in stock prices
temporarily erased some $862 billion of market value. A report
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission pinned the decline partly on an
algorithm employed by one firm trading stock futures.  “They have a bad rap on the street as driving the ’87
crash and they’re not considered by Main Street as friendly
vehicles, but at the same time, they are liquidity providers and
that’s the biggest change with Dodd-Frank,” AllianceBernstein’s
Davis said. “Having more algos in the market in these products
will help because it will give market makers a way to have more
liquidity so when you call a dealer up they’ll have another
outlet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  