-- IMF Names Mexico’s Werner Head of Western Hemisphere Office
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-11-06T17:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/imf-said-to-name-mexico-s-werner-head-of-latin-america-office.html
The  International Monetary Fund  chose
former Mexican Deputy Finance Minister Alejandro Werner to head
its Western Hemisphere department overseeing  Latin America .  Werner will take up his post in early January, according to
a statement released via e-mail by the IMF today. Currently head
of corporate and investment banking at Mexico City-based BBVA
Bancomer SA, Werner helped steer Latin America’s second-biggest
economy through its deepest recession in almost two decades in
2009 without fueling a surge in the fiscal deficit.  His appointment comes as Mexico asserts itself globally,
serving as president of the Group of 20 nations over the past
year. Werner’s former boss, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, sought to rally  emerging markets  behind his bid to
become IMF Managing Director last year, before losing out to
 Christine Lagarde . Werner has a doctorate in economics from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge, and worked
from 2006 to 2010 under Carstens when he served as President
 Felipe Calderon ’s finance minister.  “Alejandro Werner has extensive public policy experience
and a deep understanding of the global financial and economic
system,” Lagarde said in today’s statement. The department
Werner will lead “has front-line responsibility for economic
surveillance of some of the world’s most systemically important
economies.”  Fiscal Prudence  Werner won the post over Juan Carlos Echeverry, who
declared himself a candidate for the position of Western
Hemisphere director after stepping down as Colombia’s finance
minister. Werner replaces Nicolas Eyzaguirre, who resigned in
July to become chairman of Canal 13 television in his native
Chile.  He didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call seeking
comment today following the announcement.  Werner held the deputy finance minister post when Mexico in
2009 became the first nation to receive a flexible  credit line 
from the IMF, a mechanism to help support economies deemed to
have strong fundamentals. Mexico’s original $47 billion credit
line was boosted to $72 billion in January 2011. Carstens this
month said Mexico is negotiating a renewal of the credit line.  Werner was also instrumental in passing 2009 legislation to
increase taxes to make up for falling oil revenue,  Barclays
Capital  said when he stepped down.  Calderon’s government carried out spending cuts and tax
increases in 2009 totaling more than $10 billion to contain the
fiscal deficit, even as the economy shrank 6.2 percent in the
worst recession since the 1994-95 peso devaluation crisis.  Before becoming deputy minister, Werner worked as an
economist at the IMF’s research and Western Hemisphere
departments in 1995 and 1996. He also served as chief economist
at Mexico’s central bank.  In his new job at the IMF, Werner will have oversight over
loan programs to Latin America and the Caribbean and assessment
of the region’s economies, including the U.S. and Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 