-- India Belies Ford-GM Comeback With Combined Share of 6.5%
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-11-06T23:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/india-belies-ford-gm-comeback-with-combined-share-of-6-5-cars.html
Almost two decades after entering
India, here’s what  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have to
show for their efforts in Asia’s third-largest automobile
market: combined market share of about 6.5 percent and falling.  GM’s sales in the country have tumbled 17 percent in the
past 10 months and Ford’s deliveries are off 8.4 percent,
according to researcher Intelligence Automotive Asia. Though the
U.S. carmakers say they’re optimistic, they face mounting
competition from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and market leader  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which makes 4 in 10 vehicles sold in India.  The wrong cars priced above rivals’ offerings, coupled with
poor service, are among the reasons analysts cite for the
Americans’ lack of progress in a country that’s projected to
overtake  Japan  as the world’s No. 3 passenger-vehicle market
this decade. While they are stepping up efforts to cater to
Indian motorists, the Detroit automakers have yet to show they
can reverse their slide toward irrelevance.  “GM and Ford have not been able to understand the
market,” said  Deepesh Rathore , a managing director for
researcher IHS Automotive in New Delhi. “They haven’t been able
to train their dealers and the competition is getting tougher.”  When Ford introduced its latest Fiesta sedan in India in
July 2011, it priced the car at 823,000 rupees ($15,120), or
almost 20 percent higher than  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s similarly
sized Verna. The Verna has outsold the Fiesta four-to-one.  Hindustan Motors  GM entered India in 1994 in a venture with  Hindustan Motors
Ltd. (HM) , selling the Opel Astra and later the Corsa and Vectra --
all three sedans, in a country where most buyers prefer
hatchbacks. GM bought out Hindustan Motors’ stake in the venture
in 1999.  The company’s first hatchback in India, the Opel Corsa
Sail, didn’t hit the market until 2003. And at 439,000 rupees,
it was 25 percent more expensive than the comparable  Fiat SpA (F) 
Palio and Maruti Zen. GM discontinued the model three years
later, saying it wasn’t competitive. GM now has a  market share 
of about 3.3 percent.  Ford was the fourth-lowest scoring brand and GM was third-
lowest in the J.D. Power & Associates’s 2012  India Customer
Service Index  study, which ranks dealerships and service
centers, released Oct. 31. Maruti ranked first, followed by
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and Hyundai.  The Americans also lag behind in their dealer networks. GM
has 279 dealers in India and Ford has 160, versus 1,100 at
Maruti Suzuki and 355 at Hyundai. Recruiting more dealers may be
a challenge.  ‘Chicken and Egg’  “It’s a chicken and egg situation,” said Mohit Arora, an
executive director at J.D. Power in  Singapore . “If you don’t
have the volumes or model lineup, you end up attracting sub-
optimal dealers.”  Sometimes it’s the little things. To save on costs, power
windows were only offered in the front seats when Ford
introduced its Escort sedan in 1997. Buyers with enough cash to
afford the car, though, typically have drivers, so they were in
the back with wind-up windows while the chauffeur had power up
front. The problem has since been fixed. In GM’s Chevrolet Optra
and Aveo, drivers seeking to signal a turn by flicking the lever
on the right, as is typical in  India , would instead activate the
wipers.  Today, GM is looking for inspiration in  China , where it has
been the No. 1 foreign automaker every year since 2005. GM last
week began taking orders in India for the Chevrolet Sail, the
second-most popular vehicle in China. This year, the automaker
also plans to introduce the Chevrolet Enjoy, a version of a top-
selling Chinese minivan called Wuling Hong Guang.  Diesel Options  Lowell Paddock, president of GM’s India unit, said his
company’s underperformance in the country has been due to shifts
in market demand, particularly a growing preference for diesel
engines as gasoline prices have surged.  “Success here requires a mix of an appropriate product
together with expected levels of Indianization and
localization,” Paddock said in an e-mail. “Some of our
previous models, lacking diesel options, were limited.”  With the help of cars such as the Sail, introduced in New
Delhi last week at 444,000 rupees, GM aims to increase its
market share to at least 10 percent over the next five years,
Paddock said. The Sail hatchback, which comes with a diesel
option, will offer an industry-high five-year warranty on the
engine and transmission, the company said Nov. 2.  Ford has had substantial success with the Figo, a hatchback
introduced in 2010. The car today accounts for almost 80 percent
of Ford’s India sales. Without it, the company’s market share
would be below 1 percent versus 3.2 percent now.  Double Dealerships  The company aims to double its Indian sales and service
outlets to more than 500 by 2015, Michael Boneham, Ford’s India
president said in Mumbai while unveiling a revamped Figo on Oct.
15. The company is investing almost $1 billion in a new factory
in the western state of Gujarat that will be complete by 2014.
Ford plans to introduce eight models by 2015, including the
EcoSport compact SUV next year, Boneham said in an e-mail.  In 1996, when Ford’s first India-built sedan rolled off the
production line, the company said it would make 350,000 cars
annually in the country by 1999. In the 12-months ended in
March, Ford made 119,440 cars in India.  In the U.S.,  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , Maruti Suzuki’s biggest
 shareholder , is quitting the market, where it had 0.2 percent
of industry sales through October this year.  One Percent  Even as the Indian auto market’s growth will likely slow to
about 1 percent in the year ending March, 2013, annual demand
for passenger vehicles will triple to 8 million units by 2020,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  predicts. That would raise India to the No. 3 auto
market -- behind China and the U.S. -- from seventh this year,
according to the brokerage.  While that means there’s ample opportunity for the U.S.
automakers to redeem themselves in India, they will need to step
up efforts to cater to local preferences, said  Ashvin Chotai ,
managing director at Intelligence Automotive Asia in  London .  “Until you get some critical mass in the market,” Chotai
said, “customers will not be as comfortable with Chevrolet and
Ford as they are with Maruti and Hyundai.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  