-- India, Canada Conclude Talks on Uranium Sales, Harper Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-11-06T21:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/india-canada-conclude-talks-to-allow-uranium-sales-harper-says.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said
Canada concluded negotiations with India to export uranium and
other nuclear supplies for civilian use.  The two countries completed talks on an administrative
agreement that will enable Canadian companies such as  Cameco
Corp. (CCO)  to sell nuclear materials, equipment and technology to the
world’s 10th-largest economy, according to a statement released
by Harper’s office today.  “Certainly we can see the future now,”  Tim Gitzel, chief
executive officer of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Cameco, said
today in a telephone interview. “With the Indians building
reactors the way they are, this is going to be a long-term
game.”  India and Canada must still sign the deal for it to take
effect. It will allow them to implement a cooperation pact
Harper and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  signed in 2010.
Harper met Singh today in  New Delhi  as part of a six-day trip to
India.  Exports of Canadian uranium to India, which also has
nuclear warheads, have been held up by disagreement over how the
commodity should be tracked.  Canada has asked the fuel to be traced through a system
used in similar deals it has with other countries. India has
said such measures aren’t necessary because it already complies
with standards set by the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Peaceful Purposes  A committee of Canadian and Indian officials will ensure
exports are used for peaceful purposes, according to the
statement released today.  As of last month, India had 20 operable nuclear reactors,
compared with China’s 15 and Canada’s 18, according to data from
the  World Nuclear Association . India also has seven reactors
under construction and plans to build a further 18, the data
show.  “If they’re building now, they’re going to need uranium
for those reactors for the next 30, 40, 50 years,” Cameco’s
Gitzel said. “We’ll see the benefits of an agreement in long-
term supply contracts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  