-- Indonesia Sells 60 Billion Yen Bonds in Japan for Third Samurai
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-11-06T10:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/indonesia-sells-60-billion-yen-bonds-in-japan-for-third-samurai.html
Indonesia  sold 60 billion yen ($748
million) of 10-year Samurai bonds, its third such issue in the
Japanese fixed-income market since the start of 2009.  The notes, guaranteed by Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, were sold with a 1.13 percent coupon, according to
an e-mailed statement from SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., one of
two arrangers. That was a premium of 30 basis points over yen
swaps, Robert Pakpahan, acting director general of the debt
management office, said in a text message today.  Poland , whose
credit rating is four steps higher than Indonesia’s at Moody’s
Investors Service, paid 67 basis points more than the yen swap
in a sale of five-year Samurai bonds on Nov. 2.  Japan ’s benchmark interest rate is near-zero compared with
5.75 percent in Indonesia, which is spurring demand for higher-
yielding assets. The Southeast Asian nation was returned to
investment grade by Moody’s this year and Fitch Ratings in late
2011. The $847 billion economy expanded more than 6 percent for
an eighth quarter in the period through September, the
government reported yesterday.  “There is an increase in confidence from Japanese
investors for Indonesia’s credit story,” Jakarta-based Pakpahan
said. “This issuance received a pretty good response and was
oversubscribed, with most of the demand coming from the banking
and insurance sector.”  Rating Upgrades  Moody’s and Fitch both cited Indonesia’s strong and
resilient economic growth for ratings decisions that took the
country’s rankings to Baa3 and BBB-, respectively, the lowest
investment grades. Tokyo-based Rating and Investment Information
Inc. upgraded its assessment to one level above junk with a
stable outlook on Oct. 18.  Indonesia last sold Samurai bonds, or yen-denominated notes
from foreign issuers, in November 2010, raising 60 billion yen
in 10-year debt at 55 basis points above swaps. The securities
yielded 1.18 percent today and have returned 6.4 percent since
they were sold, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mizuho
Securities Co. was the joint arranger for the latest deal.  The yield on Japanese sovereign bonds due in 2022 was 0.76
percent in  Tokyo , down 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
from the end of last year.  Thomas Byrne, senior vice president for sovereign risk at
Moody’s in Singapore, said in Jakarta today that Indonesia needs
to cut its dependence on foreign-currency securities. Standard &
Poor’s rates the Southeast Asian nation one step below
investment grade.  “Indonesia’s Samurai bonds will probably be well accepted
in the Japanese market,” Kenji Sakaguchi, who oversees 7.6
trillion yen of fixed income as chief investment officer at
Prudential Investment Management Japan Co., said in an interview
from Tokyo today. “It is possible we will include Indonesia in
our portfolio in the future with its improving credit profile,
but we remain cautious given their current credit rating by
international rating agencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  