-- ING to Pay Taiwan $8.8 Million for Alleged Irregularities
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2012-11-06T10:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ing-to-compensate-taiwan-government-on-irregular-trading-losses.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  agreed to pay $8.8
million to the  Taiwan  government’s labor and pension funds to
compensate for investment losses allegedly related to irregular
trading activities.  ING will pay the full amount sought by Taiwan partly for
the sake of continuing to develop its business on the island,
the Amsterdam-based company said in a  statement yesterday .
Rosemary Wang, a Financial Supervision Commission official, said
today the regulator sent a warning to ING and asked it to fire
the employee after an investigation.  “The company values its customers and business in Taiwan
and is taking this action as a gesture of goodwill, to protect
the interests of the company,” said Victorina  De Boer , an
Amsterdam-based spokeswoman for ING. “There was no legal
obligation to compensate clients.”  The payment is the latest in a series of penalties levied
against financial institutions in  Asia . The Japanese Securities
Dealers Association last month fined  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  300
million yen ($3.7 million) for leaking client information. ING,
under European Union orders to sell its insurance and asset
management businesses before the end of 2013, says it employs
almost 200 people on the island, the most of any foreign asset
management firm.  Five-Year Ban  ING had previously rejected the compensation demands,
saying the losses related to the employee’s activities were
limited. Taiwan’s labor and pension funds have 1.97 trillion
Taiwan dollars ($67 billion) of assets.  The employee’s contract has been terminated, De Boer said.  Taiwan’s securities market regulator has concluded its
investigation of ING, the FSC’s Wang said. She declined to
comment on whether prosecutors are pursuing the matter.  ING rose 0.9 percent to 6.95 euros at 11 a.m. in Amsterdam.  The Council of Labor Affairs said on Oct. 31 that ING would
be banned from investing on behalf of the government for five
years.  “I hope this doesn’t set a precedent,”  Henry Lin ,
chairman of the  Securities Investment Trust and Consulting
Association  of the  Republic of China , wrote in an opinion piece
published in newspaper the Economic Daily News today. “Just
because a fund loses money doesn’t mean investors can seek
compensation. You have to show legal violations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  