-- Iron Ore Transport Rates Seen Surging as Ships Scrapped: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-11-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/iron-ore-transport-rates-seen-surging-as-ships-scrapped-freight.html
The beaches of  Bangladesh  are filling
with unwanted ships waiting to be scrapped, driving up prices
for transporting  iron ore  and halting losses for  STX Pan Ocean
Co. (028670) ,  South Korea ’s biggest owner of the carriers.  The cost of shipping iron ore in Capesize vessels will
increase almost sixfold to $14,900 a day in December from the
2012 low, according to prices of swaps used by traders to hedge
freight costs that reveal the direction of the market accurately
about 60 percent of the time. Prices are rising as the fleet
shrank 0.6 percent last month, its first contraction since
November 2008, according to data from  IHS Inc. (IHS) , an Englewood,
Colorado-based research company.  Earnings for Capesizes tumbled 94 percent from the 2008
record after the supply of vessels rose three times faster than
demand, leading owners to sell ships. Carriers with total
capacity of 12.8 million deadweight tons -- enough iron to build
150 Empire State Buildings -- will be dismantled this year,
estimates  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. So many
ships are being broken up that Bangladesh, the world’s second-
largest recycler, is low on space on its beaches.  “Yards are pretty close to capacity and Bangladesh is
running out,” according to Anil Sharma, chief executive officer
of Global Marketing Systems Inc. in Cumberland,  Maryland , the
largest buyer of obsolete carriers. “This is the biggest boom
for scrapping of Capesizes we have seen in history.”  STX Shares  Rates for the vessels rallied more than fourfold since the
end of August to $15,074 a day, according to the  Baltic
Exchange , the London-based publisher of shipping rates used as
benchmarks for about 75 percent of commodity cargoes. The ships
need $16,400 to break even, Pareto Securities AS estimates.  Shares of STX Pan Ocean, based in Seoul, dropped 44 percent
to 3,410 won ($3.13) this year and will rebound 45 percent to
4,929 won within 12 months, the average estimate of 15 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The company will report  net income 
of $1.8 million for 2013 after losing $221.3 million this year,
according to the average of three estimates.  The company’s fleet, which includes  oil tankers  and
 container ships , comprises the highest proportion of Capesizes
among the world’s five  largest owners , Clarkson data show. The
three biggest are Nippon Yusen Kaisha K.K., Japan’s largest
line,  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.  Dismantled on Beaches  Capesize demolitions will rise 22 percent this year,
Clarkson estimates. A 15-year-old vessel was worth $4.4 million
more than its scrap value in October, the smallest premium since
at least 2001, the shipbroker’s data show. The fleet shrank 0.6
percent to 272.9 million tons last month, according to IHS data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ships sold for scrap are driven onto beaches and
dismantled. The hulls and machinery are turned into steel for
local industries, supplying half of Bangladesh’s needs, the
 World Bank  said in a December 2010 report. Rising demolition
demand is resulting in more ships being scrapped in  India , which
still has spare capacity, Sharma said.  While the fleet has diminished, STX Pan Ocean’s earnings
will rise more slowly because there are still too many vessels,
the company said in an e-mailed response to questions. The
market will likely improve next year, it said.  Resume Growth  Higher rates could also convince owners to hold onto
vessels, said  David Webb , a shipbroker at Arrow Capesize (U.K.)
Ltd. Only one ship was demolished in December, when rates
averaged $30,651 a day, according to Clarkson and Baltic
Exchange data.  The fleet may resume growth because outstanding orders at
shipyards equal 19 percent of existing capacity, IHS data show.
That compares with 99 percent at the start of 2009. Owners may
be waiting until January to accept new vessels so the ships will
be classified as built in 2013, said  Jeffrey Landsberg ,
president of Commodore Research & Consulting, a New York-based
adviser to ship owners.  Capesize earnings plunged from the record $234,000 a day in
2008 as the fleet expanded 74 percent while demand grew 23
percent, data from the Baltic Exchange and Clarkson show. The
Baltic Dry Index, a broader measure of raw-materials freight
rates, slumped 44 percent this year. Earnings for the largest
oil tankers dropped 78 percent, according to Clarkson figures.  China Needs  Demand may be slowing in  China . Growth in the country that
consumes 65 percent of the world’s iron ore has weakened for
seven consecutive quarters. The commodity accounted for 69
percent of one-time, or spot, cargoes on Capesizes in the past
12 months, according to Morgan Stanley.  The  International Monetary Fund  expects the global economy
to expand 3.3 percent this year and 3.6 percent in 2013. The
Washington-based group has cut its forecast twice since July,
most recently by 0.3 percentage point on Oct. 9. About 90
percent of world trade travels by sea, the Round Table of
International Shipping Associations estimates.  Iron-ore shipments to China rose to a 20-month high of
65.01 million metric tons in September, the country’s customs
bureau said Oct. 13. Shipping demand gained 41 percent in
October to the most since August 2009, according to DNB Markets,
a unit of the largest Norwegian bank.  Making a ton of steel takes about 1.5 tons of iron ore,
estimates Kenneth Hoffman, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in
Skillman, N.J. The Empire State Building was built with 57,000
tons of steel, according to its website.  Fleet Growth Slows  The global fleet of Capesizes will expand 14 percent this
year and 4 percent in 2013, down from 19 percent in 2011,
Clarkson estimates. Demand for dry-bulk cargoes will gain 4
percent to a record 4.1 billion tons and has expanded by at
least that amount in eight of the past 10 years.  Slowing fleet growth would help occupy more of STX Pan
Ocean’s 28 Capesizes, which amount to 55 percent of its fleet,
according to Clarkson data. All but five of the 25  analysts 
tracked by Bloomberg recommend owning the company’s shares.  “This is good for STX Pan Ocean as well as other
commodities shipping lines and will gradually help improve their
earnings,” said Kim Hong-Gyun, an analyst at Dongbu Securities
Co. in  Seoul . “We could see the bulk-shipping market recovering
as early as next year. It is very important that the shipping
companies continue to show efforts to cap capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  