-- Italy Can’t Afford to Remain in Euro, Party Head Grillo Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-11-06T14:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/italy-can-t-afford-to-remain-in-euro-party-head-grillo-says.html
Italy  can’t bear the cost of staying
in the euro and the country should hold a referendum on whether
to remain in Europe’s monetary union, the leader of the
insurgent 5 Star Movement said.  “The decision on whether to remain in the euro is up to
the Italian citizens through a referendum -- this is my
position,” comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo said in a
post on his Internet blog. “I think Italy cannot afford to
remain in the euro, but that is up to the Italians to decide,
not up to a group of oligarchs or Beppe Grillo.”  The 5 Star Movement, which opinion polls indicate is
currently Italy’s second-biggest political force nationwide, is
the latest party to profit from anger in  Europe  over tax
increases and budget cuts aimed at stemming the sovereign debt
crisis. The surge in support for Grillo’s movement, which
outpolled establishment parties in a regional vote in Sicily
last month, could erode support for the main parties in national
elections due by May, increasing the chances of a hung
parliament.  Sicily Vote  The election in Sicily, where Grillo’s movement came in
first with almost 15 percent of the vote, was viewed as a
barometer of support in next year’s national ballot.  Italy’s euro membership “can’t be a taboo,” Grillo, 64,
said in a May 9 interview.  Growth in Italy’s economy, the euro-region’s third biggest,
has trailed the European average for more than a decade. In the
final quarter of last year the country entered its fourth
recession since the single currency was introduced.  While reducing Italy’s debt-financing costs, Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s austerity drive fuelled the public anger that led
the 5 Star surge in opinion polls and in local elections. In May
it won four mayoral seats in northern Italy, including the city
of Parma.  The grouping won’t seek an alliance at  general elections 
next year or in Parliament, Grillo said today in his ‘’Grillo
for Dummies”  post  on the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 