-- Stocks Rise as Dollar, Treasuries Drop Amid U.S. Voting
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-11-06T22:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/japan-stocks-fall-before-u-s-elections-aussie-wheat-advance.html
U.S. stocks and commodities rallied
for a second day, while the dollar and Treasuries fell, as
investors awaited presidential election results. Oil and
gasoline surged the most in a month before an inventories report.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.8 percent to
close at 1,428.39 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  jumped
133 points. Treasury 10-year notes snapped a two-day advance,
sending yields up seven basis points to 1.75 percent, and the
dollar fell versus 14 of 16 major peers. Oil and gasoline jumped
at least 3 percent amid forecasts that fuel supplies slid as
 Hurricane Sandy  shut East Coast refineries.  Australia ’s currency
rallied as the central bank left  interest rates  unchanged.  U.S. voters decide today between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years or replacing him with Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney . The next president will need to address
a so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts that take effect in 2013 unless
Congress can reach a budget compromise.  “We’re moving closer to a definition on the election
front,” said Mark Luschini, who helps manage $54 billion as
chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC. “It’s offering investors reason to say,
‘we move from the unknown category regardless of the outcome.’”  Gauges of commodity, industrial and financial shares rose
more than 1 percent to lead an advance among nine of the  10 main
 industries in the  S&P 500 , with only utilities retreating.
Health-care equipment and service companies performed the worst
among 24 groups. United Technologies Corp., Boeing Co. and
Hewlett-Packard Co. jumped more than 2.2 percent to lead the Dow
higher. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index, a gauge of 30
companies considered most-tied to economic prospects, rallied
1.5 percent to the highest level since March.  Market Leaders  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , the manager of networks for  NASA 
and the U.S. Navy, surged 17 percent after a cost-cutting
program helped the company boost its annual profit forecast.
Express Scripts Holding Co., the largest U.S. pharmacy benefits
manager, plunged 12 percent after saying analysts’ profit
estimates for 2013 were “overly aggressive.”  Of S&P 500 companies that have released third-quarter
results, 71 percent beat  analysts’ profit estimates , while 60
percent missed sales projections, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Nineteen members of the index are due to report
earnings today.  The options market is implying about a 2 percent move up or
down in the S&P 500 over the next four trading days, according
to Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP’s head of derivatives
strategy Trevor Mottl. That’s equivalent to an even-odds range
of 1,389 to 1,445 for the close on Nov. 9 based on options
prices as of yesterday, he wrote today in a note to clients.  ‘Outsized Impact’  Subfreezing temperatures and confusion greeted voters in
storm-ravaged  New York  and New Jersey, where officials moved
more than 240 polling sites damaged by Hurricane Sandy to
alternate locations.  “On the fiscal side, how the looming fiscal cliff will be
dealt with will hinge greatly on the makeup of Congress and its
relationship with the new president,”  Marc Chandler , head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
wrote in a note to clients. “With regards to monetary policy,
the potential successor to Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  when his term
ends in 2014 could have an outsize impact on the dollar.”  More than two stocks gained for each that fell in the Stoxx
600.  Hannover Re  rallied 4.5 percent as the world’s fourth-
biggest reinsurer said it expects record earnings this year.  ARM
Holdings Plc (ARM)  climbed 2.1 percent on a Bloomberg News report that
Apple Inc. was considering ways to replace Intel Corp.
processors in its personal computers. Volkswagen AG, Europe’s
biggest carmaker, fell 4.1 percent after announcing the sale of
as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) in convertible
bonds.  Greece, Germany  The European Union’s top economic commissioner said euro
leaders need to lock down an agreement on tackling  Greece ’s debt
by next week. German factory orders fell the most in a year in
September, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today..  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities jumped 2.3 percent, with
21 of 24 materials rising. Wheat for delivery in December gained
1.3 percent in Chicago as deteriorating crop conditions in the
U.S., the largest exporter, added to global supply concerns.  Oil climbed 3.6 percent, the most in a month, to $88.71 a
barrel and gasoline climbed 3 percent to $2.6989 a gallon.
Gasoline supply may have dropped to 198 million barrels in
the seven days ended Nov. 2, according to the survey. That would
be the first decline in four weeks. The Energy Department is
scheduled to release its inventory report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow
in Washington.  Aussie Rallies  Australia’s currency strengthened against 15 of 16 major
peers. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia left the overnight cash-
rate target at 3.25 percent, citing a stabilizing global
economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.6 percent, led
by consumer, energy and technology shares. South Korea’s Kospi
Index jumped 1.1 percent as Samsung Electronics Co. climbed to a
four-week high after researcher IDC said the company’s share of
the tablet market increased. Taiwan’s Taiex Index added 0.7
percent. Russia’s Micex Index increased 0.4 percent and India’s
Sensex added 0.3 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.4
percent before the start of China’s leadership congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  