-- Jarislowsky to Step Down From Helm of Money Manager
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-06T20:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/jarislowsky-to-step-down-from-helm-of-money-manager.html
Stephen Jarislowsky , the billionaire
investor who tangled with Conrad Black and Research In Motion
Ltd. over corporate governance and fought to protect Canadian
firms from foreign takeovers, will step down as head of the
money management firm he co-founded almost six decades ago.  Jarislowsky, 87, will remain chairman of Jarislowsky Fraser
Ltd. and “begin to transition out of his responsibilities” as
chief executive officer as he nears retirement, the Montreal-
based firm said in an e-mailed statement dated yesterday.  Pierre
Lapointe , a 27-year veteran of the company, was promoted to
chairman of the executive committee. President Len Racioppo, who
chairs the investment committee, will leave Nov. 30.  Jarislowsky, who arrived in  North America  from  Europe  when
he was in his early 20s, has been one of Canada’s most vocal
advocates for better governance. After co-founding the Canadian
Coalition for Good Governance with Claude Lamoureux in 2002, he
championed the creation of a national securities regulator and
fought to trim CEO compensation at companies from  Manulife
Financial (MFC)  Corp., the country’s biggest insurer, to auto-parts
supplier  Magna International (MG)  Inc. He also pushed Canadian banks
to separate the posts of chairman and CEO to improve
accountability.  “If you look at the major corporate governance trends in
Canada, one of the chief architects of all the changes you’ve
seen in the last few years is Stephen,” said Lamoureux, former
head of the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan . “His persistence is
one of the reasons banks started separating the posts of
chairman and CEO, and other companies followed. He thinks an
independent board adds value.”  Low Risk  Jarislowsky isn’t giving interviews today, his assistant,
Janice Burnett, said by telephone.  The company, which runs about C$37 billion ($37.2 billion),
remains “committed to the disciplined, low-risk, bottom-up
approach that the firm has taken throughout our 57-year
history,” Jarislowsky said in the statement. “In the
coming months, the firm will announce additions to its
investment team to strengthen the committee approach and to
ensure succession at all levels.”  “Stephen has managed to stay independent longer than any
firm in  Canada , and in this industry, that’s the biggest
accomplishment,” Michel Nadeau, executive director of the
Montreal-based Institute for Governance of Private and Public
Organizations, said in a telephone interview. “He works for his
clients, and nobody else. Jarislowsky Fraser is the Canadian
equivalent of Berkshire Hathaway.”  Assets Declined  The announcement marks “the first step and by no means the
final step of this transition,” Lapointe said in a telephone
interview. “Mr. Jarislowsky is removing himself from the day-
to-day operations, but he remains chairman and a very big
shareholder, and he manages several accounts. He is still busy,
and if he can stay healthy I think he’ll do this as long as he
possibly can.”  Fund managers Erin O’Brien, Margot Ritchie and Chris Kresic
will join the executive committee, Jarislowsky Fraser said. The
committee “remains empowered with the overall management of the
firm,” the company said.  Jarislowsky Fraser is abolishing the positions of CEO and
president, Lapointe said.  “We’re basically making the executive committee a little
larger and more responsible for the day-to-day operations,” he
said.  Lapointe, a former executive vice-president at the firm,
has been a director and member of the executive committee since
1995. Racioppo, based in Toronto, has been with Jarislowsky
Fraser since 1987.  Client Redemptions  Assets have declined from about C$54 billion in 2006, past
Bloomberg stories show. Client redemptions and the growing
tendency of pension funds to move some of their holdings into
“non-traditional” investments such as private equity
contributed to the drop in Jarislowsky Fraser’s assets, Lapointe
said, as did the 2008 slump in global stock markets.  Based on U.S. filings and data compiled by Bloomberg, the
firm’s holdings of $21 billion in stocks listed in the U.S. and
Canada returned about 0.8 percent in the past five years,
compared with a 6 percent decline in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. (SPTSX)  The firm underperformed over the last decade on
that basis in U.S. dollars, returning 198 percent versus 287
percent for the index.  Bank Stocks  Three of the firm’s five biggest U.S.-listed holdings are
Canadian bank stocks, Bloomberg data show. The stakes in
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Bank of  Nova
Scotia  have a combined market value of $4.1 billion. The firm
also holds large stakes in Calgary-based energy producers such
as Suncor Energy Inc., Encana Corp. and  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   “Canadian stocks are their strength,” said Nadeau, a
former investment chief at the Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec , Canada’s second-largest pension-fund manager.
“Stephen’s philosophy is to invest in what he knows, and he
doesn’t understand technology that well. No historical model
will tell you what to expect from Facebook or EBay. Since 2008,
markets haven’t done very much, and neither has his firm.”  Among other key holdings, Jarislowsky Fraser has built up
stakes in Canadian companies such as  Metro Inc. (MRU) , a grocer, and
engineering firm  SNC-Lavalin (SNC)  Group Inc.  “When Stephen invests, it’s not for six months,’ said
Lamoureux. ‘‘Many of his investments, he made at the start of
his career. He will often build up a 15 percent company stake
and stay there. He is going to give management his opinion.”  Behind Curtains  Nadeau, who spent 20 years as an investment executive at
the Caisse, recalls how he and Jarislowsky would often travel to
visit plants as they weighed whether to invest in companies.  “Stephen wants to understand what he invests in,” said
Nadeau. “He wasn’t buying an image. He wanted to see what was
happening behind the curtains. CEOs didn’t always like that.”  With a net worth of about C$2 billion, Jarislowsky ranked
27th on Canadian Business magazine’s 2011  list  of the richest
Canadians. His private foundation supports various organizations
in health and education, including several university chairs
across Canada.  Born in Berlin, Jarislowsky emigrated to the U.S. in 1941.
He studied engineering at  Cornell University , served in the U.S.
Army during World War II and got an MBA from  Harvard Business
School  in 1949. He moved to  Montreal  to work for Alcan Aluminum
Ltd. as an engineer before starting his firm in 1955.  Southam Battle  As a Southam Inc. director in the 1990s and chairman of the
company’s compensation committee, Jarislowsky clashed with
 Conrad Black  over the management fees he was receiving,
according to “Robber Baron: Lord Black of Crossharbour,” a
2007 book by author George Tombs on the former newspaper
publisher. Jarislowsky later quit the board and sold his stake
in Southam, contacting the Ontario Securities Commission about
the matter.  Jarislowsky also fought to prevent takeovers of Canadian
firms by foreign investors, concerned the sales would give him
fewer investment options. He opposed the 2010 sale of Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. to BHP Billiton Ltd., which was
eventually blocked by the Canadian government.  “What benefit does BHP bring to these potash mines?
None,” Jarislowsky said at the time. “From the point of view
of the country, it’s an enormous negative.”  Jarislowsky hasn’t been shy about wading into the political
debate in Quebec. A fervent opponent of Quebec sovereignty and
economic nationalism, he penned a  letter  in Montreal’s Le Devoir
newspaper in September to criticize the province’s isolation
from Canada and the rest of the world.  “Stephen is never afraid to speak up,” Nadeau said. “He
may have lost clients because of his opinions but he has always
had the courage of his convictions. He truly is an exemplary
individual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  