-- Kingfisher Chief May Consider Special Dividend or Share Buybacks
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/kingfisher-chief-may-consider-special-dividend-or-share-buybacks.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, said it may consider a special
dividend or share buybacks as a scarcity of major acquisition
opportunities and a smaller rent bill leave it with more cash.  “As we look forward next year, we would consider our cash
position and if we felt there was a systemic cash generation
above what we needed for our growth plans, which we’ve got quite
a lot to shoot for, then of course we would hand it back,”
Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said in an interview in
London. “I don’t think you can see many major deals that would
use a lot of cash.”  The owner of the B&Q and Castorama home-improvement chains
has eliminated  net debt  that reached 1.6 billion pounds ($2.5
billion) in 2008 and may end the fiscal year with a net cash
surplus for the first time since at least 1988, according to
analyst estimates. The retailer hasn’t made an  acquisition  since
buying 31 U.K. stores from a failed competitor 18 months ago and
future deals are likely to be “bolt-ons” in existing markets
costing no more than 100 million pounds, Cheshire said.  Returning money to shareholders “would signify quite a lot
of confidence in the environment in their core markets,” said
 Simon Irwin , an analyst at Credit Suisse with an  outperform 
rating on the stock. “I’d take it as being quite encouraging in
terms of their confidence in their own execution.”  Kingfisher may have net cash of 11.3 million pounds at the
end of the fiscal year through January 2013, rising to 111.6
million pounds in January 2014, according to the average of
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Store Leases  Kingfisher sees a long-term opportunity to reduce its 4.9
billion pounds of leases as the growth of online shopping
lessens the need for store space, the CEO said. The retailer
would ideally cut its U.K. estate by about 20 percent, he said.  The company is looking at sub-dividing leases such as at
the Belvedere store in Kent, southeast  England , where  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  Asda supermarket chain has taken half the store
space, thereby reducing Kingfisher’s rent and leaving the
retailer with the “right-size store.”  “If we could get out of the dead weight of historic leases
in the U.K. that would potentially be quite transformational for
us,” Cheshire said. The retailer typically has seven-to-nine
years of unexpired leases on its 360 U.K. stores, with rents
being reduced by 10 percent when renegotiated.  After reporting a slump in first-half earnings in
September, Cheshire said there was “a broad feeling that the
U.K. macro-economic situation is gently getting better.”  Better Christmas?  The executive said he sees pent-up demand among consumers
who want to enjoy Christmas after a difficult few years. “There
are some signs it should be better” this year, said the CEO,
who is also the chairman of the British Retail Consortium.  With U.K. employment showing signs of improvement, Cheshire
said he’s “more and more comfortable with the next six
months.”  U.K. jobless claims  unexpectedly fell in September and
a wider measure of unemployment dropped to the lowest rate in
more than a year, boosted by the  London  Olympics.  In  France , Kingfisher’s largest market with 47 percent of
 operating profit  last year, “consumer trends are generally
uncertain,” Cheshire said. Still, the French do-it-yourself
market is “much more robust” than the U.K., he said. France
now has higher home ownership and greater propensity for DIY
projects than the U.K., he said.  “The basic household situation is a bit better,” Cheshire
said. “There is a sense that no miracle, but no catastrophe for
France, but a little better in the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  