-- Naira Snaps 2-Day Retreat as Barclays Set to Add Nigeria Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-11-06T11:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/naira-snaps-2-day-retreat-as-barclays-set-to-add-nigeria-bonds.html
Nigeria’s naira snapped two days of
declines against the dollar as Barclays Plc said it will add the
nation’s debt to its emerging-market local-currency government
bond index from March 2013.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer gained 0.2
percent to 157.05 a dollar by 12:18 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. The naira has increased 3.3 percent this
year, the second-best performer in Africa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays follows JPMorgan Chase & Co., which added the West
African nation’s bonds to its benchmark indexes last month.
Barclays made the decision after reviewing changes in the market
and polling investors on governance and market accessibility.
The London-based bank’s EM Local-Currency Index includes
securities from 20 eligible countries with a market value of
$1.62 trillion.  “It is a very positive development and the Nigerian
economy is getting more credibility,” Jide Solanke, an analyst
at First Securities Discount House Ltd., said by phone from
Lagos today. “Everybody knows they have strict criteria for the
inclusion to any government bond index.”  Borrowing costs for Nigeria’s federal government dropped
since JPMorgan’s announcement in August to add the bonds to its
GBI-EM index series. The yield on the 16.39 percent naira debt
due January 2022 fell 324 basis points to 12.89 percent since
the start of August, according to yesterday’s prices compiled by
the Lagos-based Financial Markets Dealers Association.  Eurobonds  The yield on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
January 2021 was little changed at 4.45 percent today.  The central bank, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, has left
the benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record 12 percent
this year, increased lenders’ reserve requirements and limited
access to money auctions to stop dealers from buying foreign
currency using naira purchased from the central bank at a
discount.  The regulator, based in the capital Abuja, yesterday sold
 $29.88 million  at the first of its regular twice-weekly foreign-
currency auctions, the lowest amount in more than three years.  The naira strengthened 0.3 percent last week “partly due
to lower corporate demand to pay for imports,” Ecobank
Transnational Inc. strategists, led by Paul-Harry Aithnard in
Paris, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Ghana ’s cedi was little changed at 1.8806 a dollar in
Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  