-- Netoil Submits Revised Offer for Petroplus Refinery in France
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-11-06T13:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/netoil-submits-revised-offer-for-petroplus-refinery-in-france.html
Netoil Inc., a Dubai-based company,
has submitted a revised offer for insolvent Petroplus Holdings
AG’s Petit-Couronne refinery in Normandy,  France , teaming up
with  BP Plc. (BP/)   “We didn’t have a supplier before, now, we have a letter
of intent from BP to supply 120,000 barrels of crude a day to
the refinery for a three-year period,” Roger Tamraz, Netoil’s
chairman, said today in a telephone interview from Paris.  Netoil plans to use  Hyundai Group  to upgrade the refinery
and six people from the South Korean company are at the plant to
carry out a survey, Tamraz said.  Robert Wine , a BP spokesman based in London, declined to
comment on the matter.  Netoil expects to pay 60 million euros ($77 million) for
inventories on site and 100 million euros for liabilities,
Tamraz said, without identifying his creditors.  The 154,000 barrel-a-day facility faced liquidation last
month after bids from Netoil and Alafandi Petroleum Group were
rejected. A local court is scheduled to meet later today to
discuss the new offers, Laurent Patinier, an official for the
CFDT union at the site, said by phone.  Arnaud Montebourg , the country’s industry minister, said
yesterday on RTL radio more time was needed to examine Libyan
interest in the refinery after being contacted by the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund.  Yesterday, Petroplus said the court will either give a new
date for a decision or extend the deadline for bids.  Petroplus filed for insolvency in January after lenders
froze credit lines. The plant has been running since June under
a so-called tolling deal with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and may
shut later this month if a credible buyer or plan isn’t approved
by the court, union officials have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  