-- New EU Threat to Microsoft Offers a Cautionary Tale
-- B y   R a n d a l   C .   P i c k e r
-- 2012-11-06T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/new-eu-threat-to-microsoft-offers-a-cautionary-tale.html
European Union antitrust officials
announced late last month that they are considering fining
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for failing to fulfill its antitrust obligations
to the EU. The fine could be as high as 10 percent of
Microsoft’s annual revenue, or about $7 billion.  That isn’t a paper threat. The EU has levied huge fines
against Microsoft before. Governments should wield that kind of
immense power against private parties only when they are certain
a real wrong is being corrected. Unfortunately, everything about
the EU’s antitrust  history  with Microsoft should make us
question whether that is the case here.  Microsoft’s battle with the EU also offers a broader
cautionary tale: Companies can create real risks for themselves
and shareholders when they make product-design commitments to
settle government actions. We have seen this happen in recent
settlements between the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and Google
Inc., Facebook Inc. and MySpace Inc. In each case, the companies
face an extra layer of regulation for the next 20 years for
products that could change daily. Google may soon face new
antitrust actions in the U.S. and the EU for its search engine
design and patent licensing practices.  In a world dominated by Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Google
and Facebook, there is little doubt that Microsoft’s market
power has declined. U.S. antitrust officials have been finished
with Microsoft for some time, yet the EU continues to regulate
the company through its antitrust laws. (Disclosure: I have
received research funding in the past from Microsoft, but have
not been involved in any of the EU matters. The  University of
Chicago Law School , my employer, continues to receive Microsoft
funding.)  Media Players  A little background is in order. The EU in 2004 found that
Microsoft had violated competition laws because of the way
Windows worked with certain programs that run computer servers.
It also thought Microsoft was tilting competition in media
players by distributing its player software with Windows, an
activity called tying in antitrust-speak.  When the EU decided in 2008 that it didn’t like the way
Microsoft was complying with that decision, it fined the company
899 million euros, or $1.1 billion in today’s dollars. The EU
hit the company again in 2009, this time claiming it was tying
Internet Explorer to Windows.  With that history, and possibly facing a delayed
introduction of Windows 7, Microsoft chose to settle rather than
fight -- hardly a surprising decision. The settlement gave birth
to the “browser ballot.” When you first try to access the
Internet on a Windows 7 machine in the EU, a choice of browsers
to install -- 12 of them currently -- pops up.  Microsoft, however, admitted that it  violated  the browser
agreement again when it released its first major upgrade of
Windows 7. From February 2011 until July 2012, it rolled out
millions of new computers in the EU without the browser ballot.
Microsoft said it was a mistake, but how this could go on for 17
months is hard to understand. You would think Microsoft and the
EU would be monitoring the marketplace. Microsoft created the
problem by not quickly fixing its browser-ballot glitch; the EU
was seemingly asleep at the switch.  The lesson for companies is that they shouldn’t violate
settlements with governments. Yet an even larger issue is at
stake here: Companies also shouldn’t face huge fines for
mistakes that may well prove irrelevant in the marketplace.  I refer here to another EU antitrust remedy, which forced
Microsoft to release two versions of Windows, one with its media
player and one without. But almost everyone bought the version
with the media player. While well-intentioned, the solution
accomplished little beyond forcing Microsoft to spend money on
versions of Windows no one wanted.  Hidden Tax  The upshot is that government-dictated product design has
consequences, especially in sectors where products change with
great speed. Indeed, antitrust settlements can act as a hidden
tax on innovation.  At any rate, the EU needn’t have worried. Despite
Microsoft’s dominance in personal computers, its Zune MP3 player
was a failure due to competition from what consumers decided was
a better product, Apple’s iPod. The EU prescription had wrongly
focused on the PC rather than the emergent competition in music
devices.  What has happened in the marketplace because of the browser
ballot? We don’t know; the EU doesn’t make its data on this
public. That’s too bad. We should expect antitrust regulation to
be subject to public scrutiny. There is an unfortunate tendency
for governments, in the U.S. and abroad, to want to act without
accountability.  Not knowing browser market shares, it’s impossible to say
what sort of fine would make sense. It’s clear that EU officials
would be overreaching if they sought the maximum penalty.
Instead, the episode is a technology problem crying out for a
technology remedy, such as taking  Internet Explorer  off the
browser ballot for a period of time to restore competitors’
market shares.  When governments try to design products, the EU’s record
with Microsoft suggests they will often fail. Companies
contemplating antitrust settlements should take into account the
possible penalties from mistakes, as well as the risks from
tying their hands on how rapidly they can innovate.  (Randal C. Picker is a professor at the University of
Chicago Law School. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Josh Barro on  the unimportance of the 2012 vote ,
Justin Wolfers on  better election predictions  and Tobin Harshaw
on  the perils of tweeting your ballot .  Plus, the editors on  the dangerous rise of euro-skepticism ; and
Jonathan Mahler on  why sports leagues should embrace New Jersey
gambling .  To contact the writer of this article:
Randal C. Picker at  r-picker@uchicago.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  