-- New York Court of Appeals Judge Theodore Jones Dies at 68
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-06T21:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/new-york-court-of-appeals-judge-theodore-jones-dies-at-68.html
New York  Court of Appeals Judge
Theodore Jones, who served on the state’s highest court for the
past five years, died of an apparent heart attack last night, a
spokesman said. He was 68.  Jones suffered the heart attack at his home in New City,
Gary Spencer, a spokesman for the Court of Appeals in  Albany ,
said in a phone interview. He is survived by his wife of more
than 40 years, the former Joan Sarah Hogans, and two children,
Wesley Jones and Theodore T. Jones III, according to a biography
posted on the court’s  website .  “Judge Jones was a jurist of great talent, intellect and
compassion,” Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman said in a statement.
“He was also the gentlest of men with a wonderful sunny
disposition, great warmth and empathy for all. Ted Jones had a
smile and a laugh that captivated the court and the entire legal
community.”  Jones began his career in New York State Supreme Court, the
state’s trial-level court, in 1990 and was nominated to the
seven-member Court of Appeals by then-Governor  Eliot Spitzer  in
January 2007 to replace retired Judge Albert Rosenblatt,
according to the  biography . He was confirmed by the state Senate
the following month.  Brooklyn-Born  Jones was born in  Brooklyn  and attended public schools in
 New York City , according to the biography. He graduated from
Hampton University in  Virginia  in 1965, served three years on
active duty with the U.S. Army in  Vietnam , and graduated from
St. John’s University School of Law in 1972.  As a trial judge, Jones in April 2006 fined New York City’s
bus and subway workers union $2.5 million for shutting the
U.S.’s largest transit system for 60 hours during a December
2005 strike. He also jailed the union’s head, Roger Toussaint,
and suspended the automatic deduction of dues from workers’
paychecks.  “New York State has lost a jurist of keen intellect and
profound compassion,” New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a statement. “During his many years of
service on the bench, Judge Jones was a model of fairness,
justice and legal excellence.”  Jones was the first African-American to serve as
administrative judge of the state Supreme Court Civil Term in
Brooklyn, according to a statement from Governor  Andrew Cuomo .  ‘Tireless Advocate’  “Judge Jones was a tireless advocate for equal justice and
inspired many through his public service and work outside the
judiciary,” Cuomo said in a statement. “His contributions to
New York’s highest court will be sorely missed.”  Judges on the Court of Appeals serve 14-year terms,
although they are required to retire at the end of the year they
turn 70 under the state’s Constitution, Spencer said. No Court
of Appeals judge had died in office since the current
appointment process was adopted in 1977, Spencer said.  Anyone interested in becoming a judge on the Court of
Appeals must apply to the state’s Commission on Judicial
Nomination, a 12-member  panel  set up in 1977 to help choose
candidates for the state’s highest court.  The clerk of the Court of Appeals will notify the
commission of the vacancy today or tomorrow, Spencer said. The
panel will have 120 days to submit a list of three to seven
names to the governor, who then will have 15 to 30 days to make
an appointment, he said.  The court is currently evaluating candidates for a vacancy
that will begin Jan. 1 on the retirement of Senior Associate
Judge Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick, and will issue a report to
Cuomo on Dec. 1, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  