-- News Corp. Profit Tops Analyst Estimates on TV Ad Gains
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-07T21:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/news-corp-boosts-profit-after-making-gains-in-tv-advertising.html
News Corp. (NWS) , the media company run by
billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , reported profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, fueled by TV advertising and affiliate fees
from pay-TV providers.  Fiscal first-quarter net income rose to $2.23 billion, or
94 cents a share, from $738 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Excluding some items, per-share profit was 43 cents.
That beat the average  analyst estimate  of 37 cents, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  News Corp. posted profit gains at its cable-network unit,
Twentieth Century Fox studio and broadcast-TV operations.
Domestic cable channels saw 8 percent ad growth, outpacing
companies such as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Discovery Communications
Inc. (DISCA)  Profit fell at the publishing business slated to be spun
off next year.  “This was a solid quarter and pretty good beat,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst with Bloomberg Industries, said in an
interview. The dual revenue from advertising and affiliate fees
makes cable networks “the best business in the  media
industry ,” he said.  News Corp. shares  rose 1.6 percent to $24.67 in New York at
the close. The stock has climbed 38 percent this year, bolstered
by repurchases and the spinoff plan.  Breakup Plan  Murdoch, who started building his media empire more than a
half-century ago with newspapers, announced plans in June to
split off News Corp.’s declining publishing division, home to
the Wall Street Journal and the U.K.’s Sun. The company gets
most of its revenue from its  entertainment operations , and
investors see the breakup as a way to better spotlight the value
of that business.  “Key, must-have content is as important as ever,” Chief
Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said on a conference call with
analysts about the earnings report.  Television remains strong amid competition from online
providers, Carey said. The ad market has been relatively
reserved, he said, citing an uncertain economy.  While the entertainment company will continue to be led by
Murdoch, News Corp.’s board has yet to designate a chief
executive officer for the publishing side. Murdoch has said that
the company is evaluating internal candidates for the job. Top
executives at the business include Dow Jones & Co. Editor-in-
Chief Robert Thomson.  Net income last quarter benefited from the sale of a 49
percent investment in NDS Group Ltd. to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  for
about $1.9 billion. News Corp. recorded a $1.4 billion gain from
the transaction.  Sales Increase  Sales (NWSA)  advanced 2.2 percent to $8.14 billion in the period,
which ended on Sept. 30. Analysts had estimated $8.15 billion on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating income from the company’s cable networks, which
include FX and Fox News, increased 23 percent to $953 million.
The publishing unit saw a 48 percent decrease to $57 million,
partly due to a decline in print advertising.  The U.S. newspaper advertising market shrank 6.6 percent in
the first half of this year, according to the latest figures
from the  Newspaper Association of America .  The company recorded $67 million in expenses last quarter
from dealing with the fallout from a hacking scandal that
erupted at Murdoch’s U.K. newspapers last year. News Corp.
reporters had accessed the voice mail of a murdered teenager,
 Milly Dowler , for news stories, causing a firestorm within the
upper levels of British media and government.  Rebekah Brooks, the former head of News Corp.’s British
newspapers, was charged by London police for her part in those
alleged crimes.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  