-- Nike Nike Said to Be in Talks for Cole Haan Sale to Apax
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-06T16:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/nike-nike-said-to-be-in-talks-for-cole-haan-sale-to-apax.html
Nike Inc. (NKE)  is in talks to sell its
Cole Haan fashion brand to  Apax Partners  for about $500 million,
according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  The deal, which could still fall apart, may be announced as
early as next week, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Nike, the world’s largest athletic-shoe maker, announced in
May it was trying to sell the Cole Haan and Umbro brands. The
sales are part of Chief Executive Officer  Mark Parker ’s push to
focus on the business units with the most growth potential and
profitability.  “We don’t have any specifics to share other than to say
we’re continuing the process of identifying buyers for Cole Haan
and preparing the businesses for sale,” Mary Remuzzi, a
spokeswoman for Nike, said in an e-mailed statement. “The sale
process is on track, with multiple prospective buyers.”  Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Apax at Kekst & Co., declined
to comment. The talks were reported earlier by Reuters.  The Cole Haan unit increased revenue 2.7 percent to $535
million in the year ended May 31. During the same period, Nike
boosted total sales 16 percent $24.1 billion. The division had
178 stores, including 109 U.S. locations.  The Umbro and Cole Haan units had a combined loss of $43
million before interest and taxes in fiscal 2012 and would lose
as much as $75 million if owned for all of fiscal 2013, Nike has
said.  Apax has experience in retail and fashion with a previous
investment in the  Tommy Hilfiger  lifestyle brand. Apax bought
Tommy Hilfiger in 2006 for about $1.6 billion and then sold it
to Phillips-Van Heusen Corp. for about $3 billion in 2010.  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)  last month agreed to buy the Umbro
sports apparel and footwear unit for $225 million in cash, and
the deal is expected to close by the end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  