-- Nippon Building Plans to Buy More Assets on Rent Increases
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-11-06T06:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/nippon-building-fund-plans-to-buy-more-assets-on-rent-increases.html
Nippon Building Fund Inc. (8951) ,  Japan ’s
biggest real estate investment trust, plans to acquire more
assets on expectations that office rents in  Tokyo  will recover,
ending declines since 2008.  The  REIT (TSEREIT)  may acquire more than 50 billion yen ($623 million)
a year if there are good properties, said Kenichi Tanaka,
president and chief executive officer of Nippon Building Fund
Management Ltd., which manages the REIT. The REIT has bought 36
billion yen of office buildings a year on average in the past
three years, according to the company.  The office vacancy rate, a measurement of unoccupied  office
space , has dropped for three straight months in Tokyo after
rising to a record high in June as excess supply decreased,
according to Miki Shoji Co., an office brokerage company. Nippon
Building Fund’s REIT, which owns 68 office buildings in Tokyo
and other major cities in Japan worth 921 billion yen, has
started asking for higher rents for new tenants in some
buildings, Tanaka said.  “We can finally see signs of an upward trend in office
rents in Tokyo,” said Tanaka in an interview in Tokyo. “It’s
important for us to acquire good quality assets in anticipation
of that turnaround.”  Nippon Building Fund gained 0.7 percent to 871,000 yen at
the close of trading in Tokyo. The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT
Index and the Topix Real Estate Index fell 0.4 percent and 0.5
percent respectively.  The REIT has risen 38 percent so far this year,
outperforming the Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index’s 26 percent
gain. The index tracking Japanese property companies has been
the  best performer  among the 33 industry groups that make up the
benchmark Topix index this year, rising 47 percent.  Vacancy Recovery  The vacancy rate for office buildings in Tokyo’s central
five wards has remained above 8 percent for more than two-and-a-
half years, while rents have declined since September 2008,
according to Miki Shoji.  Japanese real estate investment trusts have been buying new
properties as a way to increase total revenue and offset rental
declines for buildings in their portfolios, Tanaka said.  REITs raised 326 billion this year through Oct. 31, the
highest since 2007, according to data compiled by Japan’s
Association for Real Estate Securitization.  Nippon Building Fund plans to first ask higher rents for
large properties that are close to major train lines, Tanaka
said. The rental income for the buildings in its portfolio will
probably start to increase by 2014 because it will take some
time to raise the amount tenants actually pay, he said.  Rising Rents  “We expect office rents to rise in Tokyo’s five central
wards,” said  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, in a report on Oct. 26. “The vacancy rate for
relatively new buildings has declined to a point that will
support an uptrend for asking rents for new tenants.”  Mochizuki rates Nippon Building Fund’s REIT outperform.  Nippon Building Fund, one of the first two REITs in Japan,
was set up by  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , Japan’s biggest developer by
sales. Mitsui Fudosan owns 3.6 percent of the REIT and is
responsible for supplying properties.  Tanaka said the support from the Bank of Japan for the
country’s real estate market is contributing to a recovery. The
bank plans to increase its holdings of the REITs to 130 billion
yen in 2013, from the 120 billion yen expected this year, as
part of efforts to tackle deflation, the central bank said on
Oct. 30.  “In addition to the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s support, people have
started to notice signs of recovery,” Tanaka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  