-- NML Capital Asks for Expedited Ruling on Argentine Bonds
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-06T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/nml-capital-asks-for-expedited-ruling-on-argentine-bonds.html
Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Fund asked a court for an expedited ruling in a bid by
creditors to collect on defaulted Argentine bonds, claiming
 Argentina ’s leaders “have stated their intention never to
comply” with a recent court decision in the case.  A federal appeals court in  New York  ruled Oct. 26 that
Argentina can’t make payments on restructured sovereign debt
while refusing to pay holders of its defaulted bonds. The
decision caused Argentine bonds to drop the most in four months.
The appeals court sent the case back to a lower-court judge to
clarify how a payment formula is intended to work and to
determine how the court’s orders apply to intermediary banks and
other third parties.  In a letter to U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa today, NML
asked for an expedited decision, citing press statements by
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and members
of her cabinet that, according to NML, show the country is
trying to evade the appeals court ruling.  “It is clear that Argentina now is in the process of
trying to render the equal treatment orders ineffective and will
employ and exploit any delay tactics necessary to evade this
court,” NML lawyer Robert A. Cohen said.  2001 Default  The appeals court ruling was a victory for Elliott
Management, the $21 billion New York-based hedge founded by
billionaire investor  Paul Singer , and other investors who
declined to participate in two debt restructurings by Argentina,
which defaulted on the bonds in 2001.  In the letter, Cohen also asked Griesa to confirm that
orders he’d issued requiring Argentina to pay on its defaulted
bonds if it makes payments on the restructured debt are now in
effect. Griesa’s orders had been stayed during the appeal.
According to Cohen, Argentina is obligated to make more than
$3.8 billion in payments on the restructured debt next month.  Argentine dollar bonds have lost 17 percent since the court
decision, according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Their 2.2 percent loss this month is the biggest among  emerging
markets  tracked by JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer for Argentina, declined to
comment on the letter.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  