-- Novatek to Buy $1.38 Billion Nortgas Stake From Gazprom Partner
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-11-06T16:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/novatek-to-buy-1-38-billion-nortgas-stake-from-gazprom-partner.html
OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-biggest
natural gas producer, agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in  OAO
Gazprom (OGZD) ’s Nortgas production unit for $1.38 billion as it seeks
to expand its resource base and boost output.  Novatek will buy the stake from businessman Farkhad Akhmedov’s REDI Holdings, in a transaction that is set to close
by year-end, the Tarko-Sale, Siberia-based company said today in
a regulatory filing. Gazprom owns the other 51 percent.  “The ability to acquire a significant asset such as
Nortgas is consistent with our overall strategy to expand our
reserve base and raise our production profile in our core region
of operations,” Novatek Chief Executive Officer Leonid Mikhelson said in the statement.  Novatek has challenged OAO Gazprom, the country’s gas
exporter and the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, for
domestic clients and is developing a project to liquefy natural
gas for shipment to customers abroad.  The gas producer, controlled by billionaires Mikhelson and
 Gennady Timchenko , is seeking to double its gas output by 2020
and said in April last year that it was interested in a stake in
Nortgas. Nortgas had proved reserves of 1.7 billion barrels of
oil equivalent under Petroleum Resource Management System
methodology at the end of 2011, of which 13 percent were
classified as liquid hydrocarbons, Novatek said today, citing an
audit by DeGolyer & MacNaughton.  Novatek had proved reserves of 11.3 billion barrels of oil
equivalent at the end of 2011 under PRMS methodology, according
to its website.  The shares gained 2.2 percent to 325.57 rubles at the close
in Moscow, the most since Oct. 31. The stock dropped 7.8 percent
on Nov. 1 after Novatek lost a domestic gas-supply contract
amounting to about 28 percent of last year’s sales volumes to
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia’s biggest oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  