-- Novo’s Insulin Tresiba Has Heart Safety Risks, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-11-06T16:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/novo-s-insulin-tresiba-has-heart-safety-risks-fda-says.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s once-a-day insulin
medicine Tresiba carries a higher heart risk than other diabetes
treatments, U.S. regulators said. Novo’s shares dropped.  Food and Drug Administration staff questioned whether more
safety studies should be conducted on the product, also known as
degludec, according to a  report  posted today ahead of a Nov. 8
meeting of agency advisers. Novo, the largest insulin maker,
designed a longer-lasting, higher dose to replicate the steady
stream of the hormone that healthy people produce over 24 hours.  Novo, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , is seeking to take sales
from Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) ’s best-selling Lantus insulin, which
last year generated 3.92 billion euros ($5 billion) in revenue.
Studies “consistently pointed to potential harm associated with
the use of the insulin degludec products,” the FDA staff said.  “We see the risk of a significant delay to the U.S.
approval as being substantially higher than before,” Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a
note to clients. Holford downgraded the stock to hold from buy.  Novo  fell  6.9 percent to 860 kroner at the close of trading
in Denmark, the biggest drop since Aug. 5, 2011.  Tresiba’s approval is supposed to produce about 9 billion
kroner ($1.5 billion) in 2016 for Novo, according to the average
of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Drug Scrutiny  Diabetes, caused by the body’s inability to sufficiently
produce the insulin needed to convert blood sugar into energy,
affects almost 26 million Americans, or 8 percent of the U.S.
population, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Diabetes treatments have come under closer scrutiny
since sales of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia were restricted
because of increased heart attack risk.  Holford said in the note he downgraded Novo because the
cardiovascular risk revealed in the FDA staff document today is
higher than previously published reports and FDA reviewers
suggest there isn’t a benefit for degludec on hypoglycemia.  The advisory meeting will also consider a combination of
degludec and an insulin boost meant to be taken once or twice
daily during meals. While the FDA panel has been asked by the
agency to consider whether more study on the risks should be
conducted, it has not been directed to vote on whether that
testing must be done prior to approval.  The focus on cardiovascular risk was expected,  Martin Voegtli , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, said in
an e-mail.  Blood Sugar  “I have not seen anything in the documents so far that
would change our base case: positive panel vote and FDA approval
in early 2013 with the requirement of a post-approval CV
outcomes study,” Voegtli said.  Novo attempted to prove Tresiba lowered the risk for
hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, over other insulins. The
company had claimed in June that the drug had a benefit over
Sanofi’s Lantus in reducing hypoglycemic events.  “We don’t think that’s true, and if you look at the FDA
documentation they don’t think it’s true either,” Amit Roy, an
analyst at Nomura International Plc in  London  said in a
telephone interview today.  The injection “did not suggest a clear benefit or harm”
over comparators for hypoglycemia in Type 1 diabetes, FDA staff
said. Consistent findings for a benefit in hypoglycemia are
lacking between trials, the staff said.  Tresiba has been approved for sale in  Japan  and won the
backing of a European Union advisory panel on Oct. 19.
Regulators in Japan,  Europe  and the U.S. had access to the same
data on Tresiba, Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, Novo’s chief science
officer, said last month when the FDA revealed the focus of the
meeting would be heart risks.  Diabetes is the seventh-leading cause of death in the U.S.
and is the leading cause of kidney failure and nontraumatic
lower-limb amputations, the CDC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  