-- NRC Seen Avoiding Furloughs After Budget Cuts, Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/nrc-seen-avoiding-furloughs-after-budget-cuts-chief-says.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Allison Macfarlane , in her first public meeting with
agency staff, ruled out furloughs or salary cuts as a result of
looming federal spending reductions to close a  budget deficit .  “There’s a potential for significant budget reductions
under sequestration,” as the cuts are known, Macfarlane said
yesterday during the meeting in Rockville,  Maryland .
Commissioners didn’t speculate as to how individual agency
programs may be affected, and Macfarlane declined to answer
questions after the meeting.  The NRC  budget  is more than $1 billion, with about 90
percent recovered from fees on reactor owners. The Congress-
approved spending would be cut about $85 million, or 8.2
percent, under the the law passed to cut the deficit, according
to a September report from the White House Office of Management
and Budget. Lawmakers can still vote to avert the reductions.  The meeting, at a hotel across the street from NRC
headquarters, gave employees a chance to question the five
commissioners on issues, including budget cuts and the agency’s
licensing schedule. Macfarlane used the meeting to distance
herself from  Gregory Jaczko , who quit as chairman this year
after colleagues criticized his management style and said he
bullied staff. Jaczko has rejected the accusations.  “I come here as a writer, a scientist and as a
professor,” said Macfarlane, a former professor at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia. She said it’s important for her
to ask tough questions and to challenge conventional wisdom.
“You need to do this to reach new insights.”  ‘Managed Well’  While Macfarlane, who joined the agency in July, said she
thinks the NRC’s budget is generally “managed well,”
Commissioner Kristine Svinicki said there is room for
“substantial improvement.” Svinicki didn’t say what changes
should be made.  In addition to dealing with possible budget constraints,
the NRC is considering new regulations in response to a triple
meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in Japan after a
2011 earthquake and tsunami. Three of the 104 U.S. operating
reactors shut last week during  Hurricane Sandy , and a fourth,
 Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek plant in New Jersey, declared an
alert and remains off line.  Macfarlane said she is focused on consideration of the
Fukushima-related rules and how natural disasters including
flooding may affect nuclear regulation.  “We need to be proactive in understanding how the earth is
changing,” she said.  Svinicki said attendance appeared at yesterday’s meeting to
be higher than in recent years.  Commissioner George Apostolakis, a former professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , praised Macfarlane’s
academic credentials.  “I can assure you the commission now is in great shape,
and we love each other,” he said to laughter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  