-- Oaktree Has Third-Quarter Profit as Assets, Fees Increase
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-06T16:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/oaktree-has-third-quarter-profit-as-assets-fees-increase.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
distressed-debt investor that went public in April, posted a
third-quarter profit compared with a loss in the year-earlier
period as assets rose and the firm gathered more fees.  Net income rose to $25.2 million, or 84 cents, from a loss
of $36.5 million, or $1.61, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based
Oaktree said in a statement today. Assets under management rose
to $81 billion from $78.7 billion at the end of the second
quarter on market gains and new commitments.  Oaktree, the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, has
sought to take advantage of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis by
buying distressed assets, closing its ninth distressed-debt fund
during the quarter with $5 billion. The firm is also set to
gather capital for its first fund dedicated to emerging-market
distressed and dislocated debt, which is expected to hold its
first close early next year, Oaktree said today.  “You’ve got a huge amount of lending that’s been done into
the  emerging markets ,”  John Frank , a managing principal at
Oaktree, said in a telephone interview. “A lot of the historic
participants in that marketplace, including the European banks,
are now capital-constrained.”  Oaktree  rose  0.2 percent to 43.26 at 11:07 a.m. in  New York 
trading. The shares are up from Oaktree’s $43 offering price in
the April 11 IPO, when it raised $380 million after selling 8.84
million shares.  Fees Rise  Adjusted net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, rose to $157.7 million, or 88 cents a share, from $3.3
million, or a loss of 1 cent, a year ago, Oaktree said. Adjusted
net income excludes some expenses, including noncash equity
compensation and income taxes.  Management fees rose 5.2 percent from a year ago to $182.6
million as fee-earning assets under management increased.
Investment income, the profit Oaktree makes by putting its own
money into fund investments, was $62.8 million, compared with a
loss of $86.1 million in the third quarter last year, as the
firm benefited from rising stock markets worldwide.  “The markets were good and helpful,” Oaktree’s Frank
said. “We’re excited about the fact that stock prices have
picked up.”  The firm said it will pay a dividend of 55 cents a unit to
shareholders on Nov. 20.  Oaktree and private-equity firm  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  are taking control of Nine Entertainment Co. through a A$2.3
billion ($2.4 billion) debt-for-equity swap as  Australia ’s
second-largest broadcaster restructures. The new owners have no
immediate plans to sell Nine, according to a person with
knowledge of the deliberations.  Oaktree last month agreed to sell Jackson Square Aviation
LLC to  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Co. (8593)  for 100 billion yen
($1.25 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  