-- Crude Futures Trade Near Four-Month Low Before U.S. Elections
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-11-06T09:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-before-election-shipments-resume.html
Oil traded close to a four-month low
in  New York  before presidential elections in the U.S., the
world’s largest crude consumer, while fuel shipments resumed on
the East Coast after  Hurricane Sandy .  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed as
fifteen tankers, including two crude carriers, will arrive this
week in New York Harbor, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.
Phillips 66 said it will resume operations in two to three weeks
at its Bayway refinery in  New Jersey . U.S. voters decide today
whether to return  Barack Obama  as president or elect his
challenger  Mitt Romney .  “Traders are obviously eyeing the presidential elections,
and demand concerns are going to haunt crude prices for the time
being,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London who last month correctly predicted that Brent crude
prices would slide.  West Texas Intermediate oil for December delivery was at
$85.59 a barrel, down 6 cents, in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 8:57 a.m. London time. The contract
traded at $84.34 yesterday, the lowest intraday level since July
12. Prices have dropped 13 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement was down 38 cents at $107.35
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark crude was at a premium of $21.76 to New York-traded
WTI after widening 6.1 percent yesterday.  Forties Deferrals  Brent’s premium to WTI has grown amid maintenance at the
North Sea fields that underlie the Brent contract.  Fifteen of 16 Forties oil cargoes were deferred in October
and at least 60 percent of consignments in November were
delayed. That’s an unprecedented number of disruptions,
according to a survey of five traders yesterday, three of whom
have been involved in this crude market for more than 10 years.  Morgan Stanley increased its forecast for the Brent-WTI
spread in the fourth quarter to about $20 a barrel from $17.50
previously because of the disruptions. The premium will average
about $19 in November and December, the bank said in a report e-
mailed today.  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  said yesterday that it restarted the 200,000
barrel-a-day North Sea Buzzard oil field, the biggest
contributor to Forties blend, after two months of maintenance.  New York  Colonial Pipeline Co. began deliveries from its Linden, New
Jersey, fuel tank farm to customers with operable terminals and
is working with facilities that haven’t reopened to ensure
service is restarted promptly, according to  Steve Baker , a
company spokesman.  Phillips 66 plans to resume operations at the 238,000
barrel-a-day Bayway plant, the largest single refinery on the
U.S. East Coast, after repairing the electrical equipment that
was primarily damaged by Sandy, the Houston-based company said
on its website. Process units are “in good condition,” it
said. The refinery was one of seven plants with a total capacity
of 1.29 million barrels a day that halted production or cut
rates because of Sandy.  U.S. fuel inventories probably fell last week after the
storm shut the refineries and terminals, according to the median
of nine analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Department report this week.  Stockpiles of  gasoline  decreased by 1.5 million barrels to
198 million in the seven days ended Nov. 2, according to the
median of nine analyst estimates. Supplies of  distillate fuel , a
category that includes diesel and heating oil, probably declined
1.25 million barrels to 116.7 million. A decrease of that size
would leave inventories at the lowest level since June 2008.  Oil in New York has technical support along its lower
Bollinger Band around $83.76 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures rebounded after reaching this
indicator the past two days, signaling buy orders may be
clustered close to it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  