-- Hollande Raises French Sales Tax, Signaling Economic Shift
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-11-06T16:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/hollande-to-raise-french-sales-tax-cut-spending-from-2014.html
President  Francois Hollande  will
raise  France ’s main sales tax rates to finance a cut in payroll
charges, throwing support behind businesses for the first time
in a bid to counter a record trade deficit and revive  growth .  By lifting the two highest value-added tax rates in 2014,
Hollande is revisiting a policy he campaigned against in his
successful bid to unseat predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  earlier
this year.  Hollande is setting out his plan in a week where France is
coming under pressure from the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Commission to improve its competitiveness as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis prompts neighboring Spain and
 Italy  to overhaul their economies. The IMF said yesterday that
France needs “serious structural reform” and the commission is
slated to issue another report tomorrow.  The French government’s plan “moves in the right direction
and sends the right message both to public opinion and the
international community,” said Michel Martinez, an economist at
 Societe Generale  in Paris. “It’s important that they’re
shifting taxation from work to other areas.”  France’s  main sales-tax  rate will increase in January 2014
to 20 percent from 19.6 percent, while the second band on home
renovations and restaurants will rise to 10 percent from 7
percent currently. A third rate that applies to food and energy
will be cut to 5 percent from 5.5 percent in an effort to
support the spending power of France’s poorest households,
French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today.  Spending Cuts  The government will also seek to cut spending by an
additional 10 billion euros ($12.8 billion).  In return, companies will receive a tax credit for all
salaries between the  minimum wage  of 1,425.67 euros and 3,564.18
euros a month. While the credit will be in place starting next
year, companies will only see the benefit on the tax bill they
will pay the following year. In total, the reduction in charges
to companies will be 20 billion euros and equate to a 6 percent
cut in wage costs, Ayrault said.  “The French economy has been allowed to fall behind those
of its European partners,” Ayrault told journalists in Paris.
“The priority is to incite investment and give our companies
room for maneuver.”  Hollande’s Shift  The comments and the plan amount to a shift in stance for a
government that since coming to power in May has placed a levy
of 75 percent on personal earnings of more than 1 million euros,
increased the minimum wage and raised taxes by about 27 billion
euros annually.  Even so, the measures falls short of the “competitiveness
shock” called for by former Airbus SAS chief  Louis Gallois  in a
report to Hollande yesterday, economists said. Opposition
critics also say the plan is too complex, especially for small
companies.  “There’s some genius in the  finance ministry  who has
designed this to make it impossible,” former Sarkozy
Environment and Energy Minister Jean-Louis Borloo said today in
parliament. “The situation is urgent and companies need
clarity. Why don’t we make it simple by just cutting charges?”  Sarkozy’s plan, announced Jan. 30, would have increased the
main sales tax rate by 1.6 percentage points to 21.2 percent
starting in October to fund a 13 billion-euro cut in payroll
charges.  ‘Confusing’ Message  “France is sending confusing messages,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at  Standard Chartered  in  London . “The
lower social contributions will be welcomed as important to
restore competitiveness but this comes after several corporate
taxes have been increased” and most of the measures announced
today will be “back-loaded, so companies will still have to pay
high social contributions in the near term.”  Hollande’s goal is partly to get his plan through without
alienating supporters among unions who helped put him in office.
The president’s approval rating among French voters has dropped
to 36 percent, according to a  TNS Sofres poll  taken Oct. 25 and
26. That’s down from 55 percent in May.  “The logic of cutting labor costs is an error of diagnosis
and a social mistake,” Jean-Claude Mailly of the Force Ouvriere
union said today on  Europe  1 radio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  