-- Hollande Introduces Same-Sex Marriage Bill in French Cabinet
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-11-07T14:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/hollande-to-unveil-same-sex-marriage-bill-in-french-cabinet.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
government introduced a bill allowing same-sex marriage,
challenging religious leaders and the main opposition party.  The proposal in today’s Cabinet meeting, one of Hollande’s
campaign promises, will be debated in  Parliament  in January and
February.  “This is a step forward toward equality, a step that had
been delayed for too long,” government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told a press conference in Paris. Hollande told
ministers the bill must represent “progress not just for some
but for society as a whole,” she said.  Former President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s  Union for a Popular
Movement  party is seeking to block the bill.  France ’s Catholic
leader, Cardinal Andre Vingt-Trois, said in a sermon on Nov. 3
that it would be the “ultimate fraud” and that children should
be “raised with a mother and a father as their reference
point.” Protestant, Jewish and Muslim leaders also oppose the
measure.  “The president said today the bill was going to create a
debate and that this debate is legitimate, but it must be
controlled and respectful of opinions as well as beliefs,”
Vallaud-Belkacem said.  Court Ruling  The bill follows a January ruling by France’s
constitutional court, which stated that parliament had the right
to restrict marriage to a man and a woman. The decision,
published on the court’s website, said that “the different
situation between a couple made up of partners of the same sex
and a couple composed of a man and woman can justify a
difference in treatment as to family law.”  Opponents of the same-sex marriage bill plan rallies around
the country on Nov. 17.  Spain ’s highest court upheld a law legalizing gay marriage
today, ending a seven-year battle to overturn one of the biggest
legislative victories of former Socialist Party Prime Minister
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero . Same-sex marriage won approval
yesterday from voters in the U.S. states of Maine and Maryland,
according to the  Associated Press , the first time gay unions
have been endorsed at the ballot box in the U.S.  A poll published in Le Monde newspaper today showed that 65
percent of French voters support same-sex marriage, up from 63
percent one year ago and from 48 percent in 1996. The survey
showed that support for gay adoption dropped to 52 percent from
58 percent last year, though that was up from 33 percent in
1996. The Paris-based Ifop institute polled 1,371 people online
age 18 and older between Oct. 29 and Oct. 31. It didn’t publish
margins of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  