-- Thomas Lynch, E.F. Hutton CFO During Scandal, Dies at 88
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-11-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/thomas-lynch-e-f-hutton-cfo-stung-by-check-kiting-dies-at-88.html
Thomas P. Lynch, the E.F. Hutton &
Co. chief financial officer blamed in part for the check-
overdraft scandal that contributed to the brokerage’s demise in
the 1980s, has died. He was 88.  He died on Oct. 28 at his home in Vero Beach,  Florida ,
according to his daughter, Francine Lynch. No cause was given.
He was a longtime resident of Madison, New Jersey.  Lynch’s appointment as E.F. Hutton’s CFO in 1972 was a
milestone in a career that began at Haskins & Sells, an auditor
of Wall Street firms. He was a top lieutenant of Robert Fomon,
E.F. Hutton’s longtime chairman and chief executive officer,
according to Mark Stevens’s 1989 book, “Sudden Death: The Rise
and Fall of E.F. Hutton.” In 1983, Lynch became president of
E.F. Hutton Group, the holding company for its divisions.  He was part of a management team that propelled the firm
from its initial public offering in the early 1970s to become
what the  New York  Times described in 1975 as the nation’s
second-largest brokerage. A television advertising campaign --
with the slogan, “When E.F. Hutton talks, people listen” --
solidified the company as a household name.  The scandal that singed Lynch and other E.F. Hutton
executives involved the intentional overdrawing of its bank
accounts by as much as $250 million a day, creating phantom
interest-free funds to invest elsewhere. The scheme, known as
check-kiting, took advantage of the delay in the clearing of
checks. In  May 1985 , the company, then the fifth-largest U.S.
brokerage, pleaded guilty to 2,000 counts of mail and wire fraud
and agreed to pay a $2 million fine.  Internal Review  Griffin Bell, who had served as attorney general under
President Jimmy Carter, was hired by E.F. Hutton to conduct an
internal investigation. While pinning primary blame on six
branch managers, Bell’s report held more than a dozen senior
officials, including Lynch, partly accountable.  “Lynch, as de facto chief financial officer, failed in his
responsibility to ensure that adequate controls were established
to prevent abuses in the Hutton cash management system,” Bell
wrote. Lynch “should have been aware of potential abuses of
over-drafting,” Bell wrote.  E.F. Hutton in 1985  announced  Lynch’s resignation as vice
chairman, chief financial officer and secretary, as well as the
resignation of Thomas Morley as senior vice president and Thomas
Rae as chief legal counsel, according to a Time magazine
account. Lynch remained a company director and continued to
receive his full salary. He retired in 1986.  Following Report  Francine Lynch said yesterday in an interview that her
father “knew he had been responsible in doing his job” and
believed the check-kiting incident had exposed a governance flaw
within E.F. Hutton.  “The impression on Wall Street was that he took the
fall,” Lynch said. “He was blamed and he was made responsible
because it happened on his watch.”  In 1988, the New York Stock Exchange  censured  Lynch and
George L. Ball, who had been E.F. Hutton president from 1977 to
1982, for their roles in the check-kiting case. Lynch and Ball,
who by then was chairman of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.,
consented to the findings of the exchange’s hearing panel
without admitting or denying guilt, according to a New York
Times account.  Also in 1988, Shearson Lehman Brothers acquired E.F.
Hutton.  Thomas Peter Lynch was born on May 3, 1924, in New York
City, according to a  death notice  on the website of Strunk
Funeral Home in Vero Beach. He attended Syracuse University
before entering active duty with the U.S. Army’s 69th Infantry
Division during World War II, according to the death notice. He
was awarded a Bronze Star for his service in  Germany , according
to the notice. He graduated from Baruch College.  After working at Haskins & Sells, now part of Deloitte LLP,
he was a general partner at Bache & Co. before joining E.F.
Hutton.  Lynch’s wife, the former Madeleine D’Eufemia, died in 2009.
In addition to their daughter, Francine Lynch of New York City,
the couple had a son, Richard Lynch of Vero Beach, according to
the death notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  