-- London & Stamford in Talks to Buy Metric to Form REIT
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-11-06T17:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/london-stamford-in-talks-to-buy-metric-to-form-reit.html
London & Stamford Property Plc (LSP)  is in
talks to buy  Metric Property Investments Plc (METP)  in an all-share
deal that would combine two U.K. real estate investment trusts
focused on commercial property.  London & Stamford would offer 0.94 of a new share for each
Metric share, the two companies said in a joint statement today.
That values Metric’s shares at 109 pence, 17 percent higher than
the closing price yesterday, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. A purchase at that price would give Metric a value
of 207 million pounds ($331 million).  “A significant return of capital to both sets of
shareholders following the completion of the merger is
planned,” the companies said in the statement.  A takeover would reunite former colleagues who set up
separate companies to make U.K. commercial property acquisitions
after the financial crisis damped lending and caused a  slide in
values .  London &  Stamford , founded in late 2007, was the third
venture of property entrepreneurs Raymond Mould and Patrick Vaughan. Its most high-profile deal was the purchase and sale of
a 50 percent stake in the Meadowhall mall near Sheffield, which
delivered a 32 percent annual return, broker Peel Hunt LLP
estimated.  Metric closed up about 10 percent at 102 pence, the highest
since March 2010, giving the company a market value of 194
million pounds. London & Stamford declined 3 pence, or 2.6
percent, to 114 pence, giving it a market value of 619 million
pounds.  Former Colleagues  Metric, started by three former British Land Co.
executives, raised 175 million pounds in a March 2010  initial
public share offering  to acquire shopping centers and retail
parks. Its Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Jones, will have the
same job in a combined company with London & Stamford, according
to the statement. Jones was part of the management team at
Pillar Property Plc, which Mould and Vaughan sold to British
Land in 2005.  Aside from reuniting Jones with his mentors, “the merger
elegantly gives London & Standard management succession,”
Jefferies Group Inc. analysts  Mike Prew  and  Robert Duncan  said
in a note to investors.  London & Stamford’s Vaughan, 65, would become executive
chairman of the new group, the companies said. Mould 71, intends
to retire and act as an adviser for an unspecified period.  Investment Partners  London & Stamford owns residential, office, retail and
distribution warehouse properties, some of which it also manages
for investment partners Green Park Investments, based in the
 Middle East , and Canada’s Public Sector Investment Board. Metric
owns “big box” retail warehouses and supermarkets with a total
of more than 1 million square feet (92,900 square meters) of
space.  Today’s statement doesn’t represent a firm intention to
make an offer and the terms may change, the companies said.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Peel Hunt are advising London &
Stamford, while Metric is being advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Oriel Securities Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  