-- Money Laundering, Price Gouging, Bank Suits: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-06T13:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/money-laundering-price-gouging-bank-suits-compliance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said it’s likely to
face criminal charges from U.S. anti-money-laundering probes and
the cost of a settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5
billion the bank has set aside.  The lender made an additional $800 million provision in the
third quarter to cover a potential settlement, adding to the
$700 million it had already earmarked. HSBC also put aside $357
million in the period to compensate U.K. clients wrongly sold
payment-protection insurance on loans as it posted an increase
in pretax  profit  that missed analysts’ estimates.  “The resolution of at least some of these matters is
likely to involve the filing of corporate criminal as well as
civil charges,” HSBC said in a statement yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s attempts to
reduce costs at the bank are being hobbled by the U.S. probes
and compensation claims from U.K. clients. A Senate committee
said in July that failures in HSBC money-laundering controls
allowed terrorists and drug cartels access to the U.S. financial
system. Standard Chartered Plc, which like HSBC makes most of
its profit in Asia, paid $340 million in August to settle a
regulator’s claim it broke Iranian sanctions rules.  HSBC has been in talks with U.S. regulators over
allegations it laundered funds of sanctioned nations including
Iran and  Sudan . The probes prompted Standard & Poor’s to
question whether the lender,  Europe ’s largest by market value,
is too big to be managed effectively.  A settlement of $1.5 billion would be the biggest reached
in the U.S. over such allegations, topping the $619 million in
penalties paid in June by  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Price-Gouging Complaints Probed by N.Y., N.J. After Sandy  The attorneys general in New York and New Jersey are
investigating complaints from consumers about price gouging for
gasoline, food and generators following  Hurricane Sandy .  New York is investigating “hundreds of complaints” from
across the state, mostly related to gas prices, New York
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a statement
yesterday. New Jersey said Nov. 2 that it had issued subpoenas
to 65 businesses.  New York’s  price-gouging law  prohibits merchants form
taking advantage of consumers by selling goods or services for
an “unconscionably excessive price” during “abnormal
disruption of the market.”  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Attorney General
Jeffrey Chiesa said in a statement Nov. 2 that the Division of
Consumer Affairs was investigating more than 500 consumer
complaints about prices for gas, generators, batteries, food and
lodging. Gas prices in some cases allegedly rose by $1 or more a
gallon following the storm and in some instances allegedly
exceeded $5 a gallon, according to the statement.  A spokesman for the Division of Consumer Affairs didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment yesterday.  Deutsche Post Bulk-Mail Pricing Probed by Antitrust Agency  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , the world’s biggest carrier of air and
sea freight by volume, is being probed by  Germany ’s Federal
Cartel Office over claims it is undercutting competitors on
bulk-mail pricing.  Pricing for bulk mail at banks, health insurers and
telecommunication companies are being investigated and
questionnaires have been sent to Deutsche Post clients, the
regulator said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The allegation is that Deutsche Post charges prices below
its costs,” Andreas Mundt, the regulator’s president, said in
the statement. “We are probing whether Deutsche Post is trying
to push competitors out of the market by using a price war
strategy.”  Competitors complained last year to another regulator, the
Federal Network Agency, about the pricing policy at Deutsche
Post’s Infopost service, which lets companies send letters to
multiple recipients at a reduced price as long as the content is
identical. The network regulator, which oversees former state-
owned monopolies, in April asked Deutsche Post to change some
policies for the product.  Dirk Klasen, a spokesman for Bonn, Germany-based Deutsche
Post, said the company was surprised the regulator opened a case
and contacted clients before discussing the allegation with the
company. The network agency has also looked into the rebate
system for bulk mail and found no violation, he said.  Ebix Accounting Practices Said to Be Probed by SEC  Ebix Inc. (EBIX) , the insurance software company that said it was
targeted by  short sellers  last year, is being investigated by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for its accounting
practices, four people with direct knowledge of the probe said.  The SEC investigation, conducted over the past year, is
focused on revenue recognition, internal controls and the
accuracy of the company’s public statements to shareholders,
said three of the people, who asked not to be named because the
probe wasn’t public.  Robin Raina, Ebix’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said his company wasn’t under SEC scrutiny.  “You could not be more off the mark -- that is a complete
lie and at least not known to us in any manner whatsoever,”
Raina wrote in an e-mail.  There’s no public indication that SEC litigation of any
kind is imminent, given that Ebix hasn’t received a Wells
Notice, a warning from the SEC that it is prepared to sue.  “We’ve received no notice from SEC enforcement that
they’re investigating us,” said John Jordak, a lawyer for Ebix
at Alston & Bird LLP.  Justin Jeffries, the SEC attorney said to be leading the
investigation, didn’t return phone calls seeking comment on the
probe. Kevin Callahan, an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The SEC probe comes as Atlanta-based  Ebix  is fighting at
least four lawsuits accusing it of inflating income levels or
mishandling internal accounting.  For more, click here.  U.K. Financier Levene Sentenced to 13 Years in Prison for Fraud  Nicholas Levene, the London-based financier, was sentenced
to 13 years in prison after pleading guilty to fraud, false
accounting and obtaining a money transfer by deception, the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office said.  Levene, the former deputy chairman of both Nicola Horlick’s
Bramdean Asset Management LLP and Leyton Orient Football Club,
lost more than 32 million pounds ($51.1 million) of investors’
cash between 2005 and 2009, the SFO said in an e-mailed
statement. He was sentenced yesterday at Southwark Crown Court
in  London .  “This was a complex and extensive fraud where Nicholas
Levene used investors’ monies to finance a lavish personal
lifestyle,” Jonathan Midgley, an SFO lawyer, said in the
statement.  Between January 2005 and October 2009, Levene obtained over
250 million pounds from investors, according to the SFO. Over 18
million pounds was used to buy property in the U.K. and  Israel ,
or spent on overseas travel and “lifestyle expenses.”  The SFO started its criminal investigation of Levene in
October 2009 and charged him in 2011. Levene, 48, admitted to 12
counts of fraud, and one each of false accounting and obtaining
a money transfer by deception on Sept. 24.  In the Courts  JPMorgan Loses Bid to Dismiss FHFA Mortgage Securities Suits  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost a bid to have a U.S. judge
dismiss lawsuits filed by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
against 16 U.S. banks over mortgage-backed securities.  JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp.  and Citigroup Inc. were
among the lenders sued last year for allegedly misleading Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac about the soundness of loans underlying
billions of dollars of residential mortgage-backed securities.
JPMorgan served as the lead underwriter for 30 out of the 103
securitizations at issue in this case.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  yesterday
rejected a bid to throw out the FHFA’s complaint, overruling
arguments that the agency lacked factual support that the loans
underlying the securitizations weren’t underwritten in
accordance with the guidelines set out in the offering
documents.  “The agency’s reliance on this information is not, as the
defendants allege, an effort to argue ‘fraud by hindsight’;
rather the amended complaint suggests that these market events
are telltale signs of defects that were present in the
securitizations all along, albeit, unbeknownst to the public,”
the judge wrote.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  Cote did narrow the case, dismissing some claims alleging
violations of the Virginia Securities Act as well as fraud
claims regarding the owner-occupancy and loan-to-value ratio of
the securities for which New York-based JPMorgan served as lead
underwriter.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the ruling.  Also sued by the FHFA were Barclays Plc, Nomura Holdings
Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Societe Generale SA, Morgan Stanley,
Ally Financial Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and First Horizon National
Corp.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., 11-CV-6188, U.S. District court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Royal Park Sues Bank of America Over Mortgage Securities  Royal Park Investments SA/NV sued  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
the second-largest U.S. bank, in New York state court over
losses on about $1.6 billion in residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The suit seeks damages of more than $713 million for losses
on the securities, which were initially purchased by third
parties, according to a complaint filed in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan on Oct. 26.  Royal Park, based in Brussels, was set up in May 2009 by
Fortis Bank SA/NV, the Belgian state and BNP Paribas SA to
manage a pool of distressed-debt securities. It sued Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit and other defendants, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse
Group AG, and Deutsche Bank AG in the same court in July over
losses on mortage-backed securities.  Royal Park said in the complaint that it relied on
“misrepresentations and omissions” in offering materials for
the securities, and accused the bank of making “false and
misleading” statements about statistical characteristics of the
loans underlying the investments, such as the percentage of
owner-occupied properties.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  Bank of America said in a regulatory filing on Nov. 2 that
it settled three cases where foreign mortgage-bond investors
accused the lender of misrepresenting the quality of loans with
the securities.  The firm settled suits with  Dexia SA (DEXB) , Sealink Funding Ltd.
and Bayerische Landesbank, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned
lender, on Sept. 27, Bank of America said in the regulatory
filing. The firm didn’t disclose the amounts it paid.  The lender also said it could have as much as $2.8 billion
in legal costs as of Sept. 30 beyond what it has already set
aside. That’s a decline from the $4.1 billion estimated three
months earlier because of a settlement of a class-action suit
tied to the 2009 takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co., said  Jerry
Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.  The case is Royal Park Investments SA/NV v. Bank of
America Corp., 653773/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  Fired Bankers’ Lawsuits Fail as Judges Tire of Bonus Claims  Fired bankers suing for unfair dismissal and unpaid bonuses
have found little success at London’s specialty employment
courts as continuing anger over the financial crisis has left
judges unsympathetic.  The adverse decisions from the U.K. Employment Tribunal
come after London bankers had a run of legal successes with
courts ruling they were entitled to large bonuses written into
contracts before the economic downturn. The latest round of
cases have largely been based instead on wrongful termination,
where the banks have been able to make stronger arguments.  A former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker, fired for mispricing
aluminum trades, discovered the new reality the hard way Oct.
17, when a London judge threw out his suit for not properly
explaining how “a large number of errors” he made benefited
his trading book by about $400,000. Other claims tossed this
year involved securities manipulation and threats from
colleagues.  “In the current climate there is little sympathy for
bankers,” said Andreas White, an employment lawyer at Kingsley
Napley LLP in London. “Banking is the only industry where
claimant employees are even less popular” than their bosses.  While the U.K government currently is seeking to restrict
damages at specialty tribunals, claims in the trial courts,
known as the High Court, can reap unlimited rewards.  Before this year, the High Court generally ruled in favor
of bankers in disputes over bonuses in the face of public anger
about the financial crisis triggered in part by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Many cases coming through were contractual, but now we’re
seeing more fact-reliant cases that perhaps aren’t as strong,”
said Sean Nesbitt, a lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP. “The
tribunal isn’t disposed to being sympathetic towards
opportunistic claims.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  