-- Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan to Open Hong Kong Office in 2013
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-11-06T03:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ontario-teachers-pension-plan-to-open-hong-kong-office-in-2013.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan ,
 Canada ’s third-largest retirement fund, plans to open a Hong
Kong office next year as it diversifies its investments and
bridges funding shortfalls.  Deborah Allan , the retirement fund’s Toronto-based director
of communications and media relations, declined to give further
details in an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg News inquiry,
saying plans are not yet finalized. The retirement fund had
C$117 billion ($117 billion) of assets at the end of last year.  Ontario Teachers’ is among North American retirement funds,
including Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and the Church
Pension Fund, to set up a presence in Asia as they try to tap
the region’s economic growth. Developing Asian nations are
projected to grow 7.2 percent in 2013, while  China  is forecast
to expand 8.2 percent, compared with the 3.6 percent global
growth forecast, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Ontario Teachers’ reported an investment return of 11
percent last year, according to its 2011 annual report.
Estimated funding shortfall narrowed to C$9.6 billion, from
C$17.2 billion a year earlier, the report showed.  Ontario Teachers’, which invests and administers retirement
savings of 300,000 active and retired teachers in Canada’s most-
populous province, has offices in London and  New York  outside of
Toronto, according to the annual report.  Major Growth  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, the nation’s second-
largest retirement fund, in February hired Mark Machin, former
vice-chairman for Asia-Pacific region excluding  Japan  of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., to head its Asian unit. It opened its Asian
office in Hong Kong in 2008. Church Pension Fund, which oversees
$9.5 billion of assets for clergy of the Episcopal Church, has
had a  Hong Kong  office since 2009.  Ontario Teachers’ saw Asia as a major area of growth and an
action plan to expand in the region was still at the proposal
stage, the Independent on Sunday reported in June, citing an
unidentified industry person.  The retirement fund invested 79 percent of its C$51.7
billion public and private equities holdings outside of Canada
last year, according to its annual report. Its non-Canadian
equities returned 0.2 percent over the last four years, beating
the 2.3 percent decline of its Canadian equity holdings.  In June, it bought Korea Asset Management Corp.’s 9.9
percent stake in Kyobo Life Insurance Co. for about 470 billion
won ($430 million).  Ontario Teachers’ is seeking private investment
opportunities in  India , Jane Rowe, its head of private equity,
said in July. It made its first foray into the country by
investing in Mumbai-based buyout company Kedaara Capital
Advisors LLP, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  