-- Top-Performing Won Threatens to Hurt Korea Export Rebound
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-11-07T05:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/top-performing-won-threatens-to-crimp-south-korea-export-rebound.html
South Korea ’s won, the best performer
among  Asia ’s most-traded currencies since June, is threatening
to curtail exports just as the  economy  shows signs of a rebound
in growth.  The won may appreciate 8.6 percent to 1,000 per dollar by
the end of 2013, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
BNP Paribas SA forecasts.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , the nation’s second-
largest carmaker, said Oct. 26 that currency gains may hurt
profitability. The won touched a 14-month high after  Barack Obama  secured re-election as U.S. president today.  The  exchange rate ,  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in
 China  may prevent the economy from meeting the government’s 2013
growth estimate of 4 percent, according to the National Assembly
Budget Office. While the central bank is forecast to keep rates
 unchanged  on Nov. 9, policy makers may come under increasing
pressure to cut rates in coming months should inflows of capital
drive the currency higher.  “The interest-rate gap between developed countries and
South  Korea  is spurring bond market inflows and triggering won
appreciation,” said Stephen Lee, a Seoul-based economist for
Samsung Securities Co., who sees the benchmark rate cut to 2.25
percent from 2.75 percent within the first half of next year.
“The  Bank of Korea  will have to lower rates to lessen this
pressure.”  The won appreciated 0.5 percent to 1,085.85 per dollar as
of 1:53 p.m. in  Seoul , after earlier touching 1,085.55. Asian
stocks advanced, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index up as much as
0.6 percent.  2013 Growth  The National Assembly Budget Office sees the won at 1,096
won per dollar or stronger for next year, which compares with
the 1,130 assumed in President  Lee Myung Bak ’s budget proposal.
Asia’s fourth-largest economy may expand 3.5 percent in 2013,
according to the report.  The won is weighing on firms such as auto-parts supplier
 TLtek Co . outside Seoul, which relies on exports for about 95
percent of revenue, said Chief Executive Officer Ahn Yong Joon.  “We’re entirely helpless as the won has gained enough to
threaten our profit margin significantly,” he said.  “With the
global economic crisis dragging on private consumption for big
items such as cars, we can’t raise export prices.”  South Korea’s overseas sales rose for the first time in
four months in October, a bright spot after the economy expanded
1.6 percent from a year earlier in the third quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009. The BOK will report revised growth for
the period on Dec. 6, with Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan saying
on Oct. 9 that the economy reached a “bottom.”  Global Indicators  Economic indicators around the world today will include
German industrial production -- forecast to have declined in
September from August -- and mortgage applications in the U.S.
In  Australia , a private gauge indicated that construction shrank
at a slower pace in October.  The Bank of Korea and the Financial Supervisory Service on
Nov. 5 began reviewing banks’ currency forward positions,
according to a central bank official. Hana Bank and Societe
Generale SA will be investigated, along with  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the official said.  “Policy makers seem to be tinkering with additional
capital-flow control measures such as tightened currency
forwards limits, but they will move very cautiously,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul.
“The central bank may feel tempted to cut interest rates
further if the won rises through 1,050 per dollar, hurting
growth momentum of exports.”  Bond Holdings  Overseas investors increased holdings of South Korea’s
local-currency bonds by 5.7 trillion won ($5.2 billion) this
year to 88.7 trillion won at the end of last month, according to
data by the financial regulator. The amount is almost double
that held by foreigners in 2009.  A 1 percent appreciation in the won would lower the
earnings of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the country’s largest automaker,
by an estimated 1.2 percent in 2013 and that of its affiliate
Kia by 1.6 percent, according to an Oct. 31 research note from
Morgan Stanley. Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest
maker of TVs and mobile phones, would see an estimated 1 percent
less profit in 2013 from a 1 percent increase in the won, the
report said.  A survey of 160 exporters by the Korea Chamber of Commerce
and Industry last month showed that 53 percent said they were
already suffering as a result of currency gains. Shipbuilders,
steelmakers and textile producers are among the most vulnerable
groups, said Sohn Young Ki, head of the chamber’s macroeconomic
team.  “The speed of the won’s appreciation is also worrisome,
especially given that it’s happening even though the Bank of
Korea cut  interest rates  twice” this year, Sohn said.  Currency Forecasts  The currency, which has risen 6.1 percent against the
dollar this year, may strengthen another 0.5 percent to 1080 by
the end of 2013, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  To be sure, the won’s rise against the yen isn’t enough to
reverse market share gains by South Korean companies against
Japanese rivals, according to the Oct. 31 Morgan Stanley report.
The won has gained about 11 percent against the yen this year.  The won was 14.8 percent weaker compared with its average
level of 929.15 per dollar in 2007, as of yesterday’s close. A
level of 1,050 per dollar should be “manageable” for South
Korea’s big exporters, said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional
economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore .  TLtek Co.’s Ahn said that earlier this year he projected an
operating profit of 2 billion won on sales of 32 billion for
2012. That estimate was based on the won at a range of 1,130 to
1,140 per dollar and an appreciation to 1,050 per dollar would
cut his earnings by half, he said.  “The won remained comfortably weak over the past few
years, giving us a considerable edge over the prices in the
global market,” he said. “Now the heyday seems to be over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  