-- Mortgage Investors Face More ‘Meddling’ With Obama, Annaly Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-11-06T18:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/mortgage-investors-face-more-meddling-with-obama-annaly-says.html
Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the
largest real-estate investment trust that buys mortgage debt,
said a re-election of President  Barack Obama  may lead to more
aggressive housing policies, including new efforts to spur
 refinancing  among borrowers with government-backed loans.  “The way I see it is if Obama wins, then we potentially
see more policy meddling,” Wellington Denahan-Norris, chief
executive officer of the New York-based firm with $141.6 billion
of assets as of Sept. 30,  said  today on a conference call.  Today’s election carries a series of implications for
investors in the $5.2 trillion market for government-backed
mortgage securities. Those include a potential new overseer for
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that could further expand Obama’s
refinancing push this year and a more “hawkish” head of the
 Federal Reserve , which in September under Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  started  acquiring  $40 billion of the bonds a month to
boost the economy, according to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  analysts.  Debt yields are also at stake with a so-called fiscal cliff
of spending cuts and tax increases more likely to be averted if
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  wins, creating less of a
flight to the relative safety of benchmark Treasuries, the
analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote in a Nov. 2 report. Romney
may also favor less aggressive Fed officials, they said.  Rate Outlook  Rates on new 30-year mortgages, which  reached  a record low
3.36 percent last month, would probably be 0.15 percentage point
to 0.2 percentage point higher under Romney and 0.1 percentage
point lower under Obama, the analysts said.  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value widened about 0.04
percentage point to 1.03 percentage point higher than an average
of five- and 10-year Treasury rates as of 1:15 p.m. in  New York .
The spread reached a record low 0.55 percentage point on Sept.
25 after the Fed expanded its purchases of the debt.  Mortgage-bond holders, who face an “uneconomic
competitor” in the central bank, would also probably see an
“elevated level” of prepayments continue if Obama is
reelected, Annaly’s Denahan-Norris said.  Investors who bought the securities for more than 100 cents
on the dollar face lower returns or losses if loans are prepaid
more quickly as the principal gets returned faster at par and
interest is curbed.  Prepay Slowdown  At the same time, Obama may also eventually allow borrowers
to keep low-rate mortgages or transfer them to home buyers, she
said. That would slow prepayments over the longer term, which
can damage holders of low-coupon bonds as benchmark yields rise.  “There was a time in the past that mortgages were
assumable and if  house prices  don’t allow for mobility in the
system, I could see them instituting policy that would make it
so that people could still move around and maintain a very low-
coupon mortgage,” Denahan-Norris said.  Obama administration officials have told housing activists
that the Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco would be replaced if the president is elected to a
second term, after the regulator for  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
failed to allow the government-supported firms to cut balances
for troubled borrowers, the Financial Times  reported  last month  “There are complications” to such a move given “the
ideological divide” in Congress,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts
led by Matt Jozoff said in a Nov. 2 report. Using a so-called
recess appointment to make a change at the FHFA may “muddy the
outlook for key cabinet positions and other nominees.”  No Equity  Under an expanded version of the federal Home Affordable
Refinance Program, more than 618,000 of Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac loans to borrowers with little or no home equity were
replaced in the first eight months of this year, compared with
400,024 last year, according to an FHFA  report  last month.  Gary Kain, the president of  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) ,
the second-largest mortgage REIT with $102 billion of assets,
said last week that refinancing policy is unlikely to change
much after the election.  DeMarco and Obama’s administration have clashed more on
policies such as whether to offer principal write-downs to
troubled homeowners that “are not really that big of an issue”
to investors in Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  mortgage bonds, he
said on a Nov. 1  conference call .  “We feel more comfortable right now than we have in ages
with respect to policy risk,” Kain said. “And we feel like we
know the landscape that we’re facing and we think that the
moving parts at this point are going to be very marginal
relative to some of the things we’ve seen in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  