-- Emerging Stock Swings at 2006 Low as Consumer Shares Rise
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-11-06T22:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/most-emerging-stocks-rise-led-by-sapurakencana-cipla.html
Consumer companies and energy
producers led an advance in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  as
price swings dropped to the lowest level since 2006. Brazilian
stocks jumped to a two-week high.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s
biggest gas distributor, had the steepest gain on the emerging-
markets gauge as Moscow-based OAO Gazprom agreed to cut the
price of the fuel.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., climbed to a six-month
high after China Development Bank Corp. agreed to provide
financing for some buyers of its vehicles. Brazilian steelmaker
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  rose the most since Sept.
13, following commodities higher.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.5 percent to
1006.27 at the close of trading in  New York . The gauge’s 30-day
historical  volatility  slid to 8.48, the lowest level since
January 2006, as U.S. voters decide today between giving
President  Barack Obama  another four-year term or replacing him
with Republican  Mitt Romney . The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
24 raw materials rose 2.3 percent, the most in a month.  “The fact that we get some answers is reassuring,” Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit
of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a phone interview. “It may be
just an euphoric reaction to knowing that at least we’re not
going to have to deal with campaigning. If investors can move
away from the concerns that have weighed on prices, there is the
potential for equity markets to move higher.”  Inflation Slows  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.8
percent to $41.13, the highest since Oct. 18. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, fell 1.9 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa index added 2.1 percent and Russia’s Micex
Index rose 0.4 percent on its fourth day of gains, led by
utilities companies. India’s Sensex increased 0.3 percent,
gaining for a fifth day, the longest winning streak since Sept.
17. The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 retreated 1 percent
after surging to a record high yesterday.  South Korea’s Kospi index rose 1.1 percent to a two-week
high, paced by automakers. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
advanced to a  record  for a second day after inflation slowed
more than predicted by analysts to a four-month low.
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. rallied for a fourth day after
Deutsche Bank AG maintained its buy rating. The FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index fell 0.5 percent, the lowest close since
Oct. 1.  China Leadership  The Turkish lira strengthened for a second day after Fitch
Ratings yesterday raised Turkey’s foreign-currency debt ranking
to investment grade. The Czech koruna weakened against the euro,
leading losses among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as industrial production contracted the most since
October 2009.  China’s  yuan  traded at the strong end of its permitted
trading range on speculation banks are selling dollars before
the U.S. election and the Chinese Communist Party Congress.  Equity trading volumes were lower than average today in
Russia, with 29 percent fewer shares changing hands in Micex
companies versus the 30-day average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Volumes were 12 percent higher on the Bovespa and
7.1 percent higher for companies on the Shanghai Composite
gauge.  Annual Gain  The MSCI emerging-market index has advanced 9.8 percent
this year, trailing an 11 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO) 
Shares in the developing markets gauge are valued at 11.6 times
estimated earnings, a 14 percent discount versus the 13.4
multiple for the developed nations’ index.  Gauges of consumer discretionary and energy stocks led
 gains  among the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10 industry
groups.  Hyundai (005380)  Motor Co. rallied in  Seoul , snapping a four-day
slump.  PGNiG surged 9.6 percent in Warsaw, the most on record and
the biggest jump in the MSCI index, after the company forecast
its profit will jump by as much as 3 billion zloty ($390
million) this year because Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export
monopoly, agreed to take market prices for natural gas into
account when pricing sales to PGNiG, according to the Polish
company’s statement.  Brazilian Usiminas was the second biggest advancer of the
emerging markets gauge. Shares gained 6.8 percent, the most
since Sept. 13.  Financing Buyers  Russia’s OAO MRSK Holding jumped 3.6 percent to a three-
week high after a Kommersant report spurred bets investors will
benefit from a consolidation. Federal Grid Co. will issue
additional shares that will be added to MRSK’s capital,
Kommersant reported today, citing people with knowledge of the
talks. The government’s stake in MRSK Holding will exceed 85
percent following the consolidation, Kommersant said.  BYD rose 4.7 percent in  Hong Kong  to the highest since May
after China Development Bank Corp. agreed to provide financing
for some buyers of the company’s electric buses and taxis. The
lender agreed to provide financing to buyers of BYD’s electric
buses and taxis so that they need no down payment if the
purchases are for public transportation, the automaker said in
an e-mailed statement.  China Agri-Industries Holdings Ltd. (606) , a producer of
biochemicals and biofuel, declined 5.9 percent, the most since
Aug. 15. The company plans to sell as much as 1.32 billion
shares at HK$3.39 each in a three-for-10 rights offer.  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  tumbled a record 6.8 percent in
Taipei, as the Taiwan stock exchange imposed trading
restrictions on the stock after its book value dropped below a
minimum level amid slumping demand for computer memory chips.  Hyundai Climbs  Samsung Electronics Co., which more than doubled its
shipment of tablets to 5.1 million in the third quarter, gained
0.6 percent in Seoul. Worldwide tablet shipments totaled 27.8
million in the third quarter, a 50 percent increase from a year
earlier, researcher IDC said in a report today.  Hyundai rallied 4.3 percent after a 7.2 percent slide
yesterday that was triggered by U.S. regulator findings that the
company and unit  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  overstated mileage claims on
some of their vehicles.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the Brazilian  oil
company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , climbed 6.2
percent as crude gained the most in a month on forecasts that
U.S. gasoline supplies dropped after  Hurricane Sandy  forced the
shutdown of East Coast refineries.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer, rose 2.1 percent.  SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd. (SAKP) , Malaysia’s biggest oil and
gas services company, jumped 6.3 percent after agreeing to buy
Seadrill’s tender-rig operations in a $2.9 billion deal.  FDA Approval  Drugmaker Cipla Ltd. surged to a record in Mumbai, adding
4.4 percent after getting U.S. regulatory approval to export to
the world’s biggest economy. The  Food and Drug Administration 
approved the company’s plant at Indore a week ago, Chief
Financial Officer V.S. Mani said yesterday after Cipla reported
a record second-quarter profit.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 282, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. 