-- Housing-Market Recovery in U.S. Not ‘Resounding,’ Shiller Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-11-06T15:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/housing-market-recovery-in-u-s-not-resounding-shiller-says.html
The U.S. housing recovery is a
fragile one and should be spurred by reducing the role of
government in the mortgage-finance system, said  Robert Shiller ,
a professor at  Yale University  and co-creator of the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values.  “There are positive signs, the problem is that it’s not a
really strong positive sign yet,” Shiller said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu today.
It is “not a resounding recovery,” he said.  Americans bought new homes in September at the fastest pace
in two years, indicating that the industry whose decline was at
the heart of the recession is bouncing back. Sales climbed 5.7
percent to a 389,000 annual pace, the most since April 2010,
following a revised 368,000 rate in August, figures from the
Commerce Department showed on Oct. 24.  “We have to get back to a private-sector mortgage market,
without government dominance,” Shiller said. “We have to think
about alternative mortgages that don’t invite the same sort of
crisis where we have 10 million homeowners under water. We don’t
want to put Americans in such leveraged positions.”  Republicans in Congress have called for an end to the
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage finance companies put
under government conservatorship in 2008. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has said he will propose a housing-finance
overhaul that may include dismantling the firms. While Geithner
said at the beginning of this year that the administration would
release a wind-down plan by the spring, no plan has been
released.  Separately, Shiller said that with  unemployment  at 7.9
percent, the  U.S. economy  needs further fiscal stimulus to
create jobs. He said increases in spending should be offset by
higher taxes on the wealthy proposed by President Barack Obama
to avoid enlarging the national debt.  “It would be tax increases Obama set on the wealthy, and
at the same time, expenditure increases -- that’s a balanced-
budget stimulus,” he said. “It doesn’t raise the national
debt, but it stimulates the economy. We need something like
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in Washington at 
 Bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  