-- Pacino, ‘Glengarry’ Postpone Broadway Opening to December
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/pacino-glengarry-postpone-broadway-opening-to-december.html
Al Pacino  and his fellow con artists
in “Glengarry Glen Ross” yesterday postponed their opening to
Dec. 10 from this coming Sunday.  The Broadway revival of David Mamet’s 1984 play about
Chicago salesmen hawking Florida badlands began performances at
the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre on Oct. 19. Pacino is being paid
more than $125,000 per week for the show, which is charging as
much as $377 per ticket excluding fees, despite being in
previews.  Jeffrey Richards, the lead producer of “Glengarry,” said in
an interview yesterday that the postponement was necessitated by
three “truncated rehearsals” in the wake of superstorm Sandy and
by a decision not to conflict with the Thanksgiving holiday.  Hanukkah begins at sundown on Dec. 8.  The rehearsals had been shortened when some of the actors
were unable to attend because of the storm.  Richards said the show isn’t ready to be “frozen” -- the
point when the director determines that no more changes will be
made. Richards also is producing the premiere of a new Mamet
play, “The Anarchist,” which is scheduled to open Dec. 2. He
said he did not want to detract attention from that show.  “Glengarry,” directed by  Daniel Sullivan , will have played
seven weeks of previews, more than half of its scheduled run,
before critics are invited to weigh in. Producers also extended
the run three weeks, to Jan. 20.  The tactic of putting off critics hasn’t been used since
“Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” postponed its opening from
January, 2011, to the following June.  Expensive Date  In that case, many critics began purchasing their own
tickets and reviewing the show before the official opening date.  “Glengarry” is selling briskly and priced accordingly. As
of Monday night, a pair in the fourth row for Saturday night was
available for $772.75 from Telecharge.com -- $377 each, plus
fees. A pair for the same night fetches even more on  Stubhub ,
$1,449.  In the week ending on Oct. 28, “Glengarry” was by far
Broadway’s top-selling play, grossing $1.1 million.  Pacino earns $125,000 a week plus 5 percent of profits,
according to the show’s operating agreement obtained from the
office of  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. Should
weekly ticket sales exceed $1.25 million after deducting for
credit card commissions, he also gets 10 percent of box office
above $1.25 million.  Muse highlights include  art  and  books .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 