-- Palm Oil Inventories in Malaysia Jumped to Record: Survey
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-11-06T04:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/palm-oil-inventories-in-malaysia-jumped-to-record-survey-1-.html
Palm oil stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
biggest producer after Indonesia, probably climbed 8.9 percent
in October to a record as production exceeded exports.  Inventories increased to 2.7 million metric tons from an
all time-high of 2.48 million tons in September, according to
the median of estimates from four analysts and one plantation
company compiled by Bloomberg. Output probably remained at a
high of 2 million tons for a second month, while  exports 
increased 9.3 percent to 1.65 million tons from 1.51 million
tons, the survey showed. The Malaysian Palm Oil Board is
scheduled to release official data on Nov. 12.  Record reserves of the tropical oil, used in everything
from candy to biofuel, have driven prices 20 percent lower since
the end of August. Concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis and an
economic slowdown in China, the biggest cooking oil consumer,
have cooled demand for commodities. Output typically peaks from
July to October before decreasing from November onwards.  “We’ve probably seen the peak of stockpiles” as output
starts to decline,’’ said Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip
Futures Pte in  Singapore . “Some of the measures to boost
exports and consumption are likely to” curb the increase in
stockpiles, said Ker, citing the Malaysian government’s
announcement last month to cut the tax on crude exports and
abolish a duty-free shipment quota from Jan. 1.  Stockpiles may stay above 2.3 million tons in November,
which will keep prices between 2,400 ringgit and 2,580 ringgit a
ton from now until the end of month, said Ker.  Record Stockpiles  Palm oil for January delivery rose 0.2 percent to 2,416
ringgit ($789) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange today
after slumping 3.4 percent yesterday to the lowest close for the
most-active contract since Oct. 8. Futures plunged to a three-
year low of 2,230 ringgit on Oct. 3.  Indonesia  and Malaysia will have record stockpiles of palm
oil at the start of next year, while production of soybeans will
climb in the first quarter in South America along with excellent
harvests of sunflower in  Argentina  and mustard in  India , Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd., said Nov. 4,
citing what he described as an optimistic scenario for an
importing nation.  The cyclical bull market in commodities has ended, said
Mistry, who’s traded palm oil for 35 years. A stronger U.S.
dollar will lead to lower commodity prices in 2013 unless there
is extreme weather that cuts production, he said.  Palm oil stockpiles at major ports in  China  rose to 690,000
tons from 520,000 tons a year earlier, Grain.gov.cn said
yesterday. The near-record inventory will be “difficult to
digest” as consumption weakens and colder weather solidifies
palm oil, making it difficult to transport, it said.  Prices may recover towards the end of the year as
production drops and China’s imports pick up before the Lunar
New Year festival which falls in early February, said Ker.
Exports from Malaysia rose 10.9 percent to 1.6 million tons in
October from a month earlier, surveyor Intertek estimated on
Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  