-- PBOC Official Says U.S. Election Won’t Impact Yuan Level
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-06T00:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/pboc-official-says-u-s-election-won-t-impact-yuan-level.html
The  U.S. presidential election  won’t
have an impact on the value of the  yuan  in foreign-exchange
markets, a Chinese central bank official said.  China  has sole decision-making power on its exchange-rate
policy and the yuan’s appreciation against the dollar in recent
weeks has been driven by market demand, He Jianxiong, director-
general of the People’s Bank of China’s international
department, said in an interview in Mexico City yesterday.  “Ultimately, it’s the market that determines the yuan
rate, and it is close to its equilibrium level,” He, formerly
an International Monetary Fund Executive Director for China,
said after the meeting of officials from the Group of 20. “The
U.S. election won’t have much impact on the yuan level. China
has a full power in making its own policy.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to move toward more
flexible currency regimes in a  statement  issued yesterday that
highlighted policy makers’ commitment to avoid competitive
devaluations as global growth sours. The G-20 refrained from
singling out China’s currency after it has risen 0.7 percent
versus the dollar in the past month, the third-best performance
among 25 most-actively traded emerging-market currencies. For
the past three months, the yuan has gained 2 percent.  Forwards Rate  Twelve-month non-deliverable  yuan forwards  are trading 1.9
percent lower than the spot rate in  Shanghai  after the discount
widened to 2 percent on Oct. 23, the biggest since 2009, on bets
the currency’s appreciation will reverse following this week’s
U.S. elections.  The weaker yuan forwards rate reflected “short-term price
discrepancies in different markets,” He said.  U.S. presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has said he will
label China as a “currency manipulator” if elected. PBOC’s He
declined to comment on Romney’s stance, saying “we don´t know
who will win yet.”  The U.S. Treasury’s latest report on exchange-rate
policies, issued May 25, said there is evidence the yuan
“remains significantly undervalued” and further appreciation
is warranted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Mexico City at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  