-- Penn West Falls to Three-Year Low After Executives Exit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-06T21:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/penn-west-falls-to-three-year-low-after-executives-exit.html
Penn West  Petroleum Ltd., the
Canadian oil and natural gas producer selling assets to pay down
debt, fell to the lowest level in more than three years after
announcing the departure of four executives.  Penn West dropped 3.5 percent to C$11.19 at the close in
Toronto, the lowest price since March 2009. The Calgary-based
company said today that Chief Operating Officer Hilary Foulkes,
Senior Vice President Thane Jensen and two other vice presidents
have left, effective immediately.  The four executives were terminated because Penn West has
been unable to reduce the costs of adding new, reliable
production under their watch, Chief Executive Officer Murray Nunns said in a phone interview from Calgary. The company, which
has declined 45 percent this year, agreed last month to sell
unspecified assets to unidentified buyers for C$1.3 billion
($1.3 billion).  “The market is in full agreement that we have a great
asset suite, that the balance sheet was a little stretched and
the thing they want to see from us is consistent execution on a
capital efficiency basis and on the reliability of production,”
Nunns said. “We felt with the existing team that we weren’t
going to be able to get there.”  Foulkes, who became COO in August 2011, didn’t immediately
respond to a voicemail on her mobile phone seeking comment.
Jensen couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  “I was surprised,” said Sam La Bell, an analyst at
Veritas Investment Research Corp. in Toronto who rates the
company a sell. “We just listened to their conference call last
week and in particular Hilary Foulkes was front and center
discussing the strategy.”  Engineering Skills  A process to boost engineering skills among the company’s
top ranks has been under way for two months, Nunns said. David Middleton, Penn West’s executive vice president of engineering,
will lead operations in the interim while it seeks to replace
Foulkes, either with a new COO or senior engineering executive,
Nunns said.  “Shareholders will recognize the imperative on the
performance side, that this is a key piece of the puzzle to put
together,” Nunns said. The company will release its budget for
2013 next month or in early January, he said.  China Investment Corp., Penn West’s second-largest
shareholder according to data compiled by Bloomberg, trusts
“management to do whatever they think is appropriate,” Felix Chee, chief representative in Toronto for the company, said in a
phone interview.  “A long-term perspective is what we do and some of these
short-term perceptions on the company are just some noise we
have to go through,” Chee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  