-- Perkins, Patton Boggs, Bryan Cave, Cooley:Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/perkins-patton-boggs-bryan-cave-cooley-business-of-law.html
If the 2012 presidential campaign
ends in a recount and legal challenges, Robert Bauer, President
 Barack Obama ’s attorney, and Ben Ginsberg, Republican  Mitt Romney ’s counselor, will be on opposing sides leading the clash
that follows.  The pre-election maneuvering already has begun. Voting
machine malfunctions, absentee ballots and even the weather are
on the radar for each campaign’s legal team, according to Edward Foley, a professor at  Ohio State University ’s Moritz College of
Law in Columbus.  Bauer, 60, and Ginsberg, 61, are described by friends and
colleagues as embodying the rare combination of top-notch legal
minds with equally astute political instincts.  They are now applying those dual skills as they oversee
each party’s program for monitoring voter suppression and
intimidation charges or attempts at voter fraud. With the
presidential race too close to call, they are also girding for a
courtroom showdown similar to 2000.  “Post-election litigation is probably the most nerve-
racking, tension-inducing subject of all for campaigns,”
Ginsberg, a central player in the 2000 Florida recount that
ended with a U.S. Supreme Court decision that made George W. Bush president, said during a 2009 panel discussion. “The
stakes are higher than they ever are, nerves are more frayed
than they ever are and sleep is more absent than ever.”  Bauer, a partner in the Washington office of Perkins Coie
LLP, and Ginsberg, who is at Patton Boggs LLP, declined to be
interviewed for this story.  The  Democratic National Committee , where Bauer also serves
as general counsel, has invested millions of dollars on its
legal operation and will count on thousands of attorneys in the
days ahead, according to a person familiar with their operation.  Ginsberg is ensuring that the Republican team has the
resources and infrastructure it needs should a recount or
challenge arise, according to a Romney official.  For more, click here.  NBA Players’ Union Review Is Almost Over, Treasurer Jones Says  An independent review of the National Basketball Players
Association’s financial and business practices, conducted by
Theodore V. Wells Jr. and the  New York  law firm of Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison LLP, is nearly complete, said
union treasurer  James Jones , a member of the organization’s
executive committee.  “It’s at the end,” Jones, who plays for the  Miami Heat ,
said in an interview before his team’s Nov. 2 game at New York’s
Madison Square Garden.  Jones didn’t give a date for completion of the review. Lisa Green, a spokeswoman for Paul, Weiss, didn’t immediately return
an e-mail seeking comment on the review, which will include a
financial audit.  The union retained the firm in April after the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan said it was investigating union
practices.  Jones said he spoke with lawyers at the firm “a couple of
months ago.” He said the conversation was “one way,” and
consisted of “general stuff,” but wouldn’t provide specifics
of what was asked.  “There’s no rush to judgment,” he said. “Let’s all wait
until it’s concluded.”  Authorities opened the probe in April after union President
 Derek Fisher  asked for independent reviews of the association’s
finances and business practices.  Fisher had complained to executive committee members about
nepotism at the union, which represents about 450 players.  Union Executive Director  Billy Hunter , who turns 70 in two
days, has a daughter and daughter-in-law on staff at the New
York-based association. Another daughter is special counsel at a
law firm used by the union, and Hunter’s son is a principal at a
financial planning and investment firm that advises the
organization on investments and runs its financial awareness
program for players.  Hunter has said his family members are qualified and, in
most cases, underpaid by market standards.  Deals  Stifel Financial to Buy KBW in Deal Valued at $575 Million  Bryan Cave LLP advised  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the St.
Louis-based brokerage, which agreed to buy  KBW Inc. (KBW)  in a cash-
and-stock transaction valued at $575 million to build its
financial-services business. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents
KBW Inc.  The Bryan Cave team was led by partners Rob Endicott, who
oversaw the securities and employee retention aspects of the
transaction and Ryan Davis, who oversaw the M&A and corporate
aspects of the transaction. Additional lawyers contributing
include partners Todd Kaye, securities; Phil Wright, tax;
Jennifer Stokes, employee benefits; and Jeff Kalinowski
regulatory matters.  The S&C team included partners H. Rodgin Cohen, corporate;
Mitchell Eitel, financial institutions M&A partner; Ronald Creamer Jr., tax and Frederick Wertheim, broker-dealer matters.  KBW shareholders will receive $17.50 a share, comprised of
$10 in cash and $7.50 in Stifel common stock, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. The deal values KBW, a New York-based
broker-dealer and investment bank, 7.4 percent higher than its
closing price on Nov. 2.  Stifel, run by Chief Executive Officer Ronald Kruszewski,
has been seeking acquisitions to gain market share as the
financial-services industry recovers from the credit crisis.
KBW, which lost 67 employees at its World Trade Center
headquarters in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, has posted a loss
in five of the past six quarters as bank mergers dwindle.  The KBW purchase “provides Stifel with an exciting
opportunity to grow and become a market leader in the financial-
services sector,” Kruszewski, 53, said in the statement. “This
combination expands our capabilities at a time when we believe
the financial-services sector is poised to benefit from
improving fundamentals.”  Stifel’s  acquisitions , including  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s capital-
markets business and Thomas Weisel Partners Group Inc., have
helped the firm post record  net revenue  every year since 1997,
when Kruszewski became CEO. The KBW deal will make Stifel the
No. 1 adviser on mergers and acquisitions in the financial-
institutions industry, Stifel said in a  web presentation .  For more, click here.  Harbinger Group to Pay $373 Million for Exco Gas Stake  Andrews Kurth LLP and Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison
LLP advised Philip Falcone’s  Harbinger Group (HRG)  Inc. on its
agreement to buy a stake in U.S. natural gas fields from  Exco
Resources Inc. (XCO)  for $373 million, betting on a rebound for the
fuel.  Latham & Watkins  LLP advised Exco.  Andrews Kurth’s deal team included partners Cheryl Phillips, oil & gas; Robert McNamara, tax; David Buck and Jon Daly, corporate/securities; Lisa Shelton, environmental; and Kay Lynn Brumbaugh, HSR/antitrust.  Paul, Weiss’s HGI team was led by corporate partners Eric Goodison, Ray Russo and  Steve Williams , all in New York.  Latham & Watkins represents Exco Resources with a corporate
team led from the firm’s Houston office by partners Robin
Fredrickson and Bill Finnegan. Advice was also provided on
formation of the limited partnership by Houston tax partner Tim
Fenn; and on employee benefit matters by partner David Della
Rocca.  Harbinger Group, the New York Stock Exchange-listed vehicle
controlled by Falcone’s hedge fund, will get about 75 percent of
a partnership it’s setting up with Exco, according to a
statement yesterday. Because the partnership will also take on
debt, Exco will get $597.5 million of cash.  The acquisition would add a third leg to Harbinger Group’s
operations, which already include a life insurance company and a
majority stake in the  maker of Rayovac batteries . Since
Falcone’s hedge fund firm, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC,
bought the company in 2009, it has sought to make long-term
investments through the acquisition of undervalued or out-of-
favor businesses.  “This deal will create long-term value by anchoring our
new energy operating business with a long-duration gas asset at
a time when natural gas is trading near historically low
levels,” Harbinger Group President Omar Asali said in the
statement.  In contrast, the Exco assets to be contributed to the
partnership include conventional wells in areas of western
 Texas , eastern Texas and northern  Louisiana . The fields involved
comprise 520 billion cubic feet equivalent of estimated proved
reserves and are about 84 percent gas, according to yesterday’s
statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Corporate Law Departments Strategize to Save Money, Survey Says  Corporate law departments are asking their outside counsel
to reduce fees and increasing their in-house budgets, according
to a survey of 200 general counsel by legal consulting firm
Altman Weil.  Seventy-one of the chief legal officers polled said they
had negotiated price reductions from outside counsel in the last
year, while 47 percent shifted work from outside firms to their
own staff.  The chief legal officers also reported in the survey that
they had reduced internal costs by improving efficiency though
technology, shifting work to paralegals and using contract
lawyers.  The full survey is available to download at
 http://www.altmanweil.com/CLO2012 .  Moves  Cooley Hires Two Chadbourne Partners, Including IP Chairman  Cooley LLP said that intellectual property lawyers Walter Hanchuk and John Kheit joined the firm as partners in the New
York office. Both left Chadbourne & Parke LLP in New York, where
Hanchuk was chairman of Chadbourne’s IP practice and Kheit led
the firm’s mobile technology practice, Cooley said in a
statement. Hanchuk will be Cooley’s chairman of the New York IP
practice.  “Walter and John have developed one of the premier IP
transactional, litigation, and patent asset creation practices
in New York,” Joe Conroy, Cooley’s New York-based chief
executive officer, said in a statement. “Their extensive
experience in all phases of IP, including a particular expertise
in financial services and software technologies, extends the
reach of Cooley’s IP practice in New York and creates powerful
synergies across our core IP and business technology practices
across the firm.”  Hanchuks’s practice focuses on patent and copyright
litigation. He also obtains, licenses and enforces worldwide IP
rights, as well as conducts IP due diligence investigations and
strategic reorganizations of existing patent portfolios, the
firm said.  Kheit concentrates on representing technology-focused
companies in complex litigation, patent and licensing matters.
He is active in the computer software sector and has been
involved in the patenting of pure software technologies
including financial instruments, data structures, graphical user
interfaces, digital rights management, and peer-to-peer
networking, the firm said.  Cooley’s IP group has more than 110 lawyers and 50 other
professionals. Cooley has 650 attorneys in 11 offices in the
U.S. and  Shanghai .  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Chicago Labor Attorney David Ritter  Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg LLP’s
former labor and employment practice group chairman David B. Ritter, in the firm’s labor and employment law department in
Chicago. Ritter was also on Neal, Gerber’s executive committee,
Barnes & Thornburg said in a statement.  Ritter has almost 30 years of experience representing
public and closely held companies in service and manufacturing
industries. He represents clients in labor and employment law
and litigation, including discrimination and harassment
complaints, trade secret and non-compete covenants, and contract
and statutory claims by employees.  Barnes & Thornburg LLP has more than 600 lawyers in 12
offices.  Reed Smith Hires Life Sciences Health Industry Partner  Reed Smith  LLP hired Salvatore G. Rotella Jr. as a partner
in its life sciences health industry group in the firm’s
Philadelphia office. He was a member of Cozen O’Connor’s health
law group. Before that, he was chief compliance officer and
regulatory counsel for the Department of Mental Health in the
 District of Columbia .  Rotella represents health systems, acute care and specialty
hospitals, and other health care providers in reimbursement
disputes with public and private payers, class actions, and
billing investigations, the firm said. He also advises
providers, health plans and others on health-care regulatory and
compliance issues, and on privacy law requirements.  Reed Smith has more than 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices
throughout the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East .  Fees  Lehman Bankruptcy Fees, Expenses Total $1.8 Billion From Start  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, was billed $1.8
billion by 47 law firms, accounting firms, investment bankers,
and reorganization professionals under review by a fee committee
that examines payment demands.  The committee recommended that the judge handling the case
approve the final bills at hearings due to start Nov. 8, it said
in a filing in federal court in Manhattan.  The defunct investment bank, which continues to liquidate
to pay creditors about 18 cents on the dollar after exiting
 bankruptcy court  in March, has been billed another $72.7 million
through September, including $12.6 million for that month,
according to a separate filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 