-- Perrigo Premium Rises on Bets OTC Sales Gained: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-06T15:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/perrigo-premium-rises-on-bets-otc-sales-gained-israel-overnight.html
Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  climbed in New York to
widen the spread versus its Tel Aviv shares by the most in six
weeks on prospects the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs will post faster sales growth after adding new
store-branded products.  The U.S. drugmaker that listed in  Israel  after buying B’nei
Brak, Israel-based Agis Industries Ltd. in 2005, rose 0.9
percent to $116.05 yesterday, extending its 2012 gain to 19
percent. The advance boosted the  spread  to the shares in Tel
Aviv to $1.34. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the
largest New-York traded Israeli companies fell 0.5 percent to
84.16.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  sank after competitor Primo
Water Corp. entered into a licensing deal with Cuisinart.  Perrigo, scheduled to report  fiscal  first-quarter earnings
tomorrow, started selling the store-branded equivalent of cough
reliever medicine Delsym, which has an estimated $100 million of
annual sales, according to a PRNewswire statement on Aug. 27.
The Allegan, Michigan-based company also received approval from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for a copy of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Nicotine-replacing gums last month, with
revenue of $30 million.  “The prescription drug business continues to shift to OTC
as it’s more affordable, and because of that we’re very
comfortable with Perrigo,” Susan McDonald, a fund manager for
the  Aberdeen Israel Fund (ISL) , which oversees about $63 million, said
by phone from  London . “Perrigo is the leader in many of the
aspects of its industry, and with increased attention on health
care costs, the company is in a very strong position.”  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  added 0.5 percent to 1,229.66, the
highest since Oct. 17. The gauge has added 13 percent this year.
This compares with a 3.6 percent advance for the Bloomberg
Israel-US Index.  ‘Huge Pipeline’  Perrigo  shares  in Tel Aviv dropped 1.2 percent today to
453.20 shekels, or the equivalent of $116.19. The arbitrage
between the U.S. and Israeli stock yesterday was the highest
since Sept. 21.  The drugmaker will probably say that revenue for the
quarter ended Sept. 30 increased 14 percent to $825.7 million,
beating the previous year’s 13 percent growth, according to the
mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s this huge pipeline of store-brand switches that
will take place in which drugs move to over-the-counter,”
 Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc., said by
phone from New York yesterday. “As opportunities come to
market, so do the opportunities for Perrigo.”  Earnings will compare with results from a year ago of
“weak cough and cold season,” he said.  Pet Care  Perrigo said on Oct. 1 that it completed the acquisition of
Sergeant’s Pet Care Products Inc. for $285 million in cash,
according to a statement distributed by PRNewswire. The purchase
will help the company save $50 million in tax payments for the
next 15 years, it said.  “The latest acquisition of Perrigo in the pet product
treatment sector is a positive development for the company,”
Sabina Podval, an analyst at Leader & Co. in Tel Aviv, wrote in
an e-mailed report yesterday. “It’s a purchase that will have
important synergies on the sales side and will also provide a
different source of revenue than the consumer health care.”  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  SodaStream Plunges  SodaStream, the maker of soda machines, dropped 4.6 percent
to $34.82, the lowest since June 15.  Primo Water (PRMW)  said Cuisinart will sell the Winston-Salem,
North Carolina-based company’s existing line of sparkling
beverage appliances and gas cylinders.  Airport City, Israel-based SodaStream will probably say
tomorrow that third-quarter sales  increased  26 percent to a
record $103.6 million, according to the average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields on Israel Electric Corp. bonds due in 2017 climbed
26 basis points in New York to 5.12 percent yesterday, the
highest level since Aug. 21.  Israel’s Finance Ministry said it’s seeking a solution to
the company’s cash flow gap, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The ministry is meeting with the state-controlled
company to follow auditing activities, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  