-- PGNiG Has Record Jump on Gazprom Fuel-Price Cut: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2012-11-06T13:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/pgnig-has-record-jump-on-gazprom-fuel-price-cut-warsaw-mover.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s biggest gas distributor, climbed the
most on record after OAO Gazprom agreed to cut the price of the
fuel it supplies.  The  stock  advanced as much as 15 percent, and traded 11
percent higher at 4.38 zloty at 1:52 p.m. in Warsaw. That’s the
largest gain on a closing basis since PGNiG, as the company is
known, started trading on the Warsaw bourse in 2005. About 44
million shares changed hands, more than 10 times the daily
average over the past three months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will increase at least 2.5 billion zloty ($776
million) after the Russian supplier agreed to take market prices
for natural gas into account while pricing sales to PGNiG, the
Polish company said in a regulatory statement today. PGNiG will
seek regulatory approval to cut  gas prices  from Jan. 1, Chief
Executive Officer Grazyna Piotrowska-Oliwa said a news
conference today in Warsaw.  This deal is “a very positive development for the
investment case,” Peter Csaszar, a Warsaw-based analyst at KBC
Groep NV’s broker unit, wrote in an e-mailed note. “The
regulator would be unlikely to rest on its laurels and we have
little doubt it would cut domestic tariffs significantly.”  The profit gain from the deal with Gazprom is based on the
retroactive settlement for 2011 and 2012, PGNiG said.  PGNiG’s net loss widened to 314 million zloty in the second
quarter from 20 million zloty a year earlier on rising import
costs, the company said on Aug. 23. Third-quarter results are
 due  on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  