-- PGNiG to Gain $930 Million on Gazprom Deal; Shares Rally
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-11-06T14:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/pgnig-sees-ebitda-rising-by-up-to-932-million-on-gazprom-deal.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA ,  Poland ’s biggest gas distributor, expects its
profit to jump by as much as 3 billion zloty ($930 million) this
year after  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  agreed to cut the price of the fuel it
supplies. Its shares rallied the most on record.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will increase at least 2.5 billion zloty after the
Russian supplier agreed to take market prices for natural gas
into account while pricing sales to PGNiG, the Polish company
said in a regulatory statement today. The profit gain is based
on the retroactive settlement for 2011 and 2012, PGNiG said. The
mean estimate in a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts was for its
2012  Ebitda (PGN)  at 3.37 billion zloty before the agreement.  “It’s very positive information, but there’s a question
about regulatory tariffs going forward,” Maciej Hebda, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said by phone. “If
the agreement is introduced now it will mean the company won’t
show losses on gas sales in the fourth quarter.”  Gazprom’s European customers, including  EON (EOAN)  AG and  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
have sought to review contracts with the Russian exporter after
being forced to buy gas at prices linked to oil and selling at
lower spot-market or regulated rates. PGNiG, which has a 98
percent market share in Poland, buys about two-thirds of its
14.4 billion cubic meters of gas a year from Gazprom.  The annual cost of gas imports from  Russia  will fall by 3
billion zloty from about 15 billion zloty, Treasury Minister
Mikolaj Budzanowski said on TVN CNBC today. The state-controlled
company will ask the Polish regulator to allow it to reduce its
own prices from the start of next year, PGNiG Chief Executive
Officer Grazyna Piotrowska-Oliwa said at a news conference in
Warsaw today.  Shares Soar  PGNiG shares  soared  by as much as 15 percent, the strongest
one-day gain since the stock started trading in 2005. The shares
were 10 percent higher at 4.35 zloty at 3:24 p.m. in Warsaw,
valuing the company at 25.7 billion zloty. Yields on its 2017
Eurobonds declined 2 basis points to 3.01 percent today, the
lowest since Sept. 14.  The deal also boosted shares of Polish chemical producers
that are among PGNiG’s biggest customers. Azoty Tarnow rose as
much as 2.5 percent,  Zaklady Azotowe Pulawy SA (ZAP)  increased 2.6
percent, while  Zaklady Chemiczne Police SA (PCE)  soared 5.7 percent.  PGNiG’s  net loss  widened to 314 million zloty in the second
quarter from 20 million zloty a year earlier as its loss before
interest and taxes at its gas trading unit widened to 658
million zloty, the company said on Aug. 23. Its gas sales
business will have Ebit “at about zero” after the price deal,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Radoslaw Dudzinski said today.  Rating Cut  The weakening profitability prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to
cut the company’s rating to BBB from BBB+ in September. S&P will
“analyze” the impact of the new contract on PGNiG’s ratings,
Tuomas Erik Ekholm, an analyst, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions from Bloomberg.  Joanna Fic, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, which
placed PGNiG’s rating on review for downgrade on Sept. 4, wasn’t
immediately available for comment when contacted by phone and e-
mail today.  The former Polish gas monopoly sued Gazprom in February,
demanding lower prices in the long-term contract between the two
countries which was higher than in parts of western  Europe 
further away.  Under the previous deal Poland paid Gazprom about $570 per
1,000 cubic meters and the price will drop “significantly”
below $500, reaching “European” levels, Budzanowski said.  The
state-controlled company withdrew an arbitration case against
Gazprom as part of the deal, Piotrowska-Oliwa said.  Earlier this year, Gazprom agreed to cut prices in similar
contracts with its European customers, including  France ’s  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA and  Germany ’s EON. While details of the EON agreement
aren’t known, Gazprom has revised most of its disputed contracts
by applying a price discount of 7 percent to 10 percent.  In September, the European Commission, an executive arm of
the European Union, started an investigation whether Gazprom
imposed unfair prices by linking natural gas and oil prices,
prevented gas from being traded between countries and hindered
the diversification of supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  