-- Poland to Start Carbon Sales in December, May Continue in 2013
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-11-06T14:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/poland-to-start-carbon-sales-in-december-may-continue-in-2013.html
Poland  aims to start in December
auctions of carbon permits for the next trading phase in the
European Union emissions trading system and may continue the
sales in early 2013.  The central European country will be able to begin selling
allowances for the 2013-2020 stage in the EU carbon market after
it signs an agreement with the European Energy Exchange AG,
according to Magdalena Sikorska, spokeswoman for the Polish
Environment Ministry. The procedure should be finalized and
sales should start about the start of December, she said.  “Sales may continue in 2013,” Sikorska said by e-mail
today. “The auctioning schedule will have to be agreed with
EEX, in line with EU rules.”  The 27-nation EU is moving toward selling a greater
proportion of carbon allowances, now mostly given to companies
for free, in the eight-year trading period starting in 2013,
known as Phase 3. To smooth the transition and limit price
shocks as free allowances are being gradually phased out, the
bloc agreed to auction a total of 120 million Phase 3 permits
this year, out of which Poland is to sell 14.7 million.  The Polish government will use the EEX as the auctioning
venue only temporarily before setting up a national platform.
Two other countries that opted out of a common EU platform, the
U.K. and  Germany , already chose their exchanges earlier this
year.  Poland is finalizing legislation to enable the start of a
national platform and will issue a tender as soon as the new
rules enter into force, according to Sikorska. “From the moment
the work ends we will need some three months to announce the
tender and choose a winner,” she said.  The EEX in its capacity as the common platform will begin
auctions of post-2012 carbon allowances on behalf of 12 EU
states on Nov. 13, according to the latest version of the
bourse’s auctioning  calendar . The schedule will be updated on a
weekly basis to add the remaining 23 countries, including
Poland, which haven’t yet concluded their preparations to start
sales of Phase 3 permits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  