-- Ports Risk $4 Trillion Indonesia Bounty Luring Unilever: Freight
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-07T06:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ports-risk-4-trillion-indonesia-bounty-luring-unilever-freight.html
A road winds through plantations from
the site of  Unilever (UNA) ’s planned $150 million factory to the coast
in western Indonesia -- ending at a port too small to load the
chemicals the company seeks to ship from the remote region.  “We’re committed to the investment,” said Sancoyo Antarikso, a Jakarta-based director of the Indonesian unit of
Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer goods maker. “But
we need government support to build infrastructure.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  plans to fix that by
pouring $12 billion into ports by 2025, supporting special
economic zones in the nation of more than 17,000 islands. It’s
part of his goal to expand Indonesia’s economy almost fivefold
to at least $4 trillion in the period. Unilever’s plant making
ingredients for soaps and shampoos will lie in one such zone,
Sei Mangkei, 830 miles (1,335 kilometers) northwest of Jakarta.  “Development of ports is essential,” said Henry Sandee, a
senior trade specialist at the  World Bank  in Jakarta. “Trade
between islands can take place at low costs only when ports
function well.”  The need to boost spending on harbors, roads and railways
stands to benefit construction businesses such as  PT Pembangunan
Perumahan (PTPP) ,  PT Wijaya Karya (WIKA)  and  PT Adhi Karya (ADHI) , according to PT
Bahana Securities. Each of the stocks may advance more than 20
percent in the next 12 months, said Harry Su, head of research.  Adhi Karya surged 7.3 percent as of 11:59 a.m. in the
capital. Wijaya Karya climbed 2.3 percent and Pembangunan
Perumahan jumped 1.3 percent. All three gains exceeded the 0.5
percent rise in the benchmark Jakarta Composite Index.  Rivaling China  Yudhoyono’s plan is to add infrastructure to achieve growth
of as much 9 percent a year, as in  China . The pace of  expansion 
in the world’s fourth-most populous nation has averaged about
5.6 percent in the past decade, less than China’s 10.6 percent.  Six of the world’s 10 busiest ports in 2011 were in China,
according to the  World Shipping Council .  Indonesia ’s only entry
in the top 50 was Tanjung Priok near Jakarta, ranked 24th.
State-owned Indonesia Port Corporation II has started work on a
harbor in Kalibaru near Tanjung Priok to ease bottlenecks.  “The expansion of this port is very urgent,” Indonesian
Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi said in an interview in
Jakarta. “If we don’t do it now, we’ll face difficulty later.”  In addition to fanning domestic shipping costs, berths that
are too shallow for bigger vessels curb direct links to overseas
markets such as  Europe , forcing Indonesia to feed goods abroad
through terminals in Singapore.  Above Capacity  Ships carrying 6,500 standard 20-foot containers, or TEU,
are currently the biggest that can berth in Indonesia at Tanjung
Priok, compared with up to 16,000 TEU for those sailing between
Asia and Europe.  Five of Indonesia’s six major container ports are operating
above capacity, reducing efficiency and raising logistics costs,
Michael Lund Hansen, regional director of  portfolio management 
in the Asia Pacific for A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s  APM Terminals ,
said in Jakarta in 2011.  Indonesia placed 59th out of 155 economies in the World
Bank’s  Logistics Performance Index  for 2012, up from 75th in
2010. It still placed below Singapore,  Japan ,  Taiwan ,  South
Korea , China,  Malaysia ,  Thailand ,  India , the  Philippines  and
 Vietnam . The index measures the perceptions of international
freight forwarders doing business with Indonesia.  Still, the allure of growing spending power in a nation of
about 240 million people is luring foreign companies.  Spending Firepower  Indonesia may generate $1.8 trillion in annual sales for
agriculture, consumer and energy companies by 2030, McKinsey &
Co. said in a report in September. There will be 31.1 million
households with over $10,000 in annual disposable income by 2020,
from 13.7 million last year, according to  Euromonitor
International .  “The chief allure of Indonesia continues to be the
familiar story of consumption,” said Wellian Wiranto, an
investment strategist at the wealth management unit of Barclays
Plc in  Singapore . “Everyone’s looking for buyers of last resort,
and there just happen to be over 200 million of them in
Indonesia who continue to snap things up, be it motor cars or
soap bars.”  Yudhoyono, whose second and final term ends in 2014,
outlined a strategy of creating six economic corridors as well
as the special economic zones in the country’s  development plan 
for 2011-2025. The corridors range from areas centered on mining,
such as Kalimantan, to the tourism hotspot of Bali.  Luring Investment  In Northern Sumatra’s Sei Mangkei special zone, Unilever
plans to hire 600 workers and invest 1.45 trillion rupiah ($150
million) in a plant that makes oleochemicals, which are used in
products such as soaps and cosmetics, said Antarikso. Unilever
is based in London and Rotterdam.  Businesses such as Paris-based  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s
largest cosmetics maker, are also expanding in the country. The
company is investing 100 million euros ($128 million) in a plant
in Jababeka Industrial Estate, West Java. L’Oreal inaugurated
the factory, which will be its largest one globally, today.  Indonesia’s Investment Coordinating Board targets domestic
and foreign investment of 300 trillion rupiah in 2012.  Yudhoyono plans to spend about 1,786 trillion rupiah
through 2025 on projects such as new roads, bridges and ports.
Under his economic master plan, Kuala Tanjung near Sei Mangkei,
and Makassar and Bitung in the east, would become alternative
international seaports in addition to an expanded Tanjung Priok.  Construction Push  The construction push should help lift Pembangunan
Perumahan shares to 925 rupiah in the next year, said Su of
Bahana Securities, from a close of 770 rupiah yesterday. Wijaya
Karya will climb to 1,700 rupiah from 1,330 rupiah. Adhi Karya
will also advance to 1,700 rupiah, from 1,380 rupiah, he said.
All three companies are based in the capital.  At the same time, gains in the president’s economic
development program have been undermined by corruption scandals
and delays caused by land disputes. Yudhoyono has mandated a
maximum 583 days to complete land acquisition for public works.  In Sei Mangkei, the government has been slow to issue
permits allowing construction on protected mangroves, said
Hartono, senior manager for planning and enterprise development
at Indonesia Port Corporation I. He goes by one name.  “If the government wants to implement its master plan and
make Sei Mangkei into a special economic zone, it had better
ease more on permits to build infrastructure,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  