-- Protests Planned as Dominican Republic Prepares to Raise Taxes
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-06T10:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/protests-planned-as-dominican-republic-prepares-to-raise-taxes.html
The  Dominican Republic ’s congress will
vote on tax increases today, amid protests that people are being
forced to pay for government profligacy that has pushed up the
fiscal deficit.  President Danilo Medina’s package of tax changes, which would
increase government revenue by about 2 percent of gross domestic
product, includes plans to raise the national sales tax to 18
percent from 16 percent. The bill was approved by a 30-0 vote in
the senate on Nov. 2 and will need the support of 127 of 190
deputies today.  The tax overhaul, referred to by Medina as “a bitter pill to
swallow,” was drafted to pare the fiscal deficit, which Economy
Minister Temistocles Montas forecasts will widen to as much as 8
percent of GDP this year from 2.4 percent in 2011. Opposition
groups say much of that increase was due to excessive government
expenditures prior to the May 20 presidential election by the
ruling Dominican Liberation Party. They are planning marches in
the capital starting at 9 a.m. today.  “Taxes on fuel and the increase in sales taxes are going to
make the production and transport of food, services and
practically all goods consumed more expensive,” opposition groups
Movimiento Justicia Fiscal and Foro Social Alternativo said in a
joint e-mailed statement. “If the tax package is approved,
poverty will increase and there will be more hunger and misery.”  Leaders of the opposition Dominican Revolutionary Party,
which holds 77 seats in congress, have stated that the party will
unanimously vote against the package.  Medina’s election and the move to narrow the deficit have
helped Dominican dollar bonds return 20.4 percent this year, the
best performance among 12 Central American and Caribbean countries
in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CACI index. The country’s $57 billion
economy should grow 4 percent this year, central bank president
Hector Valdez Albizu said on Oct. 23, after expanding 4.5 percent
in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 