-- Public-Pensions Gain 4.67% in Third Quarter on Bonds
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/public-pensions-gain-4-67-in-third-quarter-on-bonds.html
U.S. public pensions ended the third
quarter with a median gain of 4.67 percent as bond managers beat
their benchmarks by buying riskier debt and fixed-income
securities with longer maturities, Wilshire Associates said.  The gains raised returns for state- and local-government
pensions with assets of more than $1 billion to 8.2 percent for
the 10-year period through Sept. 30, the first quarter since
2007 that funds of that size surpassed 8 percent over a decade.  “It gives that strong message to stay the course and look
to the long term,” because the returns came near projected
results, said Robert Waid, a managing director at Wilshire, a
consultant to investors and pensions. “The 10-year numbers are
pretty close to what the actuaries give for a 10-year target.”  Most state and local-government pensions count on annual
investment returns of from 7.5 percent to 8 percent to pay
benefits for teachers, police and other employees. To make up
for losses and poor gains in the past 10 years, reflecting the
bursting of the Internet-stock bubble, the housing-market
collapse and the financial crisis that ensued, public officials
have had to pay more into pensions, straining budgets.  Estimates of deficits in the funds vary from $700 billion
to more than $3 trillion, depending on assumptions. States have
responded by raising minimum retirement ages, cutting benefits
and asking workers to pay more into plans.  Traders Outperform  Active bond managers, who trade securities with the goal of
outperforming an index, posted third-quarter median returns of 1
percentage point more than the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond
Index, according to  Santa Monica , California-based Wilshire. The
 index  gained 1.58 percent for the three months ending in
September, the report shows.  “These guys are either really good, or they’re just moving
out on the fixed-income risk scale,” Waid said.  Fixed-income benchmarks, such as the Barclays index, don’t
correctly reflect available opportunities because they’re
heavily weighted toward U.S. or foreign government bonds, Waid
said.  “Money managers aren’t going there,” he said.  Corporate bonds with ratings below investment grade, so-
called junk, returned 4.6 percent in the third quarter,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Investors
seeking alternatives to Treasuries poured $22.8 billion into the
corporate junk-bond market in the year through last month,
according to data compiled by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in Edinburgh.  Corporate Debt  High-yield company bonds have gained 13.3 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. That compares with 10.4 percent for the total returns on a
broad index of corporate debt.  Wilshire’s report, compiled by its Trust Universe
Comparison Service, covers more than 1,500 institutional
 investment trusts , including corporate plans, foundations and
endowments, union retirement funds and public pensions. They
have combined assets of more than $2.9 trillion, according to
the company.  State- and local-government pensions had the best returns
in the third quarter, according to Wilshire. Taft-Hartley Health
and Welfare Funds, the main source of health-care coverage for
union members, had the worst performance, returning a median 3.6
percent for the period. Across all funds, the median gain was
4.49 percent.  The median public pension had 55.5 percent of its holdings
in stocks, 25.7 percent in bonds, almost 3.7 percent in real
estate and 1.9 percent in alternative investments such as
leveraged-buyout or distressed-bond funds, according to
Wilshire. About 2.5 percent was held in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 