-- Putin Faces Anti-Migrant Tide as Opponents Tap Resentmen
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-07T12:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/putin-faces-anti-migrant-tide-as-opponents-tap-resentmen.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s
opponents are looking to take advantage of a dip in his approval
rating by latching on to rising anti-immigration sentiment.  With the share of Russians wanting tighter immigration
rules at the highest in at least a decade, Alexey Navalny, the
country’s most-popular opposition leader, has cheered protesters
who stopped plans to build a mosque in the Russian capital.
Intolerance is spreading, from a nationalist march through
Moscow to violence against Asian workers near the Finnish border
and militias forming in the North Caucasus.  Stronger nationalism poses a threat to social cohesion in
the world’s biggest energy exporter, where unprecedented anti-
government protests slammed equity prices after disputed
elections last year.  “Nationalism in so far as it impacts potential political
risk in  Russia  is important,”  Roland Nash , chief investment
strategist at Verno Capital, which manages $200 million in
Russian equities, said by phone. “Political risk is clearly
something that impacts any asset class and it is viewed as being
particularly high in Russia. Putin represents the middle of the
road and stability in Russia. Anything that threatens that will
be problematic.”  Stocks Hit  Russia’s ruble-denominated  Micex (INDEXCF)  stock index, which is up
3.3 percent in 2012, plunged almost 7.5 percent in the week
after fraud allegations at December’s parliamentary ballot
triggered the biggest street demonstrations since Putin ascended
to the presidency in 1999. The cost of insuring government debt
for five years using credit-default swaps jumped 14 percent that
week.  Seventy percent of Russians want stricter immigration
rules, the most since 2002, according to the polling company
Levada. In Moscow, the epicenter of the anti-government
demonstrations, 63 percent say native Russians should have more
rights than other ethnicities, while 88 percent back curbs on
migrant inflows and 38 percent feel resentment toward them,
according to the Public Opinion Foundation, or FOM.  “If you see the external conditions deteriorate further,
and that includes the low oil price, then it will be more
difficult for Russian leadership to meet expectations,” said
Peter Westin, chief equity strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow,
said by e-mail. “A combination of not meeting expectations and
higher unemployment can be a recipe for increasing nationalism.
That’s a risk in the medium term.”  Moscow March  About 8,000 people joined the Nov. 4 “Russian March”
through the heart of Moscow, according to police. About 30
people wearing fascist symbols were detained before the rally,
in which Navalny has participated several times in the past.  Rising intolerance is also being tapped by Navalny, who
presented himself as a champion of democratic values during the
anti-Putin demonstrations and received the most votes in an
election when protesters picked an organizing committee last
month.  An anti-corruption blogger who was  fired  from the Yabloko
party for nationalist views in 2007, Navalny called an anti-
migrant video made by  nationalists  last month “excellent.” In
September, he used his Twitter Inc. account to liken women in
scarfs in a police waiting room to  suicide bombers . Anna Veduta,
a spokeswoman for Navalny, declined to comment.  ‘Xenophobic Sentiments’  “Navalny is playing on xenophobic sentiments and is trying
to recruit more supporters,” Tatyana Lokshina, a researcher for
 Human Rights Watch , said Oct. 26 by e-mail. “Migration policy
represents a very serious political and economic challenge.”  There are more than 10 million migrants in Russia,
accounting for at least 6 percent of economic output, according
to Federal Migration Service head Konstantin Romodanovsky.  Navalny relies on nationalists for part of his support,
according to Gennady Gudkov, another coordination council
member, who said “Russian March” participants aren’t
necessarily all extremists.  “Many will come not because they’re nationalists but
because they want to protest against the existing regime,” he
said by phone last week. “We have nationalists on the council
because we have everybody who wants political reforms.”  Tensions are also rising outside Moscow. In the village of
Pobeda near the Finnish border, the rape of a 45-year-old local
woman in August prompted residents to beat up foreign workers
from a nearby poultry farm before delivering them to the
authorities, who discovered more than 60 illegal migrants during
a subsequent raid.  Pig Head  In the Krasnodar region along Russia’s Black Sea coast,
Governor Alexander Tkachev formed a 1,000-strong militia to help
police solve inter-ethnic conflicts. The parliament of Chechnya
accused Tkachev of inciting inter-ethnic tensions.  Authorities opened a criminal case against a man in  St.
Petersburg  for inciting inter-ethnic hatred. They arrested a man
who they suspect had put a pig head with a fake bomb at the gate
of a local mosque, the Investigative Committee for St.
Petersburg said on its website today.  Putin, who led Russia into its 2000 war with the breakaway
republic of Chechnya in Russia’s mainly Muslim North Caucasus
region and oversaw a five-day conflict with the Caucasus nation
of Georgia eight years later, deems national unity “ultra-
important,” according to his spokesman, Dmitry Peskov. Any
attempts to use nationalist sentiment for political gain would
be punished “most stringently,” he said.  Putin’s Support  Putin, 60, whose support FOM put at 43 percent last month
after garnering 64 percent of votes in March’s Kremlin election,
warned in August that nationalist groups were “raising their
heads under the cover of democracy and freedom.”  Putin has also courted some nationalists, appointing Dmitry Rogozin as deputy premier last year. Rogozin, who served as
North Atlantic Treaty Organization ambassador from 2008, headed
a party that was banned from regional elections for inciting
racial hatred after television  ads  featuring slogans such as:
“It’s time to clear the rubbish out of Moscow.”  With the economy losing steam, migration represents a
“very serious political challenge for Putin,” according to
Vyacheslav Postavnin, a former deputy head of the Federal
Migration Service.  “Two years ago the economy was growing fast and migrants
weren’t such a source of irritation,” Postavnin said. “But
now, with an economic slowdown and a huge number of migrants,
the situation has become a lot more serious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  