-- Putin Dismisses Defense Minister Amid Corruption Probe
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-11-06T13:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/putin-dismisses-defense-minister-amid-corruption-probe.html
President  Vladimir Putin  fired
Anatoly Serdyukov as defense minister after a probe into an
alleged $95 million fraud at the ministry, the most senior
official to be ousted over corruption by the Russian leader.  Moscow Region Governor Sergei Shoigu was named as
Serdyukov’s replacement, Putin  said  in a  meeting  broadcast on
state television today. Shoigu, 57, an army general, served as
 Russia ’s emergency minister since 1991 before being appointed
governor this year.  Shoigu, who helped Putin found the United Russia party in
2001, takes over as the government plans its biggest defense
revamp since the  Cold War , with designs to spend 23 trillion
rubles ($729 billion) this decade. Serdyukov was unpopular in
the military because he reduced headcount and overhauled
procurement, according to  Ruslan Pukhov , head of the Center for
Analysis of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow.  “The reforms aren’t completed,” Pukhov said by phone
today. “He had tried to create an effective military machine.”  Serdyukov, 50, who became the first Russian defense
minister with no military or intelligence background in 2007,
previously ran a furniture company in  St. Petersburg , where
Putin was deputy mayor in the 1990s. He “was a victim of
political intrigue,” Pukhov said.  Corruption Crackdown  Still, his dismissal is a “good sign” as it shows the
Kremlin is capable of cracking down on corruption and may have
an effect on other government officials, said Boris Makarenko,
deputy director of the Moscow-based Center for Political
Technologies.  Russia ranks alongside  Nigeria  at 143rd of 182 countries in
Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption
Perceptions Index, making it the most corrupt member of the
Group of 20 group of advanced economies.  The move “may mean a more intensive anti-corruption
campaign,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note. “We expect further
investigation in the  Defense Ministry  and more attentive study
of the military budget.”  Serdyukov is the second Cabinet member replaced in less
than one month. Oleg Govorun was fired as regional development
minister Oct. 17.  The former defense chief, who reduced military personnel by
300,000 to about a million and cut the officer corps by almost
40 percent, set the goal of increasing seven-fold the ratio of
“state-of-the-art” equipment in Russia’s arsenal by 2020,
including by buying foreign weapons.  ‘Dynamic Development’  Then-President Dmitry Medvedev called for an overhaul of
the armed forces and their communications systems after the
five-day war with U.S.-ally Georgia in August 2008. He fired
military-spending critic  Alexei Kudrin  as finance minister in
2011.  “The country needs a person who can pursue what has been
achieved in recent years and ensure the dynamic development of
the country’s armed forces, fulfil state orders and the
ambitious plans to modernize the weaponry of the army and
fleet,” Putin told Shoigu.  Putin, 60, who returned to the Kremlin for his third term
in May, and Medvedev, his prime minister, held consultations
about candidates for the defense minister’s post over the past
several days,  said  Natalya Timakova, Medvedev’s spokeswoman.  Serdyukov may face questioning as a witness in the criminal
case, Kommersant reported Nov. 1. His dismissal will enable an
“objective” investigation of the accusations, Putin told
Shoigu today. Serdyukov didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment.  Alleged Fraud  The country’s Investigative Committee said Oct. 25 it was
conducting searches of offices belonging to OAO Oboronservis, a
contractor supplying goods and services to the military,
according to the statement. The alleged fraud of 3 billion
rubles involves real estate, the law-enforcement agency said.  Shoigu’s appointment as defense minister means elections
will be held for the post of Moscow region governor in September
next year, state news service RIA Novosti reported, citing the
central electoral commission. An acting governor will be
appointed, Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  