-- THQ Plunges Most Ever After Reporting Cash Crunch, Loss
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-06T21:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/thq-hires-centerview-to-review-options-seeks-new-capital.html
THQ Inc. (THQI) , the money-losing video-game
company, fell the most in 21 years after posting a second-
quarter loss and announcing it hired Centerview Partners LLC to
evaluate its options and raise cash.  THQ tumbled 50 percent to $1.50 at the close in  New York ,
marking the biggest drop since November 1991. The shares have
fallen 96 percent in the past two years, cutting the market
value to less than $11 million.  Centerview, an investment bank based in New York, will help
THQ improve its cash reserves, preserve its ability to develop
games and refinance $100 million of convertible debt, according
to a statement yesterday. The 5 percent senior notes are due in
August 2014.  “I am confident about the opportunities that lie in our
robust slate of games and in our studios,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Brian Farrell said in the statement. “But we
also face challenges operating with limited capital resources in
the highly competitive market for games, and we are working
diligently to resolve those challenges.”  “ South Park : The Stick of Truth,” “Company of Heroes 2”
and “Metro: Last Light,” need more work and will miss their
March release dates, President Jason Rubin said in the
statement. The delays “will likely create a need for additional
capital,” the company said.  Without more attention, the games may perform poorly, and
“that could in turn lead to future additional capital
shortfalls,” Rubin said in the statement.  Mobile Games  The developer missed a shift to mobile devices and away
from consoles, and burned cash with uDraw, a game tablet that
failed to catch on last year, losing as much as $100 million,
according to Brean Murray analysts.  “We expect THQ to raise financing through an equity sale
that could lead to dilution of existing shareholders,” said
 Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. who has
a neutral rating on the stock. “We expect creditors to be asked
to renegotiate terms at a discount. If they are unwilling,
bankruptcy is possible.”  The company reported a loss of $21 million, or $3.06 a
share, for the second quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with a
loss of $92.4 million, or $13.52 a share, a year earlier. Sales
declined 26 percent to $107.4 million.  As of Sept. 30, THQ had $36.3 million in cash and had drawn
$21 million on a $50 million  credit line , it said.  “There can be no assurance that the evaluation of
strategic and financing alternatives will result in a
transaction or financing, or that, if completed, said
transaction and/or financing will be on attractive terms,” THQ
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  