-- Rajoy Says Spain Must Know Rescue Would Bring Down Yields
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-06T11:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/rajoy-says-spain-must-know-rescue-would-bring-down-yields.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
Spain needs to know how much its borrowing costs would fall if
it sought a European bailout, as he continues to push the
 European Central Bank  to improve its bond-buying offer.  “The issue is not only conditions, but how much the spread
will narrow, because if it means the  risk premium  stays around
400 basis points and doesn’t fall to 200, well, obviously that’s
not the same thing,” Rajoy told Cope radio today in Madrid. The
premium is now 424 basis points.  Rajoy said last week that sometimes the “hardest decision
is not to take any decision. He has been considering an aid
request for three months. Spain, which has yet to receive any of
the 100 billion-euro ($128 billion) June bank bailout, wants to
avoid having any sovereign rescue bid stymied by the ECB or
European government.  ‘‘We have to guarantee the support of all the countries of
the European Union,’’ he said. The government hasn’t made any
decision and the ‘‘possibility is there’’ to make a request.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields fell to 5.70 percent at 11:20
a.m. today in Madrid from 5.75 percent yesterday. That’s down
from 7.2 percent on Aug. 2, when the ECB first offered to
intervene in the bond markets of nations that agree to the
conditions of the loan programs led by euro-region governments.  ‘Already Good’  The bank hasn’t set thresholds or targets for bond buying.
It has reserved the right to stop propping up the market if
governments fail to stick to their side of the bargain. Asking
for a rescue doesn’t automatically trigger bond-buying as the
Frankfurt-based bank has said it will consider so-called
Outright Monetary Transactions ‘‘to the extent that they are
warranted from a monetary policy perspective” and stop them
“once their objectives are achieved.”  “Any formalization of a spread target is very unlikely for
the ECB, and the OMT is more geared towards avoiding abrupt
spike in yields if tensions arise rather than keeping them
anchored to a specific target,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .  Rajoy said the ECB’s offer is “already good,” pointing to
the decline in borrowing costs. It would “make little sense”
to request a bailout if it didn’t bring them down further, he
said.  While the Treasury has covered nearly all its issuance
needs for this year, “very high” financing costs “for a long
time” would prompt a bailout request, he said. The government
is committed to cutting the  budget deficit , even as he said he
hopes to avoid further tax increases and to be able to reduce
levies in 2014, in line with a pledge last year that tax hikes
would only last two years.  Deficit Doubts  BBVA Research, the analysis arm of Spain’s second-biggest
bank, questioned Rajoy’s deficit forecasts, and said more
measures may be needed to offset slippage amid a shrinking
economy. A “particularly negative aspect” of some of the
government’s cuts is their temporary nature, BBVA said.  BBVA forecasts the economy will shrink 1.4 percent this
year and the same in 2013. That compares with the government’s
1.5 percent estimate for this year and 0.5 percent contraction
in 2013, when it aims to cut the deficit to 4.5 percent. BBVA
says the deficit target will be missed in both years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  