-- Europe Shouldn’t Ignore U.k.’s Spreading Euro-Slepticism
-- B y
-- 2012-11-06T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/ranks-of-the-euro-skeptics-are-growing-dangerously.html
Prime Minister David Cameron lost a
symbolically important vote on  Europe  in the British parliament
last week. It’s another setback for the U.K.’s perpetually
strained relationship with the European Union and a sign of
mounting discontent with European governance.  The EU’s leaders should start heeding such signals instead
of ignoring them. Unfortunately, British discontent with Europe
is easy to ignore because, forgive the expression, it’s such a
devalued currency. So when Tory rebels joined Labour to
embarrass Cameron by demanding a cut in the U.K.’s contribution
to the  EU budget , nobody was surprised.  The Oct. 31 vote isn’t binding on the government. It does
little more than express disgust with the European project. What
else is new? Mainly this: Disenchantment with the EU is no
longer confined to the British. Mismanagement of Europe’s
economic crisis has aroused bitter resentment of the union’s
leadership -- and especially of  Germany ’s role -- in many other
countries as well.  Thanks to the size of the British economy and the country’s
role in international finance -- not to mention its decision to
stay out of the euro system -- the U.K. could help Europe
develop more flexible modes of EU membership. This would be in
everybody’s interests. To do it effectively, however, the
British need to temper their disdain.  ‘Global Trader’  Many conservatives delude themselves that the country would
be better off leaving the EU altogether. A Tory minister and
former leader of the party, Iain Duncan Smith, recently said
Britain could thrive on its own as a “global trader,” making him
the most senior politician to float the possibility of an EU
exit. Cameron rightly argues that the country’s economic ties to
the EU would make a British exit disastrous.  Greater flexibility -- what Europe’s designers used to call
“variable geometry” -- should be considered, even as Europe’s
governments cooperate more closely on fiscal affairs. An
overbearing European center risks infuriating voters across the
EU and in the end could tear the union apart.  Germany’s government is making that gamble when it insists
on ever more austerity and tighter EU control of national
governments seeking fiscal support. Its demands are
understandable, yet dangerously misguided.  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and Spain are reeling from
fiscal austerity so severe it is counterproductive. Recessions
are deeper and longer-lasting than they otherwise would be,
driving up ratios of public debt to output. A new  study  by
Britain’s respected National Institute of Economic and Social
Research -- the first, according to the institute, to examine
the EU’s coordinated fiscal cuts -- finds that the results have
been “perverse and damaging.”  Growing Resistance  Resistance is growing to the EU’s demands. Its checks and
balances are rudimentary at best: Accountability still resides
at the level of national governments. This mismatch between the
burdens on Europe’s citizens and the lack of popular consent is
dangerous. Britain’s euro-skeptics whine to excess, but they
have a point, and they are no longer alone.  In the short term, Europe should press on with the measures
it has half-promised: steps toward a banking union, direct
support of troubled banking systems and a role for the European
Central Bank as the lender of last resort. No more discussion of
preconditions for distressed sovereign borrowers. Just do it.  Beyond this, the EU needs to adopt some form of debt-
sharing. Here, added conditionality is necessary to ensure that
the burden is spread equally and has a chance to succeed. But
the details matter. If conditionality is seen as an open-ended
surrender of sovereignty, voters justifiably will push back. The
conditions for fiscal support should be narrowly tailored, with
national governments retaining ownership of their policies.  Centralized budget-setting would violate both principles.
There are alternatives.  Conditional euro bonds , for instance,
would allow governments to borrow at reasonable interest rates
linked to performance targets and with euro-area guarantees.
Euro bonds are just one example of a middle way between throwing
good money after bad (as German taxpayers think) and replacing
elected politicians with a tyranny run from Brussels and Berlin
(as protesters in the streets of Athens and  Madrid  believe).  With a little goodwill and a better understanding of where
their interests lie, Germany’s “more Europe” faction and
Britain’s euro-skeptics can still find common ground. Nor is it
too late to accommodate the desperate leaders of Italy, Spain
and the other struggling countries. Cooperation, yes; further
surrender of democratic control, no. If Europe can’t bend on
this, it will prove the whiners in London right and eventually
break.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Visit  the Ticker  for election commentary,
including Josh Barro on  the unimportance of the 2012 vote ,
Justin Wolfers on  better election predictions  and Tobin Harshaw
on  the perils of tweeting your ballot .  Plus, Jonathan Mahler on  why sports leagues should embrace New
Jersey gambling ; Randal C. Picker on  how tech companies tie
their hands  with antitrust settlements. 