-- Raphael Angel Jostles Sad Nude in ‘Seduced by Art’ Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-11-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/raphael-angel-jostles-sad-nude-in-seduced-by-art-show.html
Paintings and photographs have a lot
in common. As  David Hockney  points out, they are both part of a
bigger story: the relationship between human beings and pictures
of all kinds. That’s been going on for tens of thousands of
years, and is still evolving today.  So the new exhibition at the National Gallery in  London ,
“Seduced by Art: Photography Past and Present,” has a
fascinating subject.  It aims to make a three-way connection: between European
painting, photography in the early decades after its inception
in 1839, and what certain camera-based artists are doing right
now. Unfortunately, although it contains some striking examples
of contemporary photo-art, it ends up a bit of a mess, both
chronologically and visually.  The bond between painters and photographers in the 19th
century was intriguingly incestuous. Each looked hard at the
other’s medium. Many painters were affected by the detailed
precision, and also the blur and immediacy of photography.
Conversely, early photographic portraits and compositions are
often based closely on Old Master paintings.  Julia Margaret Cameron, a brilliant Victorian photographer,
was a case in point. She was visibly affected by the example of
paintings both by old masters and contemporaries such as G.F.
Watts.  Raphael Resemblance  In “I Wait“ (1872), she made a real child pose with
folded arms and artificial wings like an angel in Raphael.
Similarly, Oscar Gustav Rejlander’s “The Two Ways of Life”
(1857) was an elaborately posed composition of multiple nudes
and gesticulating figures in robes -- actually a collage of 30
different exposures -- resembling Raphael’s frescoes.  There were reasons for this dependence. Photography was an
astonishing new medium for making images: Painting was a well of
know-how on how to put pictures together. That is, how to make
them look appealing and coherent and carry meaning  However, the exhibition adds another layer to this 19th-
century narrative. In the past few decades, reacting against the
mid-20th-century orthodoxy of photography as documentary
reportage, a number of artists have produced camera images,
often on a grand scale, that echo Old Master painting.  Thus “Keep Them Sweet” (2010) by Maisie Broadhead
carefully restages “An Allegory of Wealth” by Simon Vouet
(about 1635), though with a few alterations (her winged cherub
is wearing a disposable nappy).  Delacroix Echo  The half-naked woman in Tom Hunter’s “Death of Coltelli”
(2009) is in a tatty present-day bedroom. It precisely echoes
the pose of a sad figure from Delacroix’s painted panorama of
romantic sex and violence, “The Death of Sardanapalus” (1827).  These contemporary photo-works are the most intriguing
things on show. Unfortunately they are hung side by side with
early photographs and paintings dating back to the 17th century,
and there are problems with this visual mix.  One is that, although they are closely related, it is
dangerous to put paintings and photographs together in the same
room. Like some family members, they tend to fight (and paint
often wins because it has greater richness in physical, chemical
terms).  As a result, “Seduced by Art” looks like a jumble, and
the chronology is confusing as well. The argument is clearer in
the catalog than on the walls (always a bad sign in an
exhibition). Finally, it misses out a deeper historical
perspective.  The fascination of lenses for painters began long before
1839. Canaletto in the 18th century and Vermeer in the 17th
century were clearly affected by what they saw through the
camera obscura -- essentially, a filmless camera. The connection
between painting and images made by the lens is much more
profound and interesting than “Seduced by Art” reveals.  Seduced by Art is at the National Gallery until Jan. 30,
2013; three photographic “interventions” are also hung in the
permanent collection beside works by Constable, Degas and
Ingres.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on restaurants,
 Warwick Thompson  on London stage and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last
Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 