-- RBNZ Sees Kiwi Staying Strong on Nation’s Growth Outlook
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-07T02:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/rbnz-sees-kiwi-staying-strong-on-nation-s-growth-outlook.html
New Zealand’s dollar may stay strong
and there isn’t much that can be done because investors are
attracted to growing economies, according to the nation’s
central bank.  “It’s hard at this point to see any factor that would lead
to a major depreciation in the exchange rate in the short
term,” Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler told
parliament’s finance select committee today. He reiterated that
cutting interest rates is unlikely to sustainably lower the
local dollar.  The so-called kiwi has gained about 6 percent this year,
the best-performing Group of 10 currency, as global interest
rates fell and investors look to economies with sound policies,
improving economic growth and may benefit from higher commodity
prices. The country’s economy expanded 2.6 percent in the year
ended June 30 and growth is forecast to accelerate, according to
central bank forecasts published in September.  “A period of further strength remains possible” for the
local dollar, the RBNZ said in its half-yearly Financial
Stability Report released earlier. “This would particularly be
the case if New Zealand’s relative growth outlook continued to
be perceived as favorable despite the lower terms of trade.”  Wheeler, the former World Bank co-managing director who
took over from Alan Bollard in late September, kept the official
cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent in his first decision on
interest rates Oct. 25, noting the high exchange rate was
undermining export earnings. Today’s report didn’t contain
commentary on interest rates.  ‘Desperation’  “There’s no easy solution that says cut interest rates 25
pips and the exchange rate will go down,” Wheeler told the
committee. He said quantitative easing, or central bank asset
purchases aimed at bolstering liquidity, were “largely a sign
of desperation” when policy makers had nowhere further to go on
interest rates.  “If the issue is, should we move to quantitative easing in
New Zealand, we don’t think that’s something that deserves
serious thought at this point,” he said. “We have plenty of
scope to cut interest rates if we need to.”  The nation’s economy “has continued to grow modestly” and
private-sector credit has begun to rise again after being flat
in recent years, the central bank said today.  “Some increase in credit will be necessary to sustain
economic growth, but excessive credit growth could hinder
rebalancing of the economy and accentuate existing
vulnerabilities,” Wheeler said in the report.  Housing Strength  The central bank signaled it is monitoring household credit
growth as the housing market strengthens.  “If credit demand was to strengthen significantly, and
banks were willing and able to accommodate that demand,
indebtedness could resume and upward trend eroding households’
resilience to shocks,” it said.  House prices rose 5.3 percent in the year ended Sept. 30,
the fastest annual gain since May 2010, according to Quotable
Value New Zealand. Prices are overvalued relative to incomes and
rents and a substantial price slump could result in strains on
household and bank balance sheets, the RBNZ said.  Credit growth is also accelerating in the farming industry
led by dairying, the central bank said.  “With debt levels remaining elevated, and revenue and land
values sensitive to commodity prices, the agricultural sector is
vulnerable to an adverse external shock,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  