-- RBNZ Says Kiwi Currency May Remain Strong on Economic Outlook
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-06T20:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/rbnz-says-kiwi-currency-may-remain-strong-on-economic-outlook.html
New Zealand ’s dollar, the best
performing Group of 10 currency this year, may remain strong,
reflecting the domestic growth outlook and optimism in global
markets, according to the nation’s central bank.  “A period of further strength remains possible” for the
currency, the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand said in the six-
monthly Financial Stability Report released in Wellington today.
“This would particularly be the case if New Zealand’s relative
growth outlook continued to be perceived as favorable despite
the lower terms of trade.”  New Zealand’s currency has gained 6 percent this year and
is among several that have advanced as global interest rates
have fallen and policy makers have made progress in resolving
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, the central bank said. The
economy grew 2.6 percent in the year ended June 30 and growth is
forecast to accelerate, according to central bank forecasts
published in September.  Governor Graeme Wheeler, the former World Bank co-managing
director who took over from Alan Bollard in late September, kept
the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent in his first
decision on  interest rates  Oct. 25, noting the high  exchange
rate  was undermining export earnings. Today’s report doesn’t
contain commentary on interest rates.  In an Oct. 26 speech, Wheeler said New Zealand doesn’t need
quantitative easing, referring to central bank asset purchases.
Nor did he favor cutting interest rates simply to target the
exchange rate, citing evidence that past reductions had failed
to quell currency demand.  New Zealand’s economy “has continued to grow modestly”
and private sector credit has begun to grow again after being
flat in recent years, the central bank said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  