-- Regulators Seek Tougher Trading Book Rules in Third Basel Wave
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-06T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/regulators-seek-tougher-trading-book-rules-in-third-basel-wave.html
Global banking regulators will
propose an overhaul of capital rules for assets on banks’
trading books and to reinforce safeguards against excessive risk
taking as part of a third wave of rule changes in response to
the 2008 financial crisis.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will also review
capital rules for securitized debt, and seek to reduce banks
reliance on assessments issued by credit-ratings companies,
Wayne Byres, the group’s secretary general, said in a speech
today in the Swiss city.  “There is more to be done,” Byres said, according to an
e-mailed copy of his prepared remarks. “We have not yet
completed the full set of policy reforms.”  Nations are struggling to meet a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline for
implementing an overhaul of bank capital rules that was agreed
on by the Basel committee. The measures, known as Basel III,
would more than triple the  core reserves  that lenders have to
hold against losses compared to current international rules.
They are scheduled to apply fully from 2019.  Only eight of the Basel committee’s 27 member nations have
so far issued their final rules for applying Basel III, the
Financial Stability Board said yesterday.  “Implementing Basel III is essential, but it must be
accompanied by other measures and reforms so that a truly
healthy banking system is secured for the future,” Byres said.  Large Exposure  The Basel group will seek views on updating so-called large
exposure rules that cap the amount of business a bank can do
with any single counterparty, Byres said.  It will also issue “detailed proposals, and undertake an
impact study” on the capital rules that apply to lenders’
trading books, he said.  The measures follow both the publication of Basel III and
an earlier set of rule-changes, known as Basel 2.5, that was
agreed on in 2009.  Byres said that the Basel committee is working to finalize
a draft liquidity rule for lenders that would force them to
hoard enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit
squeeze.  The group is seeking to announce the final form of the
standard in “the first part of 2013,” Byres said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  