-- Renaissance Capital’s Varawalla, Konigsberg Said to Leave
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-11-06T12:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/renaissance-capital-s-varawalla-konigsberg-said-to-leave-1-.html
Renaissance Capital’s Hasnen Varawalla, who led the Moscow-based securities firm’s failed
push into markets such as  India , and senior adviser Stephen
Konigsberg have left the company, according to four people with
knowledge of the situation.  Varawalla left at the end of last month, said the people,
who declined to be identified as the departure hasn’t been made
public. Konigsberg confirmed by phone that he also left at the
end of October. An official at the firm in Moscow declined to
comment.  RenCap, as the bank is known, has lost market share in
 Russia  to state-controlled VTB Capital and OAO Sberbank, which
bought the Troika Dialog securities firm in January. People with
knowledge of the situation said earlier this year that RenCap is
closing offices in India and  Hong Kong , shutting sales, trading
and research operations in Kazkahstan and Ukraine and cutting as
much as 15 percent of its global workforce as business slows.  Varawalla, who didn’t immediately respond to calls to his
mobile phone, was co-chairman of the Macquarie Renaissance
infrastructure fund. He was head of new markets investment
banking, including operations in sub-Saharan  Africa  and the
Beijing and Hong Kong offices that have since closed.  He joined RenCap as head of corporate finance in 2006 from
Credit Suisse AG. Konigsberg, who had been at the firm since
1998, was an adviser to founder  Stephen Jennings .  Changing Roles  Jennings has tried to transform RenCap from a Russian
investment bank into a global emerging-markets firm. Its
operations in sub-Saharan Africa remain open. The bank hired
Shu-Ming Peng from Morgan Stanley and Aimee Crane from ING Groep
NV last month for sales-trading roles.  Rob Edwards, chairman of RenCap’s metals and mining group,
and Sergey Shenderov, head of metals and mining group for Russia
and former Soviet nations, are switching their current positions
for senior advisory roles, the RenCap official said today.  Edwards spent almost 10 years as an analyst. He was the
leading analyst in metals and mining for six years, according to
Institutional Investor. Edwards and Shenderov didn’t answer
calls to their mobile phones.  Previous Departures  Yonatan Gozdanker, London-based global head of equities,
left last month, two years after joining from Citigroup Inc.
Alexander Pertsovsky, chairman of the parent company,
Renaissance Group, will leave shortly, Vedomosti reported on
Oct. 5, citing friends of the executive who weren’t identified.  Pertsovksy, who had been at the bank since 2002, quit as
head of RenCap in June, Vedomosti reported at the time. On May
18, the bank said Deputy CEO Andrew Cornthwaite had gone on
leave for an indeterminate period.  Soroosh Shambayati, hired as global co-head of markets in
Moscow from Nomura Holdings Inc., left in May after less than a
year. Peter Krivdin, head of equity derivative sales, said last
month he had left for a similar role at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  Jennings, the bank’s founder, sold half of RenCap to
billionaire Brooklyn Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  for $500
million to keep it afloat in September 2008 amid a record rout
in Russian stocks. Prokhorov’s Onexim Group extended its
influence at the Renaissance parent company in February by
taking minority stakes in its consumer-finance unit, London-
traded miner Beacon Hill Resources Plc and Ukrainian Agrarian
Investments.  Rencap has slumped to 18th in Russian debt and equity sales
this year, Bloomberg data shows, compared to fifth last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  