-- Russian October Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Falls to 6.5%
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-11-06T13:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/russian-october-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-falls-to-6-5-.html
Russia ’s price growth unexpectedly
eased in October, slowing for the first time in six months and
giving policy makers room to sidestep interest-rate increases.  The inflation rate fell to 6.5 percent in October from a
year earlier, compared with 6.6 percent in September, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. Prices grew 0.5 percent in the month. Economists
projected a 6.7 percent annual rate and a 0.6 percent advance in
the month, according to the median estimates of two Bloomberg
surveys.  Russia, the biggest emerging economy to raise  interest
rates  this year, is trying to keep a lid on consumer prices
after droughts in the U.S. and locally drove up food costs. The
government’s top priority is fighting inflation, even at the
expense of short-term growth, President  Vladimir Putin  said last
month at an investment conference in Moscow.  “Food inflation eased off a little in October, so it seems
that has been partly driving the slowdown in the headline
rate,” said  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , who correctly predicted the
rate. While inflation may near 7 percent by year-end, policy
makers are likely to hold rates “for the foreseeable future”
as the economy slows, he said.  The ruble is the third-worst performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the last
six months, losing 5.4 percent against the dollar. It was little
changed at 31.4800 per dollar as of 4:36 p.m. in Moscow. Non-
deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements, showed the ruble at 31.9575 per dollar in
three months.  Unexpected Increase  Policy makers in September unexpectedly raised interest
rates as concerns over inflation outweighed the dangers of a
slowing economy, with price growth surging past the central
bank’s target of 5 percent to 6 percent this year. Dry weather
damaged crops in Russia, the third-biggest wheat exporter last
season, cutting global stockpiles and helping boost  food costs 
7.7 percent in July-September.  Economists project that the central bank, which kept the
refinancing rate at 8.25 percent in October, will maintain the
rate unchanged through year-end. Bank Rossii will next review
interest rates on Nov. 9.  Harmful Increase  The increase in borrowing costs in September harmed the
country’s industry and investment without curtailing inflation,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Oct. 19. The
government isn’t planning to raise its forecast for annual price
growth to reach 7 percent in 2012, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said Oct. 31.  Inflation slowed to a post-Soviet low of 3.6 percent in
April and May after the government pushed back increases in
utility tariffs by six months to July 1. Most Russians named
rising prices as their biggest concern, topping corruption,
poverty and drug abuse in an August poll published by the
Moscow-based Levada Center.  Russian farmers reaped 72.2 million tons of grain before
drying and cleaning as of Oct. 26, down from about 95.4 million
tons a year earlier. In July, world food prices rose the most in
a month since 2009.  “We generally see relief in food price pressure as
temporary and expect a new round of food inflation soon,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said
in a note to clients after the report. An increase in rates is
now “less urgent,” so Bank Rossii may hold off until December,
she said.  Produce, Services  Produce prices dropped 2.2 percent in October from a month
earlier, while grains and beans advanced 0.7 percent from the
previous month, the statistics service said today. Services
costs rose 0.1 percent on a monthly basis, down from a 1 percent
increase in September.  “Slowing consumer-price growth is primarily linked to the
minimal change in prices for services,” said Dmitry Kharlampiev, director for macroeconomic research at OAO
Petrocommerce Bank in  St. Petersburg , who also correctly
forecast the surprise slowdown. “I don’t expect a change in
policy rates at the regulator’s next meeting because inflation,
which the central bank has been so focused on lately, isn’t
accelerating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  