-- Samaras Faces Down Parliament Dissenter as Greeks Srike
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-11-07T13:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/samaras-faces-down-parliament-dissenter-as-greeks-srike.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
faces a test of his fragile coalition government today as he
seeks parliamentary approval of austerity measures to unlock
bailout funds amid the third general strike in six weeks.  The bill on pension, wage and benefit cuts was brought to
the 300-seat Parliament today with a roll-call vote expected to
be held late in the evening. Approval of the legislation is the
first of the votes required by Nov. 12 to get a 31 billion-euro
($40 billion) aid tranche.  “We now find ourselves at the final critical crossroads
and must take the right decision,” Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told the committee yesterday. “The goal is clear and
there is only one road toward it.”  Samaras must stem defections from his three-party coalition
to convince European Union leaders including German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  that his government is serious about staying in
the euro. On paper, he can count on the backing of 175
lawmakers. Democratic Left, a coalition partner with 16 seats,
has said it won’t vote for changes to labor laws it says have no
fiscal benefit.  The government has lost as many as four supporters since
being formed in June, with the latest defection coming from the
ranks of Socialist Pasok, which provides Samaras with the votes
he needs for his majority in Parliament.  Samaras Backing  The Greek 10-year bond yield fell 32 basis points to 16.9
percent at 1:58 p.m.  Athens  time after dropping 97 basis points
over the previous two days. The country’s benchmark ASE Index
rose 0.4 percent to 836.01.  Discussion of the actual bill was delayed nearly four hours
as lawmakers quarrelled over procedural issues and the
opposition demanded a roll-call vote on a motion to dismiss the
measures because they contravene the constitution. That motion
was dismissed by 170 votes to 47.  The debate was held against a backdrop of a country in a
second day of a 48-hour general strike. Hospitals, banks,
pharmacies and government services shut down and taxis, buses
and rail services ground to a halt. A protest rally is planned
outside the Parliament at 5 p.m, the second in as many days.
More than 35,000 Greeks marched peacefully in central Athens
yesterday.  The 238 pages of proposals in the bill range from raising
the  retirement age  two years to 67 to eliminating Christmas and
holiday payments for pensioners and cutting benefits paid to
disabled people.  Rolling Strikes  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  workers, opposed to caps on wages for
employees in state-owned companies, are holding rolling 48-hour
strikes. Five power plants were taken offline yesterday, while
the islands of Crete and Rhodes suffered outages late yesterday.  “This parliament is not what will judge you,” Zoe
Constantopoulou, a lawmaker with opposition party Syriza, said
in the chamber today. “History will judge you.”  Parliament will convene again on Nov. 11 to vote on the
2013 budget, which provides for 9 billion euros of the savings
to bring the deficit to 5.2 percent of GDP next year from 6.6
percent this year.  Greece  sees the economy shrinking 4.5 percent
in 2013, the sixth straight contraction. The European Commission
today forecast the downturn next year will be 4.2 percent.  Greece has received 240 billion euros in aid pledges from
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  since 2010. Under
pressure to make more efforts to rein in its  budget deficit  and
deregulate the economy, the country is still struggling to hit
its debt-reduction targets, which may endanger further payments
under the loan agreements.  Rising Debt  Debt is forecast by the Greek government to rise to 189
percent of gross domestic product next year from 176 percent
this year as the economy tumbles.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn , speaking at a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs
in Mexico City, said Nov. 5 that a deal to unlock bailout funds
must be made at a meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels on
Nov. 12. A European G-20 official, speaking before Rehn and on
condition of anonymity, cast doubt on the prospects for that
deadline, saying officials may fall short.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  