-- Sandy May Spur Fiscal Cliff Accord, BNP’s Lawson Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-06T21:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/sandy-may-spur-fiscal-cliff-accord-bnp-s-lawson-says.html
Sandy, the Atlantic superstorm that
hit the Northeast U.S. last week, may lead to a congressional
compromise that would avoid the fiscal cliff, said Jeremy Lawson, senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas SA.  The U.S. is facing more than $600 billion of federal
spending cuts and tax increases that will kick in automatically
at the start of next year unless Congress acts.  Congress created the spending cuts in August 2011 as part
of an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling and reduce
future budget deficits. Hitting the cliff would probably reverse
U.S. economic growth and put the world’s largest economy back
into recession, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said
on Aug. 22.  “Neither party really wants to see tax increases,” Lawson
said in an interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” today. “ Hurricane Sandy  provides
maybe a mechanism by which they can sort of fall back,
compromise, find a way to sort of push the cliff off.”  Lawson also said that “hopefully,” once the election
results are clear, Congress and the president can reach a
longer-term agreement over deficit and debt reduction.  ‘Soothing Balm’  “Sandy may provide a soothing balm to political discord
over the fiscal cliff regardless of who wins the presidency,”
Lawson said in an Oct. 31 report. “The hurricane provides cover
for both Republicans and Democrats to compromise, avoid the
fiscal cliff, and perhaps even provide aid to states to repair
damaged infrastructure.”  “The worst thing that can occur is if we just have a cliff
event every year,” Lawson said on Bloomberg TV today. “So for
example, we get beyond 2013, and we have another fiscal cliff
event in 2014, that’s where a grand bargain comes into play, and
to get a grand bargain the president needs to lead and that’s
what we really need from each candidate, depending on who
wins.”  The negotiations over deficit and debt reduction have
highlighted the parties’ differences over the size and role of
the government, without producing an accord.  Republicans have said they’ll resist tax increases and
defense cuts to avoid hurting the economy. Democrats support
increased taxes for high earners. President  Barack Obama  has
said he will veto any bill that extends the tax cuts for high-
income taxpayers. His Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  has said
he plans a cut in taxes for everybody, paired with unspecified
curbs on tax breaks.  Hurricane Impact  Steve Schmidt, chief strategist for Republican presidential
candidate  John McCain ’s 2008 campaign, said it is “impossible
to predict” what impact the hurricane will have on the
presidential race or on the broader political debate over
 government spending . He called any connection between the
disaster response and broader Republican criticism of the size
of government “specious.”  Sandy, which moved along the East Coast for five days
before slamming into the mid-Atlantic coast on Oct. 29 caused as
much as $50 billion in economic damage, according to  Eqecat
Inc. , a provider of catastrophic risk models. The U.S. death
toll now stands at more than 100.  The storm may reduce gross domestic product by as much as
0.2 percentage point this quarter, said  Mark Vitner , a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 2 percent pace in the third
quarter, to an inflation-adjusted $13.6 trillion, after climbing
1.3 percent in the prior quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  