-- Sandy Probably Impaired Isolated CMBS Deals, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-11-06T19:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/sandy-probably-impaired-isolated-cmbs-deals-credit-suisse-says.html
The impact of  Hurricane Sandy  on U.S.
commercial-mortgage bonds will probably be confined to
individual deals, while it’s still unclear which properties are
affected, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  As much as $14 billion in debt on buildings in lower
Manhattan, one of the areas hardest hit by the biggest Atlantic
storm in history, is contained in commercial-mortgage backed
securities, Credit Suisse analysts wrote in a report yesterday.
The damages will “likely be far less,” the analysts said.  “Many of these loan-specific issues will take time to
unfold and property level damage, in some places, cannot be
fully assessed as of yet,” said the New York-based analysts led
by Roger Lehman. “There will be few, market-wide implications
of the storm.”  Commercial-mortgage bond investors are weighing the impact
of Hurricane Sandy on U.S. real estate with as many as 3,761
loans totaling $91.5 billion in debt located in disaster zones,
according to Amherst Securities Group LP. Insurance should cover
damage sustained during the storm, according to Darrell Wheeler,
a New York-based debt strategist at Amherst.  “The issue we are tracking is how many loans are
insufficiently insured for this event,” Wheeler said in an e-
mail. “We won’t know that for several months as servicers
contact their borrowers.”  Private Insurance  Properties that are secured by large loans are more likely
to have purchased private insurance in excess of the guidelines
laid out in commercial-mortgage bond deal documents, according
to the Credit Suisse analysts.  Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village,  Manhattan ’s largest
apartment complex, was flooded and several buildings sustained
extensive mechanical damage, the Credit Suisse analysts said,
citing reports published by the property managers. A $3 billion
mortgage on the complex was sliced up and packaged into five
different bond deals during the peak of the property boom in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The insurance required by the loan document appears
reasonably extensive and we believe it would likely go a long
way covering a significant portion, if not all of the incurred
damage,” according to Credit Suisse.  Loan Defaults  Most commercial properties have insurance that covers
windstorm, flood and business interruption, Fitch Ratings said
in a Nov. 2 report. Many loan defaults due to the storm will be
temporary as power and connectivity issues are resolved,
according to the New York-based rating company. Resolutions may
take longer if borrowers with property damage experience delays
in receiving insurance proceeds, making repairs and resuming
operations, according to Fitch.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries rose to 107
basis points, or 1.07 percentage points, on Nov. 5 from 104
basis points on Nov. 1, according to a Barclays Plc  index . The
spread was at 101 basis points on Oct. 24, the lowest in at
least four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  