-- Scots Money Managers Like Regional Banks Whether Obama or Romney
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M y n a n d a   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-11-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/scots-money-managers-like-regional-banks-whether-obama-or-romney.html
Scottish money managers are investing
in U.S. regional banks, betting they will do well as the economy
improves whoever wins the presidential race today.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ,  Scotland ’s largest fund
company, owns Little Rock, Arkansas-based  Bank of the Ozarks
Inc. , which has risen 8 percent this year. Edinburgh-based
 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership  this year bought shares
in  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , which gained 53 percent through Nov. 2,
and Ohio lender  KeyCorp (KEY) , up about 9 percent.  “The regional banks are more leveraged to benefit from an
improving economic recovery than the larger banks,” James Kinghorn, a fund manager at Scottish Widows Investment, said in
an interview. “They are better relative to European banks but
they are also attractively valued. The U.S. economy has much
more scope to surprise positively than many other regions.”  The last jobs report before U.S. voters choose between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
today showed hiring increased more than forecast in October,
adding to signs the economy may be sustaining its recovery.  A net 171,000 workers were added to payrolls in October
after a 148,000 gain in September that was more than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed last week. The
increase exceeded the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
survey in which the median called for an advance of 125,000.  Surprising Investors  “Regional banks have got the ability to surprise investors
and move forward in terms of earnings,” Paul Atkinson, the
Philadelphia-based head of North American equities at Aberdeen
Asset Management, said by telephone. “If the market does run
next year, you will need to be in financials.”  They also both hold shares in Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S.
bank by market value, which has gained 23 percent this year.
Atkinson said he has been adding to his holding.  Aberdeen, Scotland’s largest manager, had 184.3 billion
pounds ($297 billion) under management at Aug. 31, according to
a statement on Sept. 24. Scottish Widows Investment, part of
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , oversaw 138.3 billion pounds at the
end of June, according to its website.  The two say their investment strategy doesn’t depend on the
outcome of the election, which polls show is too close to call.  Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in an Oct. 31-
Nov. 3 national poll conducted by the Pew Research Center, a
survey that was deadlocked at 47 percent each a week ago. Polls
conducted by NBC News with the Wall Street Journal and ABC News
with the Washington Post showed a one percentage point lead for
Obama. That was inside the margin of error for both surveys.  Harley-Davidson  Other stocks that Kinghorn at Scottish Widows Investment
likes include motorcycle maker  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , which has
advanced 22 percent this year,  McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the largest U.S.
drug distributor, up 20 percent,  Rayonier Inc. (RYN) , a forestry
products company that’s up 10 percent, and  SolarWinds Inc. (SWI) , a
stock that’s 81 percent higher this year.  He also holds  American Express Co. (AXP) , up 20 percent, and
 Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , rising 40 percent. They compare
with a 12 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Atkinson favors consumer-related stocks such as  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , which he said are able to benefit
from higher spending Asian consumers. PepsiCo has gained 4.1
percent, while Procter & Gamble has risen 3.7 percent.  He also invests in energy services companies where he has
been adding to holdings in  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , which is
up 5.4 percent so far this year.  Aberdeen prefers building materials suppliers such as  Drew
Industries Inc. (DW) , up 29 percent this year, and  Gibraltar
Industries Inc. (ROCK) , which has fallen 12 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  