-- Secret Cash for California Vote Was Sent From Virginia
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/secret-cash-for-california-vote-was-sent-from-virginia.html
Election officials called an $11
million contribution to the fight over California ballot
initiatives the biggest case of “campaign money laundering” in
state history after tracing the money to an  Arizona  nonprofit
and a  Virginia  group whose donors remain secret.  The  California Fair Political Practices Commission  had sued
to force Americans for Responsible Leadership to disclose its
donors. As part of a settlement, the regulator said it was
informed that the money came from Americans for  Job Security  in
Alexandria, Virginia, through the Center to Protect Patient
Rights in Phoenix. The Virginia group said in a tax filing that
its cash comes from members it doesn’t identify.  The donation is part of a wave of secret money flowing
through nonprofits to hide the identities of the true sources in
the aftermath of the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2010 Citizens United
decision, federal records indicate. Under California law,
refusing to disclose the donors amounted to “campaign money
laundering,” the regulator said today in a statement.  “After late-night discussions, Americans for Responsible
Leadership and the FPPC reached a settlement,” Matt Ross, a
spokesman for the Phoenix-based leadership group, said in a
statement yesterday. “The commission has received specific
documents it requested.”  The commission asked a court to force the leadership group
to name the ultimate source of the financing after the
organization refused to comply with an audit to show whether it
violated laws aimed at letting voters know who is bankrolling
ballot-measure campaigns. California’s Supreme Court two days
ago upheld a lower0court order requiring the disclosure.  The money was donated to finance opposition to tax
increases sought by Governor  Jerry Brown  and to support another
initiative aimed at curbing political influence of labor unions.  Republican Boosters  Both Americans for Job Security and the Center to Protect
Patient Rights have spent tens of millions of dollars to boost
Republican candidates and causes, using money from anonymous
donors, U.S. Internal Revenue Service filings show.  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  said “further
investigation” of the group’s disclosure is warranted.  “It won’t be over on Election Day,” Harris said by phone
from  Ohio  yesterday. The FPPC could ask her office to get
involved, she said, adding, “We are not at that point.”  The case is California Fair Political Practices Commission
v. Americans for Responsible Leadership, 34-2012-00131550,
California Superior Court,  Sacramento  County (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  