-- Singer’s Elliott Sells Home Loan Bonds in Latest Quarter
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-11-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/singer-s-elliott-sells-home-loan-bonds-in-latest-quarter.html
Elliott Management Corp., the $21
billion New York-based hedge fund founded by billionaire
investor Paul Singer, sold residential mortgage-backed
securities last quarter.  “While we acknowledge that the yield profile of many RMBS
bonds compares favorably to other credit products, the absolute
yields are very low,” Elliott said in a third-quarter letter to
clients, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Even
considering a likely continuation of good news in housing, we do
not find most RMBS bonds compelling. As a result, we have
continued to sell into this rally.”  Elliott differs from hedge funds including Brevan Howard
Management LLP, D.E. Shaw & Co. and Angelo Gordon & Co. that
have started pools of capital this year to invest in so-called
non-agency home-loan bonds, which lack U.S. government backing.
Those firms have been lured to the almost $1 trillion market in
part by property prices that are stabilizing after the biggest
real estate crash since the 1930s.  The market for non-agency home-loan bonds has shrunk by
$1.3 trillion since 2007. Issuance of the debt peaked at $1.2
trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before collapsing as their prices
tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and plunging home values.  U.S. home prices rose 2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month jump since July 2010, according to
an  S&P/Case-Shiller index  that gauges property values in 20
metropolitan areas. The measure fell 35 percent from the peak in
July 2006 to February 2012.  Commercial Mortgages  Elliott is still finding opportunities in commercial
mortgage-backed securities, albeit at prices that aren’t as
attractive as in the past, the firm said in the Oct. 26 letter.  “While instances of mispricing are fewer and less
egregious, there are still enough of them for us to find
opportunities,” Elliott said.  Demand for bonds linked to offices, skyscrapers and
shopping malls is at about the highest in four years as
commercial properties in the largest cities across the U.S. show
signs of improvement. Angelo Gordon, LibreMax Capital LLC,
Metacapital Management LLC and Brevan Howard are among firms
that snapped up commercial mortgage-backed securities as
confidence grows that the property is bottoming following the
recovery in residential housing.  ‘Attractive’ CLOs  Elliott’s collateralized loan obligations, which pool high-
yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of varying
risk and return, gained during the quarter “as new investors
continued to enter the sector,” the firm said. “Relative
valuations remain attractive.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised a $560.1 million CLO for Och-
Ziff Capital Management Group LLC, the hedge fund run by Daniel Och, two people with knowledge of the deal said last month. Och
said during a second-quarter conference call that the firm may
build a CLO business. JPMorgan also raised a $617.3 million CLO
for BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, two people with
knowledge of the deal said in October.  CLO volume rose by $6.5 billion in September, the most
since August 2007, bringing the total for the year to more than
$31 billion, according to Morgan Stanley. While that’s up from
$11.7 billion in all of 2011, it’s below the $91.1 billion at
the height of the market in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg and
Morgan Stanley show.  The $13.4 billion Elliott International Ltd. fund rose 1.9
percent in September and 8.4 percent this year, according to an
update to clients sent last month.  The firm declined to comment on the third-quarter letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  