-- Sinopec Said to Buy Nigeria Oil Blocks From French Total
-- B y   F o x   H u ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-07T02:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/sinopec-said-to-buy-nigeria-oil-blocks-from-french-total.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
seeking to reverse a decline in oil reserves, is close to buying
stakes in Nigerian onshore oil blocks from  Total SA (FP) , for about
$2.4 billion, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Sinopec, as the state-backed Chinese refiner is known, has
signed a preliminary deal to acquire the stakes, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the agreement has
not been made public.  China’s state-backed energy companies are seeking new oil
and gas reserves abroad to  feed  the world’s second-largest
economy, especially from regions like  Africa  where government
scrutiny is lighter than in  North America  or  Europe . Sinopec has
also approached the French oil firm  Etablissements Maurel et
Prom (MAU) , which operates in Gabon, about an acquisition, people
familiar with the matter said this month.  “We like the potential upstream asset acquisition in
Nigeria because it could help Sinopec replenish its dwindling
oil reserves and improve the firm’s overall profit margin amid
sustained high  oil prices  in the long term,” said Gordon Kwan,
Hong Kong-based head of energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd.  Total, Europe’s third-biggest oil company, is seeking to
divest $15 billion to $20 billion of assets from 2012 to 2014 in
order to raise cash for oil and gas projects. Chief Executive
Officer Christophe de Margerie has said most of that will come
from the exploration and production division.  Biggest Source  A Total official in Paris declined to comment. A spokesman
for Sinopec was not immediately available for comment.  Total gained 0.1 percent to close at 38.89 euros in Paris
trading yesterday. Sinopec lost 0.2 percent to HK$8.20 at 10:20
a.m. in  Hong Kong  today.  Nigeria was tied with  Norway  last year as Total’s biggest
source of hydrocarbons, accounting for 287,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, or about 12 percent of the total. The company
plans to pump 3 million barrels a day of oil and gas in 2017.  Total’s asset-sale target, announced during an annual
investor conference in London last month, compares with $15
billion of “finalized” sales in 2010 and 2011, according to
figures given in February. A portion of these came from the
divestment of shares in French drugmaker Sanofi.  Quickened Pace  Total has quickened the pace of deals in recent years as
part of a policy to “actively manage” its portfolio of
exploration acreage, refineries and pipelines around the world.
The Paris-based company agreed last year to sell its stake in
the Norwegian Gassled pipeline system, while de Margerie has
said he’s studying a sale of the TIGF network in southern
 France . Total also sold a stake in a Spanish oil refiner and
tried to sell the Lindsey refinery in the U.K.  Sinopec’s reserves of crude oil declined from 3.3 billion
barrels in 2007 to 2.8 billion barrels at the end of last year,
enough for nine years of production at 2011 levels, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its parent,  China Petrochemical (1314) ,
said in January that it will seek to produce 50 million metric
tons of crude a year overseas by 2015. Last year, foreign
production was 23 million tons.  China Petrochemical bought Addax Petroleum Corp. in 2009,
adding reserves in Nigeria, Cameroon and Gabon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  