-- Slovenia Put on Credit Watch Negative by S&P on Vote Call
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-06T12:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/slovenia-put-on-credit-watch-negative-by-s-p-on-referendum-call.html
Slovenia’s credit rating was put on
credit watch negative by Standard & Poor’s because of opposition
efforts to force a referendum on the government’s plan to
overhaul the economy.  Opposition lawmakers on Oct. 30 filed a motion to call a
plebiscite on a so-called bad bank and the creation of a wealth
fund meant to ease the sale of state assets. The bank plan
motion was rejected by Parliamentary Speaker Gregor Virant on
Nov. 2. The yield on Slovenia’s 10-year $2.25 billion bond rose
4 basis points, after soaring 29 basis points on Oct. 31.  “The possibility that the parliamentary opposition will
use the referendum procedure as a blocking device raises
significant uncertainties that could threaten the government’s
ability to develop and execute structural reform policies,” New
York-based S&P said in a statement today. “Delays in resolving
the issue will likely harm investor confidence and could
increase Slovenia’s financing costs.”  Slovenia is pushing ahead with measures to strengthen the
economy, including fiscal consolidation and the formation of the
bad bank as the government struggles to avoid becoming the next
euro-region country to ask for international assistance.  Lawmakers in the capital Ljubljana will today ask the
 Constitutional Court  to either allow or reject the call for the
popular vote, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said yesterday.  The 10-year bond sold last month dropped after the report,
pushing the yield up seven basis points to 5.51 percent at 10:30
a.m. in Ljubljana, after rising to 5.49 percent on Oct. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Score  S&P said it may lower Slovenia’s credit score by one level
to A-, its fourth-lowest investment grade, or to BBB, two steps
above junk, “if the government’s ability to enact key reforms
to promote a more flexible and responsive economy and financial
markets have been weakened and if we see that the lack of
political certainty is undermining Slovenia’s other credit
metrics such as its fiscal and debt dynamics.”  A BBB rating would put the country on par with  South
Africa ,  Lithuania  and  Bulgaria . A possible downgrade to BB+, the
first non-investment grade, would disqualify 80 percent of
Slovenian bank assets held as collateral at the  European Central
Bank , the  Finance Ministry  said.  “A credit rating cut would also mean that state-backed
bonds that would be issued in exchange for bad loans from banks
couldn’t be used as collateral with the ECB to ensure their
liquidity,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Bank Plan  Slovenia’s bank-stabilization plan foresees the creation of
an agency that would take non-performing loans from ailing
lenders amounting to as much as 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion)
in exchange for state-backed bonds that would probably be
eligible as collateral for further financing with the ECB,
Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said.  The Adriatic nation’s export-driven  economy , which
contracted an annual 3.2 percent in second quarter, will
probably shrink more than 1.8 percent because of “uncertainty
on the sovereign debt markets and the need for additional fiscal
consolidation measures in the European Union,” the central bank
said today in a price stability report.  “In the second quarter of this year, the economic
situation in Slovenia deteriorated sharply,”  Banka Slovenije 
said in the report. “The risks in GDP growth projections remain
high and are tilted toward the downside.”  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  is aiming to
cut the  budget deficit  to about 3.5 percent of gross domestic
product from 6.4 percent at the end of last year. Debt is
forecast to increase to 58 percent of total output next year,
according to the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  