-- South Africa Vineyards Burned for Second Day Protests Grow
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-11-06T13:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/south-africa-vineyards-burned-for-second-day-protests-grow-2-.html
Vineyards in South Africa’s biggest
table grape-growing region were torched for a second day by
protesters wanting more pay, the Western Cape province’s
agricultural trade association said.  Fifty hectares (123 acres) planted with grapes were
incinerated yesterday near De Doorns, about 140 kilometers (87
miles) northeast of Cape Town, Agri Wes-Cape spokeswoman Porchia
Adams said by mobile phone from Cape Town today. Farmers are
still assessing how much land was burned today, she said. De
Doorns, which has 4,800 hectares of vineyards, is the largest
producer of table grapes. South Africa is the continent’s
biggest grower of the fruit.  “They are looting shops and whatever they can find -- it’s
a disaster,” Adams said. “We earlier had helicopters to try
and extinguish the fire. The Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration is trying to mediate between the
workers and the farmers.”  The protesters want better wages and living conditions, the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, the nation’s biggest
labor federation, said in an e-mailed statement. Labor unrest
has rocked the mining and manufacturing industries in South
Africa, where a quarter of the workforce is unemployed and
almost a third of the population of 51.8 million receives
welfare grants.  Members of province’s government met with police and farmer
representatives and the town’s mayor will address the protesters
later today, the province’s Agriculture Department said in an e-
mailed statement. The main national highway, the N1, has been
closed outside the towns of Worcester and De Doorns, it said.  ‘Politically Motivated’  “We believe this to be politically motivated action, and
not a labor protest,” Western Cape Agriculture Minister Gerrit
van Rensburg said in the statement. “It is at this stage very
difficult to identify the leadership of the protest, and
therefore impossible to engage in dialog with the protesters.”  The Western Cape is controlled by the Democratic Alliance,
making it the only one of South Africa’s nine provinces not
governed by the ruling African National Congress.  “These exploitative practices of farm workers and their
families are going to lead to deepening conflict and growing
protest,” Cosatu said in the statement . “People cannot be
expected to live on their knees, whilst the farmers profit
handsomely from the exploitation.”  Estimated Damage  The fire could have destroyed about 15 million rand ($2
million) of table grapes yesterday, Adams said. Investigations
into the extent of the damage are still pending, she said.  Cosatu called for for calm and for workers to stop the
violence and unlawful acts in their protests as it “distracts
from their noble struggle for social justice.”  There were 113 demonstrations against poor services and
living conditions in South Africa in the first seven months of
2012, more than in any other year since monitoring began in
2004, according to Johannesburg-based Municipal IQ, an
independent local government research group. The Western Cape
had 24 percent of the protests, the most of the nine provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  