-- South Korea’s Ahn, Moon to Merge Presidential Campaigns
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-11-07T03:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/south-korea-s-ahn-moon-to-merge-presidential-campaigns.html
South Korean independent presidential
candidate Ahn Cheol Soo will combine forces with main opposition
party nominee Moon Jae In in a bid to stop the ruling party’s
Park Geun Hye from winning next month’s election.  The two men agreed at a meeting yesterday in Seoul to
continue discussions on who should be the remaining candidate
for the Dec. 19 race to replace outgoing President  Lee Myung Bak , Moon spokesman Park Kwang On told reporters. The choice
will be announced before the Nov. 26 deadline to register with
the National Election Commission, he said.  Polls show the New Frontier Party’s Park winning a three-
way race and becoming the first female leader of  Asia ’s fourth-
biggest economy. The candidates all advocate expanding social
welfare, boosting jobs and reducing the  income gap , and Moon has
advocated a unified opposition to stop Lee’s party from staying
in office.  “This will work against Park Geun Hye in the bigger scheme
of things because she needed a three-way race to split the
vote,” said Sonn Ho Chul, a political science professor at
Sogang University in  Seoul . “At the same time, these two
opposition candidates need to be able to move the people and
show that this merger isn’t just a ploy.”  Moon and Ahn have about three weeks to finalize a deal
until the official campaigning period begins Nov. 27, after
which it becomes more difficult for a candidate to drop out.
Moon expressed confidence in an Oct. 9 interview that he and Ahn
would unite to unseat the ruling party.  “I am certain there will be a merger,” he said.  Approval Ratings  Park spokesman Ahn Hyung Hwan today said “some of the
uncertainty in the presidential election” has been resolved
after last night’s meeting. “The New Frontier Party hopes that
an opposition candidate is decided as soon as possible so that
he will be fairly vetted by the people,” Ahn said in an e-
mailed statement.  Park’s approval rating stood at 42.8 percent, ahead of
Ahn’s 26.8 percent and Moon’s 23.6 percent, according to a
weekly poll by Seoul-based Realmeter. In a two-way race, Ahn
leads Park 48.7 percent to 44.9 percent, while Moon trails her
47.2 percent to 45.1 percent, according to the Realmeter poll.  The Oct. 29-Nov. 4 survey of 5,250 respondents had a margin
of error of 1.4 percentage points.  Park, 60, is the eldest daughter of late dictator Park Chung Hee and served as his first lady after her mother was
killed in a 1974 assassination attempt by  North Korea  on her
father. She said on Nov. 5 that she’ll seek to meet with North
Korean leader Kim Jong Un to improve relations should she win.  Ahn, 50, is the founder of  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) ,  South Korea ’s
biggest antivirus software maker. The one-time medical doctor
and Wharton MBA holder declared his candidacy in September
having never run for office.  Moon, 59, is a former human-rights lawyer who was jailed in
1975 for leading street protests against the government of
Park’s father. He later served as chief of staff to President
Roh Moo Hyun, who was in office from 2003 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  