-- South America Crop Outlook Seen Deteriorated by Oil World
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-06T15:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/south-america-crop-outlook-seen-deteriorated-by-oil-world-1-.html
South America ’s crop prospects
deteriorated because of excessive rainfall in  Argentina  and dry
conditions in central  Brazil , according to Oil World.  Brazil’s soybean-growing states of Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso
do Sul, Goias and Minas Gerais have very low soil moisture and
irreversible damage will occur if sufficient rain fails to
arrive in the next two to three weeks, the Hamburg-based
researcher wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “Forecasts of a record harvest in South America are
premature, which has resulted in increased nervousness,
particularly among consumers,” Oil World wrote.  Soybeans advanced 26 percent in Chicago trading this year
and corn climbed 14 percent as the worst U.S. drought since 1956
reduced yields in the Midwest, after dry conditions already
curbed supplies from  Latin America .  “Torrential rainfall” in Argentina made field work
impossible, with flooding or excessive wetness preventing farm
machinery from entering fields for at least two weeks, according
to Oil World. That means corn and sunflower planting will fall
short of earlier estimates, the report showed.  The risk is growing that Argentina’s soybean crop will be 3
million to 6 million tons below initial estimates of 55 million
to 56 million tons, Oil World wrote. The outlook for a Brazilian
soybean crop of 81 million tons will “most likely” have to be
cut, the researcher said.  “One common characteristic for both Argentina and Brazil:
soybean plantings are significantly delayed, which will make it
impossible for farmers to carry out their original intentions of
early harvesting and crop delivery,” Oil World wrote.  The start of soybean harvesting may be delayed two to three
weeks in both countries, keeping the world dependent on U.S.
supplies for “longer than desired” in 2013, according to the
researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  