-- South Sudan Says It’s Ready to Restart Oil Production
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-11-06T12:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/south-sudan-says-it-s-ready-to-restart-oil-production.html
South Sudan  will begin pumping oil
this month after nine months of a production shutdown sparked by
a dispute over transportation fees with neighboring Sudan,
government spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin said.  “The technicians, the ones who actually work on the  oil
wells  and the pipeline, they gave an assessment to say oil can
begin to flow in the next couple weeks,” Benjamin said by phone
today from Juba, South Sudan’s capital.  Oil technicians from Sudan and South Sudan met in recent
days in Juba to discuss restarting output, he said. Production
will begin first in fields in Upper Nile state, while those in
Unity state, which were damaged during armed clashes between the
countries in April, “will need a little longer.”  South Sudan halted production in late January after
accusing the northern government in Khartoum of stealing $815
million worth of its oil. Sudan said it confiscated the crude to
make up for unpaid transportation and processing fees. Sudanese
President Umar al-Bashir and South Sudan’s leader,  Salva Kiir ,
signed a series of agreements on Sept. 27, including an oil
accord that stipulates a fee schedule.  South Sudan acquired three-quarters of the formerly united
Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it declared
independence in July 2011, following a two-decade civil war.  Oil in South Sudan is pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s
ONGC Videsh Ltd.  Sudanese Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman al-Obeid Murawih said his country’s pipelines and export facilities on
the  Red Sea  are being prepared for use this month.  “As I hear from the ministry of oil here in Sudan and also
from the other side, they will be ready,” he said by phone
today from  Sudan ’s capital, Khartoum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  