-- Stadiums Cost Taxpayers Extra $10 Billion, Harvard’s Long Finds
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-11-06T15:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/stadiums-cost-taxpayers-extra-10-billion-harvard-s-long-finds.html
Taxpayers in the U.S. spent about $10
billion more on stadiums and arenas for professional sports
teams than they forecast, according to a new book by Harvard
University urban planning professor Judith Grant Long.  The costs of land, infrastructure, operations and lost
property taxes add 25 percent to the taxpayer bill for the 121
sports facilities in use during 2010, increasing the average
public cost by $89 million to $259 million, up from $170 million
commonly reported by the sports industry and media, she writes
in the book  “Public/Private Partnerships for Major League
Sports Facilities.”   The book, released last month by Routledge, aims to help
governments and taxpayers to reduce hidden subsidies to team
owners by allowing them to compare stadium deals for their
cities against those elsewhere. The average public-private
partnership worked out to cost cities 78 percent and the teams
22 percent, she wrote.  “Given that popular reports set expectations of more or
less equal partnerships between host cities and teams, these
estimates of public cost indicate that the public/private
partnerships underlying these deals are in fact highly uneven,”
wrote Long, who is an associate professor at Harvard’s graduate
school of design.  Long’s analysis added costs such as those for land,
infrastructure and lost  tax revenue , while subtracting money
that flows back to states or cities from revenue or rent
payments.  “Professional sports stadiums are as close as you can get
to a controlled experiment in urban design,” she said in a
telephone interview.  Highest Cost  The highest-cost deals include Indianapolis’s Lucas Oil
Stadium, where the  National Football League ’s Colts play; Paul
Brown Stadium in Cincinnati, home of the Bengals; and the
 Milwaukee Brewers ’  Miller Park  in baseball. In those cases, the
public share of costs, once ongoing expenses are included,
exceeds 100 percent of the building’s original price tag.  The stadiums with the highest public cost in 2010 dollars
tend to be built for football and baseball, at about $480
million each, in part because those are more expensive buildings
than basketball or hockey arenas, which cost about $170 million,
Long writes.  The deals with the lowest total public cost include
Columbus,  Ohio ’s stadium for the Crew Major League Soccer team,
along with Toronto’s Air Canada Centre and Ottawa’s Scotiabank
Place. None in this group cost more than $30 million or has a
public share greater than 63 percent.  Public Disadvantage  The public is at a disadvantage in negotiating those deals
with sports teams and leagues, which have a monopoly on the
supply of franchises and opaque finances, Long writes. The total
cost of sport facilities has received little attention from
researchers in part “because most economic analyses demonstrate
that sports facilities produce very few or no net new economic
benefits relative to construction costs alone, and so, in this
sense, more accurate cost estimates would only serve to
reinforce a case already made.”  Public officials shouldn’t spend any more than necessary to
secure the participation of the local team, she writes. Small
cities tend to fare worse than larger ones, because they either
have to offer more money to keep an existing franchise from
moving to a larger market, or they have to put up more to
compensate a team moving from a larger market.  Long concludes that, regardless of profit-sharing or rent,
“public partners should avoid paying building costs.”  “Land and infrastructure you help with,” she said in a
telephone interview. “The building? Let them go it alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 