-- Steel Authority Said to Close Odisha Mine, Cutting Output
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-11-07T10:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/steel-authority-said-to-close-odisha-mine-cutting-output.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the
country’s second-biggest maker of the alloy, will stop work at
an  iron ore  mine in the eastern state of Odisha to make way for
an elephant corridor, two people familiar with the matter said.  The  environment ministry  won’t renew the state-owned
company’s permit after a two-year extension expires on Nov. 10,
the people said yesterday, asking not to be identified as they
aren’t authorized to speak to the media. Odisha, where a
government panel is currently reviewing illegal mining and
environmental damages, plans to set up a passage way for the
pachyderms near Steel Authority’s mine, the people said.  The stoppage at the Bolani mine will cut the New Delhi-
based company’s iron ore output by almost 20 percent and impair
2.8 million tons of steelmaking capacity. Buying the raw
material from the market may raise costs by $70 a ton, said
Ravindra Deshpande, an analyst at Elara Securities Ltd., further
eroding profit that has declined in eight of the past nine
quarters.  “Captive iron ore is Steel Authority’s biggest advantage
and the closure is certainly a big hit to profitability,”
Mumbai-based Deshpande said in an interview yesterday.  At an average price of 35,000 rupees ($643) per ton of
steel, the shutdown may result in an average revenue loss of 98
billion rupees, imperiling the company’s expansion. New Delhi-
based Steel Authority plans to spend $13 billion to boost
steelmaking capacity by 60 percent to 21.4 million tons
annually, improve products and develop mines.  Maoist Rebels  Steel Authority will attempt to make up for the closure by
raising output at other mines and by using low-grade ore, the
people said. Steel Authority’s spokeswoman Arti Luniya didn’t
answer two calls to her office.  The company, which has the capacity to extract about 25
million tons of iron ore at its mines, is already struggling to
tap a reserve in the central state of Chhattisgarh in the face
of attacks by Maoist rebels.  New Delhi-based Steel Authority’s  shares  rose 1.3 percent
to 83.50 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The stock has climbed
2.5 percent this year, compared with a 22 percent gain in the
benchmark BSE Ltd.  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  and a 20 percent advance in
the shares of the nation’s No. 1  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)   Of the 50 analysts that track Steel Authority shares, 17
 recommend  buying them, while 19 advise selling, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rest have a hold rating.  Illegal Mining  India ’s federal government is cracking down on illegal
mining and has set up a panel to probe extraction in seven
mineral-rich states including Goa, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand,
 Madhya Pradesh , Odisha and Karnataka.  “A comprehensive audit of mining across the country is
necessary to assess the impact on environment, lives and also
the extent of illegality,” former Mines Secretary Vishwapati Trivedi said in September.  Getting environment and forest clearances for projects can
take as long as seven to eight years, according to N.C. Jha,
head of mining at  Monnet Ispat & Energy Ltd. (MISP)  and former chairman
of  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  The environment ministry has stepped up
vigilance in recent years, with violations leading to
restrictions and bans by the  Supreme Court  and local
administrations.  India had 27,694 elephants as of 2008, according to data on
the website of the Ministry of Environment and Forests. In
Odisha, almost 5,000 hectares (12,355 acres) of prime elephant
habitat is encroached by mines, erasing corridors used by the
animals for thousands of years, according to the website of the
 Wildlife Protection Society of India .  ‘Irreversible Change’  “Elephants don’t need a very large area to move, but they
need forest cover for a sense of security,” said Dipankar
Ghose, New Delhi-based director of species and landscapes
program at  WWF-India . “The associated development around the
corridor makes them insecure and makes them react violently to
the environment. If an animal species is exterminated from a
place, it’s an irreversible change.”  The federal government, the  main shareholder  of Steel
Authority, will do everything to resolve the issue as it needs
to raise money by selling a stake to narrow its  budget deficit ,
said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd.
in Mumbai.  “There’s a lot at stake here,” he said. “It’s not just
about SAIL’s profitability, but it can also affect the
government’s disinvestment plan.”  Rating Threat  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram plans to raise at
least 300 billion rupees from the sale of state-owned shares in
companies including Steel Authority to bolster strained finances
after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings earlier this year cut
the credit outlook for local sovereign debt to negative, a step
away from lowering the rating to junk status.  Steel Authority’s profitability is derived from its own
sources of iron ore for its entire need, though it depends on
imports of coking coal to meet 70 percent of its requirements,
making it the second-biggest spender on raw material among the
three biggest steelmakers in the country.  The company’s cost of turning iron ore into a ton of steel
was 16,464 rupees in the year ended March 31, more than double
that of  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ’s 8,105 rupees, according to Fortune’s
Shah. Tata Steel incurred 21,703 rupees.  A shutdown of the mine may help smaller makers of the alloy
to gain market share.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s largest iron ore
producer, may increase prices more frequently if more mines
across the country are closed, Shah said.  In addition to higher costs of procuring ore, steel prices
that have remained little changed locally will also hurt Steel
Authority, Elara’s Deshpande said.  Producers in India have been holding prices, waiting for
the festive season to boost demand. Steel Authority kept prices
unchanged this month, Chairman C.S. Verma said on Nov. 1, adding
the company will review prices in a week. The slowing pace of
construction and high  interest rates  are not allowing prices to
rise, he said.  Sourcing ore externally “isn’t a good choice when steel
prices are weak,” Deshpande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  