-- Suzuki to Exit U.S. Car Market After Almost Three Decades
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-11-06T06:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/suzuki-pulls-out-of-u-s-car-market-after-almost-three-decades.html
Suzuki Motor Corp. will pull out of
the U.S. car market after almost three decades, following Saab
Automobile and  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202)  among automakers making their
exits after failing to earn profits in the country.  Suzuki will stop the sale of new automobiles in the U.S.,
though it will continue offering motorcycles, all-terrain
vehicles and boat motors, the Hamamatsu, Japan-based carmaker
said in a statement today. The company’s U.S. distributor filed
for bankruptcy protection in Santa Ana,  California  as part of
the reorganization.  The withdrawal marks the end of a business that began in
1985 and never managed to win over U.S. consumers as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  did. The move allows Suzuki,
which has the smallest U.S. market share among Asian automakers,
to focus on defending its lead in  India , where the company is
facing mounting competition from  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “Suzuki is no longer among the carmakers like Toyota or
Honda to have an advantageous position in the U.S., so why not
focus on what it is good at?” said Satoshi Yuzaki, Tokyo-based
general manager at Takagi Securities Co. “It makes sense for
Suzuki to focus on India and other Asian markets.”  Suzuki’s sales in the U.S. will stop after its current
inventory runs out, said Ei Mochizuki, a Tokyo-based spokesman.  American Suzuki Motor, the wholly owned U.S. distribution
unit, agreed to begin reorganization proceedings under Chapter
11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Suzuki said. The unit had $346
million of debt and $233 million in assets as of Sept. 30,
according to bankruptcy filings.  Suzuki will retain dealerships to maintain existing
vehicles, Hideki Taguchi, a company spokesman in  Tokyo , said
today.  Mitsubishi Motors  American Suzuki Financial Services, owed $891,000, is
listed as the largest creditor without collateral backing its
claim, according to court filings yesterday.  Suzuki’s sales in the U.S. during the first 10 months of
the year fell 4.7 percent to 21,188 vehicles, giving it a market
share of 0.2 percent, according to researcher Autodata Corp. By
comparison, Toyota’s share was 14.4 percent.  The departure will leave  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  as the
smallest Japanese automaker selling vehicles in the U.S.
Mitsubishi’s sales this year have fallen 29 percent to 50,103,
reducing its market share to 0.4 percent from 0.7 percent,
according to Autodata.  Suzuki  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 1,847 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo. The stock has gained 16 percent this year,
exceeding the 6.2 percent increase in the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average index.  GM Venture  Suzuki entered the U.S. in 1985 with the Samurai compact
sport utility vehicle. A year later, it agreed to form a joint
venture with General Motors Canada to produce cars at a factory
in Ingersoll, Ontario. Production at the venture called Cami
Automotive Inc. began in 1989.  Sales of the Samurai plummeted after Consumer Reports
magazine in 1988 said that the model was likely to roll over
during accident-avoidance tests. Suzuki sued Consumers Union of
U.S. Inc, the magazine’s publisher in 1996, and settled the suit
in 2004.  After its best-ever year in the U.S. in 2007, when it sold
102,000 vehicles, Suzuki dissolved its Canadian venture with GM
in 2009, following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
that roiled markets worldwide. Suzuki has been importing its
cars from  Japan  since then.  The company follows truckmaker Isuzu, which halted U.S.
consumer sales in 2009. Saab sold its final six vehicles in the
U.S. in July, according to Autodata. National Electric Vehicle
Sweden AB, a Chinese-Japanese investment group, in June agreed
to buy bankrupt Saab.  India Sales  Exiting the U.S. market will allow Suzuki to focus on
 emerging markets  such as India and Southeast Asia.  Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd. (MSIL) , the company’s biggest unit, is the largest carmaker
by volume in Asia’s third-biggest auto market.  India accounted for about 1 million units or 40 percent of
Suzuki’s 2.49 million deliveries in the year ended March 31,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, as the automaker builds
new factories and adds assembly lines in the South Asian nation.
Maruti will open its sixth plant next year at Manesar near New
Delhi, raising its capacity to 1.75 million units.  Maruti, which controls about 42 percent of the car market,
is also working on a new factory in the western state of Gujarat
that will add a further 250,000 cars annual capacity. The
expansion comes as automakers such as Hyundai and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
look for a greater share of the market, with the South Korean
company announcing Nov. 1 that it would spend $300 million in
India to build a new engine plant and press shop.  Expansion Funds  Suzuki will raise annual capital expenditure to about 200
billion yen ($2.5 billion) over the next five years from about
120 billion yen in the past five-year period, Naoki Aizawa,
director of the carmaker said in June. The investment will help
expand manufacturing in India,  Hungary  and  Thailand , he said.  Suzuki has already booked 12.8 billion yen, the amount of
its investment in American Suzuki Motor, as an impairment loss,
Mochizuki said without providing a timeframe. It has also
allocated 9.7 billion yen for bad debts from the U.S. unit for
the first half of this year, the spokesman said.  The case is In re American  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , 12-22808,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in 東京 at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  