-- Cameron to Meet Merkel to Thrash Out EU Budget Differences
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-07T09:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-k-s-cameron-meets-germany-s-merkel-to-thrash-out-eu-budget.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
hosts German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in  London  today, seeking
to narrow differences over the European Union budget before a
summit in two weeks.  Cameron will have a working dinner with the German leader
upon his return from a three-day trade visit to the  Middle East .
The premier goes into discussions ahead of the Nov. 22-23
Brussels summit “looking to get a deal,” though it “has to be
the right deal for the U.K.,” his spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in London yesterday. Cameron has vowed to veto an
accord if it’s unacceptable.  The European Commission has proposed a spending package of
1.03 trillion euros ($1.32 trillion) for the years 2014 through
2020, an increase of almost 6 percent from the 2007-2013 budget.
Cameron has said the proposal is excessive at a time of national
fiscal constraints.  “One of the things that’s so notable about the commission
proposal is, not only are they proposing a completely ludicrous
100 billion-euro increase in the European budget, but they are
also not proposing to make any cuts to the central
administrative costs,” Cameron told reporters in the  United
Arab Emirates  yesterday.  The prime minister suffered a defeat in the House of
Commons on Oct. 31, when 53 of his Conservative Party lawmakers
voted to demand he negotiate a real-terms EU budget cut instead
of his current negotiating position of an inflation-only
increase.  German Position  Merkel has called for the budget to equal 1 percent of the
EU economy, which would result in an above-inflation increase.
 Germany  sees extended wrangling as a distraction from the main
EU priority of ending the euro-region debt crisis and spurring
economic growth.  “I’ve always wanted at best a cut, at worst a freeze; I’ll
be in there fighting for  Europe ’s taxpayers, particularly
British taxpayers,” Cameron said. “We will be taking a very
tough approach. I look forward to my conversation with Angela.
We’ve always had good, frank, open conversations and I will be
making that argument with vigor.”  The issue of Europe has dogged Cameron throughout his two-
year premiership, as it did his Conservative predecessors.
Splits over Europe contributed to the fall of  Margaret Thatcher 
in 1990 and hobbled her successor,  John Major . Some Tory
lawmakers want to withdraw from the 27-nation bloc altogether.  In a further blow to Cameron, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said Nov. 1 he will block plans to repatriate powers from
Brussels unless he is “100 percent satisfied” the U.K. can opt
back in to the measures it needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  