-- U.K. Manufacturing Increased Less Than Forecast in September
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-06T12:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-k-manufacturing-rises-less-than-forecast-production-plunges.html
U.K. manufacturing output  gained less
than economists forecast in September as machinery and chemical
production declined, adding to evidence that the economy’s
rebound is losing momentum.  Factory output rose 0.1 percent from August, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of
0.4 percent. Total  industrial output  plunged 1.7 percent as oil
and gas output dropped by a record due to maintenance of sites.  While the U.K.  emerged from recession  in the three months
through September with the strongest growth since 2007, recent
reports have shown signs of weakness at the start of the fourth
quarter. The data clouds the outlook as the  Bank of England 
Monetary Policy Committee starts a two-day meeting tomorrow to
decide whether to  expand quantitative easing  after completing
its latest bond-purchase round last week.  “The economic recovery is quickly losing momentum,”
Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London,
said in a research note. “While the MPC may pause QE at its
meeting later this week, if the economic data remain weak then
it may not be long before the committee is forced to provide the
economy with further stimulus.”  The ONS revised its estimate for third-quarter industrial
production to an increase of 0.9 percent from the 1.1 percent
estimated in its  gross domestic product  report published last
month. Still, it said the impact of the revision on the GDP data
is “minimal.”  Oil and Gas  The pound weakened against the dollar and was trading at
$1.5986 as of 12:02 a.m. in London.  Government bonds  were little
changed, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt at 1.81
percent.  The monthly drop in total industrial output, which includes
mining and quarrying and utilities, compared with the median
forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey for a 0.6
percent decrease. Excluding June, when there was an extra public
holiday for the queen’s jubilee, the decline was the biggest
since August 2009.  The drop in production was led by oil and gas, which
plunged 20.9 percent from the previous month, the most since
records began in 1997. That knocked 1.9 percentage points off
total industrial production in September. The ONS said the data
are very volatile on a monthly basis. Mining and quarrying
dropped 15.3 percent, the most since 1974.  Manufacturing  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, six declined and
seven rose in September from August, the statistics office said.
The main increases were recorded in basic pharmaceuticals,
transport equipment and computer and electronic products.  From a year earlier,  factory production  fell 1 percent in
September and total industrial output declined 2.6 percent.  While the decline in overall production may have little
impact on the third-quarter GDP data, it could have a “sizable
effect” on the current quarter “as the level of output going
into the quarter is much lower than had been anticipated,” said
 George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. He
said the factory data provide “more evidence on the fragility
of the recovery, and suggests a close MPC vote” this week.  After the third-quarter GDP rebound, Bank of England Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  said there may be a “sharp fall back”
this quarter. U.K. surveys in the past week showed a slump in
manufacturing deepened in October, while  services growth  cooled.  The Bank of England will probably leave the target for
asset purchases at 375 billion pounds ($599 billion) on Nov. 8,
according to 35 of 45 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Six
forecast a 50 billion-pound increase in quantitative easing, and
four expect a 25 billion-pound expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  