-- U.K. Will Reject EDF Nuclear Deal That Puts Burden on Consumers
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-06T15:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-k-will-reject-edf-nuclear-deal-that-puts-burden-on-consumers.html
The U.K. government is prepared to
walk away from a deal with  Electricite de France SA  over plans
to build the first nuclear plant in the country since the 1980s
if the power price demanded by the utility is too high.  The government would “absolutely” refuse a deal that
placed too great a burden on consumers, Energy Minister John Hayes said today in  London . He held talks yesterday with Vincent de Rivaz, chief executive officer of EDF’s local unit.  Britain and EDF are negotiating the terms of a contract
that would guarantee the price of power generated at Hinkley
Point in Somerset. The U.K. is trying to encourage investors to
build new atomic plants to meet the 110 billion pounds ($176
billion) of investment required to replace an aging fleet of
stations, without adding to consumer bills already set to rise.  “As I looked into the eyes of Vincent de Rivaz yesterday,
I told him that the government will always put the national
interest first,” Hayes said at the Energy and Climate Change
Committee hearing in Parliament. Both sides are entitled to walk
away under the terms of their contract, he said. EDF’s de Rivaz
said Oct. 23 more progress and a compelling business case were
needed before it makes a final investment decision on Hinkley.  Hayes, who was appointed in September, told de Rivaz he
wants to know what the deal might look like by the beginning of
December, “such that the terms can be agreed by the end of the
year,” he said. Yesterday’s meeting was “productive and
positive,” Hayes said.  Price for Power  A guaranteed price for power offered through so-called
contracts for difference has been proposed to help speed up low-
carbon investment in the electricity market. The plans have
faced criticism from groups including  Greenpeace  which says
guaranteed prices amount to a subsidy for the nuclear industry.  Hayes today reiterated that “there should be nothing
available for nuclear that’s not available for other
technologies”.  The industry has laid out plans for 16 gigawatts of
reactors by 2025, though there is no government target. Hayes
said more investment will be required beyond what companies such
as EDF and Hitachi Ltd., the Japanese company that agreed to buy
nuclear venture Horizon last month, are planning in order to
reach that scale.  The Energy Bill, which had been due to be published earlier
this month, still has unresolved matters, Hayes said. Those
include amendments required after Prime Minister David Cameron
pledged Oct. 18 to use the legislation to ensure consumers get
the lowest tariffs for their power, according to Hayes. “It
won’t be a different bill in essence” to what was published in
draft form in May, he said.  Yesterday, low-carbon energy industry groups including the
Carbon Capture and Storage Association, the Nuclear Industry
Association and RenewableUK, wrote to Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
calling for the Bill to be put through as quickly as possible
“to ensure that investment is urgently realized”.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  