-- U.K. Stocks Climb as U.S. Votes for President
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-06T17:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-k-stocks-climb-as-u-s-votes-for-president.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for the third
time in four days, led by a rally in financial companies, as
Americans went to the polls to elect their president.  Resolution (RSL)  Plc jumped 7 percent as Bank of America Corp.
upgraded the insurance-buyout firm.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  gained 2.1
percent after Apple Inc. was said to be exploring how to use
chip designs from its iPad and iPhone in Mac computers.  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  rose 2.8 percent after reporting earnings.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 0.8 percent to 5,884.9 at the
close in London. The equity benchmark slid 0.5 percent yesterday
amid concern that Greece will struggle to obtain more aid and as
HSBC Holdings Plc’s earnings missed estimates. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index increased 0.7 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index rose 0.4 percent.  “Stock markets are higher in Europe, but there is an
element of caution ahead of the presidential election tonight,”
said  James Hughes , chief market analyst at Alpari U.K. Ltd. in
London. “The election is at the forefront of people’s minds.”  U.S. voters will decide today between giving President
Barack Obama a second term in office or replacing him with
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in a national
poll conducted by the  Pew Research Center  from Oct. 31 to Nov. 3
and released on Nov. 4. The survey of 2,709 likely voters has a
margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  Greek Vote  In Greece, lawmakers will vote as early as tomorrow on a
bill of austerity measures that the country must introduce
before obtaining further aid from the European Union.  Also this week, the  Bank of England  and the European
Central Bank will both leave their key interest rates unchanged,
according to Bloomberg  surveys of economists . China’s President
Hu Jintao will probably hand over the Communist Party leadership
to Vice President  Xi Jinping  at a congress starting on Nov. 8.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the
FTSE 100 was 6.6 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Resolution surged 7 percent to 236.6 pence after Bank of
America raised its recommendation for the shares to buy from
neutral, citing the insurer’s valuation and estimates for its
future dividend payments.  A  gauge of insurance companies  climbed 1.7 percent,
advancing for the first time in three days.  Standard Life Plc (SL/) 
rose 1.8 percent to 303.4 pence,  Aviva Plc (AV/)  gained 1.8 percent to
339.6 pence and  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  added 2.8 percent to
144.2 pence.  ARM Rallies  ARM Holdings added 2.1 percent to 709.5 pence after three
people familiar with  Apple (AAPL) ’s research said that the chip
technology used for its mobile devices will have enough power to
run its desktops and laptops. Apple has used processors from
Intel Corp. for its personal computers since 2005. The world’s
most valuable business uses ARM’s chip designs for its iPhones.  Marks & Spencer climbed 2.8 percent to 398.7 pence after
the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer reported first-half
 underlying pretax profit  of 296.8 million pounds ($474 million).
That was more than the  median estimate  of 280 million pounds
from 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company also forecast an increase in profitability for
the year with gross margins “towards the top end” of a range
from unchanged to a 0.25 percentage point increase.  InterContinental, Babcock  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  gained 1.4 percent to
1,545 pence after the owner of the Holiday Inn chain said third-
quarter operating profit climbed 9 percent to $167 million. That
beat the $164.6 million  average estimate  of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  paced a rally
in  European carriers  today, climbing 2.5 percent to 175 pence.
The parent company of British Airways reported a 3.2 percent
increase in passenger traffic for October.  In Dublin,  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc gained 2.4 percent to 1.11
euros. The carrier today reported a 10 percent jump in long-haul
passenger numbers last month and a 35 percent surge for regional
flights. Overall passenger numbers increased 0.9 percent for the
month.  Ryanair Holdings Plc, which yesterday raised its earnings
outlook, climbed 1.2 percent to 4.88 euros, extending its
advance so far this week to 7.3 percent. The discount airline
today reported a 4 percent increase in passenger traffic for
October.  BowLeven, Babcock  BowLeven Plc, an oil explorer focusing on Cameroon, surged
7.7 percent to 80.5 pence in London after Petrofac Ltd. agreed
to help the company to invest as much as $500 million to develop
a permit in the central African nation.  Babcock International Group Plc (BAB)  lost 3.5 percent to 954.5
pence, paring last week’s 4.1 percent advance, after the
engineering company reported a 3.8 percent decline in its order
backlog in the first half as contract awards slowed.  Morgan Sindall Group Plc (MGNS)  sank 5.4 percent to 625 pence
after  Paul Smith  resigned as chief executive officer and the
construction company said full-year trading will be worse than
forecast because the market has deteriorated since the first
half. Executive chairman, John Morgan, replaced Smith as CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  