-- U.K. House Prices Declined 0.7% in October, Halifax Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-06T08:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-k-house-prices-declined-0-7-percent-in-october-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a fourth
month in October as the economy's weakness hurt demand in the 
 property market , Halifax said.  Values dropped 0.7 percent from the previous month to an
average 158,426 pounds ($253,000), the mortgage unit of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in a statement in London today. From a
year earlier, prices fell 2.8 percent.  Britain’s property market remains under pressure as
uncertainty over the  economic  outlook undermines  consumer
confidence  and banks curtail lending to strengthen balance
sheets. The Bank of England will probably keep the size of its
bond-purchase program unchanged this week as policy makers
assess new economic forecasts and their Funding for Lending
Scheme aimed at boosting credit.  “Signs of a modest deterioration in the trend in  house
prices  continued in October,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis 
said. “The weak economic background has been a key factor
dampening housing demand this year. Recent encouraging
developments relating to the level of overall economic activity
and conditions in the labor market, however, may help to support
demand and underpin house prices around current levels over the
coming months.”  Other reports have offered a mixed picture of the U.K.
housing market.  Nationwide Building Society  said on Nov. 1 that
 home prices  rebounded in October to erase the previous month’s
losses, while Hometrack Ltd. said last week that prices declined
last month and a market recovery is unlikely without sustained
economic growth.  Growth Rebound  While gross domestic product rebounded with a 1 percent
surge in the third quarter, the most since 2007,  Bank of England 
officials have said the final three months of the year may be
weaker.  Meanwhile, a separate report today showed U.K. retail sales
fell in October. Sales at stores open at least 12 months,
measured by value, dropped 0.1 percent from a year earlier,
according to the British Retail Consortium.  The central bank, which is aiming to provide cheap finance
to banks through its FLS plan, will maintain its bond-purchase
target at 375 billion pounds on Nov. 8, according to 35 of 45
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Six forecast a 50 billion-
pound increase in quantitative easing, and four expect a 25
billion-pound expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  