-- U.S. Nov. NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-11-06T15:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-s-nov-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Housing Opportunity Index from the  National Association
of Home Builders .  The number of U.S. housing markets showing consistent improvement in
three key measures of strength expanded by 22 in November to a total
of 125, according to the National Association of Home Builders/First
American Improving Markets Index (IMI), released today.  This marks a
third consecutive monthly gain for the index, which now includes
representatives from across 38 states as well as the  District of
Columbia .  The index identifies metropolitan areas that have shown improvement
from their respective troughs in housing permits, employment and  house
prices  for at least six consecutive months. Markets added to the list
in November include such geographically diverse locations as  San Diego ,
Calif.; Gainesville, Fla.; Omaha, Neb.; Louisville, Ky.; and  Charlotte ,
N.C.  “Not only did 22 additional markets qualify for the improving list in
November, but the geographic distribution of included metros expanded
from 33 states to 38 (plus the District of Columbia), while 97 out of
103 markets retained their spots on the list from the previous month,”
observed Barry Rutenberg, chairman of the National Association of Home
Builders (NAHB) and a home builder from Gainesville, Fla. “This shows
that a housing recovery is firmly taking root and helping generate needed
jobs and economic growth across much of the country -- though we know
that this expansion could be even stronger were it not for ongoing
challenges including overly tight lending conditions and difficult
appraisals.”  “The solid increase in the number of improving housing markets this
month illustrates the degree to which the housing recovery has gained
momentum since we initiated the IMI last year,” noted NAHB Chief Economist
 David Crowe . “Compared to the 30 markets that made the list as of November
2011, we now have 125, which is about one-third of all the markets surveyed
for this index.”  “This new high point for the Improving Markets Index provides the latest
evidence that housing has turned a corner due to rising demand from
consumers who are increasingly confident about the direction of local
home values,” said  Kurt Pfotenhauer , vice chairman of First American
Title Insurance Company.  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the country that
are showing signs of improving economic health. The index measures three
sets of independent monthly data to get a mark on the top improving
Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The three indicators that are analyzed
are employment growth from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, housing price
appreciation from  Freddie Mac  and single-family housing permit growth
from the U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A metropolitan
area must see improvement in all three measures for at least six consecutive
months following those measures’ respective troughs before being included on
the improving markets list.  A complete list of all 125 metropolitan areas currently on the IMI, and
separate breakouts of metros newly added to or dropped from the list in
November, is available at www.nahb.org/imi.  Editor’s Note: The NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (IMI) is
released on the fourth business day of each month at 10:00 a.m., ET, unless
that day falls on a Friday - in which case, the index is released on the
following Monday. A full calendar of future release dates can be found at
www.nahb.org/imi.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html 
