-- Ohio Candidate Loses Bid for Electronic Voting Machine Ban
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-06T19:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-s-judge-rejects-bid-for-injunction-in-ohio-voting-case.html
A Green Party candidate for one of
 Ohio ’s 16 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives lost a bid
for a court order blocking the use of electronic voting machines
that he said might be tampered with.  U.S. District Judge Gregory L. Frost in Columbus today
denied the request by Robert J. Fitrakis, who’s running in a
district covering parts of that city, the state capital.  Fitrakis alleged in court papers filed yesterday that
electronic voting machine software contain a “back door”
through which vote tallies from today’s elections could be
manipulated.  “Fitrakis has not provided actual evidence that
demonstrates how this harm is a realistic possibility, much less
how it is actual and imminent,” Frost said in a 10-page ruling
after a hearing.  Ohio has 18 electoral votes sought by Democratic President
 Barack Obama  and his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney . Winning
requires 270. No Republican has ever won the office without also
winning the state.  Their campaign has been marked by at least two dozen
lawsuits in Ohio,  Pennsylvania , Texas,  Florida  and elsewhere
over voter rules, photo ID requirements and polling place hours.  Fitrakis’s Lawyer  Fitrakis’s attorney, Clifford Arnebeck of Columbus, didn’t
immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail requests for comment.  Named as defendants in the lawsuit were Ohio Secretary of
State Jon Husted, a Republican, and Election Systems & Software
Inc., based in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Matt McClellan, a spokesman for Husted, yesterday rejected
the allegations as “ridiculous” in a telephone interview.  “We did not touch, update, patch or do anything to the
tabulation systems or the voting machines,” McClellan said.
“There’s no vulnerability to the system whatsoever.”  A Husted staff member, Alexis Zoldan, said today the
official would issue a statement on the ruling later.  Election Systems & Software earlier called the case
“frivolous and without merit” in an e-mailed statement, saying
it was filed “with the sole intent of undermining voter
confidence.”  A company spokeswoman, Kathy Rogers, didn’t immediately
reply today to an e-mailed request for comment on the decision.  The case is Fitrakis v. Husted, 12-cv-01015, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  