-- U.S. Fiscal Cliff Already Priced Into Market, Smead Capital Says
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-11-06T08:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/u-s-fiscal-cliff-already-priced-into-market-smead-capital-says.html
Cole Smead, director of marketing at
Smead Capital Management Inc., which manages $170 million and
has stakes in  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Bank of New
York Mellon  Corp., comments on the impact of the U.S.
presidential election on capital markets. He spoke in a
telephone interview from  Seattle .  On investors before the U.S. presidential election:  “Here in the U.S., investors are at a standstill. They’re
saying until they figure out what’s happening post-election,
they’re not going to commit capital to anything. The last nine
months have been fantastic for the people who want to be lonely
and be out there taking on good stock risk.  Obviously the market at large thinks Obama’s bad for the
capital market and Romney’s good for the capital market. While
people are saying ‘I’m not going to do anything until XYZ
president is going to get elected’, I don’t know anyone who said
‘I want to be a billionaire some day’ and did that based on who
became president.”  On the impact of the fiscal cliff:  “The fiscal cliff has been a ‘seen’ risk that been priced
into the market. Are we going to come to a good solution? Yes.
Are we going to do that in a timely fashion? No. We always come
to that at the very last second.”  “As of the most recent reported data, the household
service debt ratio was down to 10.69 percent. The last two times
we were at this level in 1981 and 1991, the U.S. was going
through a major economic cleansing in the country. Both those
times of getting down to those low household service debt ratio
levels, it kicked off five-to-seven-year economic prosperity
periods here.”  On the fund’s strategy of owning consumer stocks and avoiding
commodities:  “If you own the Goldman Sachs commodity index, you’re
doing flat to slightly up this year, versus the  S&P 500 (SPX)  making
double digit returns. Until  China  announces it’s going to
recapitalize its banks, we just don’t see anything good on the
horizon for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  