-- United, AMR to Halt NYC-Area Flights Tomorrow on Storm
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-11-07T04:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/united-to-halt-nyc-area-flights-tomorrow-as-storm-nears.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines (AAMRQ)  suspended most flights to and from
the New York area tomorrow and into the next day as a winter
storm approached the northeast U.S.  About 500 flights will be scrubbed as United pares service
at its hub at New Jersey’s Newark Liberty airport for 24 hours
at midday, said Charles Hobart, a spokesman. American and its
American Eagle unit cut 290 flights, with a New York pullback at
3 p.m., according to an e-mailed statement late today.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  also expects to scrap some flights,
and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  are
monitoring the new storm, spokesmen said. The new storm is
threatening the U.S. northeast after  Hurricane Sandy  forced
about 20,000 cancellations last week.  Gusts as intense as 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour may
sweep across New York and  New Jersey  tomorrow as the next system
arrives, according to the National Weather Service. Flooding
along the coast is expected from Delaware north to Connecticut,
including New Jersey and Long Island, where tides may rise as
much as 3 feet (1 meter) above normal.  United is retaining long-haul international service and
flights to other hubs from Newark while halting other operations
there and at New York’s LaGuardia and Kennedy airports,
according to a statement.  American, Delta  American plans to start restoring flights on Nov. 8,
according to the statement. Its pullback includes a suspension
of service in Philadelphia at midday tomorrow.  No tally of Delta’s projected cancellations is available
yet, said Morgan Durrant, a spokesman. The Atlanta-based airline
is waiving rebooking fees for passengers flying to and from the
New York-area airports and Philadelphia today through Nov. 8.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  offered a similar waiver covering New
York City-area airports and Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse, New
York; Washington; Hartford, Connecticut; Richmond, Virginia;
Boston, and Burlington, Vermont.  US Airways is “closely monitoring” the situation, a
spokesman, Todd Lehmacher, said by phone. Southwest is tracking
the storm and hasn’t made any decisions regarding delays or
cancellations, said a spokeswoman, Katie McDonald.  About 240 flights had been scrapped at North American
airports tomorrow as of 5:30 p.m. New York time, industry data
tracker FlightStats Inc. said in a statement. United’s Hobart
said by e-mail that the canceled flights are about 5 percent of
the total in the 24-hour span covered by the suspension.  Disruptions from Sandy cost major airlines as much as $45
million each, according to  Dan McKenzie , a Buckingham Research
Group analyst in New York. That storm lashed the New York
region, the biggest aviation market, and shut the area’s three
major airports for most of last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  