-- Unlimited Lending May Help Weaken the Yen, BOJ Official Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-11-06T02:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/unlimited-japan-lending-may-help-weaken-yen-boj-executive-says.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s new unlimited
lending program may further weaken the yen by reviving the carry
trade after the currency sank to a six-month low last week, a
senior central bank official said.  A weaker yen “isn’t our main objective but it’s a common
understanding that an accommodative policy eventually leads to
the depreciating of one’s own currency,” Executive Director
Hideo Hayakawa, 58, the official in charge of overseeing the
financial system, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  The central bank unveiled a program of low-interest loans
last week in a bid to boost demand for credit and spur growth as
the nation’s economic recovery flags. The yen touched 80.68 per
dollar on Nov. 2, its lowest since April, three days after the
BOJ announced the program and an 11 trillion yen ($137 billion)
expansion of an asset-purchase fund. The currency was at 80.23
as of 11:24 a.m. in  Tokyo .  The program, which offers loans to banks at the BOJ’s
overnight call rate, currently 0.1 percent, is part of the
central bank’s efforts to prop up an  economy  hit by the global
slowdown and a strong yen as the government presses for
“visible results” on ending  deflation .  Amid weak credit demand and low rates at home, the facility
may help push down the yen by boosting capital outflows as banks
look to lend money to customers abroad, a trend Hayakawa said
will probably continue for at least the next few years. The
loans may also drive investors to sell the yen to buy higher-
yielding currencies.  Loan Demand  “Depository money comes to banks but lending isn’t
growing,” Hayakawa said. “Under the circumstances, banks can’t
make profits,” so the BOJ wants them to look into areas where
they can increase lending, he said.  Hayakawa, the BOJ’s former Osaka branch manager and chief
economist, said that the BOJ isn’t “100 percent confident yet”
that the program will succeed as it hasn’t decided on all the
details and is aware of the “possibility” that it will cut
banks’ profits by lowering lending rates.  Bank lending  in  Japan  has risen less than 1.5 percent from
a year earlier in every month since October 2009, BOJ figures
show. The average  interest rate  Japanese banks charge for new
loans fell to 0.95 percent in August, near its lowest since at
least 1993.  BOE Initiative  The BOJ’s new facility parallels efforts by the  Bank of
England  to stoke lending and growth. The U.K. central bank’s
Funding for Lending Scheme began in August, and the bank said
last week that 30 lenders had signed up so far, with the
potential to borrow an initial 66.3 billion pounds ($106
billion) under the plan.  The yen has gained about 22 percent against the dollar in
four years after central banks worldwide started to cut lending
rates during the global financial crisis in 2008. Faced with
falling demand for TVs and the strong yen,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  plunged to record losses last year.  Japan’s economy, the world’s third biggest, may have
entered a “recessionary phase,” a few central bank board
members said, according to minutes of the BOJ’s Oct. 4-5 meeting
released last week. A Cabinet Office official said it’s
important for the BOJ to produce “visible results” by
achieving its 1 percent inflation goal soon, the record showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  