-- Murray, Djokovic Win at ATP Finals to Set Up U.S. Open Rematch
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/murray-djokovic-win-at-atp-finals-to-set-up-u-s-open-rematch.html
Two months after his winning his
first Grand Slam tennis title at the U.S. Open,  Andy Murray 
soaked up the hometown adulation as he opened the season-ending
ATP World Tour Finals by beating Tomas Berdych.  Murray, the first British man in 76 years to win a major
singles championship, received a huge ovation from the crowd
when he walked onto court at the O2 arena in London before
beating Berdych 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.  “It was good to be back playing in the U.K.,” Murray, 25,
said in a news conference after his first match on home soil
since winning in  New York . “The noise and the atmosphere at the
beginning of the match was great.”  The Dunblane, Scotland-born Murray will face top-ranked
 Novak Djokovic  in his second group match tomorrow in a rematch
of their  U.S. Open  final, which lasted close to five hours.
Murray said he’s hoping home advantage will give him the edge in
his seventh meeting with the Serb this season.  “It’s important, the last week of the year when everyone’s
a little bit tired, to have that atmosphere, big crowd to give
you that extra little push that you need to play good tennis,”
said Murray, who lost to Djokovic in  Shanghai  last month after
having five match points.  The  ATP World Tour Finals  feature a round-robin format. The
top eight players in the Race to London standings are divided
into two groups of four, with the top two in each section moving
into the knockout semifinals.  Federer Plays  Defending champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland opens Group
B play today against Janko Tipsarevic of  Serbia , while  Spain ’s
 David Ferrer  faces former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro of  Argentina  in the evening session.  Second-ranked Federer, 31, is trying win the event for a
record seventh time. Murray has twice made the semifinals, while
Djokovic won the tournament when it was being held in Shanghai
in 2008.  “Playing Andy is always a big challenge,” Djokovic, 25,
said in a courtside interview after beating  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, 7-6 (7-4), 6-3 last night. “We’ve had some great
encounters in the last couple of months.’  Murray has had a breakthrough year and will finish the
season ranked No. 3 for the first time in his career.  After losing his first Wimbledon final to 17-time Grand
Slam champion Federer, Murray beat the Swiss a month later in
the gold-medal match at the London Olympics. That victory was
followed by a first major title at the U.S. Open in September,
ending a run of four straight losses in Grand Slam finals.  ‘Nicer Tables’  Murray had told his coach  Ivan Lendl  earlier in the season
that he was concerned his life might change if he finally won a
major and that he wanted it “to stay the same,” he’d told
reporters in New York.  Lendl, an eight-time major champion, put his mind at ease,
Murray said at the time, by telling him not much would change,
except for “getting nicer tables in restaurants and getting to
play on all the good golf courses for free.”  Murray was reunited with Lendl this week in their first
tournament together since the U.S. Open, a victory that Murray
said helped make him more relaxed during key points in matches.  “I’ve learnt a lot this year how I need to play those big
points in big games,” Murray said yesterday. “It’s that rather
than confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  London ’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  