-- Utilities Drop as Rate-Cut Payment Disappoints: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-11-06T12:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/utilities-drop-as-rate-cut-payment-disappoints-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil’s plan to make manufacturers
more competitive is killing investments in utilities.  About 17.4 billion reais ($8.54 billion) in the market
value of Brazil’s 15 biggest power utilities has been wiped out
since President Dilma Rousseff started implementing a plan to
cut power bills in September. State-run generator  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , known as Eletrobras; Cia. Energetica
de Minas Gerais, or Cemig; and Cia. de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista, or Cteep, are among the biggest losers.  The compensation of 19 billion reais offered to utilities
by Rousseff’s administration in exchange for reducing
electricity prices fell short of analyst and company
expectations and triggered a stock selloff yesterday. Banco Itau
SA lowered its share-price estimates for utilities including
Cteep because of “unpredictable risks.”  “It’s another sign of government intervention in publicly
traded companies,” Saulo Sabba, who helps manage 500 million
reais as a director at Banco Maxima SA, said by telephone from
Rio de Janeiro. “Investors will demand a higher premium.
They’ll buy shares cheaper because the risk has risen.”  As growth in  Brazil  slowed this year, Rousseff’s
administration shifted its focus from stimulating consumer
demand to attacking the high costs of business that have long
deterred investment. Manufacturers pay electricity prices that
are the fourth-highest in the world, making them less
competitive, according to the National Industry Confederation.  Recouped Investments  Under terms of the government plan published Nov. 1,
utilities whose concessions are set to expire between 2015 and
2017 will reduce electricity rates by about 70 percent as of
Jan. 1 to an average of 30 reais a megawatt-hour, according to
estimates by UBS AG. Utilities that haven’t already recouped
their investments in plants and transmission lines will receive
compensation totaling 19 billion reais, with 14 billion reais of
that going to Eletrobras.  Eletrobras Chief Executive Officer Jose da Costa Carvalho Neto said Oct. 31 that he expected to receive “close to” 30
billion reais in compensation.  Eletrobras plunged 8.2 percent yesterday, the biggest
decline on the benchmark Bovespa index, which fell 0.3 percent.
Cesp’s 5.8 percent loss was the second-biggest on the index and
the stock traded at the lowest level since May 2009. Eletrobras
slid 0.5 percent to 15.35 reais at 10:29 a.m. in Sao Paulo today
while Cesp was unchanged at 17.19 reais.  Analyzing Terms  Eletrobras’s “technical teams are analyzing the terms”
announced by the government, Chief Financial Officer Armando Casado de Araujo said in a  statement  on the company website
yesterday. Cesp will comment “after a deeper analysis,” the
company’s press office said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Cteep’s press officers didn’t respond to e-mails and
phone calls seeking comment.  The proposed compensation is equivalent to only half of the
book value of assets, UBS analysts Lilyanna Yang and Henrique
Peretti said in a Nov. 2 report to clients. The proposed 30
reais per megawatt-hour for generation assets becomes 9.50 reais
once taxes and other charges are deducted, “barely enough” to
cover costs for most companies, they said.  The stock selloff may create a buying opportunity because
the biggest effect of government intervention has already been
priced into the shares, said Fernando Goes, an analyst at Clear
Corretora brokerage.  ‘Time to Buy’  “I don’t think a lot changed from previous
announcements,” Goes said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “This may be a time to buy if you are looking at the
long term. In fact, I’d recommend buying.”  The government’s proposal led Banco Itau on Nov. 5 to cut
the 2013 year-end  target prices  for Cteep and Cesp’s shares on
smaller earnings estimates. Cteep trades at 5.25 times reported
earnings, Cesp fetches 20.9 and Eletrobras has a ratio of 4.4.
That compares with 19.3 for the Bovespa index.  Companies have the option of rejecting the government
proposal and continuing operating their assets under existing
rules until the concessions expire. They would then be allowed
to participate in auctions to operate those assets, competing
with other bidders.  Cemig said in October that it wouldn’t seek to renew
concessions under the new rules for three hydroelectric plants,
including the 1,700-megawatt  Sao Simao dam . Cemig’s press office
said in an e-mailed response yesterday that the company is
evaluating terms of the government’s proposal.  Concern about whether companies will accept the new
conditions or go to court make stocks unappealing even after the
sector posted a steep year-to-date decline, said  Pedro Galdi ,
head strategist of SLW Corretora de Valores e Cambios Ltda.  “This is very harsh on the sector,” Galdi said in an
interview yesterday from Sao Paulo.  While shares have dropped a
lot, “there are a lot of uncertainties in the air,” he said.
“We still have to wait and see what happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  