-- Vietnam 5-Year Bonds Fall as Interbank Rate Climbs; Dong Steady
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-06T10:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/vietnam-5-year-bonds-fall-as-interbank-rate-climbs-dong-steady.html
Vietnam ’s five-year bonds fell for a
second day on speculation banks will pare holdings to replenish
cash as money-market rates rose to the highest level in more
than a week. The dong was steady.  The  overnight interbank deposit  rate rose 25 basis points
to 2.75 percent after the chairman of  Saigon Thuong Tin
Commercial Joint Stock Bank (STB) , the country’s fourth-largest listed
lender by market value, was questioned by police and resigned
last week. The rate surged as high as 6.8 percent in August
after the arrest of the co-founder of Asia Commercial Bank
triggered deposit withdrawals.  “Banks may be a bit more conservative and want to hold a
bit more cash given recent incidents,” said Nguyen Duc Hai, a
Ho Chi Minh City-based portfolio manager at Manulife Asset
Management. “Toward the end of the year, bond yields may go up
a little bit due to liquidity needs.”  The yield on benchmark five-year bonds rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 10.11 percent, according to
a daily fixing rate from banks compiled by Bloomberg. The
overnight  interbank rate  has added 33 basis points this week,
according to data from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Vietnam’s central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said Oct. 7
that the monetary authority will crack down on violations
stemming from small groups of shareholders who control
Vietnamese banks, calling them the “biggest obstacle” to
reforming the financial system.  The dong traded at 20,848 per dollar as of 4:19 p.m. in
Hanoi, unchanged from yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  State Bank  of Vietnam set its  reference rate  at
20,828, unchanged since Dec. 26, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  