-- Vivus Sinks as Obesity Drug Sales Slower Than Anticipated
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-11-06T21:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/vivus-sinks-as-early-obesity-drug-sales-slower-than-expected.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , maker of the recently
approved obesity drug Qsymia, sank the most in more than two
years after the company reported a larger third-quarter loss
than analysts expected and investors feared slow uptake of the
medicine.  Vivus dropped 21 percent to $11.82 at the close in  New York 
for the biggest decline since July 2010. The shares of the
 Mountain View , California-based company have gained 21 percent
this year.  The company told investors today that some patients are
abandoning prescriptions at the pharmacy on discovering they
must pay a large portion of the cost out-of-pocket,  Andrew Berens , senior health-care analyst with Bloomberg Industries,
said in a telephone interview. Investors have also started to
question the company’s strategy of targeting specialty doctors
rather than primary-care physicians, who may be the most likely
to prescribe the drug, he said.  “The street expects the drug to be a blockbuster, but it
looks like a very slow launch,” Berens said. Investors “are
not sure their strategy makes any sense.”  The net loss for the quarter widened to $40.4 million, or
40 cents a share, from $8.6 million, or 10 cents, a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. Analysts had
expected a loss of 32 cents, the average of 13  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was $41,000, the amount received
from pharmacies that had delivered the drug to patients, Vivus
said.  FDA Approval  Qsymia was approved by the  Food and Drug Administration  in
July, the second weight-loss drug of two to be cleared this year
for sale in the U.S. Last month it failed to gain the backing of
European drug regulators concerned about potential side effects.  Selling, general and administrative expenses rose to $31.3
million from $5.2 million a year earlier, while research and
development costs increased to $9.3 million from $3.7 million,
Vivus said. The increased expenses were due to marketing costs
of the obesity drug and post-approval studies on Qsymia and
Stendra, Vivus’s drug for erectile dysfunction that was approved
in April.  The company may need to offer coupons to patients to help
them pay for Qsymia, Berens said. Vivus indicated on a
conference call today with investors and analysts that it may
pursue such options, Berens said.  “It sounds like they’re considering strategies to offset
out-of-pocket expense,” he said.  Potential Partners  Vivus may also need to seek a partnership with a larger
drugmaker that has an existing sales force geared toward primary
care doctors, he said. Companies such as London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , which have other drugs
prescribed by primary-care physicians including those for
diabetes or hypertension, may be good candidates, he said.  “Any of the large pharma companies that have a large sales
force that details to primary-care doctors would make sense,”
he said. “You want to have more than one drug in your bag when
you go into their offices. They’re very busy.”  Vanessa Rhodes, a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca, and Melinda Stubbee, a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  