-- VW Sells 2.5 Billion-Euro Convertible Bond to Boost Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-11-06T10:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/vw-sells-2-5-billion-euro-convertible-bond-to-boost-funds.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) in bonds that
will automatically convert to shares at maturity to boost
liquidity following the purchases of Porsche and Ducati.  The three-year notes will pay an annual coupon of 5.5
percent, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker said in a
statement today. The minimum conversion price has been set at
154.50 euros and the maximum at 185.40 euros, VW said.  The  carmaker , which this year paid 4.49 billion euros for
the 50.1 percent of sports-car maker Porsche it did not already
own and bought Ducati motorbikes for 860 million euros, said it
needs the money to strengthen funding. Net liquidity at the end
of September fell 57 percent to 9.22 billion euros. Analysts
said the money may be used to complete the takeover of German
truckmaker  MAN SE (MAN) , which VW already controls.  “The bond sale was a bit of a surprise as VW’s net
liquidity was quite good at the end of the third quarter,” said
Michael Punzet, an analyst at  DZ Bank  in  Frankfurt . “It seems
that VW wants to proceed with the takeover of MAN SE. The
acquisition of the shares of the truckmaker VW does not already
own will cost about 3.3 billion euros.”  VW  dropped  as much as 7.05 euros, or 4.3 percent, the
biggest decline since Aug. 30, to 155.35 euros, and traded 4
percent lower as of 11:52 a.m. in Frankfurt. MAN  advanced  as
much as 3.80 euros, or 4.8 percent, to 82.92 euros and was up
3.2 percent.  Takeover Targets  Along with MAN, VW could also use the money to purchase the
shares in  Scania AB (SCVB)  that it does not own or to take a stake in
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  in the U.S., Bernstein Research
analyst  Max Warburton  said. The money could also be used to buy
 Alfa Romeo  or Ferrari from  Fiat SpA (F) , he said.  “VW raised money in a similar fashion in 2010 and used
this money to pay for the installment of Porsche,” Warburton,
who rates the shares market perform, said in a note to investors
today. “Is VW planning further acquisitions?”  The mandatory convertible bond sale is “credit positive
and will safeguard VW’s current ratings,” Sven Kreitmair, co-
head of corporate credit research at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Munich,
wrote in a note to clients. The carmaker is rated A3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, four levels above junk, and an equivalent A-
by  Standard & Poor’s .  UniCredit forecasts a tightening of about 10 basis points
to 20 basis points in Volkswagen’s cash bond and credit-default
swap curves, Kreitmair wrote. The Italian lender maintains its
marketweight recommendation on the automaker’s bonds and favors
the company’s 5.375 percent notes due in May 2018 and 7 percent
securities maturing in February 2016, he wrote. Credit-default
swaps are derivatives used to insure debt.  Profit Goal  VW has largely shrugged off a slump in the European car
market, which is poised to suffer its biggest annual decline in
19 years in 2012, by relying on growth in the U.S. and  China  and
expanding the Audi luxury brand. VW reiterated two weeks ago a
target to “match” 2011’s operating income of 11.3 billion
euros this year, even after profit slipped 1.6 percent in the
first nine months of 2012.  “Does VW really need this cash? We can’t see it to be
honest,” Warburton wrote. “For a company generating over 2
billion euros if free  cash flow  a quarter, VW’s problem is
arguably what to do with its current liquidity, rather than
having any need for capital.”  Truck Operations  Volkswagen’s voting rights are 75.03 percent in MAN and
70.94 in Soedertaelje, Sweden-based Scania. VW has said it may
pursue a domination agreement for Munich-based MAN to gain
greater control as VW seeks a deeper integration with Scania.  “We consider all our options to push forward the
integration of our truckmakers,” Marco Dalan, a VW spokesman,
said today when asked about the analysts’ comments.  The bonds will automatically convert if the company’s
ratings drop below Baa3 and BBB- into junk, or speculative
grade, according to the offer document.  S&P rated the bonds at BBB, citing the deal’s “high”
equity content.  The bonds was issued by Volkswagen International Finance NV
with a guarantee from the Wolfsburg, Germany-based parent.
securities, according to the offer document.  Bank of America 
Corp.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)   and Deutsche Bank AG managed the
sale, according to the document.  “We want to make our position even more robust and
flexible, and the planned convertible notes will further
strengthen our liquidity and capital base,” Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  