-- Wells Fargo Makes Canada Priority in Global Expansion
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-06T19:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/wells-fargo-makes-canada-top-priority-in-international-expansion.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest
U.S. lender by assets, said it added 25 bankers in  Canada  and
made the country a priority for international expansion.  Canada’s “right at the top,” Richard Yorke, who leads the
company’s international group, said today in an interview at
 Bloomberg News ’s Toronto office. “The Canada strategy is
clearly a part of our overall international strategy, and the
strategy is focused around leveraging the American nexus, our
capabilities and customer base in the U.S.”  Canada’s government gave San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
approval in September to offer commercial and corporate banking,
adding to the firm’s equipment-financing and capital-finance
operations in the country.  Wells Fargo, which had about 135 employees in Canada before
the expansion, added bankers specializing in commercial lending,
corporate banking, commercial real estate and energy in Toronto,
Calgary and  Vancouver , Richard Valade, country head, said in the
interview. The firm said it plans to add 20 more workers within
a year.  “We’re now going to be able to serve our U.S.-based
clients that have operations in Canada,” Valade said. “We’ll
be able to serve Canadian businesses that have dealings in the
U.S. and we’ll also be able to deal with local Canadian
companies.”  Europe, Asia  The bank’s global expansion, which began toward the end of
2010, now includes 20 nations in Europe,  Asia  and  Latin America ,
Yorke said.  Wells Fargo’s international presence is the smallest of the
top four U.S. commercial banks. The company had $39.7 billion in
foreign loans, or about 5.1 percent of its total at the end of
September, “substantially all” of which are commercial loans,
Wells Fargo said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Last year, Wells Fargo said it planned to expand quickly in
 China . The bank, in building up the international business, is
relying on relationships and offices acquired in 2008 when it
purchased Wachovia Corp. and spared the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender from bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  