-- What to Watch Tonight: U.S. House
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-11-06T16:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/what-to-watch-tonight-u-s-house.html
     Nov. 6 (Bloomberg) - Democrats probably will pick up a
handful of seats tonight, with Republicans keeping control of
the House.  Don’t look for any shakeups at the top; as long as the
 Democratic Party ’s gains are small,  John Boehner  and  Eric Cantor 
can expect another two years as speaker and majority leader.  Nathan Gonzales , an analyst for the Rothenberg Political
Report, sees Democrats winning as many as eight -- far short of
the 25 needed to regain control of the chamber. “We don’t
expect Democrats to take the majority,” he said.  Tonight’s election is shaping up to produce perhaps 80
freshmen. That’s because there are 39 districts where the
incumbent isn’t running, 19 newly created seats as a result of
redistricting and four vacancies.  Another 20 incumbents could lose their re-election bids,
said  David Wasserman , a campaign analyst at the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report in Washington. “We won’t see very much
partisan change, but it’s far from a status-quo election,” he
said.  Keep an eye on:  -- Incumbents in Tough Races: Tea Party favorites  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,  Allen West  of Florida and Steve King of
Iowa, all Republicans, and Californian Pete Stark, the fourth-
longest serving Democrat, could be ousted in what has become a
generational contest.  California has adopted a new “open primary” election
system in which the top two vote getters advance to the general
election regardless of party affiliation. Stark, 80, could be
taken out by fellow Democrat Eric Swalwell, 31.  -- Incumbent-Versus-Incumbent: In Iowa, redistricting has
thrown Democrat Leonard Boswell and Republican Tom Latham in the
same district. In Ohio, Republican Jim Renacci and Democrat
Betty Sutton are facing off. In California, Democrats  Brad Sherman  and Howard Berman are pitted against each other while
Louisiana Republicans Charles Boustany and Jeff Landry are
fighting over the same seat.  -- Comebacks: Fiery Floridian Alan Grayson, who was
defeated in 2010, probably will win a newly created district
near Orlando. Dina Titus, a Nevada Democrat who was defeated
after a single term, is poised to win a Las Vegas-area district.
Democratic ex-members Carol Shea-Porter in New Hampshire and  Dan
Maffei  in New York are in some of the nation’s tightest House
races.  -- Gay Candidates: Democrat Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin
could become the first openly gay senator. There are four openly
gay members of the House, including Baldwin and retiring
Massachusetts Democrat  Barney Frank . That total could increase
in the 113th Congress.  -- Blue Dog Democrats: The ranks of the Democratic Party’s
fiscal moderates have been depleted in recent years. Utah’s  Jim Matheson  could be the next to go. His challenger, Mia Love, is
vying to become the House’s first black female Republican. Other
Blue Dogs in tough races include John Barrow of Georgia, Larry
Kissell of North Carolina, Joe Baca of California and Ben
Chandler of Kentucky.  -- Scandal Survival: Tennessee Republican Scott DesJarlais
is fighting for re-election after a recording emerged of the
physician trying to persuade a patient with whom he had an
affair to have an abortion.  In California, Democrat Laura Richardson is waging an
uphill battle for another term after she was reprimanded by the
House for a series of ethics violations.  In Florida, Republican David Rivera is running for re-
election amid what the Miami Herald reports is an FBI
investigation into whether he illegally financed a primary
challenge to one of his Democratic opponents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  