-- Will This Election Settle Republicans’ Ayn Rand Debate?
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   B u r n s
-- 2012-11-06T17:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/will-this-election-settle-republicans-ayn-rand-debate-.html
Whoever prevails in today’s election,
the 2012 presidential campaign should go down as a referendum on
the long conservative fascination with Ayn Rand, the
controversial libertarian novelist and philosopher.  Mitt Romney , the Republican candidate and former titan of
private equity, embodies Rand’s belief in the moral rectitude of
free-market capitalism. A secretly videotaped speech Romney gave
to a private fundraising audience -- in which he asserted that
47 percent of Americans were “dependent upon government” -- was
an excellent distillation of this worldview.  Romney’s running mate, Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan ,
has built his political philosophy on Rand’s work; for years, he
gave away copies of her novels as Christmas presents and made
them required reading for his staffers. His belief that the U.S.
is increasingly divided between “makers” and “takers” informs
his policy positions on everything from Medicaid to  food stamps .  Ryan’s language echoes Rand’s, and it’s worth remembering
how her work came to occupy such a vaunted position in modern
Republican thought.  Dark Future  In her 1957 novel, “Atlas Shrugged,” Rand advanced a clear
distinction between virtuous “producers” and unethical “looters”
and “moochers.” In Rand’s view, the stability of American
society was threatened by the non-productive, who used altruism
to stake a claim on the wealth generated by producers. In the
novel, the moochers have become so powerful that the producers
are no longer willing to work on their behalf. Facing oppressive
regulation and taxation, the producers go “on strike,”
retreating to a secret hideaway in  Colorado . Without them,
society begins to collapse.  As an alternative to this dark future, Rand proposed
objectivism, her own philosophy of limited government,
rationality and ethical selfishness. Only absolute laissez-faire
capitalism, she argued, would give producers the freedom to work
to their full potential. Along the way, the economy would
thrive, but for Rand that wasn’t the point. What mattered was
that individuals could lead lives of independence and integrity,
even if they contributed nothing to the common good.  Rand expected her contemporaries to greet “ Atlas Shrugged ”
as a major intellectual contribution. But critics hated the
novel, calling it unreadable and worse. The most vicious attack
came from the conservative thinker Whittaker Chambers, writing
in National Review. Chambers grasped immediately that Rand was
an atheist. Indeed, Rand was profoundly irreligious, calling
religion “a psychological disorder.” Chambers thought her ideas
were dangerous and flawed because they grew from atheistic
roots. Even if her arguments about capitalism were sound,
Chambers warned, Rand wasn’t a real conservative and didn’t
truly understand freedom. The title of his review said it all:
“ Big Sister is Watching You .”  Despite this criticism, “Atlas Shrugged” became a sleeper
hit among generations of young conservatives and libertarians.
Rand shrugged off the critics and promoted her ideas directly to
the thousands of young people drawn to objectivism. In the
1960s, she was a popular speaker on college campuses and a
favorite of the mass media, sitting for a famous Playboy
interview and appearing three times on  Johnny Carson ’s show. In
 New York , hundreds of students filled her weekly lectures on
objectivism, with thousands more across the country listening to
taped versions.  And Rand didn’t hesitate to apply her ideas to current
politics. She supported  Arizona  Senator  Barry Goldwater  in his
unsuccessful 1964 run for the presidency and regularly described
how objectivist principles could be applied to current events in
the Objectivist Newsletter.  Conservative Split  Still, Rand remained at odds with mainstream conservatism.
She denounced  Ronald Reagan  for mixing religion and politics and
especially for his views on abortion. She criticized the  Vietnam
War  and suggested that the government had no right to regulate
drug use. Such views endeared her to young conservatives who
embraced the anti-establishment mood of the day. Over time,
Rand’s libertarian social views came to seem less threatening
and more of a sideshow to her discussion of capitalism and the
morality of selfishness. Her rebellious young followers matured
into today’s conservative establishment, along the way giving
her ideas ever greater legitimacy.  Ryan now emphasizes  Rand ’s identification of individualism
versus collectivism as a defining moral issue. A refugee from
Soviet Russia, Rand believed that capitalist democracy was
threatened by the 20th-century rise of systems like communism
and socialism. Ryan sees the  same dynamic  at work today, arguing
that this basic distinction lies at the heart of all political
problems. As a Catholic, Ryan is far from Rand on social issues.
But he has been profoundly shaped by the binary picture of the
world she first created in “Atlas Shrugged.”  Among the many ironies of Ryan’s attraction to Rand is that
“Atlas Shrugged” depicted politicians as among the worst
moochers of them all, followed closely by their business allies.
Another is that religious readers were once among Rand’s
fiercest critics. Not only did they reject her atheism, but they
were troubled by the divisive language of her work. It was one
thing to celebrate the winners in capitalist society; it was
another to attack the losers and blame them for all social ills.
Rand claimed that selfishness was a virtue and altruism a vice.  Yet today, even politicians who claim a deep religious
faith seem little troubled by these concerns. Rand’s division of
Americans into moochers and producers, dependents and
independents, is no longer controversial -- it reflects
conventional wisdom in the  Republican Party . This election may
well determine if that philosophy can withstand the scrutiny of
American voters.  ( Jennifer Burns  is an assistant professor of history at
 Stanford University  and the author of “Goddess of the Market:
 Ayn Rand  and the American Right.” The opinions expressed are her
own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Jennifer Burns at
 jenniferburns@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 