-- World Bank’s Kim Raises Sandy as G-20 Ignores Climate
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/world-bank-s-kim-raises-sandy-as-g-20-ignores-climate.html
Superstorm Sandy and the risk of more
disasters sparked by  climate change  barely featured at a Group
of 20 summit. Then World Bank chief Jim Yong Kim brought it up.  Addressing finance officials from the world’s leading
economies days after the storm, Kim noted how media reports
always write about once-in-a-lifetime natural disasters,
according to an account of the closed-door meetings by Italian
Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli . Yet in the last decade, there
have been so many of them -- including 2005’s Hurricane Katrina
-- the lifetime is getting short, he said.  “The World Bank has gone back to being in charge of
climate change,”  Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco told
reporters in Mexico City. “For a certain period from 2001, it
had stopped.”  Ramon Fernandez, who heads the French Treasury, said Kim
told delegates that climate change “is an important agenda that
should not be forgotten while we’re all focused on  crisis
management .” French central bank governor  Christian Noyer  said
Kim also referenced scientific reports.  Kim begins a two-day trip to Haiti today, where nine people
died when the storm hit the Caribbean island.  Death Toll  In the U.S., the death toll from Sandy now stands at more
than 100. Katrina, a category 5  hurricane  that slammed into the
coast of Louisiana and Mississippi and submerged parts of New
Orleans, killed 1,833.  Amid the widespread expression of condolences, there was no
attempt to calculate the storm’s damages or Sandy’s impact on
the climate, said Grilli.  The largest Atlantic storm in history unleashed death and
devastation up and down the U.S. Northeast, leaving millions
without power. The economic cost could run as high as $50
billion, according to early estimates by Eqecat Inc., a provider
of catastrophic risk models.  Still, making a causal link between Sandy and climate
change has been a political minefield in the U.S. Global warming
has been little more than a throwaway line in months of
campaigning ahead of Nov. 6 elections.  Even in Sandy’s wake, President Barack Obama and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  have brushed it aside.  Climate Change  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, brought it into the
political arena as did  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , who said
last week that “anyone who thinks there isn’t a change in
weather patterns is denying reality.”  “Our climate is changing,” Bloomberg said in a Nov. 1
opinion piece published by Bloomberg View. “While the increase
in extreme weather we have experienced in  New York City  and
around the world may or may not be the result of it, the risk
that it might be -- given this week’s devastation -- should
compel all elected leaders to take immediate action,”  It’s a case environmental economists such as Robert
Mendelsohn have been making for a while.  In a 2009  report  supported by the  World Bank , he said
climate change is predicted to increase global damage from
hurricanes. On average, damage from hurricanes is expected to
increase by $10 billion per year, or 33 percent increase,
according to the report.  Both Sandy and Katrina stemmed from low-pressure troughs
off the coast of Africa, according to the National Hurricane
Center. Both became tropical storms in the Caribbean, then
hurricanes.  Nothing New  As for the G-20, climate change was mentioned near the
bottom of a  statement  yesterday that had nothing new to say on
the matter.  It recognized that the  United Nations  is the “forum for
climate change negotiations and decision-making at the
international level” and acknowledged that “climate finance is
a relevant issue to be discussed.”  Europe  and the U.S. have not seen eye to eye on climate
change. The European Union has taken a leadership role in
mitigating the effects of global warming by pioneering a
regional carbon cap-and-trade system that extends beyond even
the Kyoto Protocol’s requirements. By contrast, the U.S. has
refused to support international efforts to curtail climate
change and even lags China in green investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Mexico City at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  