-- Typhoon No Bar to Third Record Chinese Corn Harvest: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-11-06T23:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/typhoon-no-bar-to-third-record-chinese-corn-harvest-commodities.html
Chinese farmers are reaping a third
record corn harvest even after a typhoon wiped out some of the
crop, easing demand for imports at a time when the U.S. drought
is driving sales from the biggest exporter to a four-decade low.  The harvest rose 3.6 percent to 199.74 million metric tons,
according to a survey of farmers in  China ’s seven biggest
producing provinces by Geneva-based  SGS SA (SGSN)  for Bloomberg. The
country’s stockpiles last month were at a nine-year high, and
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects a 64 percent drop in
imports. The agency will raise its estimate for U.S. reserves by
2.4 percent when it reports Nov. 9, the average of 29 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Consumers are paying the most ever for corn this year after
drought parched U.S. and European crops, contributing to a 7.7
percent rise in United Nations-tracked global food prices since
June. Chinese farms planted more acres and used hybrid seeds to
supply feed to the world’s biggest hog herd after the country
shipped in more corn in the past three years than it had in the
previous 22. Prices will drop 12 percent by March, according to
U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa .  “China’s best investment has been to boost its corn
production,” said Jeff Hainline, the president of Advance
Trading Inc. in Bloomington,  Illinois , who has been buying and
selling grain since 1977. “China has more than enough corn to
last until the next harvest.”  Eight Commodities  Futures rose 68 percent in less than two months to a record
$8.49 on Aug. 10 on the Chicago Board of Trade, before trading
at $7.41 today. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of
eight commodities advanced 11 percent this year amid the worst
U.S. drought since 1956. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 11 percent, and Treasuries returned 1.8 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Corn may drop to $6.50 by March, when  Argentina  and  Brazil 
begin their harvests, said  Don Roose , the president of U.S.
Commodities Inc., who has been advising farmers and grain
elevators since 1979. The two countries will account for about
38 percent of global exports in the year ending Sept. 30, 2013.  China sowed 4.7 percent more land with corn than in 2011,
based on the SGS surveys of 302 farmers compiled by five
agronomy teams. Corn was the dominant crop in all seven regions,
according to SGS, whose predictions in the past two years were
within about 1 percentage point of the USDA’s final estimates.  Largest Producer  Output reached a record 192.78 million tons last year,
exceeding demand for the first time in three years, USDA data
show. Inventories before the 2012 harvest that began in
September were the most since 2003. Prices in Heilongjiang
province, the largest producer, fell to the lowest in seven
months on Oct. 24, according to Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. The
USDA said the following day that China canceled 120,300 tons of
purchases scheduled for delivery before Aug. 31.  Some of this year’s Chinese crop got triple the normal
rainfall in the three months ended Aug. 31, especially in  Inner
Mongolia , said David Streit, the senior forecaster for the
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Timely rains
in August in Shandong, the third-biggest producer, and a lack of
heat stress throughout the region also helped, he said.  A bigger crop in China won’t reverse a drop in  global
inventories . The USDA probably will cut its forecast by 0.7
percent on Nov. 9, the Bloomberg survey showed. The agency
already expects the lowest stocks-to-use ratio since 1974 amid
the smallest U.S. harvest in six years.  Dairy Consumption  China became a net corn importer in 2010 for the first time
since 1996. As per-capita income more than doubled since 2000,
pork consumption gained 23 percent and dairy use advanced 38
percent, according to the USDA. Corn acreage exceeded rice for
the first time ever in 2007 and expanded another 16 percent
since then, USDA data show.  “The world is just too short on corn, and Chinese supplies
will not be exported into the world market, leaving the U.S. as
the last residual supplier,” said William Tierney, the chief
economist for AgResource Co. in  Chicago  and a former USDA
analyst. “Corn futures should rise to new highs.”  Record prices probably will spur more planting next season.
Informa Economics Inc., a Memphis, Tennessee-based agricultural
researcher, said Nov. 2 that global output will jump 14 percent
to a record 950.69 million tons next year, mostly because of a
36 percent gain in the U.S. and bigger crops in  Europe  and
Ukraine.  The USDA will boost its estimate for domestic inventories
before next year’s harvest to 634 million bushels on Nov. 9,
from 619 million last month, according to the average estimate
in Bloomberg’s survey. That still implies a 36 percent decline
from a year earlier.  Average Yields  Export commitments for U.S. corn delivered by Aug. 31 are
48 percent lower than a year ago, government data show. Buyers
are seeking cheaper grain from other suppliers, including
Brazil, whose exports rose to a record for a third consecutive
month in October. Brazil surpassed Argentina this year as the
world’s second-biggest corn exporter, according to the USDA.  Chinese production is rising even after August’s Typhoon
Bolaven reduced average yields by about 0.5 percent, according
to the SGS survey. The teams were gathering information in a
region where about 55 percent of the farms are less than 1
hectare (2.47 acres). Other than corn, about 6.7 percent of the
region’s crops are  soybeans  and rice 5.7 percent, SGS said.  “Production easily could have been 10 million metric tons
larger if the Typhoon had missed the main growing region,” said
Mark Oulton, the market research director for SGS in Wilkes-
Barre,  Pennsylvania . Farmers said they expect a “very
optimistic” 19 percent jump in planting next year, he said.  Delivery Schedule  The cost of seed, fertilizer and crop-protection chemicals
rose an average of 4.1 percent in 2012, compared with 25 percent
in 2011, the survey showed. A 4.1 percent drop in fertilizer
prices, the biggest production cost in China, offset gains of 14
percent for seeds and 49 percent for chemicals to fight pests
and weeds, Oulton said. Severe insect damage increased to 21
percent of plantings, from 14 percent in 2011, the survey
showed.  Improved seed hybrids have increased production in some
fields by as much as 30 percent since 2005 in China, where the
government forbids the sale of genetically modified crops more
common in the U.S., said William S. Niebur, a vice president and
general manager of DuPont Pioneer China in Beijing.  Most Chinese farmers plant and harvest by hand, meaning
productivity lags behind  North America  or Europe. Even after the
worst Midwest drought in more than 50 years, U.S. yields will be
31 percent larger than in China this year. American farmers
produced 60 percent more per acre last year.  “The government is openly talking about the need to
improve the operating environment for seed companies,” said
Niebur. “China corn production is the most important story for
world agricultural production in the next decade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  