-- Zimbabwe Treasury Bill Sale Said to Fail After Ultimatum
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-11-06T11:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-06/zimbabwe-treasury-bill-sale-said-to-fail-after-ultimatum.html
Zimbabwe failed to sell $30 million
of Treasury bills at an auction after the country’s finance
minister said banks must buy the securities or they will be
compelled to acquire negotiable certificates of deposit.  The Harare-based  Reserve Bank  of Zimbabwe rejected the
$8.65 million worth of bids that were made at yields of 8.5
percent to 12 percent for the 91-day bills, an official at the
institution said, declining to be identified because he is not
authorized to speak to the media. Units of banks including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  operate in the country.  Tendai Biti, the finance minister, made the ultimatum in an
interview on Nov. 3 in the northwestern resort town of Victoria
Falls. The central bank last month rejected all bids at two
sales while a third offering of $15 million generated $9.9
million in accepted bids. The securities are the first to be
offered by the bank since 2008, shortly before Zimbabwe
abandoned its currency in favor of the U.S. dollar.  “Rather than berating banks -- especially the
multinationals, Barclays, Standard Chartered,  Old Mutual (OML)  and
 Standard Bank (SBK)  of  South Africa  -- for their failure to lend, the
government needs to get a grip on its unsustainable deficit and
debt problems,” Tony Hawkins, an economics professor at the
University of Zimbabwe, said in column published in Harare’s
NewsDay newspaper today.  ‘Last Chance’  Biti did not say how he would enforce the ultimatum.
Negotiable certificates of deposit are often issued by central
banks and while they can be traded in secondary markets ,they
cannot be cashed in before maturity.  “I am giving the banks sector the last chance to fully
support the Treasury bills,” Biti, 46, said in the interview.
“If they don’t support it, I will issue NCDs and that’s it.”  Calls to the central bank were not answered today while
calls to the mobile phone of George Guvamatanga, president of
the Bankers Association of Zimbabwe, didn’t connect. Biti did
not answer calls made to his mobile phone.  Biti and the central bank are trying to kick-start the
country’s capital markets after a decade-long recession ended in
2009 after the 15-nation Southern African Democratic Community
negotiated a settlement that ended a political dispute. A
coalition government between President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front and the Movement for
Democratic Change of Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  was then
formed.  Surging Inflation  The Zimbabwe dollar was abandoned in a bid to curb an
inflation rate estimated at 500 billion percent by the
International Monetary Fund. The country currently has a debt of
$10.7 billion, according to the finance ministry.  Reluctance to buy the bills stems from “skepticism around
the government’s ability to honor the Treasury bills at
maturity,” the Tunis-based African Development Bank said in a
monthly report on Zimbabwe on Nov. 2.  The plan to restart the bill sales was announced in July by
Gideon Gono, the central bank governor. Zimbabwe lacks a
benchmark interest rate. The weighted average lending rate for
private banks ranged from 14 percent to 20 percent in the four
months through July 31, Gono said in a midyear monetary policy
statement.  “The return of the money market is a small step forward
not least because the Treasury bill rate sets a determined floor
for  interest rates ,” Hawkins said. That “might dissuade
politicians from setting statutory maximum lending rates.”  Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd. (BARC)  is the biggest lender by
market value on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange with a
capitalization of $62 million while units of London-based
 Standard Chartered  as well as Standard Bank Group Ltd. and
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , both based in Johannesburg, operate in the
country.  CBZ Holdings Ltd. (CBZ)  is the biggest locally owned bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  