-- 3i’s Labco Said to Draw Bids From Blackstone and PAI
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2012-11-13T11:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/3i-s-labco-said-to-draw-bids-from-blackstone-and-pai.html
Labco SA, a medical-diagnostics
company whose investors include 3i Group Plc, has drawn
preliminary bids from private equity groups  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
and PAI Partners SAS, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Buyout firms EQT Partners AB, Bain Capital Ltd., Advent
International Corp., TowerBrook Capital Partners LP, also made
non-binding offers, one of the people said.  Groupe Bruxelles
Lambert SA (GBLB) , the investment firm controlled by  Albert Frere  and
 Paul Desmarais , and Swiss laboratory operator Unilabs SA, partly
owned by Apax Partners LLP, also bid, the person said.  Labco’s owners are seeking as much as 1 billion euros
($1.27 billion) from a sale, one of the people said. The Paris-
based company, which employs about 4,500 people, provides more
than 2,500 diagnostics such as blood analyzes, thyroid tests,
microbiology cultures and HIV tests, its website said. Labco
operates more than 250 laboratories in  Europe  and also offers
specialty services for oncology and paternity testing.  A spokeswoman for Labco wasn’t immediately available to
comment on a sale. Officials at 3i, Apax, EQT, and TowerBrook
declined to comment. Officials at Bain, Blackstone, PAI, Advent
and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert were not immediately available for
comment.  The company’s first-half earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 19 percent from a year
earlier to 62 million euros, according to a financial statement.  Last year, the company sold 500 million euros of 8.5
percent notes maturing in 2018, which contain a change of
control clause, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unsolicited Approaches  Labco said on June 27 that it received unsolicited
approaches.  Fitch Ratings  said two days later that bids probably
came from buyout firm and that it would consider a rating action
on Labco’s bonds if the offers were binding.  3i (III) , which has invested 130 million euros in Labco in
several tranches since July 2008, owns close to 20 percent of
the company, according to the buyout firm’s  website .  At the end of March, financial investors owned 42 percent
of Labco, while laboratory doctors held 20 percent, according to
a financial statement. Other shareholders including management
held 19 percent and company founders 18 percent.  Founded in Paris in 2002, Labco has made 80 acquisitions
since 2008, according to 3i.  Created just after World War II, 3i was one of the first
private-equity firms in Europe. After going public in London in
1994, it expanded in  Asia  and targeted bigger transactions. The
2008 credit crisis halted the firm’s expansion. 3i said in June
that it plans to cut more than a third of its workforce and shut
offices in  Hong Kong  and Shanghai in an attempt to revive
profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  