-- Advance Auto Bid Seen as Value Meets Record Age: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-11-13T21:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/advance-auto-bid-seen-as-value-meets-record-age-real-m-a.html
Advance Auto Parts Inc. (AAP) , the seller
of car batteries and motor oil, is offering potential suitors
one of the industry’s lowest valuations at a time when Americans
are spending more for vehicle upkeep.  The auto-parts retailer hired Blackstone Group LP to
evaluate its strategic options, a person with knowledge of the
matter said this month. Even though takeover speculation has
 driven  Advance Auto’s shares 12 percent higher since Oct. 31,
they are priced at the second-lowest multiple to free cash flow
among peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Advance Auto just posted back-to-back quarterly
profit declines for the first time in almost four years, the
outlook for car-parts stores has brightened with the  age  of U.S.
vehicles at a record high, boosting the need for maintenance.
With the least net debt versus market value in the industry, the
$5.7 billion company looks like a leveraged-buyout candidate,
said ISI Group.  AutoZone Inc. (AZO)  and  O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY) ,
Advance Auto’s bigger competitors, may view buying it as an
inexpensive way to expand, according to Argus Research Co.  “It’s an appealing target,” Paul Dietrich, the chief
executive officer of Middleburg, Virginia-based Foxhall Capital
Management Inc., an Advance Auto shareholder, said in a
telephone interview. “As people keep their cars longer, there’s
going to continue to be an increased demand for the sort of auto
parts that Advance Auto sells.”  Stock Slumps  Advance Auto’s stock price declined 15 percent through
yesterday from this year’s high of $92.37 in April. The slump
 accelerated  in May when the company described recent sales
trends as “challenging,” saying a mild winter led to less need
for vehicle repairs. The shares have also fallen as analysts
project a 0.7 percent increase in Advance Auto’s revenue this
year, the slowest annual rate since at least 1998, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  With the shares languishing, a person with knowledge of the
matter said on Nov. 1 that Advance Auto had hired Blackstone to
consider a change in strategy. The person declined to be named
because the process is private.  Shelly Whitaker, a spokeswoman for Roanoke, Virginia-based
Advance Auto, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation,
when asked whether it has hired Blackstone or is holding talks
with any potential acquirers.  Advance Auto is evaluating a course change after its stock
price slipped last month to 4.2 times the value of the company’s
net assets, its lowest price-book multiple since August 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares are relatively
inexpensive in terms of free cash flow, or  cash from operations 
after deducting capital expenses, trading at a multiple of 12.
That’s cheaper than every U.S. auto-retail chain larger than
$500 million, except O’Reilly Automotive at 11, the data show.  Aging Vehicles  Today, Advance Auto shares climbed 1.3 percent to $79.27,
ending a five-day losing streak.  The industry is benefiting as Americans keep their cars
longer. Personal spending on auto parts has  risen  11 percent
since the U.S. recession ended in 2009, data compiled by the
Bureau of Economic Analysis show. Expenditures are increasing
after the average age of cars and light trucks on U.S. roads hit
a record  10.8 years , according to R.L. Polk & Co.  That trend may lure interest from private-equity firms,
said Bill Selesky, a New York-based analyst at Argus Research.  “The average car on the road is pretty old, so it has to
be repaired,” he said in a phone interview. “These guys, you
would think, would benefit from consumers trying to stretch
their dollars as best as possible. Rather than plunking down 25
grand on a new car, they can just maintain what they have.”  Lower Leverage  Strong cash generation and minimal debt are the hallmarks
of a leveraged-buyout target, said Greg Melich, a New York-based
analyst at ISI Group. Advance Auto’s $121 million in net debt is
equal to just 2.1 percent of its market capitalization, making
it the least leveraged company in the industry, the data show.  “In terms of being an LBO candidate, it’s one that screens
quite well,” Melich said in a phone interview. “That stable
positive free cash flow can be used to pay down the debt”
created by such a buyout.  There’s also room to boost Advance Auto’s profit margin,
said  shareholder  Scharf Investments LLC. Advance Auto earned
less than 11 cents in operating earnings for every dollar of
sales during the last 12 months, versus 16 cents and 19 cents at
O’Reilly Automotive and AutoZone, respectively, the data show.  “It has a lot of margin expansion potential,” Brian Krawez, the president of Scotts Valley, California-based Scharf
Investments, which oversees $1.7 billion, said in a phone
interview. “We’re a little disappointed in the short-term
headwinds, but I think it’s a very attractive company and I can
see why a financial buyer would be interested.”  AutoZone, O’Reilly  Argus’s Selesky said Advance Auto’s approximately 3,727
stores may also appeal to the company’s larger  rivals , AutoZone
and O’Reilly Automotive, which have market capitalizations of
$13.8 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively. As of Dec. 31,
the states where Advance Auto had the most stores were  Florida ,
North Carolina,  Georgia  and  Ohio .  “For any of the bigger players who want to become more
geographically diverse and add stores in some states that they
don’t have coverage in, that’s always the easier way to do it,”
the analyst said.  Mark Merz, a spokesman for Springfield, Missouri-based
O’Reilly Automotive, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.
Ray Pohlman, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based AutoZone,
didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages.  Prospects for a competitor to purchase Advance Auto are
limited due to overlapping locations, said ISI Group’s Melich.
Krawez of Scharf Investments agreed that this reduces the odds
that a so-called strategic buyer would bid for Advance Auto,
leaving private-equity firms as the more likely candidates.  Record High  Krawez said Advance Auto is worth at least $95 a share, or
21 percent higher than yesterday’s close of $78.27. That would
exceed the record high set earlier this year.  Because of the company’s strong prospects, “I don’t want
to see the stock taken away from us at a cheap price,” he said.  A $95-a-share offer would value Advance Auto’s equity at
almost $7 billion and give it an enterprise value that’s 8.4
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. In the industry’s most recent deal of comparable
size, the 2008 purchase of CSK Auto Corp., O’Reilly Automotive
paid 9.7 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buyers should strike now before Advance Auto’s stock price
climbs and business picks up as consumers increase spending on
car parts, said Foxhall Capital’s Dietrich. He said that Advance
Auto’s business deceleration this year is temporary, and over
the long haul, the company will benefit given that U.S. car
owners are holding onto their vehicles longer.  “It’s a bad time for them to sell, but now would be a good
time for someone to come in and buy them because they do have
these trends in their favor,” he said. “I’m sure there are a
lot of hedge funds looking to deploy cash, and this would be a
solid company to pick up at a low point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  