-- Lagarde Woos Southeast Asia as Region Cuts IMF Reliance
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-11-14T12:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/lagarde-woos-southeast-asia-as-region-cuts-imf-reliance.html
Fresh from yet another meeting in
Brussels on Europe’s debt crisis,  International Monetary Fund 
Managing Director Christine Lagarde today kicked off a three-
country tour of Southeast  Asia , which is thriving after emerging
from turmoil more than a decade ago.  Her week-long visit, which starts in  Malaysia  and includes
the Philippines and  Cambodia , builds on ties that took years to
mend after the 1997 Asian financial crisis forced some countries
into unpopular IMF austerity policies. Now the fund is seeking
to maintain its influence in a region that is helping power the
world economy while reducing its reliance on the IMF’s financial
support.  These countries, which didn’t need IMF help during the
global crisis of 2008, are building up foreign currency reserves
and boosting regional alliances to ensure they can weather
future shocks on their own, said  Eswar Prasad , a former head of
the China division at the Washington-based lender.  “The main risk for the IMF is that it comes to be seen as
less relevant to the region, both in terms of the advice it has
to offer and in its role as provider of a financial safety
net,” said Prasad, now a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington.  For Lagarde, who spent most of her first 17 months at the
IMF consumed by Europe’s debt crisis, the trip also shows
appreciation for the contribution Malaysia and the Philippines
made to a $461 billion increase in the fund’s resources this
year, when the U.S. and Canada abstained.  Business Leaders  The visit, which mixes meetings with officials and business
leaders, concludes Nov. 20 in Cambodia with the East Asia Summit,
where Lagarde will join leaders of the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  and other countries, including newly re-elected
U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Her goal is to “engage, listen and exchange views about
the global economy,” Anoop Singh, who heads the IMF’s Asia-
Pacific department, said in a phone interview last week.  Recent economic data have shown signs of recovery in Asia.
South Korea’s  unemployment rate  fell to 3 percent in October,
the lowest in more than four years, amid a rebound in the
nation’s exports and industrial output, a report showed today.
 Hong Kong  may report faster year-on-year growth in the third
quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a Nov. 16
release. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.1 percent today,
bringing this year’s gain to about 5.5 percent.  Confidence Rising  Australian  consumer confidence  surged to a 19-month high in
November, a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey
showed today in Sydney. The country’s wage price index, which
measures hourly pay rates excluding bonuses, advanced 0.7
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months, the
statistics bureau said separately.  In contrast, euro-area industrial production contracted in
September, a report showed today.  Portugal  reported a decline in
gross domestic product in the third quarter. In the U.S., a
report may show retail sales fell in October, a survey of
economists showed. India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation
unexpectedly eased to an eight-month low of 7.45 percent in
October, according to a report today.  “Asia is now the global growth leader and you see how much
many Asian countries have improved the fundamentals over time,”
Singh said. “There are clearly many lessons the world can learn
from Asia.”  Lessons Learned  Some of those lessons have been learned by the IMF, which
has changed its policy prescriptions since the 1990s. It has
mellowed its opposition to  capital controls  and eased its stance
on austerity measures. It now supports giving Greece and
Portugal, two countries where it co-finances bailouts, more time
to meet budget deficit targets.  “As we face an increasingly complex and interconnected
world, we understand that the IMF needs to change and modernize,
and we are doing so,” Lagarde said in a speech in Kuala Lumpur
today. “We are more flexible across a number of dimensions,
including the time horizon for fiscal adjustment and policy
responses for dealing with surges in capital flows.”  The IMF arranged more than $100 billion of loans to
 Thailand ,  Indonesia  and South Korea after their currencies
collapsed in 1997. In return, governments were forced to cut
spending, raise  interest rates  and sell state-owned companies.
In a 1999  assessment  of its performance, the fund said it
“badly misgauged” the severity of the collapse and
acknowledged its fiscal prescriptions for the three countries
were too harsh.  “It is a very different institution than it was 15 years
ago,” said  Joseph Stiglitz , the Nobel laureate and former World
Bank chief economist who has said IMF policies in Asia during
the crisis deepened the region’s recession. “There is a
framework for more openness,” he told reporters in  Singapore 
last week.  ‘Friendly Paradigms’  The new IMF is not lost on Anny Ratnawati, the vice finance
minister of Indonesia. Then-Indonesian President Suharto was
ousted in 1998 amid riots sparked by austerity measures, four
months after signing an IMF agreement to scrap foreign ownership
limits on banks and raise taxes on gasoline, tobacco and alcohol.  The IMF and other development partners “have come up with
new friendly paradigms in managing crisis as it is now evolving
in Europe and elsewhere,” Ratnawati said.  “I know that the IMF has not always enjoyed a stellar
reputation, particularly in this part of the world and
particularly in this country,” Lagarde said in  Kuala Lumpur 
today, drawing laughter from the audience as she went on to
explain how the IMF has changed.  Investor Haven  Some of the IMF’s painful policies also helped strengthen
Asian economies, said Tomo Kinoshita, chief economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Tokyo . The region is now a haven for investors
and the recipient of capital inflows after its governments spent
the years since the turmoil restoring finances, bolstering
banking systems and diversifying industries to increase
resilience.  External debt as a  percentage  of gross domestic product for
Asia’s developing economies has dropped to 16 percent last year
from about 31 percent in 1997, according to IMF data. Based on
purchasing power parity, Asia excluding Japan made up about 29
percent of the world economy in 2011, compared with about 18
percent in 1997, IMF data show.  Good Fundamentals  “Asia’s  fundamentals  are quite good, the banking system is
sound and fiscal positions are healthy, and that’s partially a
direct consequence of the IMF’s policies,” Kinoshita said.  Even now, these countries can benefit from the IMF’s
technical assistance and policy advice, said Prasad, also a
professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York.  “The key issue for these economies is that they want to
have the luxury of picking and choosing from the IMF’s advice
rather than being subjected to taking drastic measures under
duress as part of the conditions associated with IMF loan
programs,” he said.  A precautionary  credit line  created by the IMF in 2009 with
no conditions for countries with sound fundamentals drew no
takers from Asia. The IMF will have about 80 percent of its
credit in the euro region by 2014, its staff estimates.  As their economies and finances healed, Asian countries set
up their own buffers against future crises, lessening dependence
on the IMF and other development agencies. Asia has bolstered
foreign currency reserves to more than $6.5 trillion, about 60
percent of the global total, from $485 billion in 1997.  This year, Asian policy makers doubled the size of a
foreign-currency reserve pool that took effect in 2010 to shield
the region from global financial shocks.  Regional Buffers  Japan, China, South Korea and 10 Southeast Asian nations
boosted the so-called Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization
agreement to $240 billion, created a precautionary credit line
to let members tap the pool to prevent a crisis, and said they
would allow more funds to be used without being linked to an IMF
program. The Chiang Mai Initiative has not been drawn on.  The increase reflects the region’s “yes but” approach to
the fund, said William Grimes, chairman of the International
Relations Department at  Boston University  in Massachusetts.
“They are more comfortable with the IMF but they’re even more
comfortable knowing that they might have regional options.”  Lagarde’s initial stop is also her first trip as IMF chief
to Malaysia, which turned down the fund’s assistance during the
Asian currency crisis and implemented capital controls.  In some circumstances “temporary capital controls might
prove useful,” Lagarde said in her speech on Asian economic
cooperation today. “Malaysia was ahead of the curve in this
area.”  Deepening Ties  Malaysia’s economy has almost tripled in size since 1997
and growth is accelerating. The government in 2010 unveiled a
so-called economic transformation program, identifying $444
billion in projects from mass rail to nuclear power that it
would promote in the current decade.  In her speech, which she made after meeting with Prime
Minister Najib Razak and central bank governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz,
Lagarde said she expects growth in Asia to accelerate next year,
provided policy makers in the U.S. and in Europe make the right
policy choices.  It is in Asia’s interest to deepen its trade, fiscal and
policy cooperation, she also said.  That cooperation is welcomed by the fund, said the IMF’s
Singh. “We want strong regional financial arrangements and we
want to be around if our role is needed,” he said. “The world
is so large, the crises so complex that no region can deal with
its potential crises by itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  