-- Thailand Plans to Join Pacific Trade Talks When Obama Visits
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-11-13T04:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/thailand-plans-to-join-pacific-trade-talks-when-obama-visits-1-.html
Thailand  plans to formally enter
talks on a U.S.-led Pacific region trade deal when President
 Barack Obama  visits the country next week, government spokesman
Tosaporn Sererak told reporters.  Thailand would become the 12th country to join negotiations
in the  Trans-Pacific Partnership , Obama’s top trade priority.
Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy would be the fifth
country in the talks that does not already have a free-trade
agreement with the U.S., along with New Zealand, Brunei,
Malaysia and Vietnam.  “It represents new market access for American companies,”
Deborah K. Elms, head of the Temasek Foundation Centre for Trade
& Negotiations in  Singapore , said by e-mail. “Thailand really
must be involved in the TPP for its own economic interests. You
cannot have aspirations of being part of the supply chains in
Asia, especially, if you are not part of the TPP as it gets up
and running.”  Obama is seeking to expand trade ties with Asia-Pacific
countries as part of a so-called pivot to the region to counter
 China ’s growing economic and military might. He plans to visit
Thailand on Nov. 18 as part of his first foreign trip since his
re-election that also includes stops in Myanmar and Cambodia.  The TPP expanded to 11 nations this year after Mexico and
Canada were invited to join, representing about a third of
global economic output. The other countries include Australia,
 Chile ,  Peru  and Singapore.  2006 Collapse  Thailand has signed trade agreements with all TPP members
except for the U.S., Canada and Mexico, Pakdiharn Himathongkham,
a deputy government spokesman, told reporters yesterday. About
18 months of bilateral trade negotiations with the U.S. broke
down in 2006 after political discord in Thailand led to a coup
later that year.  Thailand has been on the U.S. government’s list of the
world’s worst infringers of intellectual-property rights each
year since 2007, when it announced plans to issue so-called
compulsory licenses for drugs made by companies such as  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  and Merck & Co.  TPP negotiators plan to meet next month in New Zealand for
the 15th round of talks, which are confidential. The U.S.
Congress signaled its discontent with the TPP negotiation
process in June, with 132 lawmakers telling U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk in a letter they were “troubled that
important policy decisions are being made without full input
from Congress.”  Japan is also considering whether to join the TPP talks, a
move opposed by  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
LLC who say the country’s auto market needs to be more open to
international competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  