-- Allianz Warns of Bond Bubble on Draghi Cash Windfall
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-11-13T16:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/allianz-warns-of-bond-market-bubble-as-it-grows-real-estate.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest
insurer, said low interest rates have caused a bubble in the
government bond market and may do the same to equities unless
central banks tighten monetary policy.  “We have a bubble in sovereign debt, looking at German
Bunds, with central banks flooding the markets with liquidity,”
Maximilian Zimmerer, management board member in charge of
finance and global  life insurance , told reporters at an event
in Frankfurt today.  Returns on German and Swiss sovereign two-year bonds turned
negative in July as investors bought them for riskier assets
such as Italian and Spanish debt due to concern over a common
rescue plan for the euro area. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has lent financial institutions more than 1
trillion euros ($1.27 trillion) since December and has pledged
cheap, unlimited cash for banks.  Zimmerer, 54, said Allianz’s asset management division is
diversifying its investments to reduce risk. It’s cutting German
debt holdings as returns have fallen to “unattractive levels,”
he said. Allianz asset management includes Pacific Investment
Management Co., the Mohamed El-Erian and Bill Gross-led
business.  Yields on German two-year Bunds fell to a record -0.091
percent on July. 31 and were at -0.038 percent at 5:30 p.m.  Allianz has reduced its exposure to government debt in
 Portugal ,  Italy , Ireland,  Greece  and  Spain , while increasing
investments outside the euro area, Zimmerer said.  Share Prices  The price of equities may also become over-inflated unless
central bank policy makers raise  interest rates , Zimmerer said.  “We hope that interest rates will rise at the latest in
two years as otherwise we are heading into a new bubble” for
the stock markets, he said.  Allianz asset management will increase real-estate
investments over the next five years to 30 billion euros from 20
billion euros as returns look better there, Zimmerer said.  “We want to grow over-proportionally in real estate and
infrastructure lending,” he said. “There are very attractive
projects offering spreads of 2 percent to 4 percent.”  Asset management’s contribution to the operating profit of
Allianz almost tripled over the past five years. Growth was
driven by Pacific Investment, which it acquired more than a
decade ago.  Allianz granted Pimco more independence last year when it
separated the Newport Beach, California-based unit from its
other asset management operations, which come under the  Allianz
Global Investors (AUSHYAM)  division, led by Elizabeth Corley. Both units
are combined under the Allianz Asset Management holding.  Zimmerer, who has a PhD in law from the University of
Cologne, previously worked as head of Allianz’s German life
insurance unit. He first joined the company in 1988 and was also
employed at its equity, fixed income and private health
insurance divisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  