-- Alpha Natural’s Wood to Limit New Borrowing as Exports Increase
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-11-13T17:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/alpha-natural-s-wood-to-limit-new-borrowing-as-exports-increase.html
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  will
limit new borrowing because the miner has enough cash on hand
and expects coal export growth to increase global sales, Chief
Financial Officer Frank Wood said in a telephone interview.  ANR has $900 million in cash and a revolving credit
facility of about $1 billion to deal with any “headwinds” it
may face in 2013, while metallurgical coal production should
remain almost at 2012 levels, Wood said on Nov. 9. ANR is not
planning to do any refinancing before its nearest  maturities  in
2015, he said. It has $824 million in convertible bonds due that
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have the ability to go to our revolver and borrow at
very little notice,” Wood said. “Right now, I think we feel
very good with our cash,” he said. “As we get closer to 2015,
obviously we’ll be looking at those options again.”  A decline in  revenue  because of lower metallurgical coal
shipments has diminished earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, said Evan Mann, a research
analyst at Gimme Credit LLC. The  ratio  of debt to Ebitda rose to
3.6 times in 2011 from 1.4 times the previous year, while Mann
expects it to get as high as 5.75 times by late 2013, the most
since its public offering in 2005, Bloomberg data show.  “We have a large amount of export capability, which will
allow us to grow met coal over time,” said Wood, declining to
comment on debt-to-Ebitda projections. “I’m not worried at the
moment about how an analyst might be projecting our overall
 leverage ratio .”  Secured Debt  Wood said he is more concerned with the company’s  secured
net debt  to Ebitda, which he said is 0.1 times and can rise to
as high as 2.5 times. That number accounts for $555 million in
senior secured loans, minus $500 million in cash the company is
allowed to credit against outstanding secured debt, ANR said.
Alpha Natural will benefit from increasing its exports of
thermal coal internationally, Wood said.  “We feel that while the U.S. market impacts us, we’re much
more, in terms of growth mode for the future, tied to growth
margins across the globe,” he said.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  