-- Alzheimer Predictor Seen in Study Decades Before Symptoms
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-13T13:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/alzheimer-predictor-seen-in-study-decades-before-symptoms.html
Signs of Alzheimer’s disease can be
found in people with a rare, inherited form of the illness at
least 20 years before the onset of symptoms, according to new
studies that may guide earlier preventive treatment.  In a study of 44 adults in Colombia between the ages of 18
and 26, people with the presenilin 1 gene mutation, a predictor
of the disease, had higher levels of a protein called amyloid
beta, which lead to plaques in the brain that characterize the
ailment, in their cerebrospinal fluid, according to a study
published Nov. 6 in the  Lancet Neurology  journal.  Another study 
by the same scientists showed that amyloid plaques begin to
accumulate in the brains of people with the mutation when
they’re in their late 20s.  People with the presenilin 1 mutation typically begin to
show Alzheimer’s symptoms at the age of 45, so the studies
showed that signs of the disease are evident at least 20 years
before that, according to the researchers. That’s earlier than
identified in any previous study of families with rare inherited
forms of Alzheimer’s, the authors said.  The findings “raise new questions about the earliest brain
changes involved in the predisposition to Alzheimer’s and the
extent to which they could be targeted by future prevention
therapies,” Eric Reiman, executive director of the  Banner
Alzheimer’s Institute  in Phoenix,  Arizona , and one of the study
authors, said in an e-mailed statement.  Progressive Changes  The results should be treated with caution given the small
number of participants and the findings observed at a single
point in time, Nick Fox, professor of clinical neurology at
University College London, said in a comment accompanying the
article.  Still, “these findings add to accumulating evidence that
Alzheimer’s disease is characterized by a long presymptomatic
period of slowly progressive changes that can be identified and
tracked using imaging and fluid biomarkers, thereby opening up a
therapeutic window for early intervention,” Fox said.  The research is based on what is referred to as “the
amyloid hypothesis,” which focuses on the amyloid plaques in
the brain. Some scientists argue that tau proteins that form
tangles in the brain should also be targeted in treatments.  Multiple strategies are needed to tackle Alzheimer’s,
according to the Chicago-based Alzheimer’s Association, which
supports research of amyloid-, tau- and inflammation-based
approaches, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  