-- AMF Bowling Seeks Bankruptcy Protection for Second Time
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-13T13:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/amf-bowling-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-for-second-time.html
AMF Bowling Worldwide Inc., the
world’s largest bowling-alley operator, filed for bankruptcy for
the second time in 11 years with a plan it says will
“significantly” cut debt and strengthen its balance sheet.  The company listed both assets and debt of $100 million to
$500 million in Chapter 11 documents filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Richmond,  Virginia . Chapter 11 is the
section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code used by companies to
reorganize.  The company, based in Mechanicsville, Virginia, runs about
300 bowling centers with more than 20 million visitors a year,
according to its  website . AMF filed for reorganization in July
2001 and exited with a confirmed Chapter 11 plan in February
2002 by giving unsecured creditors 7.5 percent of the new stock.  “With the support of our key financial stakeholders, we
will recapitalize our balance sheet and reduce our burdensome
debt load and related costs,” Steve Satterwhite, AMF’s chief
financial officer, said in a statement today.  AMF started out as American Machine & Foundry Co. in 1900
in New Jersey, making equipment for the tobacco industry,
according to Harvard Business School archives. Before World War
II, the company designed automatic machinery for cigarette-
making, bread-wrapping and necktie-manufacturing.  Automated ‘Pinspotter’  The company introduced the first fully automated
“Pinspotter” in 1946. The device picked up and reset bowling
pins with mechanical suction cups, a task previously done by
hand. The product was reintroduced in 1951 after the first
prototype proved unreliable. About 30,000 machines were
installed by 1957.  Other postwar contracts included nuclear reactors and
launching systems for intercontinental ballistic missiles. The
company also branched out into Ben Hogan-brand golfing gear,
Roadmaster bicycles and refrigerator-defrost timers.  The company at one point owned Harley-Davidson, Head USA
sports and Hatteras Yachts. Minstar Inc. bought the company in a
hostile takeover in 1985 and AMF Bowling was spun off. AMF
Bowling was acquired by the private-equity firm CHS Capital in
2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is In re AMF Bowling Worldwide Inc., 12-36495,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  