-- Anglo’s Kumba Iron Ore Expects Profit Cut on Prices, Strike
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-11-13T12:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/anglo-s-kumba-iron-ore-expects-profit-cut-on-prices-strike-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Kumba Iron Ore
unit said profit will drop at least 20 percent this year after
prices of the steelmaking ingredient fell and a strike at its
biggest mine in  South Africa  cut output.  Net income will decline from 17 billion rand ($1.9 billion)
in the 12 months through December, the Centurion, South Africa-
based company said in a statement today. Profit is estimated to
drop 25 percent to 12.8 billion rand, according to the  median
estimate  of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The decrease in earnings is largely attributable to a
decrease in export iron-ore prices in the period as well as the
impact on production following the illegal strike at Sishen
Mine,” the company said. Earnings results will be released
about Feb. 12, Kumba said.  Benchmark  iron-ore  prices have declined 12 percent this
year as demand from  China , which imports more of the material
than the rest of the world combined, waned as economic growth
slowed. Output was halted at Kumba’s Sishen mine after about 300
workers downed tools on Oct. 3 to demand higher pay as wildcat
stoppages spread from the platinum industry to gold, chrome and
iron-ore operations.  Output Loss  Police arrested miners at Sishen after Kumba brought
criminal charges against them and production restarted Oct. 20.,
Kumba said. Output remains at reduced rates as lower worker
attendance because of incidents of intimidation, . The company
has lost 2.6 million metric tons of finished product as of Nov.
9, according to the statement.  Production losses could escalate depending on how long it
takes for the intimidation to end,  Clinton Duncan , a mining
analyst at Avior Research Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.  A 20 percent cut in profit “is the best-case scenario,”
he said.  Kumba, which is 70 percent owned by Anglo, fell the most
since Oct. 3, losing 3 percent to 525.01 rand by 1:34 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  