-- Harry Winston Buys Diamond Mine From BHP for $500 Million
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-13T17:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/harry-winston-buys-diamond-mine-from-bhp-for-500-million.html
Harry Winston Diamond Mines Ltd.
agreed to buy  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s  Ekati mine  in  Canada  and its
marketing operations for the precious stones for $500 million.  The sale is expected to be completed in the first quarter
of next year, Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest mining
company, said today in a statement. BHP owns 80 percent of the
mine, 200 kilometers (124 miles) south of the Arctic Circle in
Canada’s Northwest Territories, and sales and sorting operations
in Yellowknife, Canada, and Antwerp,  Belgium .  The Ekati mine has produced more than $750 million of rough
diamonds annually for the past five years, about 6 percent of
world supply by value, according to Toronto-based Harry Winston.
It’s Canada’s first and largest diamond-producing mine and  Harry
Winston ’s acquisition comes one year after BHP said it was
studying the sale of all or some of the unit.  “The sale brings to a close BHP’s interests in the
diamonds sector and is in line with its stated focus on long-
term, low-cost, expandable assets,” BMO Capital Markets analyst
 Tony Robson  said in a note to clients. “The impact of the sale
to the company’s valuation and earnings is negligible.”  BHP rose 0.2 percent to close 1,953.5 pence in London
trading. It will take a $200 million impairment charge on the
sale, the company said. Harry Winston, the only Canadian company
to be both a gem producer and jewelry retailer, fell 2.3 percent
to C$13.14 at 11:59 a.m. in Toronto.  Simpler Business  The sale as well as the divestment of other smaller assets
“reflects our ongoing pursuit of a simpler business,”  Andrew
Mackenzie , chief executive of BHP’s non-ferrous unit, said in
the statement. The sale price compares with an Investec
Securities Ltd. valuation in January of $300 million to $500
million.  Groups led by KKR & Co. and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
were in talks to buy the stake along with Harry Winston, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in March.  Harry Winston Chief Executive Officer Robert A. Gannicott
said on a Dec. 9 conference call that the Ekati mine was “of
some interest,” adding that the asset “is close to the end of
its existing life.”  While the current mine plan is for an additional seven
years of production, “there are additional resources which
could become economic with increased diamond prices,” Harry
Winston said in a separate statement today.  Rough Diamonds  Rough diamond prices have slumped 15 percent this year as
Asian purchases slowed and the euro region debt crisis eroded
demand, according to data compiled by WWW International Diamond
Consultants Ltd. Prices have risen by more than 20 percent in
each of the past three years as producers struggled to keep pace
with consumption.  “Completion of this acquisition will bring the opportunity
to marry our Canadian diamond sorting and marketing skills with
an experienced mine operating and development team, a world-
class operating asset, and future growth potential,” Gannicott
said in today’s statement.  Harry Winston also owns 40 percent of the Diavik mine, in
the  Northwest Territories , where Rio Tinto Group is seeking to
sell its 60 percent stake. Harry Winston’s Gannicott said in
June he was interested in Rio’s stake.  Ekati is split into two, the Core Zone, where it owns 80
percent, and the Buffer Zone, where it owns 58.8 percent. The
owners of minority interests in Ekati have pre-emptive rights to
BHP’s interests in both zones on the same terms within 60 days,
BHP said.  Harry Winston has arranged a $400 million loan and a $100
million revolving credit facility from  RBC Capital Markets , it
said. It’s also agreed on a $140 million letter of credit for an
environmental reclamation bond.  Harry Winston was advised by Rothschild, RBC and Standard
Chartered Bank. BHP didn’t disclose its advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  