-- Harry Winston Gets $640 Million in Loans for Ekati Diamond Mine
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-11-13T15:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/harry-winston-gets-640-million-in-loans-for-ekati-diamond-mine.html
Harry Winston  Diamond Corp., whose
jewels have been worn by Hollywood celebrities including  Marilyn
Monroe  and  Angelina Jolie , obtained $640 million in loans to
support its purchase of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s stake in the Ekati
Diamond Mine.  Royal Bank of Canada and Standard Chartered Bank are
arranging the financing, which includes a $400 million term loan
and a $100 million revolving line of credit, both due in five
years, and a $140 million letter of credit facility expiring in
364 days, the Toronto-based diamond miner and retailer of fine
jewelry said today in a statement.  Harry Winston is paying $500 million for Melbourne-based
BHP’s interests in the Ekati mine as well as its marketing
operations for the precious stones. The sale is expected to be
completed in the first quarter of next year. BHP company owns 80
percent of the mine, 200 kilometers (124 miles) south of the
Arctic Circle in Canada’s Northwest Territories.  Ekati has produced more than $750 million of rough diamonds
annually for the past five years, about 6 percent of world
supply by value, according to Harry Winston. The operation is
Canada’s first and largest diamond-producing mine and Harry
Winston’s acquisition comes one year after BHP said it
was studying the sale of all or some of the unit.  The sale as well as the divestment of other smaller assets
“reflects our ongoing pursuit of a simpler business,” BHP’s
 Andrew Mackenzie , chief executive of non-ferrous, said in a
statement.  In a revolving line of credit, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  