-- Far East Consortium Pulls Debt Sale as Asia Bond Premiums Widen
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-13T04:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Far East Consortium International
Ltd. (35)  canceled a dollar-denominated bond sale, the second issuer
in the Asia-Pacific region to pull an offering this week, as
yield premiums  increased  for the longest stretch since May.  A sale isn’t in the company’s interests under current
market conditions,  Far East  said in a  statement  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange yesterday. Australia’s BlueScope Steel Ltd.
scrapped a $300 million issue, saying that terms and conditions
didn’t meet expectations. Spreads on Asian dollar bonds widened
for a fifth day yesterday to 262 basis points more than
Treasuries, the longest streak of increases in six months, 
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , re-elected to the White House
last week, is seeking to avert the so-called fiscal cliff that
threatens to impose $607 billion of tax increases and spending
cuts on the world’s largest economy in 2013. Asian bond risk has
increased since the start of November after falling for the
prior five months, according to data provider CMA.  “Sentiment turned around quite sharply after the election
as everyone focused on the fiscal cliff in the U.S, and other
uncertainties ahead,” said Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at HSBC. “We’re now seeing a small market correction
and that’s why new deals have paused a bit.”  Property Borrowers  Far East, a property developer, was planning to sell about
$200 million of five-year notes at 5.5 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said last week. The borrower may
reconsider should market conditions improve, the statement said.
Another real-estate company, China Aoyuan Property Group Ltd.,
is talking to investors about a five-year dollar bond, a person
with knowledge of the details said today.  The Markit iTraxx  Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  declined two basis points to 123 basis
points as of 8:28 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The index has risen from 117.9 on Oct.
31, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices from dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell one basis point to
145 as of 11:35 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose two basis points to 201
as of 9:28 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The U.S.
bond market was closed yesterday for Veterans’ Day.  The swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring bonds against
default and traders use them to speculate on debt quality. A
drop signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower
fails to meet its debt agreements.  Gemdale Sale  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  was the only Asian company to sell dollar
debt yesterday, offering its  second  note of the year before
issuers took a break for national holidays in  Singapore ,  India 
and  Malaysia  today.  The Chinese developer priced $350 million of five-year
securities after selling 1.2 billion  yuan  ($193 million) of
bonds due 2015 in Hong Kong in July, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The U.S.-currency sale received more than four
times as many orders than the number of notes available,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Gemdale paid 7.125 percent to sell the dollar debt, more
than two percentage points less than for its so-called Dim Sum
notes, the data show.  Some companies are planning to offer bonds with only a few
weeks left to issue until the end of the year, according to
HSBC’s Lam.  “I still see about $4 billion to $5 billion of new issues
coming before the end of the year,” she said.  Borrowers from Asia excluding Japan, offered $3.8 billion
of bonds so far this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales in October were $10.5 billion, down 37 percent
from September, the busiest month this year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  