-- Aussie Falls Versus Peers Amid Europe, Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-11-13T07:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/aussie-remains-higher-before-business-confidence-wages-data.html
Australia ’s dollar declined,
trimming a gain from yesterday, as concern Europe’s debt crisis
is weighing on global growth reduced demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie fell against most of its major peers
after data showed business confidence weakened in Australia and
before a report on German economic sentiment. Demand for the  New
Zealand dollar  was limited as Asian stocks dropped.  “Europe looks like it’s heading towards recession, if not
already in recession, which is having a drag on the global
economy,” said Derek Mumford, a Sydney-based director at
Rochford Capital, a currency risk-management company.
“Commodity prices are well off their highs from earlier on in
the year and last year. The Aussie is vulnerable to the
downside.”  The Aussie dollar lost 0.2 percent to $1.0409 as of 6:17
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday when it gained 0.4 percent. The
Aussie weakened 0.5 percent to 82.48 yen.  New Zealand ’s currency
was little changed at 81.70 U.S. cents. It lost 0.4 percent to
64.75 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific index  of stocks declined 0.6 percent.  New Zealand’s food prices fell 0.6 percent in October from
the previous month, when they dropped 0.9 percent, the
statistics bureau  said  in Wellington today.  Business Confidence  A business confidence index for Australia slipped to minus
1 from zero in September, National Australia Bank Ltd. said in
Sydney today, based on its survey of more than 400 companies
taken Oct. 18-31. The business conditions gauge, a measure of
hiring, sales and profits, dropped to minus 5 from minus 3.  “It is likely that persistently weak confidence is having
a material impact on demand,”  Alan Oster , NAB’s chief
economist, wrote in a report today.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
may say its  gauge  assessing the current economic situation in
 Germany  declined to 8 in November, the lowest since June 2010,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  before the data today. That compares with a
reading of 10 in October. A separate  gauge  for economic
sentiment may be at minus 10 from minus 11.5 in October, the
survey showed.  Losses in the so-called Aussie were limited after Jonathan Kearns, head of economic analysis at the  Reserve Bank of
Australia , said the nation’s dwelling investment is showing
“tentative signs” of picking up. The expected increase would
“in part offset the smaller contribution to growth that we
expect from resource investment in the coming years,” he said
in Sydney today.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 65 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  will lower its
benchmark to 3 percent next month.  Australia’s  government bonds  rose, with the benchmark 10-
year bond yield falling two basis points to 3.06 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  