-- Australia Business Confidence Falls as Investment Plans Wane
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-11-13T03:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/australian-business-confidence-weakens-as-mining-outlook-worsens.html
Australian business confidence
deteriorated last month on signs of a slowdown in capital
spending as the global economy struggles to accelerate, a
private survey showed.  The confidence index slipped to minus 1 from zero in
September, a National  Australia  Bank Ltd. survey of more than
400 companies taken Oct. 18-31 and released in Sydney today
showed. The business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring,
sales and profits, dropped to minus 5 from minus 3.  The survey said the economy “stumbled” into the fourth
quarter as a capital-spending gauge declined to the lowest level
since August 2009. Sentiment worsened even after Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens cut the overnight cash-rate
target last month, bringing to 1.5 percentage points his
reductions since Nov. 1 last year.  “Key employing sectors -- manufacturing, construction and
the broader services economy -- are all in contraction and have
been for most of this year,” Innes Willox, chief executive
officer of Melbourne-based Australian Industry Group, said in an
interview. “There is room for another rate cut. We need to get
the rest of the economy going.”  NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in the report that
“persistently weak confidence is having a material impact on
demand.” The central bank’s Oct. 2 rate reduction “failed to
improve sentiment, with firms instead likely to be focusing on
the reasons for the rate change -- a softening global economy,
fiscal tightening, a soft labor market and high Australian
dollar,” he said.  Stevens held the benchmark rate at 3.25 percent on Nov. 6,
citing a more stable global economy and higher-than-expected
domestic inflation. Australia’s unemployment rate in October
stayed at a 2 1/2-year high of 5.4 percent.  The “path for inflation remains soft,” according to the
survey by National Australia Bank, which sees another 25 basis-
point rate cut in February to “mitigate weakness in near-term
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  