-- Australia, South Africa Draw Cricket Opener After Clarke Record
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-13T08:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/australia-s-africa-draw-cricket-opener-after-clarke-s-record.html
The series-opening cricket Test
between Australia and  South Africa  in Brisbane ended in a draw
as the home team ran out of time to try to force a victory.  Top-ranked South Africa reached 166-5 in its second innings
in the final session, a lead of 51 runs with 11 overs remaining.
Australia captain  Michael Clarke  earlier set a Gabba scoring
record of 259 not out and  Mike Hussey  made 100 before Australia
declared at 565-5 to lead by 115.  Clarke and Hussey helped Australia take the initiative on
the final day of a match in which the second day was lost to
rain and South Africa made 450 batting first.  Jacques Kallis 
scored 49 and AB de Villiers finished 29 not out to help the
touring team see out the draw.  “It’s unfortunate we didn’t get a result today,” Clarke,
who was also voted the man of the match, said in a televised
interview. “I thought we fought hard both with bat and ball
after day one and came back really well. We can take a lot of
confidence into the second Test.”  The best-of-three-match contest resumes Nov. 22 in Adelaide
with the series finale beginning eight days later in Perth.
South Africa would retain the No. 1 spot in the  International
Cricket Council ’s Test rankings by avoiding defeat, while
Australia can overtake the Proteas atop the rankings with a
series victory.  Spin bowler Nathan Lyon took 2-41, removing Kallis and
Jacques Rudolph to reduce South Africa to 165-5 in its second
innings with JP Duminy unable to bat again after suffering an
Achilles injury that required surgery.  Under Pressure  Clarke indicated to the umpires that he wanted to play the
final hour to try and force a result, though Australia’s bowlers
were thwarted by  De Villiers  and Vernon Philander, who finished
1 not out after facing 14 balls.  “They put us under a little pressure on the final day and
it was good to come through that,” South Africa captain  Graeme Smith  said at the post-match presentation.  Clarke, who came in with Australia struggling at 40-3,
earlier passed the previous Gabba Test record of 235 not out by
England’s  Alastair Cook  two years ago before declaring.  James Pattinson  then removed openers Smith and Alviro
Petersen to reduce South Africa to 55-2. The fast bowler also
got Hashim Amla to play onto his stumps when on 7, only for
television replays to reveal a no-ball. Amla was eventually
dismissed by  Peter Siddle  for 38.  Although frustrated that Australia ran out of time, Clarke
said his team would take plenty of positives from the opener.  “The way we came out and performed today is really
exciting for us going forward,” he said. “The wicket was
pretty flat. We managed to take a few wickets and a few big
wickets as well. At the end of the day we have to be winning
this Test series to regain the No. 1 rank in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  