-- Bank of America Offers to Buy MBIA Bonds to Block Amendment
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-11-13T22:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/bank-of-america-offers-to-buy-mbia-bonds-to-avoid-debt-amendment.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is seeking to
buy the majority of $329 million of  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  bonds to block the
insurer’s efforts to distance itself from a cash-strapped unit
that sold products protecting the lender from losses on more
than $6 billion of debt. MBIA  fell the most in three years .  Bank of America’s bid follows a move by MBIA last week to
persuade bondholders to change the terms governing almost $900
million in bonds, which would prevent a regulatory seizure of
its MBIA Insurance Corp. unit from dragging the parent into
bankruptcy. That would leave policyholders including Bank of
America holding guarantees from an  insurer  that can’t make good
on claims.  If the insurer succeeds “the risk of MBIA Insurance
Corporation being placed in rehabilitation or liquidation will
increase, which would jeopardize all policyholder claims,
including Bank of America’s,” the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based bank said in a statement. Bank of America units bought
credit-default swaps backed by MBIA that protect the lender from
default on $6.2 billion of debt, the bank said.  The tender offer is the latest move in a legal battle that
started in 2009 and has led to settlement talks between the two
companies. MBIA’s insurance unit guaranteed some of Wall
Street’s most toxic mortgage debt before the financial crisis
that started five years ago, then was shut out of its primary
municipal-insurance business when Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  stripped the unit of its top ratings.  MBIA Sues  MBIA is suing Bank of America, claiming that its
Countrywide unit misrepresented the quality of mortgages that
were bundled into securities and insured by MBIA. After the
insurer won approval from regulators to separate the municipal
guarantees into a new unit in January 2009 in an attempt to
jumpstart that business,  Bank of America  was among lenders that
sued MBIA to have the split overturned, arguing that it left the
unit insolvent.  “Bank of America’s tender offer is nothing more than an
outrageous attempt to improperly interfere in MBIA’s corporate
affairs in order to pressure us to accept a grossly unfair
settlement of our fraud and contract claims against BofA,”
 Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Seizure Risk  Rather than MBIA’s efforts to amend the bonds raising the
risk of a seizure by regulators, “it is BofA’s own refusal to
honor its obligations and its strategy of delaying the put-back
litigation” that’s elevating it, he said.  MBIA  shares  dropped 19 percent, the most since November
2009, to $6.81 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York .  The amendment Bank of America is seeking to block would
make a cross-default provision in the bonds, which now allows
creditors to demand immediate payment from the parent company if
MBIA Insurance is seized, to instead be linked to the municipal
unit, National Public Finance Guarantee Corp. MBIA is asking
bondholders to approve the change by Nov. 21, offering to pay
$10 per $1,000 of notes to those who consent.  In its counter offer today, Bank of America is offering to
pay bondholders as much as a 22 percentage point premium on
bonds governed by one of two indentures MBIA is trying to amend.  The lender said it would pay par, or $1,000 per face
amount, for MBIA’s 5.7 percent senior notes due in 2034 that are
tendered by Nov. 27, and $950 between then and Dec. 11,
according to the statement today. The securities traded at 78
cents on the dollar Nov. 8 to yield 7.8 percent, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  ‘Off the Table’  While a successful consent solicitation by MBIA would have
reduced the pressure that Bank of America could put on the
insurer, the bank’s tender offer “takes that alternative off
the table,” Brian Charles, an analyst at RW Pressprich & Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “It probably puts MBIA
in more of a stressed situation where they need to find a
settlement sooner rather than later.”  Bank of America’s offer hinges on a majority of the notes
being tendered, without which the amendment to indentures
couldn’t be blocked.  Bank of America “is trying to preserve cross default so
that they can wait out MBIA,” said  Rob Haines , an analyst at
independent debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. in New York.
“You rarely see this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  