-- Barak Says Israel to Hit Hamas Until Deterrence Restored
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r ,   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2012-11-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/barak-says-israel-will-hit-hamas-until-deterrence-is-restored.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak ,
who directed  Israel ’s 2008 ground invasion of the  Gaza Strip , is
considering new measures to stop missile attacks from the Hamas-
ruled territory.  Between meetings with top generals and fellow cabinet
ministers, Barak said that military operations will intensify if
Palestinian rocket barrages continue, even as  Egypt ’s Muslim
Brotherhood leadership seeks to broker a cease-fire.  “Basically it’s not yet over,” Barak, 70, said in an
interview yesterday at  Tel Aviv ’s  Defense Ministry  compound
named for slain Israeli leader  Yitzhak Rabin . “I cannot go into
details, but we cannot accept it. A way should be found to
convince Hamas that it is too costly for them to continue.”  Upheaval across the Arab world has stoked the conflicts
simmering around Israel, with Hamas-controlled Gaza and battle-
torn  Syria  the most pressing concerns. Barak is seeking to
manage the crises as he fights for his political life with
elections approaching in January. Some polls show his splinter
Independence Party may not garner enough votes to retain a
single seat in parliament and its place in Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s governing coalition.  “This is a very delicate time in the  Middle East  and the
cycle of violence between Israel and Hamas has gotten
magnified,” said Shlomo Brom, a retired general and senior
research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National
Security Studies. “Neither Barak nor Netanyahu can be perceived
as being weak.”  Attacks from Gaza have slowed amid efforts to broker a
truce, with two being fired yesterday. About 120 rockets and
mortar shells have hit Israel since Nov. 10 and 14,000 have been
fired in the past 11 years, according to the Defense Ministry.  ‘Catastrophic for Everybody’  Israeli President Shimon Peres yesterday urged foreign
donors to the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip to guarantee their
money isn’t used to buy arms.  “We will do whatever we can to keep the flame as low as
possible, while on the other hand defend our people as
necessary,” Peres said in a Bloomberg Television interview
before addressing a security conference in Tel Aviv.  “We expect the rest of the world not to pay to any party,
nation, or group that is shooting,” Peres, 89, said. “If you
can shoot and be paid, it is catastrophic for everybody and that
is what is happening.”  ‘Won’t Hesitate’  Barak, who was Israel’s most highly decorated soldier
before his 1991 appointment as the country’s top general and
1999 election as prime minister, said Nov. 11 that he “won’t
hesitate” to send ground troops into Gaza if that’s what it
takes to stop the attacks from Gaza. Eight Israelis have been
injured since the conflict flared up Nov. 10.  “I don’t believe that someone has to be buried in order to
justify a response,” said Barak, whose office is decorated with
busts of former prime ministers David Ben Gurion and Rabin.
Behind him is a biography of  Albert Einstein  and a photograph
from an Oval Office meeting with President  Barack Obama .  Barak has served as defense minister since 2007, during
which time he led the last Israeli ground attack on Gaza, the
three-week Operation Cast Lead, in which more than 1,100
Palestinians and 12 Israelis were killed.  Hamas Responsible  No matter who fires the rockets, Barak said Israel holds
Hamas responsible because it has ruled the coastal territory
since purging Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s
Fatah party loyalists in 2007. Hamas is considered a terrorist
group by Israel, the U.S. and European Union.  “No sovereign on earth” would accept a situation where a
fifth of the population is under daily shelling, said Barak,
tieless with a black leather jacket after returning from a
morning field trip outside Gaza. “We basically cannot live with
it. It’s crazy.”  Efforts by Egypt to broker a cease-fire between Israel and
Hamas have been slower than in the past following the overthrow
of President  Hosni Mubarak , who developed close personal ties
with Barak and other Israeli leaders in his 30 years in power.  “When relationships are more intimate -- sometimes without
even talking explicitly about every detail -- more can be
achieved,” Barak said. “In the past, there were people who
could answer you immediately,” Barak said. Since President
Mohamed Mursi came to power, military counterparts now “have to
ask the political leadership.”  Longtime Rivals  Barak and Netanyahu, longtime political rivals, have come
together to debate Obama over whether to bomb  Iran ’s nuclear
facilities to stop it from building an atomic weapon. The
defense minister has taken the lead at times in asserting that
Iran is close to entering a “zone of immunity” when its
nuclear installations will be so heavily fortified that an
attack would be useless.  The Obama administration has publicly disagreed with
Netanyahu on how to block Iran’s nuclear capability and the
timing of any military strikes. Iran says its atomic program is
only for peaceful purposes while Netanyahu points to statements
from Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  that Israel should be
“wiped off the map” and says his hostile intentions are clear.  “I can understand why an American president wants to be
sure that all other alternatives were accepted before he turns
to physical action if we ever contemplate it,” Barak said. “We
expect the administration to keep respecting, as they did in the
first term, that ultimately it is the Israeli leadership and
only the Israeli government who has to make the decision.”  ‘Not Optimistic’  As for  Iran’s nuclear program , “I’m not very optimistic
about convincing them to give up their plans,” Barak said.  Barak dismissed attacks by the opposition that Netanyahu
hurt Israel’s strategic alliance with the U.S. through his very
public disagreements.  “Some people warned us that this president, if he’s
elected, he will take revenge, but I don’t see it,” Barak said,
adding he’s worked with U.S. administrations since  Ronald Reagan 
was in office. “I am confident the Obama administration will
work professionally with any Israeli government.”  “In regard to defense, the Obama administration probably
did more than previous administrations to deepen and strengthen
the relationship,” he said.  Barak enjoys playing Beethoven piano sonatas in his free
time and picking locks. His past as an Israeli commando includes
dressing as a woman, in a brown wig and high heels, to
assassinate three Palestinian leaders in a house in  Beirut .
Married for a second time in 2007, he has three grown daughters.  Pistol in Hand  He helped to free hostages in 1972 aboard a hijacked
Belgian Sabena  airliner . A photograph of a younger Barak on the
wing of the Sabena plane, pistol in hand and disguised as a
member of the airport ground crew, also sits on the bookshelf
behind his desk.  As prime minister, Barak led Israel’s unilateral military
evacuation from southern Lebanon in 2000. He negotiated head-to-
head with Yasser Arafat and was defeated in a re-election bid
the following year by Ariel Sharon, who later suffered a stroke
and has been in a coma since 2006.  While he regrets failing to reach a peace agreement with
the Palestinians, he said it’s difficult to have high
expectations.  “We use the left hand to look to open any window or any
door to see whether peace can be made, but at the same time to
have the pointer finger on the trigger ready to pull it should
the need arise,” Barak said. “That’s the only way to survive
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  