-- Barrick Leads First Sales Decline in Canada Since 2009
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-14T15:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/barrick-leads-first-sales-decline-since-2009-corporate-canada.html
     (Corrects Bank of  Canada  forecasts for GDP growth in the
second-to-last paragraph in story published Nov. 13.)  Sales (SPTSX)  at Canadian companies are
declining for the first time in 12 quarters as commodity prices
head for the first annual retreat in four years amid slowing
growth from China to  Europe .  Companies in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index have
posted a 7.4 percent drop in third-quarter sales, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg of the 188 firms that reported from Oct. 1
to Nov. 12.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) 
and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  are among companies reporting lower revenue for
the quarter after the S&P GSCI Index of 24  raw materials  slid 11
percent from this year’s high in February.  China’s weakest economic  expansion  in 14 quarters and the
debt crisis in Europe has curtailed demand for raw materials,
reducing earnings for Canada’s biggest exporters. The S&P/TSX is
up 1.5 percent this year, trailing all developed markets in the
world except for Portugal and Spain, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The slow-growth economic environment is catching up with
revenues,” said  Craig Fehr , Canadian market strategist with
 Edward Jones , on the phone from  St. Louis . “The big three
sectors: energy, materials and financials, are all having tough
quarters driving earnings growth.”  Earnings in the S&P/TSX have fallen 12 percent during the
third quarter, based on data compiled by Bloomberg of companies
that have reported so far. That adds to a 13 percent drop from
the second quarter, which was the biggest retreat since 2009.  Revenue among financials, raw-material producers and energy
companies has fallen the most among 10 industries in the
Canadian equity benchmark. Quebecor Inc., Iamgold Corp. and
Dundee Corp. are among the 36 companies in the S&P/TSX scheduled
to report earnings in the next two weeks.  Earnings Season  The major banks have yet to release quarterly earnings.
 Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender, is set to
give results on Nov. 29 and Toronto-Dominion Bank will report on
Dec. 6.  “It will be very difficult for the banks to deliver
anything beyond mid-single-digit revenue and earnings growth,”
said  Paul Taylor , chief investment officer with BMO Harris
Private Banking. He helps manage about C$18 billion in Toronto.
“The capital markets business is constrained by activity and
the wealth management business is reeling from weak markets.”  About 44 percent of companies that make up the S&P/TSX are
commodity producers and financials comprise about 32 percent of
the index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barrick Slumps  Barrick, the world’s largest gold producer, on Nov. 1
reported lower-than-estimated earnings as mining costs rose more
than expected and production fell. That led shares of the
Toronto-based company to a 9.5 percent plunge, the most in three
years.  Canadian Natural Resources, the nation’s third-largest oil
and natural gas producer, fell 3.6 percent on Nov. 8, the most
in four months, after reporting a 57 percent decline in third-
quarter profit on lower fuel prices. The company, based in
Calgary, has plunged 27 percent this year.  Encana shares sank 3.1 percent on Oct. 24 after posting a
loss for the quarter and a 56 percent decline in revenue.
Canada’s largest natural gas producer cut its average production
by 14 percent during the quarter as prices fell 29 percent
during the quarter from year-ago levels, according to a
statement from the Calgary-based company.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , the nation’s largest insurer,
earlier this month delayed its objective of reaching C$4 billion
in annual profit due to “significant headwinds” in the
economy. The Toronto-based company slid 1.5 percent on Nov. 8
after reporting a third-quarter loss.  Raw Materials  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials is down 1.6 percent
this year, poised for the first annual decline since 2008. Oil
has lost 14 percent this year as improvements in technology
including hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, boosted output from
 oil fields  in  North Dakota , Texas and Oklahoma.  Among raw-material producers in the S&P/TSX that have
reported earnings, 61 percent of companies missed analysts’
forecasts and 72 percent reported shrinking profit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks may rise should American lawmakers find a solution
to the so-called fiscal cliff of $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect in 2013,
said Kien Lim, associate equity strategist with  RBC Capital
Markets . The U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner, will likely
enter a recession in the first half of 2013 if a resolution is
not found, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Better Earnings  “We’d be more positive if that wasn’t in the way,” Lim
said on the phone from Toronto. Global  purchasing managers 
indexes “do look to be bottoming, which we equate to a better
earnings outlook for the TSX in the second half of next year.”  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index climbed to 50.2 in
October from 49.8 in September, the first time that measure of
manufacturing sentiment has risen above 50 points since July,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said on Nov. 1. A reading above that
level indicates economic expansion.  Canada’s central bank has predicted that the economy will
expand at a 2.2 percent pace in 2012, a second consecutive year
of slower growth. Gross domestic product will increase 2.3
percent and 2.4 percent in the following two years, according to
the Bank of Canada’s estimate.  “Sell your resources,” said  John Stephenson ,  fund manager 
with First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. His firm
manages about $2.7 billion. “Things have really deteriorated in
the last few months with what we’re seeing globally, so it’s not
surprising to see a pullback in just about every commodity
including oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  