-- Bartender, Dog Walker to Judge Level Global Co-Founder at Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/bartender-dog-walker-to-judge-level-global-co-founder-at-trial.html
A bartender and a dog walker are
among the federal court jurors who are set to hear opening
arguments in the  insider-trading  trial of Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and  Todd Newman , a former
portfolio manager for Diamondback Capital Management LLC.  The jury of seven women and five men also includes a
computer animator on feature films, a retired postal worker and
a medical assistant. The jurors won’t include a hedge fund
manager and the mother-in-law of another who expressed harsh
views of the industry and were excused by U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan in Manhattan.  Chiasson and Newman worked at funds that were raided by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  in November 2010, as part of a
nationwide crackdown of illicit trading by portfolio managers,
analysts and insiders at technology companies. Opening
statements in the case are scheduled for today.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara allege that Chiasson and Newman were part of a group of
portfolio managers, analysts and technology company employees
who traded stock tips in a conspiracy that operated from 2007 to
2009. The two earned more than $67 million in illicit profits by
trading on inside information in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
prosecutors said. Both men have pleaded not guilty to the
charges.  ‘Tight-Knit’  The case is the latest chapter in a series of insider-
trading cases that last month yielded a two-year prison sentence
for the government’s highest-profile target, former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta. Gupta was convicted of
insider trading for conspiring with Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam. The fund manager is serving a term of 11 years
in prison.  Of the 72 people charged with insider trading by Bharara
since August 2009, 69 people having pleaded guilty or were
convicted at one of six trials. One man charged with Rajaratnam
remains a fugitive.  Chiasson and Newman, the remaining two, are charged with
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and five counts of
securities fraud. The securities fraud counts each carry a
prison term of as long as 20 years.  “This case describes a tight-knit circle of greed on the
part of professionals willing to traffic in confidential
information,” Bharara said when the charges were announced in
January. “It was a circle of friends who essentially formed a
criminal club, whose purpose was profit and whose members
regularly bartered inside information.”  ‘Intense Interest’  Before trial, Greg Morvillo and  Reid Weingarten , lawyers
for Chiasson, asked the judge to screen potential jurors,
arguing that the case had garnered “intense interest” in the
media because of the number of insider-trading prosecutions that
preceded it.  Prosecutors argued such interviews were time-consuming and
defense lawyers would end up “filling the jury box with persons
of a particular type whom they believed to be well-disposed
toward their clients.”  The 12 jurors and three alternates were selected Nov. 8
after two days of questioning by Sullivan, who told the panel
the trial will take about five weeks.  Some of the prospective jurors interviewed and excused by
Sullivan expressed strong views about  Wall Street , the stock
market and  hedge funds .  “I dealt with a lot of them, they’re ruthless, they’ll
pluck your eyes out,” a Rockland County man who operated his
own hedge fund told Sullivan about rival hedge fund operators.
“I had a hedge fund. I’ve seen so many rogue traders using
inside information, that they screwed us.”  Son-in-Law  A woman who said her son-in-law is a hedge  fund manager 
told Sullivan she didn’t think she could be fair to the
defendants.  “I think that it’s things like this that makes it
difficult for people who have hedge funds,” she said.  Sullivan, saying that both Chiasson and Newman are presumed
innocent, asked how she would feel if it was her son-in-law who
was accused of wrongdoing.  “What if he were charged?” Sullivan asked.  “He would not,” said the woman, who was excused from the
jury.  Of the eight people charged in the case, six have pleaded
guilty to insider trading and are cooperating with the U.S.
including Jesse Tortora, a former Diamondback analyst; Spyridon
“Sam” Adondakis, an analyst at New York-based Level Global;
and Danny Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., a South
Pasadena, California-based wealth-management company.  Defense lawyers said they expect Tortora to be the first
witness for the government.  SAC Capital  Jon Horvath, a former technology analyst who was arrested
with Newman and Chiasson, pleaded guilty on Sept. 28. During his
plea, Horvath, who worked at a unit of  Steven Cohen ’s $14
billion hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, admitted to passing
nonpublic information to his portfolio manager. He is
cooperating with the U.S.  In September, Horvath’s portfolio manager, Michael Steinberg, was put on leave after he was identified by two
people familiar with the matter as an unindicted co-conspirator
in the case. Steinberg hasn’t been accused of any criminal
wrongdoing. His lawyer, Barry Berke, has declined to comment on
the case.  During questioning of potential jurors on Nov. 7, a man who
said he has worked at SAC for seven years told Sullivan he had
read about the case and used to sit next to Steinberg at the
hedge fund’s office. The man told the judge he didn’t know
Horvath, Chiasson or Newman.  Sullivan asked the jury candidate if he could be fair to
the defendants.  Awkward  “As a person I think I could be fair, but as a hedge fund
employee it’s awkward for me to be involved” in a case that
includes current and former colleagues, the man said. “I think
it is the impression of a longtime employee of SAC sitting on a
jury in this particular case.”  Later, outside of the man’s presence, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Antonia Apps told the judge she opposed seating an SAC
employee on the jury, especially someone who knows Steinberg  “He knows Michael Steinberg,” she said. “Mr. Steinberg
is an unindicted co-conspirator and this man will be asked to
assess his testimony.”  “It does sound inappropriate,” said Sullivan, who later
dismissed the man from the jury.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  