-- Best Buy Aims for 15% Return on Capital in Joly Turnaround
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-11-13T21:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/best-buy-targets-up-to-15-return-on-capital-in-joly-turnaround.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the electronics
retailer that had a $1.23 billion loss in its last fiscal year,
set a goal of as much as a 15 percent return on invested capital
as Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly revamps the company.  The long-term goal for operating margin will be 5 percent
to 6 percent, Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy said today in
a statement. The company said it will focus in the short term on
stabilizing and then increasing its comparable-store sales and
operating margin.  Joly, who took charge in September, told analysts and
investors today Best Buy’s business and its stock performance
has been unsatisfactory in recent years. The retailer sees the
opportunity to boost annual operating income by more than $1.6
billion with store improvements and cost cuts.  “It is really retail 101,” said Shawn Score, a 27-year
Best Buy veteran who was promoted by Joly last month to run the
company’s U.S. retail operations.  Best Buy  fell  less than 1 percent to $15.70 at the close in
New York. The shares have declined 33 percent this year.  Doing a better job assigning more employees to busy days
and other operational steps to improve the rate at which
shoppers actually buy in Best Buy stores may generate an
additional $450 million in  operating profit , the retailer said.
The company projects cutting $725 million from costs of goods
sold and selling, general and administrative expenses.  Website Improvements  Best Buy is spending more to train employees, which Joly
said is critical to reversing declining same-store sales and
sinking operating margin. The retailer is also reducing store
space to trim expenses.  The company said it is improving its website to encourage
more spending by visitors, some of whom complain about out-of-
stock items, a lack of product information and prices being too
high. Store employees are authorized to match online rivals’
prices during the holidays, Joly said.  The company earlier this week named former William-Sonoma
Inc. executive Sharon McCollam as its chief financial officer to
help oversee the turnaround.  Best Buy has resisted recent buyout overtures from founder
Richard Schulze, who resigned as chairman in June. Schulze, 71,
offered to take the company private at $24 to $26 a share two
months later and has since reached an agreement with the company
on conducting due diligence for a possible deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  