-- Big Rivals No Safeguard, EU Economist Says After UPS Defends Bid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2012-11-13T14:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/big-rivals-no-safeguard-eu-economist-says-after-ups-defends-bid.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s claim
that buying  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  won’t harm competition because it
will face a bigger rival may come up against some skepticism at
the European Commission after its chief antitrust economist
criticized such arguments from merging companies.  Kai-Uwe Kuehn, who advises the European Union regulator on
complex economic issues, was speaking in London yesterday, after
earlier attending UPS’s formal hearing with officials in
Brussels, where the company defended its 5.16 billion-euro ($6.5
billion) purchase of TNT.  “Economically, it doesn’t make much sense” to argue a
merger of smaller firms won’t have an effect because the
“largest firm is still in the market to provide  competitive
restraint ,” Kuehn said at the  London  event. “I have heard this
several times, including this morning at a hearing.” He didn’t
cite any companies by name.  UPS last month received a so-called statement of objections
listing concerns about the deal. The EU said it would see a
combined UPS and TNT facing  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, Europe’s
largest package-delivery company, as its main rival, with weaker
competition from  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and smaller firms, a person
familiar with the private EU document said last week.  UPS and TNT responded that “competition in Europe
continues to be significant, coming from multiple players who
offer similar services,” according to an Oct. 19 statement.  Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based UPS,
declined to comment on the EU economist’s comments or
yesterday’s hearing.  “We are not commenting on our  confidential discussions ,”
said Ernst Moeksis, a spokesman for TNT in Hoofddorp, the
Netherlands.  Even merging companies with moderate market shares can
impair competition, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said in a speech earlier this month.  “We closely assess the likely impact of a merger on price
and other parameters -- such as quality, choice and
innovation,” Almunia said in the Nov. 2 speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  