-- Blackstone Says Wealth Funds Among Possible Office Buyers
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-11-13T20:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/blackstone-says-wealth-funds-among-possible-office-buyers.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  expects to
increase sales of its property holdings in the next year, with
potential buyers including real estate investment trusts and
sovereign wealth funds, said Jonathan Gray, the firm’s global
head of real estate.  Blackstone this year finished raising $13.3 billion for the
largest-ever private-equity real estate fund. The company, based
in New York, is moving to sell investments from prior funds as
it invests its new pool.  “We think the pace of realizations for us will pick up in
2013 and 2014 in our real estate portfolio,” Gray said today at
the Bloomberg Commercial Real Estate Conference in New York.  Blackstone is seeking as much as 800 million pounds ($1.27
billion) for Chiswick Park, a west London office development it
bought in April 2011 for 480 million pounds. The  firm  is the
second-largest U.S. office landlord through its Equity Office
unit, with buildings in markets including San Francisco, Los
Angeles,  Boston  and New York. Its other real estate holdings
include shopping centers held through its Brixmor unit, and the
Hilton Worldwide Inc. hotel chain.  Blackstone seeks to buy assets at discounts, often during
periods of distress, and invest money to improve the properties
before finding new buyers. The company may sell some holdings
that have stabilized amid increases in occupancy, Gray said.  Institutional Investors  Occupancy across Blackstone’s office buildings has climbed
to almost 90 percent from about 80 percent to 81 percent,
according to Gray. As occupancy rises to the low- to mid-90
percent range, “we could take it public or sell to a range of
institutional investors,” he said.  Well-run REITs are able to borrow in the bond market at low
costs, which will aid them in making more deals, Gray said.  “The other trend that will be helpful for us to exit some
of the larger things we own, particularly the higher-quality
assets in the gateway cities, is the rise of the sovereign
wealth fund,” he said. “Sovereign wealth funds are enormous
pools of capital around the world” and real estate offers
higher yields than government bonds, along with a hedge against
inflation, he said.  Blackstone still intends to take Hilton public in the next
year or two, Gray said. The company acquired Hilton, the world’s
biggest  hotel  operator, in 2007.  Logical Exit  Hilton President and Chief Executive Officer Christopher Nassetta “has been doing a terrific job,” expanding hotel room
count, Gray said. Construction of hotel rooms outside the U.S.
has risen about ten-fold, and revenue per available room has
increased, he said.  “We’re just sort of getting to the point where we feel
like the asset’s going to get appropriately valued,” Gray said.
“Over the next year or two we’ll look to probably take a
company like Hilton public. That’s the most logical exit, given
its size. But we don’t really have any pressure and the business
itself is performing quite well.”  Europe  also offers opportunity for real estate investment,
as banks there sell assets to reduce debt, Gray said. Blackstone
also has been buying office buildings in  India  as other
investors flee that market, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  