-- BNY’s Ivy Settles N.Y.’s Madoff Lawsuit for $210 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-13T16:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/bny-s-ivy-settles-new-york-s-madoff-lawsuit-for-210-million.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ’s Ivy
Asset Management agreed to a $210 million settlement with the
state of New York to resolve allegations it misled clients that
invested with  Bernard Madoff .  Ivy, which reached the agreement with New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman, was sued by the state in 2010,
accused of concealing from investors negative information it
learned about Madoff in order to keep collecting fees.  “Today’s settlement brings accountability for one of the
worst financial frauds in American history, and justice to
defrauded investors,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  Ivy was paid more than $40 million between 1998 and 2008 to
give advice and conduct due diligence for clients with large
Madoff investments, according to the attorney general’s office.
Ivy’s clients lost more than $236 million after Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme collapse, the office said.  Schneiderman earlier this year reached a $410 million
agreement to settle a state lawsuit filed by Schneiderman’s
predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , against Madoff feeder-fund manager J.  Ezra Merkin . Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  then sued
Schneiderman, contending that the attorney general is recovering
on claims that belong to all Madoff customers and that only the
Madoff trustee can pursue.  Douglas Squasoni, chief restructuring officer and chief
investment officer of Ivy, said in an e-mailed statement that
the firm is pleased about reaching a settlement “that allows it
to put these matters behind it.”  Ivy was sued in 2010 by Cuomo. The settlement will be used
to return money to investors, Schneiderman’s office said.  The case is the New York v. Ivy Asset Management,
450489-2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  