-- BOE’s Cohrs Says Officials Shouldn’t ‘Push Too Hard’ on Lending
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-13T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/boe-s-cohrs-says-officials-shouldn-t-push-too-hard-on-lending.html
Bank of England  official Michael Cohrs said countries’ focus on bolstering lending to promote
growth raises the risk of promoting excessive debt that may
exacerbate economic fragility.  “If we push too hard on the lending theme we will simply
raise default levels, as more of the borrowers will not be
credit worthy,” Cohrs, a member of the bank’s Financial Policy
Committee, said in a speech in Bristol today. “There is no
silver bullet to quickly fix the current economic situation.”  His comments come days after the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee halted its  quantitative-easing program , leaving
as its main policy tool the Funding for Lending facility aimed
at encouraging lending to stimulate growth. Cohrs said it’s
“rational and prudent” in current circumstances for companies
and households to reduce debt, so a lack of demand for new
borrowing isn’t surprising.  “The current low levels of lending are partially because
credit worthy companies and households have decided to either
get their house in order or deleverage to protect themselves
from the storms we currently are feeling or they see coming in
the next few years,” said Cohrs, who is also a member of the
Bank of England’s Court of directors.  Improving financial stability will require infusing banks
with a “fear of failure,” according to Cohrs. He said
officials should implement in full proposals on capital levels
by  John Vickers , a former Bank of England chief economist, as
well as new bank-debt rules recommended by  Erkki Liikanen , a
member of the  European Central Bank  governing council.  Strict Rules  “If Liikanen and Vickers are enacted in full force there
will be a considerable benefit, particularly as they both should
make complying financial institutions that much easier to put
into a resolution process should they fail,” Cohrs said.
Officials shouldn’t be too concerned about implementing  capital
requirements  that are excessively strict, he said.  “I believe it’s better to err on the size of caution,” he
said. “We should worry more about ensuring that our financial
institutions are well capitalized, are very liquid and have
lower leverage than worrying so much about the effect that
regulatory actions might have on their behavior.”  He also said officials can accelerate the timetable to
implement new rules to bolster the safety of the financial
system without undermining services to clients. Banks could
target their trading-related items to reduce their size and be
easier to regulate.  “We shouldn’t wait until 2019,” he said in the speech at
the University of the West of  England  in Bristol. “Banks can
downsize and de-lever without unduly impacting their ability to
provide necessary services to their clients if they so wish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  