-- BofA Chief Moynihan Says Fiscal Cliff Already Hurts Economy
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-11-13T16:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/bofa-chief-moynihan-says-fiscal-cliff-already-hurts-economy-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s commercial
customers are already reacting to the “fiscal cliff” that
looms over the U.S. budget by putting off purchases, Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said.  Businesses have held back on buying capital goods until the
outcome of negotiations in Washington becomes clear, Moynihan
said today at a  New York   investor conference  sponsored by Bank
of America. Tax increases and spending cuts could equal
4 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  “The impacts of the potential cliff are already being
felt,” Moynihan said. In the bank’s survey of chief financial
officers, “the number one issue they see is the fiscal cliff.
They tell us it’s affecting their business plan. That
uncertainty continues to hold back the recovery. Simply put, our
clients tell us they will not be aggressive in times of
uncertainty.”  Moynihan, 53, is trimming staff and  operations  to reduce
costs after revenue was “regulated away” by legislation
affecting consumer accounts, cards and trading at investment
banks, he said. The company sold more than $60 billion in assets
through 30 deals since he took over as CEO in 2010 to streamline
the firm and build capital.  The so-called fiscal cliff refers to more than $600 billion 
of tax increases and federal spending cuts that are set to kick 
in automatically in January, unless Congress acts, as part of a 
deal last year to raise the debt limit.  Goldman Sachs  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  had its biggest weekly
decline since June after President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
set up a budget showdown with the Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives . Market swings may continue until the sides
agree to a solution,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein said today at the conference.  “Whether or not it gets resolved -- which I believe it
will -- we’re going to have uncertain moments and insecurity
between now and then, which will roil the markets,” Blankfein
said. “My best guess -- it might not turn out this way -- but
we are at least braced for a ride here.”  Goldman Sachs is the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and
is based in New York. Moynihan’s company ranks second and is
based in Charlotte,  North Carolina . Bank of America’s Tier 1
common capital ratio under the latest rules rose to 9 percent in
the third quarter from 8 percent a year earlier.  “We’ve gone from lagging the industry to leading the
industry,” Moynihan said.  Macroeconomic signals are mixed and  unemployment  remains
high even with the most recent improvement, he said. Profit
margins on loans are still under pressure, “economic activity
is sluggish and loan growth remains sluggish behind prior-period
recoveries,” Moynihan said. The bank is forecasting annualized
economic growth of about 1 percent this quarter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  