-- Borussia Dortmund CEO Shuns Investors as Team Outshines Madrid
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-11-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/borussia-dortmund-ceo-shuns-investors-as-team-outshines-madrid.html
The chief executive officer of
 Borussia Dortmund GmbH (BVB)  has a message for institutional investors
after  Germany ’s only listed soccer team posted the biggest
profit in its history: Don’t buy our shares.  Hans-Joachim Watzke said he doesn’t want shareholders
disrupting his club, which announced record annual net income of
34.3 million euros ($43.7 million) on Aug. 28 after winning
back-to-back German Bundesliga titles. That’s a bigger profit
than closely held Real  Madrid , which calls itself the world’s
biggest sports team by sales.  Most shareholders are fans with an emotional tie to
Borussia Dortmund, Watzke said. Institutional investors could
pressure the club to increase profit at the expense of sporting
success, according to Klaus Kraenzle, an analyst at  Silvia
Quandt & Cie.  in  Frankfurt . The combined stake of money managers
rose to 14.2 percent from 6.5 percent since Aug. 26, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We would not like to have them,” Watzke, a Dortmund fan
for more than four decades, said in an interview. “It’s very
important that I am free” to make decisions, he added.  Borussia Dortmund  was founded in 1909 and named after a
local brewery -- the Borussia Brauerei. Borussia is Latin for
Prussia, the former German state. Its shares began trading in
2000, and about 80 percent of its equity is publicly listed. The
biggest shareholder is Bernd Geske, who is a “crazy” fan of
the team, according to Watzke. Geske, a board member, holds 11.6
percent.  Bundesliga Titles  On the field, Ruhr-based Dortmund has rarely had it so
good. Coach Juergen Klopp’s side won the last two Bundesliga
titles, last season’s German Cup, and leads Real Madrid, Ajax
and  Manchester City  in its Champions League group. It won the
elite European competition in 1997. To be sure, the team isn’t
doing so well in the German league this season, trailing leader
 Bayern Munich  by 11 points.  Shares of eight-time German champion Dortmund, which
regularly sells out the  80,000-capacity Westfalenstadion , have
risen 40 percent this year. They were trading at 2.66 euros
yesterday, giving the club a market value of 163 million euros.
There are no plans to buy back shares, Watzke said.  The team yesterday posted first quarter net income of 2.3
million euros on sales of 52 million euros. Fan shareholders
would rather see soccer success than a financial return,
allowing Dortmund to pay a “disappointing” dividend of 6 euro
cents for the last fiscal year, Kraenzle said.  “I wouldn’t sell my shares for anything,” Alexander
Marek, 26, who has owned about 100 for seven years, said as he
sipped beer before a match against Real Madrid last week. “I
love Borussia Dortmund.”  Manchester Unrest  In Spain and  England , some fans see outside investors as a
threat. In September, Real Madrid supporters moved to block a
potential takeover by requiring presidential candidates to be
club members for 20 years. Real had net income of 24 million
euros on revenue of 514 million euros in the year through June.  Manchester United  Supporters’ Trust, a group that opposes
the team’s ownership by the Glazer family, says the Americans
are risking the club’s sports prospects in pursuing their
financial interests after their 2005 takeover. More than half of
England’s top division is now foreign-owned.  For now, there is no prospect of institutional investors
interfering with Dortmund’s sporting decisions because none
holds large enough stakes, Kraenzle said. U.S. money managers
Vanguard Group Inc. and BlackRock Fund Advisors, which have
holdings worth a combined 750,000 euros, said they own them
because the club is part of an index of stocks they track.  “That’s the only reason we hold the stock,” Vanguard fund
manager Michael Perre said by telephone, adding he doesn’t have
an opinion on the club.  Bankruptcy Avoided  Watzke has led Dortmund since 2005, when its initial 11-
euro share price had plummeted to two euros and, he said, it was
close to bankruptcy because of 122 million euros of debt. His
previous job was running his company,  Watex Schutz-Bekleidungs
GmbH , which makes fire-proof clothing. He reduced the club’s
debt to 30 million euros and reacquired its stadium from a real-
estate fund.  Borussia Dortmund is outperforming rivals off the field
because it has a smaller payroll than many in soccer thanks to
its policy of hiring  younger players . Salary costs were 35
percent of its 215 million-euro sales in the year to June 30.
Wage costs at Bundesliga teams were on average 53 percent of
sales in the 2010-11 season compared with 70 percent in the
English Premier League, according to  Deloitte LLP  which ranks
Dortmund as the 16th-biggest team by sales.  ‘Exotic’ Investment  “We have a good position, no question,” Watzke, 53, said.
While some Spanish soccer clubs are struggling with liquidity,
Dortmund is “as reliable as the  Bank of England ” in paying
salaries, Watzke added.  Silvia Quandt, which has a “buy” rating on the club,
predicts it will make a 19.9 million-euro profit for this fiscal
year and pay out a dividend of 5 euro cents, according to a
Sept. 12 note to investors. The team remains an “exotic”
investment that’s mainly for people who have a bond with the
club, Kraenzle said.  In soccer, it’s harder to maintain a successful cycle than
in other businesses and Dortmund is likely to come under
pressure to trade players like forward Marco Reus, Kraenzle
said. The club traded another 23-year-old, Japanese midfielder
Shinji Kagawa, to Manchester United for 16 million euros this
year.  German league rules don’t allow investors to take
management control of a team by buying shares, Kraenzle said.  That’s fine by Watzke.  Borussia Dortmund is part of the culture of Germany and
“not for someone in  Abu Dhabi , Russia or  China ,” Watzke said.
“We must earn our money ourselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  