-- Brazil Real Falls for Fifth Day on Bets Intervention Stems Flows
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-11-13T20:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/brazil-s-real-falls-for-fifth-day-as-retail-sales-growth-slows.html
Brazil ’s real dropped for a fifth
day, the longest stretch of losses since August, on bets central
bank intervention to weaken the currency is diminishing the flow
of funds into Latin America’s largest economy.  The real depreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0584 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close in  Sao Paulo , the weakest level since June 28. Swap
rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.97 percent.  Brazil’s currency was the worst performer among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South African rand
before tomorrow’s report from the central bank on currency
flows. The real also fell as disagreement on a target for Greek
debt reduction stoked concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
slow global growth.  “Flows are much weaker than usual,” Joao Medeiros, the
head of  currency trading  at Pioneer Corretora in Sao Paulo, said
in a phone interview. “The mess in Europe continues.”  Brazil’s central bank has sold reverse currency swaps to
keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar to support exporters. It
sold $1.4 billion of contracts Oct. 25, $1.6 billion Oct. 23,
$1.3 billion Oct. 5, $5.7 billion Sept. 12 through Sept. 17 and
$350 million Aug. 21. The August reverse swaps were the first
since March.  The real fell on demand for a refuge as International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  disagreed with
the decision of euro-area finance chiefs to push back by two
years until 2022 the goal of reducing Greece’s debt to a
“sustainable” level.  ‘Negative Day’  “Today is a negative day abroad,” said  Andre Perfeito ,
the chief economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  Swap rates fluctuated as European debt concern offset a
report showing Brazil’s retail sales rose for a fourth month.  Retail sales climbed 0.3 percent in September from the
prior month, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase of 0.2 percent.  Broad retail sales, including construction materials and
autos, advanced 2 percent in September from a year earlier, the
slowest annual pace since October 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  