-- Brazil Families Richer Than Batista With Soaps and Cement
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-11-13T14:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/brazil-families-richer-than-batista-with-soaps-and-cement.html
For decades, the Marinho and Moraes
families have shaped  Brazil ’s culture and industry, quietly
building up fortunes that exceed that of  Eike Batista , the
country’s headline-grabbing richest man.  Brothers Roberto Irineu, Joao Roberto and Jose Roberto
Marinho control closely held Organizacoes Globo, Latin America’s
largest media group, whose popular soap operas and nightly
newscast help them control about half of Brazil’s television
market. All together, the family commands a fortune of $20
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Moraes family patriarch Antonio Ermirio, two siblings and
the heirs of his late brother own the Votorantim Participacoes
SA conglomerate, Brazil’s largest maker of cement. They control
a combined net worth of $24.5 billion, according to the index.
Unlike Batista, worth $19.6 billion through his six publicly
traded commodity startups, seven Marinho and Moraes billionaires
have never appeared on an international wealth ranking.  “They’re richer than Eike, but certainly don’t have the
same need to advertise it,” said Samy Dana, a professor of
economics at Fundacao Getulio Vargas in Sao Paulo. “They’re
discreet.”  Both Votorantim and Globo, now led by the third generation,
thrived under dictators and democratically elected presidents
alike, through boom years, recessions and hyperinflation. By
2006, when Batista sold shares in the first of his interlinking
companies, the Marinho and Moraes families were already two of
the world’s richest. With Brazil’s economy now one of the
world’s seven largest, their fortunes have soared since then.  Approval, Disdain  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  valuation “can serve as a
reference, but the calculations are conservative,” Votorantim
said in an e-mailed statement Oct. 1. The Marinho family
declined to comment on their net worth estimate.  Globo chief executive Roberto Irineu Marinho, 65, and his
59-year-old brother Joao Roberto, who is the company’s editorial
chief, are each worth $6.5 billion based on their 32.3 percent
stakes in the media empire. With 32 percent, Jose Roberto, the
56-year-old heir who leads the family’s philanthropy, controls a
fortune of $6.4 billion. Seven of the three brothers’ sons own
the rest of Globo.  Globo Comunicacao & Participacoes SA, the Marinhos’ Rio de
Janeiro-based television network, claimed 53 percent of
primetime viewership, according to the company in a March
earnings report. When the finale of its latest telenovela hit,
Avenida Brasil, aired last month, shouts of approval and disdain
for the characters could be heard throughout  Sao Paulo . The
company has long set the cultural agenda: in 1968, Tropicalia
musicians Caetano Veloso and Gilberto Gil, then just becoming
famous, performed on Globo TV.  Debate Scandal  It’s also had political influence. In a section of Globo’s
website labeled “errors,” the company says it didn’t give
adequate coverage to popular protests calling for free
presidential elections in 1984, caving to pressure by the
military dictatorship that had taken power two decades earlier.
Ultimately, it was Brazil’s congress that chose the country’s
first non-military president since the 1960s.  When free elections were at last called in 1989, Globo
created a scandal with its coverage of a debate between Fernando Collor, then the favorite, and  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , the
labor leader who would go on to win the presidency in 2002. The
company said it edited the debate in a way that unfairly
benefited Collor. Still, when Globo patriarch Roberto Marinho
died in 2003, then-President Lula attended the funeral.  In 2012, the Marinhos forged an accord for the fourth
generation of shareholders, mandating that any family members
who affiliate themselves with religious movements or political
parties lose the  voting rights  attached to their stock.  Vogue, GQ  Globo, which also publishes the Brazilian editions of Vogue
and GQ magazines, reported $4.4 billion in sales, $1.4 billion
in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, $1.1 billion in profit and net cash holdings of
$2.6 billion last year, published financial statements show. It
also holds a 6 percent stake in publicly traded cable-TV
operator Net Servicos de Comunicacao SA, valued at $270 million.  After subtracting the earnings that correspond to its
ownership in Net, Globo is valued at $14.9 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, when comparing its results to the
average enterprise value-to-sales, enterprise value-to-Ebitda
and price-to-earnings multiples of two global networks --  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  and  British Sky Broadcasting Plc (BSY)  -- and Mexico’s  Grupo
Televisa SAB (TV)  and  Megacable Holdings SAB. (MEGACPO)  Enterprise value is
defined by the Bloomberg ranking as market capitalization plus
total debt minus cash.  Corporate Restructuring  Infoglobo Comunicacao & Participacoes SA, the family’s
newspapers unit, posted $483 million in revenue, $100 million in
Ebitda and $54 million in net income in 2011, according to Exame
magazine’s annual company ranking. The unit is valued at about
$620 million when comparing its results to the average
enterprise value-to-sales and price-to-earnings multiples of
five emerging-market peers: India’s  Jagran Prakashan Ltd. (JAGP) ,
Turkey’s  Hurriyet Gazetecilik & Matbaacilik AS (HURGZ) , Peru’s Empresa
Editora El Comercio SA, South Africa’s  Caxton & CTP Publishers &
Printers Ltd. (CAT)  and  Star Publications Malaysia Bhd. (STAR)   In 2002, amid volatile local markets, Globo defaulted on
$1.5 billion in debt. After Roberto Marinho’s death at age 98,
his oldest son, Roberto Irineu, took charge, selling assets and
renegotiating with creditors. In 2005, he completed what was
then the largest corporate bond restructuring in Brazilian
history. Based on an analysis of dividends and market
performance since that year, each brother is estimated to hold
more than $1.3 billion in cash, real estate and other outside
assets, according to Bloomberg’s ranking.  Globo donates $12.5 million a year to educational and
cultural causes through the Roberto Marinho Foundation, plus
another $40 million in free advertising.  ‘Carte Blanche’  “If we had other partners, if we were in the market, we
wouldn’t be able to take such hard and radical measures such as
the company mergers and asset sales we did,” Roberto Irineu
said in July 2006, according to Valor Economico newspaper, which
is half-owned by the Marinho family. “My brothers gave me carte
blanche. They said, ‘Go for it and we’ll talk later.’”  Antonio Ermirio de Moraes, 84, left a different mark on
Brazil. He, brother Ermirio Pereira, 80, and sister Maria Helena
Moraes Scripilliti, 82, each own a quarter of the Votorantim
industrial conglomerate, according to filings with Brazil’s
securities regulator. Those stakes are each worth $6.1 billion,
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index shows. Their late brother’s
children -- current Chairman Jose Roberto Ermirio de Moraes,
Jose Ermirio de Moraes Neto and Neide Helena de Moraes -- split
the remaining 25 percent. They each each control a fortune of
$2.1 billion.  Branching Out  The roots of the Votorantim industrial conglomerate trace
back to 1918, when Portuguese immigrant Antonio Pereira Ignacio
bought a textile factory in a city of the same name in Sao Paulo
state. Jose Ermirio de Moraes, who would come to lead the group,
joined the company in 1924 when he married Pereira Ignacio’s
daughter Helena. In 1936, Votorantim branched out into cement,
now its largest operation. The group started a steelmaker not
long after, entering the  aluminum (5738)  business by the 1950s.  Upon Moraes’s death in 1971, he passed control to his
oldest son, Antonio Ermirio. The group continued to diversify
under his watch, creating nickel, pulp and orange juice units in
the 1980s. He opened a bank in 1991, expanding even amid
hyperinflation that often exceeded 1,000 percent a year. His
brothers, Ermirio Pereira and the late Jose Ermirio Jr., and
brother-in-law Clovis Scripilliti played supporting roles in the
family business.  Revered Figure  Praised by presidents and fellow billionaires alike,
Antonio Ermirio de Moraes is a revered figure in Brazil’s
business world. In 1986, he made an unsuccessful run for
governor of Sao Paulo state; the experience inspired him to
write his first play, “Brazil SA.” He wrote two others --“SOS
Brazil” and “Wake up, Brazil!” -- while managing one of the
country’s largest conglomerates.  “Five years ago I was visited by a kid from one of these
consulting firms that like to charge in dollars and speak
English,” Antonio Ermirio said in November 2003, according to
an interview published in Veja magazine. “When the kid told me
we had to get out of the aluminum business, I excused myself and
didn’t stay to hear the rest.”  Votorantim came under the formal leadership of the family’s
third generation in 2001, when Antonio’s son Carlos Ermirio was
named chairman of the holding company. That year, the company
struck out abroad with the acquisition of St. Marys Cement Corp.
in  Canada . Carlos Ermirio also oversaw the 2009 acquisition of
Aracruz, which merged with Votorantim’s pulp operations to
create  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , now the world’s largest pulp
producer.  Metals, Cement  When Carlos died of cancer in 2011 at the age of 55,
billionaire Jose Roberto Ermirio -- another grandson of
Votorantim’s founder, and son of the late Jose Ermirio Jr. --
assumed the chairmanship of the conglomerate. Votorantim’s
industrial arm generated $11.9 billion in revenue last year,
according to financial statements published on the
conglomerate’s website.  The group’s largest publicly traded interest is its 29
percent stake in Fibria, worth $1.5 billion. Votorantim also
owns smaller stakes in Peruvian metals producer Cia. Minera
Milpo SAA, Colombian steelmaker Acerias Paz del Rio SA and
Chilean cement company Cementos Bio Bio SA.  Steelmaking Arm  Last year, Votorantim’s cement operations sold 23.6 million
tons of the material used to build bridges and houses across
Brazil. It reported $4.5 billion in sales, $1.4 billion in
Ebitda and $3 billion in net debt. After accounting for cement
assets purchased from Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal SGPS in 2012,
the unit is valued at $14.3 billion when comparing its results
to the average enterprise value-to-sales, enterprise value-to-
Ebitda and price-to-earnings multiples of five publicly traded
peers: Mexico’s Cemex SAB, Colombia’s Cementos Argos SA, Holcim
Indonesia Tbk, India’s  Ultratech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM)  and Cimpor.  The group’s metals arm, which mines aluminum, zinc and
nickel, generated $4.5 billion in revenue and $950 million in
Ebitda in 2011. After subtracting the portion stemming from its
stake in Milpo, the unit is valued at $4.2 billion when
comparing its results to the average enterprise value-to-sales
and enterprise value-to-Ebitda multiples of five global peers:
 Korea Zinc Co. (010130) , Aluminum Bahrain BSC, Japan’s Sumitomo Light
Metal Industries Ltd., Japan’s Toho Zinc Co. and China’s
Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet Co.  Votorantim’s steelmaking arm reported 3.1 billion reais
($1.5 billion) in revenue in 2011. The unit is valued at $1.5
billion when comparing its results to the average enterprise
value-to-sales and enterprise value-to-Ebitda multiples of two
Brazilian peers: Gerdau SA and Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA.  Juice Operations  Lender Banco Votorantim SA reported a book value of 6.1
billion reais and a net loss of 125 million reais in 2011. The
unit is valued at $2.6 billion when comparing its book value to
the price-to-book multiple of Banco do Brasil SA, which owns
half of the lender.  The group’s orange juice operation reported 1.1 billion
reais in revenue in 2011, and is valued at about $190 million
when comparing the result to the average enterprise value-to-
sales, enterprise value-to-Ebitda and price-to-earnings
multiples of two U.S. fruit producers: Dole Food Co. and Fresh
Del Monte Produce Inc.  Tumbling Fortune  The family as a whole has received more than $2.4 billion
in dividends since 1994. After accounting for estimated market
performance and lifestyle costs, each of the three living
children of the founder probably holds at least $1 billion in
their portfolio of liquid investments and real estate, according
to Bloomberg’s ranking. A liability of $950 million was added
for each of the three siblings to account for total net debt on
the conglomerate’s balance sheet. Since 2002, the Moraes family
has given more than $220 million through Instituto Votorantim,
which promotes education and employment.  Batista, the 56-year-old head of the EBX Group Co. natural-
resource startups, has seen his net worth tumble 43.1 percent
from a peak of $34.5 billion at the end of March. In an
interview with  Bloomberg News  earlier that month, the tycoon --
who has about 1.1 million Twitter followers -- said he
represents a new “Brazilian dream” of entrepreneurial success.  “In Brazil, a country of such deep social inequality, many
feel a certain embarrassment in showing off their wealth,” said
Dana, the professor at Fundacao Getulio Vargas. “The same can’t
be said of Eike, who seems to love the spotlight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  