-- Brazil’s State Sugar Mills Seen Extending Crushing Into December
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-13T09:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/brazil-s-state-sugar-mills-seen-extending-crushing-into-december.html
Sugar mills in the state of  Sao
Paulo  in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer of the commodity,
will probably extend cane crushing into December after rains
earlier this year delayed the harvest, according to Cepea.  Mills usually end the season in late November, Heloisa Lee
Burnquist, an analyst at Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo
research group, said in a report yesterday. Rainfall in
producing regions last week resulted in mills slowing cane
crushing again, she said. The wet weather may once again slow
mills and port operations, broker and consultant SA Commodities
in Santos, Brazil, said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  “Due to the late beginning of the 2012-13 crop, mills may
extend activities,” Burnquist wrote in the report. “Players
are concerned with the sugar amount available for trades in the
 spot market , since mills have contracts to accomplish in both
domestic and international markets.”  Dry weather in the second half of October allowed the
harvest to advance and narrow the output difference in relation
to the previous year. Sugar cane processing in Brazil’s center
south, the country’s main growing region, totalled 455,557
metric tons from the start of the 2012-13 crop through Oct. 31,
data from industry group Unica showed. That is 1 percent down
from the same period a year earlier. For the season through Oct.
15, the cane crushing was down 4 percent, according to the data.  Sugar prices in Brazil’s domestic market slid 2.3 percent
to 49.66 reais ($24.25) a 50-kilogram (110 pounds) bag in the
week ended Nov. 9. Sales in the domestic market were 1.1 percent
more profitable than exports, 29 percent more advantageous than
sales of anhydrous ethanol and 36 percent more lucrative than
hydrous ethanol, according to Cepea. Anhydrous ethanol is used
to blend into gasoline. The hydrous variety is used in flex-fuel
cars.  Raw sugar for March delivery slid 0.5 percent to 19.27
cents a pound by 4 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 