-- Buffett Power Unit Targets Renewables for Acquisitions
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-13T18:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/buffett-power-unit-targets-renewables-for-acquisitions.html
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., the
power provider owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., is targeting renewable energy deals amid high utility
valuations, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Goodman said.  “We believe renewables is the better investment right
now” because utilities are too expensive, MidAmerican’s Goodman
said in an interview today at an  Edison Electric Institute 
conference in Phoenix. “As a cash buyer, we will be looking at
utilities if pricing comes in a bit.”  MidAmerican has sought opportunities to reinvest its  cash 
and highlighted that it has more funds available to service debt
and build its business because it doesn’t pay a dividend. The
power provider also has access to capital from Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire, which holds a 90 percent stake and had  $47.8
billion (BRK/A)  in cash at the end of September.  MidAmerican formed a new unit in January to support its
investments in renewable energy, including the $2.4 billion 550-
megawatt Topaz Solar Farm and 168-megawatt Alta Wind VII project
in  California . The proportion of energy MidAmerican generated
from wind, hydroelectric, solar, nuclear and geothermal rose to
31 percent as of Sept. 30 from 19 percent at the end of 2006,
according to a regulatory filing last week.  Chief Executive Officer Greg Abel, 50, helped build
MidAmerican through utility acquisitions, including the 2006
purchase of PacifiCorp. In 2008, MidAmerican agreed to terminate
its purchase of Constellation Energy Group Inc. after
Electricite de France SA bought half of the Baltimore-based
company’s nuclear plants. Constellation was acquired by  Exelon
Corp. (EXC)  this year.  Price Ratio  Average price-to-earnings ratio for the 59 companies in the
Bloomberg Americas Electric Index is 14.93, up from 14.21 last
year and 12.82 in 2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Price to book value is 1.39, up from 0.75 in 2011.  MidAmerican has acquired 1.6 gigawatts of wind and
photovoltaic projects since December 2011, adding to an existing
3.3 gigawatts of wind and geothermal assets, according to
London-based Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Large utilities like MidAmerican are a natural source of
equity for renewable projects,” said Stefan Linder, a New York-
based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “They have a
low cost of capital and shareholders that seek long-term, steady
returns.”  Buffett also may be interested in tax credits from the
projects, Linder said.  Canada Deal  Abel last month struck a deal with  TransAlta Corp. (TA)  to fund
half the cost of natural-gas fueled power plants built or bought
in  Canada , where the companies said almost $200 billion in new
investment is needed during the next 20 years. The energy
company has also scouted natural gas investments in the U.S.,
Goodman said today.  Buffett, the world’s fourth-richest person, has said that
regulated businesses like the utilities have earnings power even
under adverse economic conditions and can provide fair returns
on capital as long as they invest in infrastructure. MidAmerican
sells electricity to 6.3 million customers and operates in
states including Iowa, Oregon and  Utah .  Owning utilities is “not a way to get rich,” Buffett, 82,
said at a meeting of U.S. state regulators in 2006. “It’s a way
to stay rich.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  