-- HTC, Merck, Apple, Oprah, Hyundai: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-13T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/htc-merck-apple-oprah-hyundai-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  settled all global
lawsuits with  HTC Corp. (2498) , signaling a new willingness to resolve
patent disputes without resorting to the “thermonuclear war”
stance favored by co-founder  Steve Jobs .  Apple, which had accused HTC of copying features that made
its iPhone unique, “will continue to stay laser-focused on
product innovation,” Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in a
statement yesterday with HTC, which surged as the companies
announced a 10-year licensing deal. HTC had claimed the maker of
iPads and MacBooks infringed wireless patents.  The settlement with HTC, the first company Apple sued for
violating iPhone patents, suggests Cook will take a softer line
than Jobs, who vowed before his death last year to wage all-out
war against smartphones powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. The agreement may also serve as a blueprint for Apple
to negotiate patent accords with  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. and
Google’s Motorola Mobility business, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  “For as long as Tim Cook has been CEO, Apple has been less
interested in pursuing legal assaults against competitors,
choosing increasingly to find ways to settle differences out of
court,” said  Carl Howe , an analyst at Yankee Group in Boston.
“This settlement indicates a softening of Apple’s legal
thrusts.”  HTC and Apple declined to provide settlement details. Apple
will probably receive $6 to $8 per phone, or $180 million to
$280 million a year from HTC, Wu wrote in a research report
yesterday. That’s more than the roughly $5 per phone HTC pays
Microsoft Corp., and reflects the relative strength of Apple’s
patent defenses, Wu said.  “We think it is fair that Apple will get some licensing
revenue for the  intellectual property  it has developed -- in
particular multitouch gestures -- in making the modern
smartphone and tablet with touchscreens,” Wu said. “Prior to
the iPhone and iPad, there were arguably no products that were
close in functionality and appearance.”  Settling with HTC may allow the world’s most-valuable
company to focus its legal efforts on Samsung, the Suwon, South
Korea-based maker of Galaxy handsets that’s now the world’s
largest smartphone maker.  “Samsung is still going hard and has become an even bigger
threat” since being sued by Apple, said Lee Seung Woo, a Seoul-
based analyst at IBK Securities Co. Apple may have decided it
achieved what it wanted by going after HTC because the Taiwanese
company’s share of the smartphone market has weakened, Lee said.  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment.  Merck, Takeda Unit Sue Fresenius Over Snake-Venom Drug  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Millennium unit
sued subsidiaries of  Fresenius SE (FRE)  for infringing three U.S.
patents for a human blood-thinner made from rattlesnake venom.  U.S. units of Fresenius, based in Bad Homburg, Germany,
plan to market a generic version of anti-clotting Integrilin
before the patents expire in 2015, according to a complaint
filed Nov. 9 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  In applying to the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  for
permission to sell the drug, Fresenius “acted without a
reasonable basis for believing that it would not be liable for
infringing,” the drugmakers said in the complaint. The sales
would cause “irreparable injury,” the companies said.  In dispute are patents 5,807,825; 5,747,447; and 5,968,902.  Integrilin can be used to prevent clots when doctors
perform artery-clearing angioplasty procedures on heart-attack
patients and install coronary stents to prop open clogged blood
vessels.  Matthias Link, a Fresenius spokesman, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit after regular
business hours in Germany.  Merck is based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey. Takeda is
based in Osaka, Japan.  The case is Merck v. Fresenius, 12-cv-1410, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Apple’s Use of Swiss Clock Face Design to Cost $21 Million  Apple Inc., maker of the iPhone and iPad, is paying 13
million British pounds ($21 million) in settlement of a
trademark dispute involving the image of a clock, the U.K.’s
 Daily Mail  newspaper  reported.   The payment, to the operator of Switzerland’s national rail
system, is for the use of the image of a station clock face on
the Cupertino, California-based company’s mobile devices,
according to the newspaper.  The clock face, created in 1944, has been in continuous
used by the railway system since 1844, and has also been
licensed to Swiss watchmaker Mondaine Watch Ltd., the Daily Mail
reported.  The amount of the settlement was originally reported by
Tages-Anzeiger, a Swiss newspaper, according to the Daily Mail.  Winfrey’s Trademark Applications May Mean New Food Venture  Oprah Winfrey , daytime talk-show celebrity and founder of
the Oprah Winfrey Network LLC, is moving into a new commercial
venture, if recent trademark filings are any indication.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Winfrey filed five applications Oct. 28 to register
“Oprah’s Farm” for a variety of products and services. They
include skin-care and cosmetics, catering services, and organic
beverages, salad dressings and frozen foods.  The actual name under which the application was filed --
Oprah’s Farm LLC Hawaii -- indicates that the products may be
not be sourced from the mainland.  Pacific Business News  reported  in April that Winfrey had
registered “Oprah’s Farm LLC” with the Hawaii Department of
Commerce & Consumer Affairs.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  JibJab Sues Hyundai, Claims Dealers’ Commercials Infringe  JibJab Media Inc., the online entertainment company famous
for its political satire videos, sued Korean automaker  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) ’s Hyundai Motor America unit for copyright
infringement.  The suit, filed Nov. 8 in federal court in  Los Angeles ,
claims some U.S. Hyundai dealers are running commercials that
“incorporate key elements of the JibJab copyrighted works.”
JibJab said the commercials, which can be viewed on Google
Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing site, even incorporate the words
“Jib Jab” into their title descriptions, which the Santa
Monica, California-based company says causes consumer confusion.  The accused commercials “feature animation that is
substantially similar” to the JibJab works, the company says.
They make unauthorized use of “concrete elements” of its work,
resulting in videos that are “strikingly similar” to the ones
the California company creates, according to court papers.  JibJab claims the alleged infringement is deliberate and
has damaged the company. The defendants are also accused of
infringing JibJab’s trademarks by using the name without
permission, according to the complaint.  Hyundai didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment on the suit.  JibJab asked the court to bar further infringement of its
copyrights, and for awards for money damages, profits the
defendants derived from their alleged infringement, extra
damages to punish them for their conduct, and attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The case is JibJab Media Inc. v. Hyundai Motor America,
2:12-cv-09591-CAS-MAN, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  TransAct Defeats Avery Dennison Motion in Trade Secrets Case  Avery Dennison  Corp., the maker of labels and other
pressure-sensitive products, filed in its attempt to get a court
order barring the use of its allegedly purloined trade secrets,
according to court papers.  The Pasadena, California-based company filed suit against
 TransAct Technologies Inc. (TACT) , of Hamden, Connecticut, in June,
claiming TransAct had misappropriated trade secrets related to
the design of the company’s Food Safety Terminals.  According to TransAct’s website, these are  devices  used to
create labels used in commercial food preparation and food
labeling.  In a Nov. 8 filing in Ohio’s Lake County Court of Common
Pleas, the court  denied  Avery Dennison’s request for a court
order against TransAct. The court did partially grant a court
order against a former Avery Dennison employee.  A status conference in the case is set for Dec. 12,
according to the docket.  The case is  Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY)  v. TransAct Technologies
Inc., 12cv001586, Ohio Court of Common Pleas, Lake County.  IP Moves  Squire Sanders Expands IP Practice With Hire From Benesch Firm  Squire Sanders LLP hired Steven M. Auvil for its IP group,
the Cleveland-based firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Auvil , a litigator, joins from Cleveland’s  Benesch,
Friedlander, Coplan & Aronoff LLP .  There he represented clients in IP disputes in federal
district and appellate courts and before the U.S. International
Trade Commission and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s
Patent Trial and Appeals Board. His clients’ technologies have
included power electronics, communication systems, complex
mechanical systems and software.  Auvil has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering
from Ohio State University, a law degree from Cleveland State
University and a master’s degree in trade regulation law from
 New York  University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 