-- HTC Stock Move Prior to Apple Deal Probed by Taiwan Exchange
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-11-13T11:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/htc-stock-move-prior-to-apple-deal-probed-by-taiwan-exchange-1-.html
Taiwan’s exchange is looking at the
unusual trading volume and price movements in  HTC Corp. (2498)  stock
before the announcement of a patent settlement with Apple Inc.
The shares fell for the first time in six days.  The investigation is a standard procedure and “isn’t
necessarily related to insider trading,” Michael Lin, a
spokesman for the stock exchange, said today. The disclosure of
the Apple settlement on Nov. 11 will be taken into account, he
said. HTC conducts “regular compliance training on insider
trading stipulations,” it said in a statement late today.  HTC climbed 6.9 percent on Nov. 9 as 26.7 million shares
changed hands, more than double its  daily average  this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  stock  fell 6.9
percent to NT$225 in Taipei today, snapping a five-day, 25
percent surge.  Apple (AAPL)  settled all global lawsuits with HTC, which makes
smartphones using Google Inc.’s Android software, and the
companies signed a 10-year licensing deal, according to a Nov.
11 joint statement. Apple, the world’s most-valuable company,
had accused HTC of copying features that made its  iPhone  unique.  HTC doesn’t expect the deal to have an “adverse material
impact” on its financials, according to the statement today
from the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company. Apple will probably
receive $6 to $8 per phone, or $180 million to $280 million a
year from HTC, Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.,
wrote in a research report yesterday. Apple declined to provide
settlement details.  HTC, maker of the One, Desire and Sensation handsets, saw
its share of the global smartphone market fall to 5.8 percent in
the second quarter from a peak of 10.7 percent a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , was second with 16.7
percent. Samsung Electronics Co. was first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  