-- California’s First Carbon Auction Challenged in Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/california-s-first-carbon-auction-challenged-in-lawsuit-1-.html
California was sued by the state’s
Chamber of Commerce, which seeks to bar the auction of carbon
allowances, a key element of the state’s cap-and-trade program
aimed at reducing greenhouse gas pollution.  The business group said in a complaint filed yesterday in
state court in  Sacramento  that the  California Air Resources
Board  lacks authority to auction carbon allowances, which it
alleges is a paramount to an invalid tax or unconstitutional fee
that would cost taxpayers $70 billion. The complaint couldn’t be
immediately confirmed in electronic court records. California
officials said today’s auction will proceed.  “What the Air Resources Board is doing is illegal,”
Steven Merksamer, an attorney for the chamber, said in a phone
interview. “This tax wasn’t approved by the voters. We believe
the auction is unlawful.”  A delay in the first auction may depress an already-weak
market for California carbon futures. Prices based on allowances
for 2013 have tumbled more than $6 a metric ton since the
beginning of August as legal threats, political opposition and
rule changes plague the days leading up to the first sale of
permits.  Under  California ’s first-in-the-nation economy-wide cap-
and-trade program, the state will set a maximum for  carbon
emissions  from power generators, oil refineries and other
industrial plants and cut that limit gradually to achieve a
reduction of about 15 percent by 2020.  Required Reductions  If a business can’t make the required reductions, it can
buy emissions permits, called allowances, or offset credits --
investments in off-site forest or urban projects and other
programs that reduce emissions. The board plans to auction 23.1
million allowances to be used during the first compliance phase
of the program.  California’s budget counts on $500 million in the current
fiscal year from cap-and-trade revenue. A successful lawsuit
would mean Governor  Jerry Brown  would need to make up that
difference, either by spending cuts or revenue from somewhere
else.  The program was developed as part of the state’s 2006
global warming act, known as AB 32.  Twice Delayed  The first auction already has been delayed twice, once last
year when the state decided to put off enforcement of the entire
cap-and-trade program by a year, and a second time in March when
it canceled an August sale.  Merksamer said the lawsuit could take months and he
couldn’t speculate on what impact it would have on auctions that
are held in the meantime.  “We are reviewing the lawsuit, but are confident that the
cap-and-trade program will withstand any court challenge,”
 Stanley Young , a spokesman for the air resources board, said in
an e-mail yesterday. “This market-based approach to cutting
greenhouse emissions gives businesses the flexibility to best
decide how to reduce their emissions. We are going forward with
tomorrow’s auction.”  Samantha Katz, managing director of BGC Environmental
Brokerage Services LP in  New York , said that on the news
yesterday, the market traded at $12.25 a ton for December 2013
futures, “which is consistent for the day.”  “The bids are still there and still above $12,” she said
in a phone interview.  Law Professor  Ann Carlson, an environmental law professor at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles , said yesterday it remains
unclear whether the allowance auction constitutes a tax.  “The auction could be viewed as akin the selling off of
state property, not the levying of a tax,” Carlson said in an
e-mailed statement. “If the auction is not a tax, the lawsuit
should be dismissed.”  The court will probably defer to the state air resources
board about the design choices it made in developing the cap-
and-trade program, including the choice to auction a portion of
the allowances, she said.  The case is California Chamber of Commerce v. Air Resources
Board, 34-2012-80001313, California Superior Court (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  