-- Cameron Credibility With Core Support Tested in Election
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-11-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/cameron-credibility-with-core-support-tested-in-election.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 Conservative Party  is finding that even his core supporters are
slipping away as he faces a special election in Corby in central
 England  this week.  Jimmy Jewel, 78, said he’s always voted Conservative,
though he may switch allegiance on Nov. 15 because he feels
“betrayed” by the party and the consequences of entering the
coalition with the Liberal Democrats in 2010. He said he sees a
prime minister who has no idea about the real world.  “He’s out of touch. His inner sanctum seems to be cut off
from the rest of the world,” Jewel said as he sipped a beer in
the bar of the town’s Conservative Club, decorated with pictures
of  Winston Churchill  and  Margaret Thatcher . “He’s got no firm
commitment. He keeps saying things and they never happen.”  Cameron’s approval ratings slumped as his government cut
tax for the highest earners, Conservative lawmakers bickered
over policy toward the European Union and as the economy failed
to meet forecasts for growth, forcing the extension of an
austerity program to at least 2017.  The contest for the Corby district was triggered by the
resignation of Louise Mensch, who won the seat from the
opposition  Labour Party  in the 2010 election with a majority of
1,895 votes out of 54,180.  Whether the Tories can hold the seat is being seen by both
parties as a test of their strategies in the run-up to the 2015
general election.  Recession Over  The Conservatives, who have sent Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , Foreign Secretary  William Hague  and
Cameron to join the campaign, are looking to use more positive
economic news, such as the ending of Britain’s double-dip
recession in the third quarter, and the prospect of a higher-
spending, higher-taxing Labour government to win voters.  A  poll of 1,503 voters  in the constituency by former
Conservative deputy chairman Michael Ashcroft in the week to
Oct. 18 put Labour on 54 percent of the vote, up 15 points from
2010, and the Conservatives on 32 percent, down 10 points. Half
of those who said they were switching from Cameron’s party said
it was because they were “not happy about what the
Conservatives are doing in government,” the telephone survey.
Only a quarter of respondents said they were satisfied with the
job Cameron’s doing.  Odds offered by bookmaker William Hill Plc show a victory
for Labour’s  Andy Sawford  as a virtual certainty at 1-100,
meaning a successful stake of 100 pounds would win only 1 pound.
Tory candidate  Christine Emmett  is at 20-1.  Steel Town  The traditionally Labour-supporting former steel town of
Corby, 90 miles (145 kilometers) north of  London , is surrounded
by Conservative-voting towns and villages. The area remained in
Labour hands for more than 30 years after World War II, though
it elected a Tory three times in the 1980s and 1990s.  Labour sees the seat as a microcosm of the whole country
and a test of the “one-nation” vision set out by its leader,
 Ed Miliband , in his party-conference speech last month.  Labour can only win by appealing across traditional party
boundaries, Miliband said, arguing that Cameron’s policies, such
as the cut in the top rate of income tax to 45 percent from 50
percent announced in March, favor the rich.  “We’re trying to build support right across the area;
we’ve been talking and listening to people,” Sawford said as he
went house-to-house speaking to voters in the village of
Cottingham. “There’s everything in this constituency -- small,
very rural villages, the old boot-and-shoe towns, Oundle public
school, through to Corby itself.”  The region was once a center of footwear manufacturing,
while the public school -- British parlance for the most
exclusive fee-paying educational establishments -- can trace its
history to the 16th century.  Tories' Pledge  “We’re fixing the mess that Labour made of the economy,”
Osborne said on a visit on Nov. 2. “Here in Corby and East
Northamptonshire you see unemployment coming down, people in
work, apprenticeships up -- and it’s because we’re dealing with
the debts that Labour left behind that we’re able in invest.”  In Corby’s shopping center, which is dominated by bargain
clothes stores, pawnbrokers and charity shops, there is evidence
that Osborne’s message is not getting through.  “Conservatives promise everything to get into power and
deliver nothing,” said 2010 Conservative voter Greg Baker, 67,
who lives in a village outside the town. “They’ve hit everybody
except themselves -- pensioners, everyone on benefits, the
disabled -- while millionaires get away scot-free.”  UKIP Vote  Baker said he will vote for the U.K. Independence Party,
which seeks to pull Britain out of the EU, and will not return
to the Tories until Cameron steps aside.  UKIP, which scored 6 percent -- one point ahead of
Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners -- in Ashcroft’s
poll, says it’s benefiting from anger at the Conservatives over
 Europe , immigration and spending cuts.  “The Tories are not giving them what they want, they feel
there are far too many U-turns,” UKIP candidate  Margot Parker 
said while out canvassing support. “There’s a definite move to
change, they feel betrayed by Labour and don’t trust Cameron.”  For Jewel, a former soldier and construction worker who
still works part-time 13 years after he reached  retirement age ,
Cameron has given too much to the Liberal Democrats in the
interests of holding together the coalition government.  In this he’s in tune with some of Cameron’s lawmakers, who
say his coalition partners are blocking Conservative priorities
including an overhaul of human-rights laws, reductions in
welfare and cutting regulation for business. They joined with
Labour to defeat the prime minister in a House of Commons vote
on Oct. 31 on the EU budget.  “The Liberal Democrats are a left-wing party,” Jewel
said. “The coalition is the worst thing we ever did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Corby, England, at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  