-- Canada Delays Surplus Return Plan 1 Year on Weak Revenue
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-11-13T20:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/canada-delays-surplus-return-plan-1-year-on-weak-revenue.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will delay plans to balance the  federal budget 
by one year and run larger than expected deficits as lower
commodity prices and slower growth hamper the finances of the
only Group of Seven country with a stable AAA debt rating.  Flaherty’s budget update projects a return to balance by
the fiscal year beginning April 2016, one year later than
forecast in his March  budget , as he cut revenue projections by
C$36.2 billion ($36.1 billion) over the next five years. The
deficit for the current fiscal year was raised to C$26 billion
from C$21.1 billion, little changed from the previous year.  Canada ’s dollar declined as the report added to concern
renewed risks posed by the U.S. and sluggish growth in  Europe 
are damping the outlook for the world’s 11th-largest economy.
 Government bonds  held gains after the speech. Canada is the sole
G-7 country and one of only three in the Group of 10 with stable
AAA ratings from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings.  “This doesn’t really change where Canada stands as far as
other major economies,” said Claudio Ferri, a senior fixed
income portfolio manager at Montreal-based State Street Global
Advisors, which manages C$2 trillion of assets. “Canada is
still on sound fiscal footing.”  Flaherty said his fiscal plan tries to balance the return
to surpluses with ensuring the economy isn’t hurt by fiscal
tightening.  ‘Not Immune’  “Our country is not immune to global forces, nor can we
control the economic shocks that ripple outwards from other
nations,” Flaherty, 62, said in a speech to the Fredericton
Chamber of Commerce today.  The Canadian dollar weakened 0.2 percent to C$1.0021 per
 U.S. dollar  at 3:27 p.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0036, the
weakest level since Aug. 3. One Canadian dollar purchases 99.79
U.S. cents.  Canadian government bonds advanced, pushing the yield on
10-year benchmark notes down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.69 percent. The price of the 2.75
security due in June 2022 rose 25 cents to C$109.36.  The budget update “is a reflection of a softer global
growth environment,” said  Robert Kavcic , a  Bank of Montreal (BMO) 
economist in Toronto. “We are still in a relatively very strong
fiscal position,” he said, adding the budget could still be
balanced by 2015-16.  Reduced Output  The budget showed a lower projection for commodity prices
than the last fiscal plan in March, which Flaherty cited as the
main reason for reduced revenue through the 2016-17 fiscal year.  Lower  prices  for goods such as metals and oil will reduce
output by an average of C$25 billion, or 1.3 percent, each year
between 2012 and 2016, according to the finance department.  The government will record C$52.9 billion of cumulative
deficits between 2012 and 2016, the department said in its
report, up from C$29.2 billion projected in March.  The main global economic risks cited in today’s report were
Europe’s sovereign debt and banking crisis and the so-called
U.S. fiscal cliff, the $607 billion of spending cuts and tax
increases due to take effect in January unless the ﾟCongress
acts.  “I am hopeful that further political stability will enable
the administration to find measures to avoid the fiscal cliff
and put their finances on a sustainable track,” Flaherty said.  With elections scheduled again in 2015, the projections
suggest a slowing global economy will keep Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s government from returning the country to
balance within his current mandate. In last year’s elections,
which returned Harper to power with his first majority
government, the Conservatives pledged to eliminate the deficit
by 2014 and introduce new measures such as income splitting for
families once the government began to run surpluses.  ‘Small Amounts’  “I don’t play with numbers; the numbers are the numbers,”
Flaherty told reporters in Fredericton, when asked about failing
to return to surpluses before the next election. “We’re talking
about relatively small amounts of money in the big picture,”
adding the government is on track to balance the budget in the
“medium term.”  The main opposition  New Democratic Party  criticized the
government for not doing enough to stem slowing growth.  “The government doesn’t have a plan,” lawmaker Peggy Nash, who is responsible for budgetary issues for the NDP, said
in Ottawa. “It just seems to be saying steady as she goes, in
spite of the real challenges so many Canadian families are
facing.”  The economy will grow 2 percent next year after adjusting
for inflation, compared with a March prediction of 2.4 percent,
with both figures based on the average forecast of private-
sector economists, the finance department said in its report.
Today’s report reiterated that the  growth rate  will accelerate
to 2.5 percent in 2014 and 2015.  Debt Charges  Expenses through 2016-17 are C$5.2 billion lower than in
the March projection, as higher program spending is more than
offset by lower expected  interest rates  that reduce public debt
charges, the department said in its report.  The updated fiscal plan shows federal debt rising to
C$631.1 billion by March 2018, from C$582.2 billion in March,
with the ratio of debt to gross domestic product narrowing to
28.1 percent from 33 percent.  The fiscal plan built in a C$1 billion cushion for revenue
this year and C$3 billion each year through 2017-18 by assuming
output would be about C$20 billion below the consensus of
private-sector forecasts.  The government also revised accounting procedures for tax
credits that have raised revenue and expense without altering
its budget balance, the finance department said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Fredericton,  New Brunswick  at  targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  