-- Carbon Capture for Oil May Generate $4.3 Billion for Scotland
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-13T13:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/carbon-capture-for-oil-may-generate-4-3-billion-for-scotland.html
The use of carbon dioxide to
increase oil extraction could generate as much as 2.7 billion
pounds ($4.3 billion) for  Scotland ’s economy provided policies
to support the technology are in place, a report showed.  Injecting the gas into 19 suitable oilfields on the U.K.
continental shelf may recover 1 billion barrels of oil,
according to the  report , commissioned by government agency
Scottish Enterprise and published today.  While European countries are yet to use CO2 to boost oil
recovery, the method is employed at projects in the U.S. and
 Canada . As well as helping to drive out crude from aging fields,
carbon injection also harnesses emissions from power plants and
factories that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere.  While the U.K. government has resurrected a 1 billion-pound
carbon-capture funding program that failed last year, the plan
dropped a proposal to use CO2 for oil extraction.  Investment in so-called enhanced oil recovery will depend
on policy support for  carbon capture , crude prices and improved
CO2 supply, according to the report. A “wait-and-see approach”
may lead to missed opportunities because most suitable U.K.
oilfields are slated to be decommissioned by the 2030s, it said.  The highest rate of enhanced oil recovery at the
continental shelf could add 2.7 billion pounds in gross value to
the Scottish economy and create jobs, according to the research.  “With more than half of the value of the  North Sea ’s oil
and gas reserves yet to be extracted -- up to 24 billion
recoverable barrels with a potential wholesale value of 1.5
trillion pounds -- oil and gas will remain an enormous economic
resource for decades,” Energy Minister Fergus Ewing said in a
statement from Scottish Enterprise accompanying the report.  Element Energy Ltd., Dundas Consultants and the Institute
of Petroleum Engineering at Heriot-Watt University compiled the
research.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  