-- CBOE Sues International Securities Exchange Over Patents
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-13T20:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/cboe-sues-international-securities-exchange-over-patents.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ’s  Chicago Board
Options Exchange  accused  Deutsche Boerse ’s International
Securities Exchange LLC of infringing three of its patents with
an automated system for trading options.  CBOE, in a lawsuit filed in federal court in Chicago, is
seeking at least $525 million in damages, including lost profit
and royalties. The patents at issue involve quote-risk
monitoring and quote-modification services that were issued by
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 2008, 2011 and on
September 11.  “CBOE has been granted a number of critical patents
covering its innovative and award-winning technology,”
according to the complaint. “These patents disclose and claim
electronic systems and methods for automatically adjusting
quotes on the exchange based on risk parameters and are crucial
to market maker participation in an exchange.”  Yesterday’s complaint was filed six months after the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit reinstated a patent
infringement case brought against CBOE by International
Securities Exchange, or ISE.  Molly McGregor, a spokeswoman for New York-based ISE,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  ISE was the first all-electronic U.S. options exchange when
it began in May 2000. CBOE sued ISE in 2007 after it received a
letter from ISE demanding that it pay patent royalties and was
sued by ISE in New York over its Hybrid Trading System that
blends traditional open-outcry trading with electronic
execution. Chicago-based CBOE sought a court ruling that cleared
its system of any infringement claims.  The case is Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 12-cv-09805, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 