-- CFTC International Rules Harming U.S. Firms, Swaps Brokers Say
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-11-13T16:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/cftc-international-rules-harming-u-s-firms-swaps-brokers-say.html
The main U.S. swaps regulator risks
harming American firms with how it’s telling international
counterparts to interpret rules to oversee the $648 trillion
swaps market, according to executives at brokers from ICAP Plc
to Tradition North America Inc.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is weighing final
guidance on the cross-border reach of trading, capital,
collateral and other swaps rules under the Dodd-Frank Act. The
commission held a meeting in  Washington  last week with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which shares oversight of
some swaps markets, where European regulators said the U.S.
approach wouldn’t work.  “It’s actually very evident that a lot of what the CFTC
has done is harming the U.S.,” Mark Beeston, chief executive
officer of portfolio risk services for ICAP, said today on a
panel discussion at the SefCon III conference in  New York .  Group of 20 nations set an end-of-year goal to complete
swaps regulations designed to reduce risk and increase
transparency in a market faulted for helping to fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Lack of clarity and cross-border wrangling over
the rules threaten to delay the deadline, according to the
Financial Stability Board, an international regulatory group
that has been monitoring new swaps rules.  “We are at quite a dangerous junction,” Julian Harding,
executive director of Tradition North America, a brokerage unit
of Paris-based Viel & Cie., said during the panel.  ‘Won’t Mesh’  At the meeting in Washington last week, Patrick Pearson,
head of the financial market infrastructure unit at the European
Commission, warned of risks in the CFTC’s guidance for complying
with its rules. “The proposed approaches across the globe
simply won’t work. They won’t mesh. They won’t interact. They
will cause conflicts,” Pearson said. “Washington, we have a
problem.”  The CFTC has allowed for so-called substituted compliance
for branches, subsidiaries and other overseas affiliates of U.S.
banks when foreign jurisdictions have comparable swaps rules.  The CFTC’s proposal, released in June, failed to
sufficiently clarify the reach of the rules and could lead to
conflicts, according to letters submitted to the agency by
overseas regulators. The letters were sent by the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, European Commission, European
Securities and Markets Authority, Financial Services Agency in
 Japan , the  Bank of Japan , Bank of  France  and Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority.  ‘Jingoistic Problems’  The idea of substituted compliance is bound to fail,
Harding said.  “It looks rife with almost jingoistic problems right from
the beginning,” he said. “I do not think substituted
compliance can be something fashioned to get us out of cross-
border problems.”  The SefCon conference is sponsored by the Wholesale Market
Brokers’ Association, Americas, an industry group consisting of
inter-dealer brokers that have lobbied the CFTC and others on
how rules for so-called swap execution facilities should be
written. The association’s members include ICAP, Tradition
Financial Services Inc., GFI Group Inc., BGC Partners Inc. and
Tullett Prebon Plc. Inter-dealer brokers match trades between
banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 