-- Chelsea’s Gourlay Experiences Ups, Downs With Titles, Terry
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-13T19:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/chelsea-s-gourlay-experiences-ups-and-downs-with-triumphs-terry.html
Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said the past 12 months have delivered some of his best
memories in soccer. They’ve also been among the most turbulent
in the English Premier League team’s recent history.  Chelsea last week announced its first profit under owner
 Roman Abramovich , whose $1 billion outlay on the club achieved
his aim of winning  Europe ’s elite  Champions League  in May, nine
years after he bought the London team. Captain  John Terry ’s
racism case and the club’s allegations that a referee used
inappropriate language against Nigerian midfielder John Obi Mikel have since threatened to overshadow the feat.  “Twelve months ago we could’ve sat here and I could never
have dreamt that we were going to enter into the kind of year
that we had,” Gourlay, 49, said in an interview at the
International Football Arena conference in Zurich. “There was
some real ups and there was some real downs.”  Although Chelsea finished last season as European champion
and F.A. Cup winner, the journey was far from smooth. Andre Villas-Boas, for whom it paid 15 million euros ($19 million) to
hire as coach, lasted six months in the job before being fired
following a poor start to the season. Chelsea ended up in sixth
place, its worst Premier League finish under Abramovich.  “The Champions League turned the season,” said Gourlay, a
former executive with  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s Umbro unit who was promoted to
the top job at Chelsea in 2009. “Since Roman came on board, I
think we’ve been outside first or second only once and here we
are, Chelsea with all his investment, we’re looking at sixth. We
were in a place that none of us had been used to.”  Terry Case  Terry, 31, returned to Premier League action two days ago
after a four-game ban for racially abusing Queens Park Rangers
defender  Anton Ferdinand  in a match last year. The case
polarized English soccer, and hung over the club for almost a
year as a criminal hearing into the incident was delayed.  After a judge in July ruled there wasn’t enough evidence to
convict Terry, a three-man body convened by  England ’s Football
Association in September described his defense as “improbable,
implausible and contrived.” Terry’s teammate  Ashley Cole  was
then fined 90,000 pounds ($142,875) for making a derogatory
reference to the F.A. on Twitter after his supporting evidence
was criticized by the governing body’s panel.  In an Oct. 20 interview with U.K. radio station TalkSport,
Gourlay was told by presenter Mark Saggers that “further
misdemeanors from any of your 64-member squad will be perhaps
enough for everybody to vilify Chelsea for a very long time.”  Gourlay said the club is still on notice.  Work Ahead  “It’s not one of these you can draw a line under and say
we move on,” he said. “We’ve got a lot of work to move that
on.”  While retaining him as captain, Chelsea said it levied the
biggest fine in the club’s 107-year history on Terry, without
disclosing the amount. Terry also was asked to contribute more
time to the team’s corporate social responsibility efforts, on
which Chelsea says it spends 7 million pounds annually.  With the Terry case still fresh, Chelsea’s complaint that
referee Mark Clattenburg used “inappropriate language” toward
Mikel on Oct. 28 brought the club back into the spotlight.  Gourlay said it was the club’s duty to Mikel as an employee
to investigate his complaint and take the allegation to the
authorities.  Can’t ‘Walk Away’  “We cannot walk away from that,” said Gourlay. “It’s not
right for Chelsea Football Club or anyone to walk away from that
and whether it be a football player, whether it be the lady that
makes the tea, it doesn’t make any difference.”  Clattenburg hasn’t officiated since and has denied using
inappropriate language. Gourlay said he wants the F.A. to “act
pretty quickly” once investigations are complete.  London ’s Metropolitan Police said today in a statement they
were dropping an investigation into the incident because of a
lack of evidence.  The negative headlines were followed by last week’s
announcement of a 1.4 million-pound profit that ended seven
straight years of losses totaling about 550 million pounds, or
75 million pounds annually, since Abramovich’s takeover. The
Champions League victory helped generate record sales of 255.7
million pounds for the year ended June 30.  The club banked about 20 million pounds more from the
Champions League last season than it did by reaching the 2011
quarterfinals. Even if Chelsea fails to defend its title,
Gourlay said the team’s balance sheet will be “significantly”
boosted following new partnerships with companies including
Delta Airlines and Gazprom. Long-term partner  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  in May extended its jersey sponsorship through
the 2014-15 season.  Samsung has never commented on the Terry case.  “It’s dented some of the armor but it’s not dented the
image of the football club,” said Gourlay. “Our partners are
completely behind us 200 percent and I think we’ve always been
very straight with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  