-- Chile Probably Will Hold Key Rate as Growth Defies Global Woes
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-13T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/chile-probably-will-hold-key-rate-as-growth-defies-global-woes.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep its  key interest rate  unchanged for the 10th straight month
today as the world’s top copper miner posts the lowest inflation
and some of the fastest growth in  Latin America .  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
will keep the target overnight rate at 5 percent, according to
all 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank, which last
changed interest rates in January with a quarter-point cut, will
announce its decision after 6:00 p.m. in Santiago.  Chile’s economy is being pulled in two directions as the
global slowdown erodes export revenue while rising domestic
demand fuels retail sales and imports. Policy makers as a result
are unlikely to either cut or raise rates for the rest of the
year, said Benjamin Sierra, an economist at Scotiabank Chile.  “There are just too many good reasons for policy makers to
keep their arms folded for the moment,” Sierra said by phone
from Santiago yesterday. “There is very strong tension between
internal activity, which remains strong, and external risks.”  One-year  interest-rate swaps , which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, increased 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.99 percent yesterday from the end of last
month. Economists surveyed yesterday by the central bank
forecast no change in interest rates for the next 23 months.  Chile has the highest borrowing costs among major rate-
setting nations in Latin America behind  Brazil , which has cut
its benchmark  interest rate  from 12.5 percent last year to a
record-low 7.25 percent.  At the same time, Chile’s 2.9 percent  inflation rate  in
October was the lowest among major Latin American nations
tracked by Bloomberg. Policy makers in the Andean nation target
3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point over two
years.  Inflationary Pressures  Inflationary pressures remain a threat in the medium term
as Chile nears full employment, with a 6.5 percent jobless rate
in the third quarter, Vergara told an economic forum in Santiago
last week.  Retail sales  increased 8.4 percent in the first nine months
of 2012 from last year, surpassing economic growth of 5.4
percent in the period, according to calculations made by
Bloomberg based on government and central bank data. Gross
domestic product will climb 5 percent in 2012, the fastest gain
in  South America  behind  Peru , according to analysts polled by
Bloomberg.  Soaring domestic demand pushed the current account into a
deficit of $2.4 billion in the second quarter compared with a
$406 million surplus in the year-ago period.  “If the current account deficit grows or persists more,
odds also increase that a deterioration of the external scenario
would impact internal conditions with more force,” Vergara said
last week. “It’s everybody’s task to moderate spending.”  Signs of Easing  Robust retail and construction growth has helped shares in
the shopping center developer Parque Arauco SA gain 30 percent
this year, while Besalco SA, a construction and engineering
company, has risen 24 percent.  Now, growth is starting to show signs of easing as sales
abroad slow on weaker copper prices and lower demand for other
exports. President Sebastian Pinera, who has a doctorate in
economics from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Harvard
University , said in a radio interview yesterday his biggest
concern is that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will further
affect his nation’s economy.  Chile’s trade surplus fell by more than $6.4 billion to
$2.9 billion in the first 10 months of 2012 from last year on a
4 percent decline in exports and 6.4 percent gain in imports,
according to central bank data.  The average price of copper, which accounts for more than
half of Chile’s exports, is down 9.4 percent this year from the
average for 2011. Manufacturing output dropped 5.6 percent in
September from 2011, the steepest decline since the aftermath of
the 8.8-magnitude earthquake that struck south-central Chile in
2010.  “If pressed to say where the biggest threats come from,
there are more threats abroad than at home,” policy maker
Joaquin Vial said in an interview last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 