-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Spending Boom Offsets World Slowdown
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-13T21:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/chile-keeps-5-rate-as-spending-boom-offsets-world-slowdown-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today for a 10th straight month
as surging internal demand and a global economic slowdown leave
little space to change monetary policy.  The bank board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the key interest rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 15
analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last changed
borrowing costs in January with a quarter-point reduction that
surprised economists.  Policy makers are weighing the threats posed by reduced
demand for Chilean exports and an increase in spending at home
that pushed retail sales up 8.4 percent in the first nine months.
As a result, the next change in  interest rates  probably won’t
come until early 2014, Felipe Jaque, an economist at BBVA
Research, said by phone from Santiago yesterday.  “The deceleration of domestic activity has been slower than
anticipated,” Jaque said. “While some of the surprises we’ve
had with inflation may be transitory, some pressures may be
incubating there in the medium term. And while we’ve had good
news abroad with less turbulence and progress on solutions, risks
remain.”  Economists surveyed this week by the central bank forecast
rates would remain on hold for 23 months as inflation stays
anchored around the central bank target of 3 percent.  One-Time Factors  Inflation has accelerated in the past three months, reaching
2.9 percent in October, beating the highest estimate made by
analysts in a Bloomberg poll. Policy makers in a statement
accompanying today’s decision attributed October inflation to
one-time factors, adding that rates remain below 3 percent.  One-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps,
increased 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 2.65
percent yesterday from the end of last month.  Even as rates and expectations rise, Chile has the slowest
inflation among major Latin American economies. And at 5 percent
growth this year, Chile and  Venezuela  will boast the fastest
economic expansion in the region behind Panama and  Peru ,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Internal demand and investment are driving the gains. Retail
sales growth in the first nine months of 2012 surpassed economic
expansion of 5.4 percent in the period, according to calculations
made by Bloomberg based on government and central bank data.  ‘Above Projections’  “Domestically, output and demand indicators have evolved
above projections,” according to today’s central bank statement.
“The labor market remains tight.”  Unemployment declined to 6.5 percent in the third quarter
from 7.4 percent in the year-ago period, while real wages
increased 3.3 percent in September from last year.  “Consumption, investment, credit and employment are growing
at high rates, as well as salaries, which have moderated a little
bit in recent months,” central bank board member Joaquin Vial
said in an interview last week. “Clearly, it’s all a little bit
higher than what would be considered the optimal trajectory.”  Still, the economy is showing some signs of slowing as a
global deceleration decreases demand for Chile exports.  Chile’s trade surplus narrowed by more than $6.4 billion to
$2.9 billion in the first 10 months of 2012 from the year earlier
on a 4 percent decline in exports and 6.4 percent gain in
imports, according to central bank data.  The average price of copper, which accounts for more than
half of Chile’s exports, is down 9.4 percent this year from 2011.
Manufacturing output dropped 5.6 percent in September from 2011,
the steepest decline since the aftermath of the 8.8-magnitude
earthquake that struck south-central Chile in 2010.  “Political or economic events could result in the external
economy being perceived as riskier,” according to minutes of
last month’s meeting. The “domestic economy had decelerated, but
not as sharply as previously expected. Neither of these two
forces had taken precedence in the last months so as to trigger
monetary policy changes or even a bias.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  