-- China Stocks Fall to 7-Week Low on Property Tax, Retail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-13T07:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/china-s-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-economy.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest
level in seven weeks after the Xinhua News Agency reported the
government may expand a property tax trial and Haitong
Securities Co. said retailers may post weak sales this month.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led declines
for developers after Xinhua cited the housing minister as saying
the government is watching for signs of surging transaction
volumes and  home prices .  Suning Appliance Co. (002024)  plunged 4.2
percent as Haitong said November sales for traditional retailers
will be hurt by a shift towards online purchases.  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  slumped the most in two weeks after
the Beijing Times said China may cut  gas prices  tomorrow.  “The economy seems to be stabilizing but there’s no solid
evidence that it will pick up further,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Some
investors are taking profits ahead of the year-end. Investors
should avoid the property sector amid policy uncertainty.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.5 percent to 2,047.89
at the close, the lowest level since Sept. 26. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
lost 1.8 percent to 2,212.44. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  retreated 1.7
percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.1 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite rose 0.5 percent yesterday, halting
a five-day decline, after export growth surpassed forecasts in
October. Industrial production, fixed-asset investment and
retail sales exceeded estimates last month while new lending
trailed projections. The measure trades at 9.7 times estimated
profit for 2012, compared with the 17.8 average multiple since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Developers Slide  Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 9 percent lower
than the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Thirty-day volatility was at 16.2, down from this year’s average
of 17.2.  A gauge of property developers in the Shanghai index slid
2.1 percent, the most since Sept. 20. The measure is still up 12
percent this year, the only one of five industry groups to
advance. Vanke, the biggest listed developer, fell 2.2 percent
to 8.37  yuan . Poly Real Estate, the second largest, lost 1.4
percent to 11.46 yuan. China Merchants Property Development Co.,
the third biggest, sank 2.3 percent to 22.05 yuan.  The ministry is on “high alert” if both transaction
volume and home prices increase “substantially,” Xinhua cited
Minister of Housing and Urban-Rural Development Jiang Weixin as
saying. Home prices have risen about 155 percent nationwide
since reforms that privatized the country’s housing market in
1998. The government imposed a property tax for the first time
in Shanghai and Chongqing and raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its more than two-year effort to curb the
 property market .  State Control  The Shanghai Composite has retreated 2.8 percent since the
Communist Party started its 18th congress on Nov. 8. Delegates
are due to elect top leaders this week as the meeting concludes
tomorrow. Vice president  Xi Jinping  is forecast to replace  Hu
Jintao  as general secretary of the party.  China’s new leaders face the challenge of reining in the
dominance of state-owned enterprises that has helped drag stock
valuations down the most among the so-called BRIC nations in the
past decade.  The Shanghai index’s valuation has fallen 76 percent to
11.4 times earnings in the decade through October, monthly data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The 20 largest companies by
weighting in the Shanghai index are all state-controlled,
meaning national interests sometimes trump those of other
shareholders.  Refiners, Retailers  “The overwhelming majority of listed companies in the
stock market are state-owned whereas the most dynamic part of
the economy is the private sector,” said Andy Rothman,  China 
macro strategist for CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Shanghai.
“You have a market that is making it difficult for investors to
participate in the growth.”  China Petroleum, also known as Sinopec, fell 0.8 percent to
6.19 yuan, the lowest close since Oct. 26. PetroChina Co., the
second-biggest refiner, declined 1.4 percent to 8.63 yuan.  China may lower gasoline and diesel prices tomorrow, the
Beijing Times reported, citing analysts. The moving average of
the three crude grades monitored by industry research agencies
fell 3.86 percent as of Nov. 9, the newspaper said. The
government may cut fuel prices on Nov. 15 by 310 yuan a ton,
Shanghai-based commodity researcher C1 reported earlier this
month. It would be the fourth reduction this year.  A gauge of  consumer discretionary stocks  in the CSI 300
slid 1.9 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups. Suning,
China’s biggest home appliance retailer by market value, dropped
4.2 percent to 6.37 yuan. Guangzhou Friendship Group, which
operates supermarkets and department stories in the southern
Chinese city, slumped 1.6 percent to 10.96 yuan.  Money Supply  November sales for retailers including department stores,
supermarkets and appliance stores will be weak after consumers
splurged on the “Single’s Day” promotion on Nov. 11 by online
retailers, Haitong analyst Elyse Wang wrote in a note.  M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , increased 14.1
percent, compared with a median forecast of 14.5 percent, the
People’s Bank of China said in a statement after the market
closed yesterday.  “Money and credit supply in October was lower than
expected by the market, probably a reflection of the cautious
policy stance of the PBOC,”  Yu Song  and Yin Zhang, economists
at Beijing Gao Hua Securities Co., wrote in a report. “The fall
in M2 growth was partially the result of the disappearance of
end of quarter effects, but the sharp rise in fiscal deposits
also raises the possibility that fiscal policy may have become
less stimulative.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  