-- China Steel Production Rises in October as Prices, Demand Climb
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-13T10:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/china-steel-production-rises-in-october-as-prices-demand-climb.html
Total crude-steel output in  China ,
the world’s biggest producer, rose 2 percent in October from a
month ago amid signs of a demand pickup.  Production reached 59.1 million tons in October, up from
57.94 million tons in September, based on monthly data collated
by the National Bureau of Statistics. Output was 6 percent
higher than a year ago, the stats bureau said today, without
giving year-ago numbers.  Economic growth in China may reach 7.7 percent this quarter
from 7.4 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, according
to the median estimate of 31 economists in a survey compiled by
Bloomberg. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the nation’s biggest
publicly traded mill, yesterday raised prices for most cold-
rolled products for the first time in three months.  “Mills in northern China we’ve talked with over the past
month has been operating at high capacity utilization ratio,”
said Hu Yanping, chief analyst with Beijing-based researcher
Custeel.com. “There were also very few cases of suspension for
maintenance.”  Chinese prices  for hot-rolled coil, a benchmark product,
have climbed 21 percent from a three-year low on Sept. 7,  after
the government announced plans to spend on subways, railroads,
roads, sewage-treatment plants, port and warehouse projects.
Prices rose 0.6 percent to 3,950  yuan  ($634) a ton today,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  On a daily basis, output fell to 1.91 million metric tons
last month from the 1.93 million tons in September, which was
the highest level since June, according to the bureau. For the
first ten months, production gained 2.1 percent to 602.2 million
tons, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Helen Yuan in
Shanghai at   hyuan@bloomberg.net ; Helen Sun
in Shanghai at   hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  