-- China’s Geely Cars Expected to Be Built in Ethiopia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-11-13T13:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/china-s-geely-cars-expected-to-be-built-in-ethiopia-correct-.html
(Corrects first and second paragraphs to say Geely cars
will be built in  Ethiopia )  Ethiopia’s Mesfin Industrial
Engineering Plc, a company linked to the ruling party, expects
to build cars for  China ’s  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  within
five years, General Manager Habte Hadish said.  Mesfin Engineering, which is based in Mekele, 504
kilometers (313 miles) north of the capital, Addis Ababa, is now
assembling six cars a day for Geely and wants to move into full
production, he said.  “Cars will be manufactured in Ethiopia,” Habte said in an
interview in Addis Ababa today. “This can happen in the coming
three to five years.”  Mesfin Engineering is part of the  Endowment Fund for
Rehabilitation of Tigray  led by Azeb Mesfin, the widow of former
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. Effort, as the conglomerate is
known, has interests in construction, cement, trucking and
textiles. The Tigray People’s Liberation Front, led by Meles
until his death in August, established the company in 1995 by
amalgamating assets it acquired during a 17-year insurgency.  The TPLF is one of four parties in the ruling Ethiopian
Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front that has led the
government since overthrowing Mengistu Hailemariam’s military
regime in 1991.  Mesfin Engineering’s revenue grew about 19 percent to 620
million birr ($34 million) in the year to July 7, Habte said.
The company has forecast 1 billion birr in sales this fiscal
year, he said.  State Growth  The company designed and produced around 400 truck trailers
last year and has the capacity to build more than 2,000 a year,
Habte said. It also assembles tractors for  International
Tractors Ltd. , part of the Hoshiarpur, India-based Sonalika
Group and  India ’s third-largest maker of the farm vehicles.  Mesfin Engineering has built leather, textile and coal-
fired power plants for Effort companies and a government fuel
depot, he said. It has signed contracts with the Industry
Ministry to help build a garment factory near the capital and
with the state-owned Sugar Corp. for a 100-million birr “tissue
culture” nursery in the South Omo region primarily to produce
plants for cane plantations.  Ethiopia, the continent’s second-most populous country,
plans to spend 144 billion birr in the current fiscal year on
industries including transport, telecommunications, sugar,
energy and housing in the third year of a five-year
industrialization plan.  The government, which recorded a trade deficit of $7.5
billion last year, operates a state-led development model that
targets public and private investment in value-adding areas such
as manufacturing and engineering in order to diversify an
economy dominated by agricultural commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  