-- China’s New Leaders Face an Economic Turning Point
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-11-13T23:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/china-s-new-leaders-face-an-economic-turning-point.html
As the U.S. has been consumed by its
own political transition (or, more precisely, lack thereof), it
has paid scant attention to the one occurring in  China .  Yet how the new Chinese leadership navigates its economic
challenges may well turn out to be far more important to the
global economy than how the fiscal cliff drama plays out in
 Washington .  The opening of the 18th National Congress of the  Communist
Party of China  this month, which will usher in the presidency of
Xi Jinping, has been accompanied by a variety of indicators that
the Chinese economy is strengthening a bit. But there’s reason
to worry that Xi will not enjoy such good economic news
throughout his tenure.  A growing body of academic studies warns that economic
growth in China might slow substantially in the years and
decades to come. One crucial reason is that, in the past, it has
been driven disproportionately by  workers  moving from farms to
factories. That method of raising productivity may now be
largely exhausted -- because most of the workers who could
successfully make the transition already have.  The point at which moving workers from agriculture to
manufacturing no longer leads to economic gains is called, in
the literature of economic development, the Lewis turning point
-- after the Nobel-winning economist Arthur Lewis. If China is
at or near its Lewis turning point, Xi will face an
extraordinary economic challenge, with far-reaching geopolitical
ramifications.  Shifting Productivity  Estimates  by Xiaodong Zhu of the  University of Toronto 
provide some sense of how large the historical gains from
shifting workers from agriculture to manufacturing have been. In
1978, agriculture accounted for 69 percent of total employment
in China. And because average  labor productivity  outside
agriculture was six times as much as inside it, shifting workers
across the sectors generated huge productivity gains. By 2007,
however, agriculture accounted for only 26 percent of total
employment.  As a result, since 1997, migration rates have risen, on
average, less than 5 percent a year -- down from 10 percent
between 1985 and 1997.  At the same time, the relative quality of the migrant
workers appears to be declining. For example, their average age
has been rising -- because most young workers, who presumably
are better suited to factory work, have already left.  A slowdown in growth of the pool of productive workers can
be expected to generate wage pressures in the coastal
manufacturing regions, and that is indeed what Hongbin Li, Lei
Li, Binzhen Wu and Yanyan Xiong of  Tsinghua University  have
 already found . In 1978, the annual wage of the average Chinese
urban worker was $1,004 in 2010 U.S. dollars. By 2010, it had
risen to almost $5,500. Wages have grown especially fast for
more highly educated workers, but they have risen noticeably for
less-educated workers, too. And, somewhat surprisingly, wages
are higher at nonexporting companies than at exporting ones.  What’s more, the Tsinghua University researchers say, China
is “already experiencing labor shortages.” They point to
survey data from China’s Ministry of Human Resources and  Social
Security  suggesting that, in a sample of 117 cities, the number
of newly created jobs now exceeds the number of job seekers. In
2001, by contrast, this same survey found that new job seekers
exceeded newly created positions by 50 percent.  Not everyone considers this to be evidence that China has
reached the Lewis  turning point . Jane Golley and Xin Meng of the
 Australian National University  say there is still  little to
suggest  rising wages are the result of a shortage of unskilled
labor.  “China still has abundant workers who are underemployed
with very low income in the rural sector,” they wrote. “We
argue that China’s unique institutional and policy-induced
barriers to migration have prevented many rural workers from
migrating to cities.” This interpretation is much more
encouraging, because it suggests that China could reopen the
spigot of migration by making policy changes.  Turning Point  The  International Monetary Fund  says that reality lies
 somewhere in the middle  -- that the Chinese economy will reach
the Lewis turning point sometime between 2020 and 2025 -- about
the time when Xi’s term ends.  Even after that point has been reached, high growth is
still possible -- it will just be more difficult. Xi will face
enormous political and economic difficulties. As my former
colleague  Larry Summers  likes to put it, China represents a
greatly leveraged bet on economic growth -- and if growth is
much harder to achieve, that bet may turn sour.  So for Xi’s sake, as well as the rest of the world’s, let’s
hope the growing evidence of wage pressures, reduced migration
and labor shortages reflects obstacles that he can remove,
rather than an inherent constraint on Chinese growth.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  Keystone XL pipeline
should be approved now  and on why the  IMF director is right on
Greece ;  Margaret Carlson  on  adultery as a firing offense ; Clive
Crook on why  China and the U.S. must get along ;  Edward Glaeser 
on why  diversity has built support for a welfare state ; Vali
Nasr on why  drone strikes alone won’t defeat al-Qaeda ;  Stephen
Smith  on why  a politician shouldn’t be transportation secretary.   To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 