-- China’s State Council Says ‘No Comment’ to Social Media
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-11-13T01:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/china-s-state-council-says-no-comment-to-social-media.html
Is it possible to understand public
opinion without actually having to listen to it? In the
corridors of Chinese power, the answer is yes.  Take the curious case of  China’s State Council , the
country’s highest governmental body, and its recent move to join
China’s social-networking craze. For much of its history, the
35-member State Council, which administers the laws and policies
of the Communist Party, has communicated its work via the
“ Gazette of the State Council ,” a compendium of rules and
regulations issued every 10 days to a wide variety of Communist
Party and government-affiliated outlets, including public
libraries. Readership, presumably, has been narrow, and
certainly not as wide as that enjoyed by the policies of local
governments that have developed followings -- if not popularity
-- by delving into China’s expanding social-media ecosystem.  According  to Chinese state media , there were about 51,000
government-operated microblogging accounts in  China  as of late
September, the vast majority of them focused on local government
policies. The city of Shanghai’s  official account  on Sina Weibo,
China’s most popular Twitter-like microblog, enjoys more than
2.4 million followers of its steady stream of municipal news,
announcements and self-promoting propaganda, making it among the
most popular of government-run microblogs in China. Other, more
practical microblogs, such as those connected to law
enforcement, also are well-known. For example,  the account 
belonging to Nanjing’s Public Security Bureau enjoys 1.5 million
followers, who receive  winter driving tips  and other safety-
minded directives.  Robust Commentary  What makes these local government accounts so compelling
isn’t that the Chinese people can follow their favorite
bureaucrats, but rather that they can talk back to them. Unlike
Twitter, which doesn’t allow users to leave comments on tweets,
Sina Weibo and other Chinese microblogging services provide
space for robust comment threads -- nearly identical to the
comment sections on traditional blogs and news stories.
Typically, these embedded comment sections are subject to much
less censorship than tweets themselves and are far more popular
(a fact not unknown to the authorities, who temporarily  shut
them down  in reprisal for rumor-mongering last spring). The
comment sections also allow dissent to be concentrated in one
place. So, if a Sina Weibo user has an issue with Nanjing’s
winter driving tips, the user has an open forum to make that
known, right below the tweet, along with potentially thousands
of other users.  In the modern history of how the Chinese Communist Party
interacts with the Chinese people, this is a big step forward.
In a limited sense, information flow is no longer one-way, from
the rulers to the ruled. Instead, it moves in one direction
(toward those who can afford a computer, smartphone or other
technology necessary for a microblogging account), and then
occasionally gets thrown back in the rulers’ faces.  Of course, talking back isn’t a habit that the top
leadership of the Chinese Communist Party is accustomed to
cultivating in its subjects, especially on sensitive issues.
Still, modern times require modern ways -- or, at least, modern
propaganda. The ability to spoon-feed carefully crafted
“official” information to the more than 300 million Chinese
people who hold Sina Weibo accounts (according to the company)
is enticing. So, unable to resist, on Friday evening, the
Gazette of the State Council announced it had established  a Sina
Weibo account .  Information Vacuum  The timing is appropriate. In Beijing, the country’s rulers
are in midst of the 18th National Congress of the Communist
Party of China, an event shrouded in secrecy, rumors and
 outright paranoia.  Ostensibly, the purpose of the event is to
elect China’s top leadership -- in particular Politburo Standing
Committee, which will oversee the Chinese Communist Party for
the next 10 years. But for anyone keen to learn who the
candidates might be, what they represent or how they’re
selected, there’s a total vacuum of information available in the
Chinese media. Instead, the state-owned media has been limited
to  hagiographic websites , special sections and long-winded
stories about speeches and the last decade of (indisputable)
economic progress.  Meanwhile, China’s microbloggers, collectively the closest
thing that China has to an alternative press, are all but
prohibited from tweeting about the proceedings in Beijing. Sina
Weibo has  blocked searches  for the congress and words and
phrases that play on it. Chinese students of ancient Greek
history looking for a good discussion of Sparta and the Spartans
won’t find it on Sina Weibo this week: In Chinese, “Spartans,”
sounds a lot like “Big 18,” a common shorthand for the 18th
congress, and thus it’s banned.(“Big feces cake,” another “Big
18” sound alike, is also banned).  The opaque atmosphere surrounding the congress surely
contributed to the enthusiasm that greeted the State Council’s
new Sina Weibo account. Transparency, even of a limited variety,
is a valued commodity in contemporary China. According to
Xinhua, the state newswire, 218,000 people  had followed  the new
account by 8 p.m. on the first day. As of Monday, the account’s
first tweet -- the one announcing the account -- had been
forwarded -- or retweeted -- more than 42,000 times, and the
account had more than 290,000 followers. (However, a brief scan
of those followers reveals that many are probably so-called
“zombie” or fake followers.) The account has tweeted 13
additional times -- all within a 21-minute period early Saturday
morning -- on arcane policies such as  a domestic waterways
transportation management ordinance  and  a month-old list  of
appointments to the State Council.  Propagating Propaganda  Had this underwhelming content been posted to the Sina
Weibo account belonging to the city of Nanjing, netizens surely
would have taken advantage of the service’s comment function to
register their feelings. But the State Council’s Sina Weibo
account is all but unique among Sina Weibo accounts in China --
and not just government ones -- in outright prohibiting comments
of any kind. Rather, users have one way to interact directly
with the State Council’s content: retweet it. In other words,
they can be agents of state propaganda, or they can keep their
comments and opinions to themselves.  News of the account, and its painfully telling comment
policy, trended on Sina Weibo over the weekend. But despite a
very tight media environment surrounding the congress, critical
remarks directed at the policy -- and the Communist Party that
devised it -- have proliferated and persisted on Chinese
microblogs. Late Monday morning, Chengdu Business Daily, a
newspaper in Sichuan province,  tweeted  news of the State Council
account via its Sina Weibo account, noting the suspended comment
function. It also linked to  a Xinhua story  claiming that the
account would provide a “window to understand the people.” An
hour later, an anonymous Sina Weibo user in Sichuan posted the
following, very representative sentiment, in the comment section
of the Chengdu Business Daily’s tweet: “If you want to
understand the people, then why don’t you let the people
comment? It seems that they fear public opinion!”  Some Sina Weibo users didn’t confine themselves to the
comment sections of other users’ tweets to broadcast their
displeasure with the State Council’s “no comment” policy. In
 Shanghai , a Sina Weibo user who uses the handle “Mild
Nationalist” offered  an even more cutting assessment  on his own
account: “The State Council Gazette is online but adheres to the
fine traditions of our Party: The people are not allowed to
comment.”  Perhaps as China’s politically sensitive leadership-
transition process winds to its end, the State Council will be
open to revising tradition and allowing comments on its tweets.
After all, it’s one thing to allow comments; it’s quite another
to listen to them.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this blog post: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  