-- Christie Says Damage Costs From Sandy Outside Tax Cap
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-11-13T22:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/christie-says-damage-costs-from-sandy-outside-tax-cap.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said property owners in areas devastated by Superstorm Sandy may
face higher tax bills, as local governments exceed his 2 percent
cap on annual increases to cover rebuilding costs.  The state may release a preliminary tally of the damage and
revenue effects as soon as Nov. 16, Christie, 50, said today in
a Statehouse news briefing. He said municipalities will be able
to get federal aid to cover some rebuilding costs, and said the
property-tax increase cap he and lawmakers passed in 2010 has a
natural-disaster exemption.  “It tells taxpayers in towns that were destroyed that
they’re probably going to have higher taxes -- it’s got to be
paid for,” Christie said. “Most people in these towns will
recognize that if they believe the money is being spent
reasonably and responsibly to rebuild their towns, they’ll be
happy to do it.”  Christie spent much of the year campaigning for his
“Jersey Comeback”, which relied on lower income taxes to
stimulate the economy. He told reporters yesterday that Sandy,
which walloped shore areas Oct. 29, may have hurt October and
November revenue enough to throw a tax cut into doubt, though
rebuilding may cause a burst of spending.  Estimating Impact  New Jersey Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff told reporters
today that he is still working on impact estimates and that any
tax-cut decision will be Christie’s. He said the administration
won’t issue any results “until we have all the data.”  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , 54, a Democrat, said Sandy
had cost his state $33 billion, and he would seek $30 billion
from the federal government for physical and economic damage.  Christie has made controlling the state’s highest-in-the-
U.S. tax burden on residents a mainstay of his administration.
New Jersey’s homeowners paid an average of $7,759 in real-estate
levies last year.  Christie said today it was “silly’” to speculate on how
the storm may affect tax growth. He has already pushed back a
quarterly deadline to pay property levies and said today that he
may work with the Democrat-controlled Legislature to set up a
tax-relief program for storm victims.  The governor also said he won’t support a higher gasoline
tax to fix the state’s transit system, which was heavily damaged
by the storm. He said he has no estimate for how the clean-up
efforts may affect property tax bills, and said he still
supports his proposed  tax-cut  until he sees more proof that
dealing with Sandy makes it less affordable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  