-- Cisco Rises as Profit Tops Estimates on Price Reductions
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-11-14T21:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/cisco-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-price-cuts-spurs-sales.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of computer networking equipment, rose the most in almost
three months after its profit topped analysts’ estimates, price
reductions helped spur sales and cost cuts kept margins intact.  The shares jumped as much as 8.3 percent today after Cisco
said in a statement yesterday after markets closed that profit
excluding some costs was 48 cents a share in the first fiscal
quarter ended Oct. 27. Analysts  anticipated  46 cents a share,
the average of data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  boosted profit by
cutting expenses, shutting businesses and reducing prices to win
back sales lost to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Arista Networks Inc.
Cisco’s pricing and job cuts appeared to drive earnings growth,
pleasing some investors while highlighting concerns about the
company’s ability to maintain profit margins, said  Bill Kreher ,
an analyst at  Edward Jones . He has a hold rating on the stock.  “Cisco was able to beat a low bar, and given concerns
about the fiscal cliff and potential spending woes from
enterprise, this was a bit of a pleasant surprise,” Kreher said
in an interview. “Competition will remain fierce. Cisco is
entering a period of unprecedented competition, especially on
the pricing side. We will closely be watching what happens with
margins.”  Shares of  San Jose , California-based Cisco  rose  4.8 percent
to $17.66 at the close in  New York , the biggest increase since
Aug. 16. The stock has declined 2.3 percent this year.  Weaker Demand  Net income climbed 18 percent to $2.09 billion, or 39 cents
a share, from $1.78 billion, or 33 cents, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 5.5 percent to $11.9 billion, compared with
analysts’ projection for $11.8 billion.  A central challenge facing Cisco is how to maintain its
level of profitability at a time when demand is weaker in key
markets such as Europe and the U.S., while startups and
established rivals pose a growing threat.  The company’s gross profit margin a decade ago was  69
percent of revenue . In the latest period it was 61 percent of
revenue.  For the fiscal second quarter through January, Cisco
forecast profit excluding some costs of 47 cents to 48 cents a
share, compared with analysts’ prediction for 47 cents. Revenue
will rise 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent from a year earlier, which
translates to a range of $11.9 billion to $12.2 billion.
Analysts had projected, on average, sales of $12.02 billion.  Market Challenge  Cisco’s total product orders were unchanged in the first
quarter from last year, Chambers said on a conference call
yesterday with analysts. Spending by U.S. telecommunications-
service providers and large companies rose, while government
bookings declined, he said. Europe,  Middle East  and Africa
orders fell 10 percent.  Cisco’s dominance is being challenged in networking by
established vendors such as Hewlett-Packard,  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  and Huawei Technologies Co., and in related markets such as
security by  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  and other smaller firms.  Chambers has cut 7,800 jobs over the past year, closed
businesses such as the Flip video-camera unit and eliminated
bureaucratic bottlenecks in a bid to focus Cisco’s resources on
the company’s key networking businesses and speed decision-
making.  The debt crisis in Europe has slowed Cisco’s attempts at a
turnaround. The region made up a quarter of sales in the 2012
fiscal year. A shift toward “software-defined networking,” or
using software to perform tasks now handled by pricey networking
equipment, could pose a longer-term threat, potentially reducing
Cisco’s sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  