-- Citigroup to Cut 100 Retail Bank Workers on Long Island t
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-13T21:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/citigroup-discloses-dismissal-of-100-workers-on-long-island.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, is dismissing 100 people on New York’s Long Island as
the lender seeks to cut costs amid a slump in revenue.  A filing today with the state Department of Labor shows
workers in the Nassau County town of Uniondale will be affected,
and lists a closing date of March 3, 2013. The New York-based
firm has been giving notice to the employees since July,
according to the filing. Citigroup reported it had more than
260,000 employees as of September.  The Long Island dismissals are among about 5,000 job cuts
that former Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  announced in
January as the European debt crisis roiled markets and fees from
trading and  investment banking  tumbled.  Michael Corbat , who
became CEO last month, has told investors he will continue with
Pandit’s strategy.  “We will remain extraordinarily focused on our efficiency
ratios and our overall expense levels,” Corbat told analysts on
a conference call on Oct. 16, the day Citigroup directors
introduced him as Pandit’s replacement. “Our strategy is unique
and well-positioned for where we see the world going.”  The jobs being trimmed in Long Island are affiliated with
the lender’s consumer bank, Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup
spokesman, said today. He confirmed that the cuts are part of
the company’s previously announced plans.  The New York State Workers Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, known as the WARN Act, requires private
employers with 50 or more people in the state to provide 90
days’ notice of a plant closing, mass layoff, relocation or
reduction in work hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  