-- Citigroup Former Boss Parsons Eyes Profit in Italian Wine
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-11-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/citigroup-former-boss-parsons-eyes-profit-in-italian-wine.html
Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman
 Richard Parsons , whose career in banking and media saw him at
the helm of the industries’ biggest companies, is betting he can
make money in retirement in the wine-rich Tuscan hills.  Twelve years after buying Il Palazzone, a Montalcino
vineyard perched on the ancient trail to  Rome , Parsons is
getting serious about winemaking, turning a hobby into a
business. He’s built a new cellar he inaugurated with this
year’s harvest and plans to double production of his finest
wine, Brunello, turning Il Palazzone into a profitable activity
within five years.  “This is not an undertaking for the faint of heart,”
Parsons says in an interview at Il Palazzone. “We’re still in
the investing phase. I think I can see the day when we start
actually making money with this thing.”  Wine is an acquired taste for Parsons, and he bought a
Montalcino vineyard more by accident than by design. Parsons
declines to say how much money he’s invested in Il Palazzone as
he sips a glass of his award-winning 2004 Brunello Riserva.  “I was really introduced to finer wine by a client of mine,
 Nelson Rockefeller , 30 years ago when I used to practice law,”
Parsons says. “I developed a taste for it, and as I got older,
started thinking what am I going to do when I give up going into
the salt mines all day every day.”  Natural Beauty  Parsons says he “stumbled” on Il Palazzone through friends
of friends. “The natural beauty of the place was what was
attractive here and it’s pretty much what you see,” he says,
pointing to the hills around him, complete with his stone-built
house and pool overlooking the valley.  Parsons meets with friends and Montalcino’s establishment
to fete the new cellar, which allows Il Palazzone to make wine
on location for the first time. Wearing jeans and an open-neck
shirt, Parsons treats guests to jazz, bruschetta, vegetable
tempura and ribollita on a terrace overlooking the sunset.  Brunello from 2005 is joined by the 2004 Riserva, which
made  Wines & Spirits  magazine’s top 100 wines ranking.  “My son gave it (Brunello) the best description once, the
first time he tasted the wine, he said, ‘Jeez, it tastes like
dirt, Dad.’ You can taste the terroir and I like it, well-oaked
wine,” recalls Parsons.  Doubling Production  Traditional Brunello takes about five years from harvest to
market, and Parsons plans to focus on his best wine as he
doubles production from the current 1,000 to 1,200 cases he now
makes a year. He’s unlikely to keep making the Super Tuscan
Lorenzo & Isabelle, a homage wine dedicated to his parents.  Brunello is where the money is, he says. The 2004 Riserva
 retails  at $130 while Palazzone Lorenzo & Isabelle 2005  sells 
for half that in the U.S.  Parsons says Italian reds still have a way to go in gaining
recognition in  Asia , where sales trail the U.S. and  Europe .  “ China  is everybody’s focus if you’re selling to retail but
that is going to be a long march I believe,” Parsons says. “We
do sell in  Hong Kong , and  Tokyo , in the high-end restaurants. I
think it’s going to be a while before we -- by ‘we,’ I mean
everybody outside the French and a few Napa brands -- really
penetrate the Chinese market.”  Demand for higher-end wines is growing, albeit slowly,
after contracting in the global recession of 2008, when sales
fell 40 percent, according to Parsons.  “They’re coming back, it’s coming back slowly, but that’s
probably the best way. I’m reasonably optimistic about the
outlook because there are new consumers coming in.”  This year may be one of his finest productions.  The vintage “was small in quantity but high in quality. It
was very hot and dry in  Italy  this summer so the grapes were
smaller and the yield is smaller, but very sweet and very high
quality,” he says.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater
and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 