-- Commercial Property Faces Risk on Yields, Executives Say
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-11-13T22:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/commercial-property-faces-risk-on-yields-executives-say.html
Rising risks, including an eventual
increase in interest rates, are leading commercial-property
investors to borrow less and expect lower returns, said real
estate executives including Rob Speyer and Richard J. Mack.  AREA Property Partners LP isn’t building U.S. offices
without signed tenants, even as commercial  values  increase,
Mack, chief executive officer for  North America , said at the
Bloomberg Commercial Real Estate Conference today in New York.
Tishman Speyer Properties LP has used “average leverage” of
less than 50 percent in deals since 2010, said Speyer, the New
York-based office developer’s co-chief executive officer.  “Our investors are less interested than you might think in
taking advantage of all the money they can borrow, and more
interested in investing their cash,” Speyer said. The company
is trying to provide them a “margin of safety,” rather than
high-risk strategies with potentially greater upside, he said.
“We know not everything goes as you plan.”  Real estate in the U.S. has benefited from the  Federal
Reserve ’s policy of keeping its benchmark  interest rate  near
zero, with investors drawn to assets such as well-located and
leased offices, hotels and apartment buildings that beat yields
on Treasury bonds. Sales of  commercial property  nationwide rose
19 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier to $67
billion, according to research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Commercial-property prices have been driven up by the low
rates, which in past market cycles have inflated values that at
some point fall, Robert Knakal, chairman of New York-based
Massey Knakal Realty Services, said during a separate panel
discussion.  ‘Asset Bubbles’  “Periods of low interest rates for long periods of time
create asset bubbles,” he said.  Low rates may be propping up values in  New York , where
there’s also a reduced inventory of property for sale, said
Richard LeFrak, chairman and CEO of LeFrak Organization.  “It’s the gorilla in the room,” said LeFrak, whose family
has built hundreds of residential properties in the New York
area. “We have been living in a world of low interest rates.”  Opportunistic investors such as Cerberus Real Estate
Capital Management LLC are avoiding lower-yielding markets such
as so-called gateway cities like  San Francisco  and  Washington ,
focusing instead on  Europe , which is “two to three years
behind” the U.S. recovery, Ronald Kravit, managing principal of
the New York-based firm, said at today’s conference. The U.K.,
 Germany , Ireland and Spain have the best legal systems for
resolution, and plenty of real estate distress, he said.  ‘Very Careful’  “We’re not particularly interested in returns of 10 to 14
percent,” Kravit said. Still, investors need to be “very
careful” in their quest for  cash flow  even as debt-laden
building owners dispose of properties around the globe, he said.  In the U.S., secondary markets outside gateway cities are
drawing investors to lower-priced buildings whose rents are
rising, Michael Boxer, a partner at Cowen Group’s Ramius unit,
said during a separate panel discussion.  Pittsburgh has office vacancies of less than 10 percent,
Houston’s energy sector makes it a “prolific” market and  San
Diego  has a favorable “risk-reward ratio,” said Ralph Rosenberg, head of real estate at New York-based private-equity
firm KKR & Co.  Still, potential pitfalls exist in secondary markets, Boxer
said. Even New York, considered a safe investment location for
global capital, has “political risk” after two mayoral
administrations that were “business-friendly,” Speyer said.  “You’ve got to really choose your spots and, in my
opinion, you have to have a strong operating capability,” Boxer
said.  The current mayor,  Michael Bloomberg , is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  