-- Cove Executives Said to Start Oil Explorer for Africa
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/cove-executives-said-to-start-oil-explorer-for-africa.html
Former executives from Cove Energy
Plc are starting a new oil and gas exploration firm focused on
Africa after selling the London-based company for $1.9 billion
to Thailand’s  PTT Exploration and Production Pcl  earlier this
year, people familiar with the group’s plans said.  The ex-Cove executives including Chairman Michael Blaha,
Chief Executive Officer John Craven, and Finance Director
 Michael Nolan  may be involved with the new firm, to be called
Discover, the people said, asking not to be identified ahead of
an official announcement. Discover has secured some private
financing and may pursue an eventual initial public offering in
London, the people said.  East Africa, where Cove owned 8.5 percent of the Rovuma-1
exploration block in Mozambique, is attracting interest from
global energy companies looking to meet surging demand for
energy from fast-growing Asian economies.  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  are among companies looking to tap Mozambique,
home to the biggest gas find in a decade, while firms including
 Statoil ASA (STL)  and Tullow Oil Plc seek oil off Kenya.  “ East Africa  is one of the biggest positive surprises in
terms of exploration in the last few years,” said Laura Loppacher, a London-based oil and gas analyst at Jefferies
International. “Investors in companies doing exploration in
East Africa have been very well rewarded and that naturally
makes people want to take another look.”  Cove’s acquisition demonstrated the potential value of
energy finds in the region. Bangkok-based PTT agreed to buy Cove
in July after a five-month takeover battle with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  that more than doubled the company’s share price.  Shell has since begun discussions with Anadarko about
purchasing part of its 36.5 percent stake in the same fields.
The more than 100 trillion cubic feet of gas discovered so far
off Tanzania and Mozambique could meet global consumption for a
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  