-- Cuomo Panel to Probe N.Y. Utility Preparation for Superstorm
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-13T22:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/cuomo-panel-to-probe-new-york-utility-preparation-for-superstorm.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  of  New York ,
where 2 million customers lost power after superstorm Sandy,
convened a commission to investigate  utility companies  for what
he said was their failure to properly prepare.  The probe will look into how utilities responded to Sandy,
which struck Oct. 29, and tropical storms Irene and Lee last
year, according to a statement e-mailed today. The review will
be conducted by a so-called Moreland Commission, which under a
105-year-old state law has the power to subpoena witnesses and
documents, hold hearings and administer oaths.  “The silver lining of this storm is that the legislature
understands we have to overhaul the power-distribution system in
this state,” Cuomo said at a press briefing in  Manhattan 
outside the Hugh L. Carey Tunnel, which reopened today. “I
don’t think we have a choice. We can use the Moreland Commission
with subpoena power to force the investigation, to force the
study.”  Sandy knocked out power to more than 8.5 million customers
in 21 states. As utilities struggled to get the lights back,
they were criticized by Cuomo,  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  and thousands of customers, some of whom are still
without power.  Long Island  Power Authority and  National Grid
Plc (NG/) , which operates its electricity network, were sued today by
customers accusing them of failing to properly maintain and
update an “outdated, obsolete” system.  Regulatory ‘Labryinth’  The commission established today by Cuomo will review the
overlapping responsibilities of what he called a “labyrinth”
of regulatory bodies, agencies and utilities, including LIPA,
the Public Service Commission and the New York Power Authority.
The goal is to determine what went wrong and how best to reshape
the system, he said.  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, said those overlapping
responsibilities have contributed to a dysfunctional system that
brought down gasoline distribution and communication networks.  “Such sustained disruption of the power supply and its
cascading damage to other critical systems in many communities,
neighborhoods and industrial areas, as well as the continued
prevalence of downed utility lines has jeopardized the health
and safety of  New Yorkers  and undermined public confidence in
the public utility system,” Cuomo wrote in the order
establishing the commission.  Con Ed  Consolidated Edison Inc., (ED)  which serves  New York City  and
suburban areas, has restored power to more than 1 million
customers who lost it during Sandy and a nor’easter that struck
Nov. 7. The restorations don’t include 16,300 in flood-ravaged
areas of the city whose homes and businesses are too damaged,
according to the company’s website.  “Con Edison looks forward to working with the commission
to discuss the company’s preparation and response to Superstorm
Sandy,” Chris Olert, a Con Edison spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We will continue to work with all parties to
review new technology and infrastructure options that would
benefit New Yorkers.”  Cuomo has been faulted by lawmakers, including Senator Carl Marcellino, for not exerting the power he wields over LIPA,
which provides power to about 1.1 million customers in Nassau,
Suffolk and Queens counties through National Grid. After Sandy,
about 90 percent of those customers lost power and 52,000 were
still in the dark today, according to the authority’s website.  Empty Seats  LIPA is a state agency run by a 15-member board of
trustees, nine of whom are appointed by the governor. Four of
those nine seats are vacant and two members, including Chairman
Howard Steinberg, are serving with expired terms. In almost two
years in office, Cuomo has appointed only one board member.  “I don’t think you can have an operation that isn’t fully
appointed,” Marcellino, a Long Island Republican who heads the
senate’s investigations committee, said in a telephone interview
before Cuomo announced the Moreland Commission. “Terms expired
and seats are empty. More has to be done in that area.”  Cuomo said today that it doesn’t matter who’s in charge of
LIPA because the authority is broken.  “I believe LIPA has been beyond repair for a long, long
time,” he said. “I don’t believe you can fix it. I believe it
needs to be overhauled and you need a new system.”  Study ‘Appropriate’  LIPA supports the statewide study, Mark Gross, a spokesman
for the agency, in an e-mailed statement.  “Given the extreme weather patterns we have seen, a
statewide study is appropriate,” Gross said.  LIPA doesn’t provide the power anyway, Cuomo said.  National Grid operates, maintains and repairs LIPA’s  power
lines  through Dec. 31, 2013. Last year, the authority picked
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc., owner of New Jersey’s
largest utility, to take over the contract in 2014. The
structure is unique to LIPA.  LIPA was formed in 1985 by state lawmakers because of a
“lack of confidence” in Long Island Lighting Co.’s ability to
supply power in a reliable and economic way after its investment
in the ill-fated Shoreham nuclear plant. Shoreham, the most
expensive nuclear power project built in the U.S., was shut in
1989 after the state raised questions about the ability to
evacuate Long Island in the event of a radioactive release.  In 1998, LIPA bought the remaining lighting company assets,
including its power lines and  power plants .  Limited Ability  The authority has about $7 billion in debt, according to a
May report by Moody’s Investors Service. Since 1998, LIPA has
issued $1.8 billion to finance capital projects, according to a
June offering statement. In a report yesterday,  Fitch Ratings 
said the effects of Sandy will challenge LIPA’s finances and
frustrate the authority’s efforts to improve its financial
performance.  “Given the intense political pressure surrounding LIPA’s
storm response and the authority’s historic objective to
moderate already high electric rates, Fitch believes that LIPA’s
willingness to increase rates may be limited,” the report said.  That political pressure was already growing, even before
Sandy. In a June report requested by Cuomo, the  Public Service
Commission  found that LIPA fell short in its preparation and
response to Tropical Storm Irene. The authority, which isn’t
regulated by the state commission, didn’t provide accurate and
timely power-restoration estimates, according to the report.  Communication Breakdown  “Communication with the public should be as high a
priority as restoration,” according to the report, one of three
released June 28 on utility preparation and response to the 2011
storms. “Had better communications been achieved with customers
and local officials, this criticism might have been dampened and
the positive aspects of the storm response efforts could have
been better appreciated.”  After Sandy, it was clear that LIPA and National Grid were
still struggling with communication, according to residents.  “It wasn’t just the fact the power was out,” said Ellen
Schlank, a Plainview resident who still lacked electricity as of
noon today. “It was a devastating storm; everyone understood
that. It’s the lack of communication. We just want to know when
the power will come back. That’s the worst part about it.”  As Cuomo looks to overhaul the system, he’ll probably find
support among lawmakers, Senator Michael Gianaris, a Queens
Democrat who led the party’s effort to retake control of the
Republican-led chamber, said in a telephone interview today.  “Governor Cuomo is a master at using whatever leverage is
available to him to get results,” Gianaris said. “I would
expect receptive ears on the issue of reforming utilities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  