-- Czech Recession Set to Match Record-Long Slump on Demand
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-11-14T12:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/czech-recession-set-to-match-record-long-slump-on-demand.html
The Czech economy probably extended
its decline into a fourth consecutive quarter, matching the
longest stretch of contraction on record, as the government’s
austerity measures constrain household spending.  Gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, according to the median
 forecast  of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The economy
contracted 1.2 percent from a year earlier, the median estimate
of 16 analysts showed. The Statistics Office in Prague will
publish preliminary data for the period tomorrow. The economy
last showed four straight quarterly declines 15 years ago.  The Czech  economy  is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised taxes to trim
the budget gap. With the prospects of a  recession  stretching
into the country’s longest ever, Premier Petr Necas wants to
ease the pace of budget cuts as he tries to avoid the fate of
European leaders who were ousted as they pushed austerity
measures that stunted economies from  Romania  to Spain.  “We remain pessimistic on the growth prospects in the last
quarter of this year and next year,” Stanislava Pravdova, an
analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Besides constrained domestic demand, the economy
will probably feel the effects from a more pronounced slowdown
in the euro zone through weakening foreign demand.”  Czech-koruna government bonds have rallied this year,
buoyed by interest-rate cuts. The yield on the five-year  koruna
bond  was at 0.73 percent today, near the record-low 0.70 percent
from Nov. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
koruna fell as much as 0.3 percent to the weakest level in three
and a half months before paring the loss to 0.1 percent at
25.475 as of 1:36 p.m. in  Prague .  Taming Inflation  Weakening household spending is taming inflation, which
pushed the central bank to cut rates to effectively zero and
prompted talk of weakening the currency should the economy
require more policy easing.  Retail sales have fallen in six of nine months this year,
declining 3.3 percent in September from a year ago. The trade
balance remains in surplus, although September export growth, at
0.6 percent from a year earlier, was the worst performance since
November 2009.  Less than a week after pushing through a package of
measures that the central bank expects to curb domestic demand
next year, Necas said he wants less-ambitious deficit targets
starting in the election year of 2014.  The government will aim to keep the public-finance  deficit 
below 3 percent of economic output until 2015, after it cuts the
shortfall to less than the European Union’s limit next year,
Necas said in a Mlada Fronta Dnes interview published Nov. 10.
The goals set in the latest convergence plan, a road map to
euro-area membership, envisaged a deficit of 1.9 percent of
gross domestic product in 2014 and 0.9 percent in 2015.  Borrowing Costs  The premier, who credits previous cuts with helping to
reduce borrowing costs, didn’t mention any new deficit goals.  The Cabinet has cut investment, raised the sales tax and
curbed spending on public wages. The budget shortfall narrowed
to 3.3 percent of GDP last year from 4.8 percent in 2010. The
Finance Ministry estimates it at 3.2 percent this year and the
target is 2.9 percent of GDP in 2013.  The central bank reduced the main two-week  repurchase  rate
to a record-low 0.05 percent on Nov. 1, almost three-quarters of
a point below the euro-area benchmark. Most Czech central
bankers agree the main interest rate should be kept at
effectively zero until inflation risks rise significantly,
according to minutes from their last rate meeting.  The government’s fiscal package will slow economic growth
by about 0.8 percentage point next year through lower real
household consumption, according to central bank forecasts.  Third-quarter GDP may be an indication of whether the
economy needs more monetary easing, with the central bank
forecasting quarterly growth of 0.2 percent in the July-
September period.  “If the result disappoints, from the central bank’s point
of view, it will be a significant anti-inflationary factor
indicating room for relaxing monetary policy,”  Jan Vejmelek ,
chief economist at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of Societe
Generale SA, said in an e-mail Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  