-- Dynavax’s Heplisav Vaccine Works on Hepatitis B, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-13T21:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/dynavax-s-heplisav-vaccine-works-on-hepatitis-b-fda-says.html
Dynavax Technologies Corp. (DVAX) ’s
Heplisav vaccine works against the contagious liver disease
hepatitis B, Food and Drug Administration staff said. The
company’s shares jumped the most in about 14 months on the
report.  Heplisav worked as well after two doses as three doses of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Engerix-B vaccine to protect patients
against the virus, FDA staff said today in a report released
ahead of an advisory panel meeting scheduled Nov. 15 on
Dynavax’s vaccine. Heplisav also had a similar safety profile to
Engerix-B, agency staff said.  Heplisav would be Berkeley, California-based Dynavax’s
first product if the vaccine is cleared by Feb. 24 when the FDA
is scheduled to decide on approval. The vaccine may generate an
estimated $775 million in peak worldwide sales in 2020,
Katherine Xu, an analyst with William Blair & Co. in  New York ,
said in an e-mail.  Dynavax rose 13 percent to $4.74 at the close in New York,
the largest single-day increase since Sept. 16, 2011. The
company has gained 43 percent this year.  Dynavax originally sought to market the drug to healthy
adults ages 40 and older. When the company met with the FDA in
February, the agency determined the vaccine should be for
healthy adults 18 to 70 years old.  Attacks Liver  Hepatitis B, like HIV, is transmitted through the exchange
of body fluids such as blood, saliva or semen, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It attacks the
liver, which removes toxins from the body, and can lead to
scarring, cancer or organ failure.  In a final-phase study of about 2,400 patients ages 18 to
55, 95 percent of those who took two doses of Heplisav were
protected from hepatitis B compared with 81 percent of those who
took three doses of Glaxo’s Engerix-B, FDA staff said in a
report.  FDA staff recommended evaluation of Heplisav after the drug
is on the market because some patients experienced autoimmune
diseases. Two main trials on the vaccine weren’t set up to
detect such rare adverse events, according to the report.  One woman experienced Wegener’s granulomatosis, a rare
disease in which blood vessels are inflamed and another woman
developed Guillain-Barré syndrome, a disorder in which the
body’s immune system attacks the nerves. The woman with
Guillain-Barré syndrome also received an influenza vaccine that
was thought to have caused the disorder rather than Heplisav.  The FDA put a hold on two clinical trials in March 2008
after a patient given the vaccine was diagnosed with Wegener’s
granulomatosis. U.S. regulators allowed testing to resume in
September 2009.  Dynavax plans to submit an application to expand Heplisav’s
use to patients with chronic  kidney disease  if the drug is
approved in healthy adults, the company has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  