-- E-House Leads Slump as Consumers Decline: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-13T22:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/e-house-leads-slump-as-consumers-decline-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell the most in
four months in New York as  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  and  Home
Inns (HMIN)  & Hotels Management Inc. led a slump in consumer stocks.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 2.2 percent to 90.73 yesterday,
the biggest slump since June. E-House, a real estate company,
dropped to a record low after the Xinhua News Agency reported
 China  may expand a property tax trial. Hotel operator Home Inns
dropped the most in three months as analysts predict sales for
the third quarter would fall short of the company forecast.
 PetroChina Co. (PTR)  tumbled as oil declined.  China’s government is “actively studying” expanding a
trial on property taxes and won’t relax current restrictions on
home purchases in the short term, Housing Development Minister
 Jiang Weixin  said on Nov. 12, according to state-run Xinhua. The
nation’s seven-quarter slowdown has eroded corporate profits,
with 29 companies on the  Bloomberg gauge  that have reported
earnings in the past month missing analysts’ estimates by an
average 8.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The measures are meant to cool the property market, which
is a big part of China’s gross domestic product, so people don’t
take it positively,” Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in
emerging market assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am
Bellevue AG in Zurich, said by phone yesterday. “We don’t
expect any major economic policy in the near future” and the
direction of government policy won’t be clear until the new
administration takes office in March, she said.  ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 1.6 percent to a one-
month low of $35.98. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated
0.4 percent to 1,374.53 as investors waited for progress on
 Washington ’s budget debate.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese domestic shares
slid 1.5 percent to 2,047.89 yesterday, the lowest level since
Sept. 26. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong fell for a fourth day, losing 2
percent to 10,230.07. The four-day slump was the longest stretch
since the end of August.  E-House, based in Beijing, plunged 8.5 percent to $3.66,
the lowest close on record. The company, with third-quarter
results  due  tomorrow before markets open, may report an adjusted
net income that would be lower than the prior three months,
according to two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Analysts’
estimate for the full-year sales also trailed E-House’s last
 forecast  provided in August.  Home Inns  Home Inns, China’s largest budget hotel chain operator,
slumped 5.3 percent to $26.98, the biggest loss in three months.  The Shanghai-based company may report 1.45 billion  yuan 
($230 million) in sales for the three months through September,
according to the average forecast of six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. That was below the company’s guidance of between 1.545
billion yuan and 1.575 billion yuan.  Elong Inc. (LONG) , China’s second-largest online travel agency
which receives more than 75 percent of its sales from hotel
reservations, plummeted 9.8 percent to $15.22, the steepest
slump in three months. The Beijing-based company’s third-quarter
earnings are due tomorrow after U.S. trading closes.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan climbed
0.06 percent to 6.3305 a dollar in New York, the strongest level
since April, after the currency closed at a 19-year high of
6.2265 a dollar in  Shanghai  yesterday, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The Shanghai rate reached the top
end of its permitted trading range for a seventh straight day.  Trina’s Guidance  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-largest solar maker,
tumbled 11 percent to $3.25, the weakest level since March 2009.  Ardour Capital Partners analyst Adam Krop lowered the 12-
month price target for Trina on Nov. 12 to $4 from $6. The
target was also reduced yesterday at Avian Securities LLC by
analyst Mark W Bachman.  Trina, based in China’s southern city of  Guangzhou , cut its
guidance for third-quarter shipments to as low as 375 megawatts,
from a previous estimate of 450 megawatts, according to its
statement on Nov. 12. The solar maker will announce the figures
on Nov. 20.  American depositary receipts of PetroChina, the nation’s
largest oil producer, slid 2.3 percent to $130.76, the first
decline in three days. ADRs of  China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp. , Asia’s biggest refiner known as Sinopec, tumbled 3.2
percent to $101.45, dropping the most since Sept. 17.  Oil futures for December delivery retreated for a second
day, sliding 0.2 percent to $85.38 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Prices are down 14 percent this year.  Fuel Prices  China may lower gasoline and diesel prices today, Beijing
Times reported yesterday, citing analysts. Under the current
pricing mechanism, China’s top planning agency may consider
adjusting domestic fuel prices when the 22-day moving average of
a basket of crude comprising Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta
fluctuate more than 4 percent from the last adjustment.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.’s ADRs traded 1.2 percent below its
Hong Kong stock, the first discount in three days, after UBS AG
lowered its rating to sell from buy yesterday. The ADRs, each
representing 10 underlying shares, dropped 3.1 percent to a two-
week low of $14.53.  The  30-day volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge was
16.89 yesterday, up from 15.47 the previous day, and compares
with this year’s average of 22.7. The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse
Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that gained
U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade, retreated
0.6 percent to 71.17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  