-- Medtronic Loses Appeal in $74 Million Edwards Patent Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-13T21:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/medtronic-loses-appeal-in-74-million-edwards-patent-case.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  lost its bid to
overturn a $74 million jury verdict won by  Edwards Lifesciences
Corp. (ED)  and may face a court order halting production of some of
its CoreValve heart valves.  Medtronic CoreValve infringed a valid Edwards patent, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said in an  opinion 
posted on the court’s website today. The court said Edwards has
the right to ask the trial judge to consider an injunction
against U.S. manufacturing or sale of infringing products.  “While Medtronic respects the court’s ruling, we
respectfully disagree with this conclusion and we are evaluating
next steps,” the Minneapolis-based company said in a statement.
Medtronic said the decision wouldn’t affect clinical studies on
its products.  Edwards sued CoreValve, then a stand-alone company, in 2008
over an invention for valve replacements that are threaded into
the body via catheters, without open-heart surgery. The patent
was issued in 1995, and Edwards said it is seeking an extension
of the life of the patent to 2017.  “We believe this is a decisive milestone toward final
resolution of this matter, given that we have a clear jury
verdict that has been affirmed by both the district court and
now the U.S. court of appeals,” Edwards General Counsel Aimee S. Weisner said in a statement.  Aortic Valves  The companies’ devices, used to repair damaged aortic
valves, compete for sales in  Europe . Edwards sells devices in
the U.S., where Medtronic is awaiting regulatory approval.  The U.S. market for the devices could reach $2.5 billion,
Jason Mills, an analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in San
Francisco, said in March.  A federal jury in April 2010 told CoreValve to compensate
 Irvine , California-based Edwards $72.6 million in lost profits,
and pay $1.3 million as a royalty on CoreValve sales. Edwards
said that further proceedings in court may require Medtronic
“to pay substantial additional damages accumulated after the
verdict was issued.”  U.S. District Judge Gregory Sleet in Wilmington, Delaware,
declined to halt sales of CoreValve’s Generation 3 ReValving
System because the company was moving production to  Mexico .
Edwards said that CoreValve never stopped its production in
 California . The Federal Circuit ordered the judge to review the
issue.  “Due to its global manufacturing capabilities, Medtronic
does not anticipate any interruption to the global supply of the
Medtronic CoreValve System,” said Medtronic, which bought
CoreValve in 2009.  The case is Edwards Lifesciences AG v. CoreValve Inc.,
2011-1215 and 2011-1257, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is Edwards
Lifesciences v. CoreValve Inc., 08CV91, U.S. District Court,
District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 5,411,552.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  