-- Education Group to Evaluate Online Courses for College Credit
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-11-13T21:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/education-group-to-evaluate-online-courses-for-college-credit.html
Free online courses offered by
universities including Harvard and Princeton may one day award
college credit, after a higher education trade group said it
will study their eligibility.  The  American Council on Education  will evaluate select
courses offered by  Coursera Inc. , a company started last year by
two Stanford University professors, according to a statement
today by Washington-based ACE, which represents private and
public degree-granting institutions. Coursera has already signed
up more than 30 schools including Princeton University, the
California Institute of Technology and Duke University.  U.S. colleges, seeking cost-efficient ways to deliver
instruction, have been signing up with companies that provide
MOOCS, or massive open online courses.  Harvard University  and
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  formed a similar
venture called EdX that has enlisted the  University of
California , Berkeley and the University of Texas System.  The ACE evaluation will focus on whether the courses can
improve educational outcomes -- college completion rates and
learning productivity, council President Molly Corbett Broad
said in the statement.  “MOOCs are an intriguing, innovative new approach that
holds much promise for engaging students across the country and
around the world, as well as for helping colleges and
universities broaden their reach,” Broad said. “As with any
approach, there are many questions about long-term potential.”  Universities are under no obligation to award credit, even
if the ACE review process results in such recommendations.  The trade group will also work with the University of
Illinois on research into MOOCs, including to what extend they
reach low-income adults and older adult learners, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 