-- Medvedev Brushes Off Putin’s Health Problems as Concerns Mount
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-11-13T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/medvedev-brushes-off-putin-s-health-problems-as-concerns-mount.html
President Vladimir Putin’s health
problems are “nothing serious,” Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
said in the highest-level response to speculation the Russian
leader’s condition has prevented all foreign trips for a month.  “We all have some minor issues we have to deal with,”
Medvedev said in an interview with Finnish media, according to a
transcript e-mailed by his office today. “Is it hard to be a
president or prime minister? It’s hard. Every person has the
right to look after their health.”  Putin, 60, who extended his more than decade-long rule in
March elections, made his last visit abroad on Oct. 4-5 to
Tajikistan. Domestic trips and visits to countries including
Turkey and  Pakistan  were canceled or delayed. He also annulled
his annual call-in show scheduled next month and has conducted
most official business at his residence outside Moscow.  Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, has said the Russian
leader pulled a muscle in his back in early September, which is
requiring no treatment and has no effect on planned foreign
trips. Speaking on Nov. 1, Peskov dismissed speculation that
Putin aggravated an old back injury during a Sept. 6 flight
leading a flock of endangered cranes in a motorized hang glider
before the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in  Russia ’s
Pacific port city of Vladivostok.  The  Vedomosti  business newspaper on Nov. 1 cited two people
close to the Kremlin as saying that Putin re-injured his back
during the stunt with the birds and is now undergoing treatment.
Doctors advised him against any flights, according to Vedomosti.
A summit of former Soviet states that was preliminarily
scheduled for Nov. 1-2 was moved to Dec. 5, while Putin’s visits
to Turkey and  India  may now take place on Dec. 3 and Dec. 24,
respectively, according to the newspaper.  “President Putin, to stay in shape, has to do a lot of
sport,” Medvedev said. “And he is alive and well, and thanks
God, all is fine with him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  