-- Egypt Funds Embezzled by Ousted Regime Haunt Mursi’s Rule
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-11-14T08:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/egypt-funds-embezzled-by-ousted-regime-haunt-mursi-s-rule.html
Aleia el-Sayed never expected
President Mohamed Mursi to deliver overnight on his campaign
promises of justice that Egyptians demanded in last year’s
uprising. More than four months into his presidency, she did
think the government would make more of an effort to do so.  Electoral pledges to retrieve billions of dollars in public
funds allegedly embezzled by the former regime and retry ousted
officials persuaded the 38-year-old mother of five to vote for
Mursi. The failure of Mursi’s government to fulfill those
promises has fed nationwide discontent over deteriorating living
conditions, high unemployment and worsening security amid plans
to cut subsidies of basic goods such as cooking gas and fuel.  “No one said the government should have gotten it all back
by now -- that would’ve been insanely unrealistic -- but it did
not show a glimpse of sincerity in recouping these funds,” el-
Sayed said as she scooped her 2-year-old daughter off the ground
at an underground station after a day of work cleaning houses in
Cairo. “Regaining a piaster is a mere fantasy now.”  Recouping the embezzled funds could become one of the
barometers of Mursi’s presidency. It will show how determined he
is to bring former officials to task and recover stolen assets
in an environment where he’s had mixed results with the
judiciary and made little headway with countries that are
blocking the money.  ‘Solid Will’  “Previous efforts on this by former governments were weak,
but there is a solid will now to bring every piaster back,”
Legal Affairs Minister Mohamed Mahsoub said by phone. “The new
government and President Mohammed Mursi regard this as a
priority, another form of regaining national dignity.”  In April 2011,  Hosni Mubarak , who was unseated two months
earlier after 18 straight days of mass marches and sit-ins, said
in his only public speech after the unrest that he had no assets
abroad and that he was “deeply hurt” by the accusations that
he and his family had misappropriated funds.  Six months later, state-run Middle East News Agency
reported that Gamal, Mubarak’s son who was widely seen in Egypt
as his likely successor, and Alaa, his older sibling, were found
to have $340 million deposited in Swiss banks. Since then, at
least 10 ministers in Mubarak’s government and members of his
ruling party have been interrogated about or convicted of
illicit gains, profiteering and corruption-related crimes, while
the Swiss have blocked more than $750 million in Egyptian funds.  ‘Tip of Iceberg’  “Frozen funds exceed $1 billion, and this is just the tip
of the iceberg,” Mahsoub said in the September interview. While
it may take four years to retrieve all the frozen assets, the
government expects to get some “much-needed money” in “the
next few months,” he said, declining to be more specific.  Egypt  recently pocketed $1.8 billion of stolen land and
cash as a result of settlements and lawsuits involving 40
businessmen, the state-run Ahram Gate website  said  on Nov. 10,
citing Deputy Attorney General Adel el-Saeed. Legal steps are
under way to recover another $9 billion, he was cited as saying.  In the decade before the revolution, Egyptians dubbed their
country “Mubarak’s farm,” saying members of the dissolved
National Democratic Party and senior officials exploited their
positions to multiply their bank accounts as poverty and
unemployment grew.  No Better  “Egypt’s money must be returned and embezzlers must be
properly punished and a lesson made of them,” said Ahmed Maher,
co-founder of the April 6 group, which helped orchestrate the
2011 revolt and was one of the youth groups key in helping
secure Mursi’s election. Citing unfulfilled promises made by
previous interim governments formed by the military council, to
which Mubarak ceded power, Maher said: “The government formed
by the elected president hasn’t done any better.”  State-run Al-Ahram reported today that Mursi asked the
government, led by Hisham Qandil, to include recovery of
embezzled funds in the legislative priorities included in the
economic plan it announced yesterday. The plan, which targets
economic growth of 3.5 percent and the creation of 700,000 jobs
by the end of the current fiscal year, should also prioritize
national security and prevent violations of public and private
liberties, the newspaper said, citing Mursi.  IMF Loan  Successive governments since the unrest have held talks
with the International Monetary Fund about a $4.8 billion loan
to bridge the Middle East’s biggest deficit, sparking popular
debates about Egypt’s growing dependency on foreign debts. The
gap widened to 11 percent of output last year and  unemployment 
stood at 12.6 percent in the second quarter, unchanged from the
first and the highest since at least the first three months of
2003. About 1 million Egyptians lost their jobs in 2011 as the
 economy shrank  for the first time in decades.  The frozen assets are “the money Egypt should be using for
its development, instead of borrowing,” Maher said in a Nov. 1
phone interview.  With Egypt’s aid program consuming at least 20 percent of
state spending in the year ending June 30, the government may
revamp energy subsidies to avoid missing this year’s target of a
7.6 percent deficit. The IMF, which insists on broad public
support for the loan to close the deal, estimates the shortfall
at 10 percent last year, making it the Middle East’s highest.  “They did nothing to get our money back, yet are keen on
cutting subsidies,” el-Sayed said. “Where’s the justice in
that?”  ‘Inflated Expectations’  “There is a case of inflated expectations,” said Yasser
el-Shimy, a Cairo-based analyst for the International Crisis
Group. “You have this population who expected billions and
billions of dollars to descend from the accounts of the former
regime. It wasn’t odd to find people planning to quit their work
because they thought they were going to have a big windfall of
money, and that didn’t happen.”  Mursi’s “great challenge” is managing expectations and
containing growing demands by the people he governs, el-Shimy
said. This will be a “very difficult balancing act” as he must
also impose austerity measures to remove unsustainable subsidies
to win the IMF loan, he said.  Promises to retry Mubarak-era officials and speedily return
the embezzled fortunes were two elements that drove many liberal
voters to overlook their opposition to the Muslim Brotherhood,
from whose ranks Mursi was drawn, and vote for him. Those voters
gave Mursi a slim edge over Ahmed Shafik, his contender in the
runoff who was Mubarak’s last premier and is now facing charges
of profiteering along with the former president’s sons.  “We may as well have voted for Shafik,” el-Sayed said.
“I’m not a fan of the Brotherhood, never was, and only voted
for Mursi because of these two pledges: retrieving the money and
punishing the embezzlers. He did neither.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  