-- Telecom Italia’s Sawiris Stake Sale Seen Boosting Value
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-11-14T08:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/telecom-italia-stake-sale-to-sawiris-boosts-value-fossati-says.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s second-biggest
shareholder says he would welcome an investment by Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  in the phone company as it may create
value and boost the stock price.  “Any industrial or sector investor who can help to unlock
the real value of Telecom Italia would be a welcome addition,”
Marco Fossati, whose family’s Findim Group SA owns about 5
percent of Telecom Italia, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“Sawiris is an expert in the telecommunications industry with
an incredible track record in creating shareholder value through
both organic and creative M&A activities.”  Italy’s former phone monopoly said Nov. 12 that Sawiris
expressed an interest in acquiring new shares in the company.
Sawiris made his first major venture into Italy in 2005, when he
bought Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, the country’s third-largest
mobile-phone provider.  With an investor like Sawiris, Milan-based Telecom Italia
“could benefit across all geographies including Brazil,”
Fossati said. “He’s an expert in acquiring needed assets and,
unlike Telefonica, he will have no conflicts of interest when
doing so.”  A sale of new shares would dilute the stakes held by
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , which together own about 22 percent of
Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA.  ‘Constructive Debate’  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone company, and Telecom
Italia compete in South American countries such as Brazil, where
they control the top mobile carriers by subscribers, and
Argentina.  Telecom Italia may look at  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian phone
operator GVT as the French company considers options for the
asset, Chief Operating Officer Marco Patuano said yesterday.  “We’re happy to work with anyone who has strong strategic
and industrial projects to help create value,” Fossati said.
This type of investor could help re-balance the board with more
industry experts, prompting “a more constructive debate and
confrontation with management within the board, which currently
appears to be hostage to Telefonica.”  Telecom Italia has lost about two-thirds of its value since
November 2007, when Findim said it had a 2 percent. The shares
added 0.3 percent to 72.4 cents as of 9:53 a.m. in Milan, giving
the carrier a market value of 13.5 billion euros ($17.1
billion).  Any capital increase should reflect “the true underlining
value” of Telecom Italia and not the current “depressed”
price, Fossati said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  