-- Emerging-Market Stocks Post Longest Rout Since August on China
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-11-13T22:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/emerging-stocks-decline-for-fourth-day-on-china-greek-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fourth day, led by energy companies, on speculation  China  will
expand a property tax trial and as European officials delayed a
decision on Greek aid.  OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s biggest company, sank to the lowest
since May.  Diagnosticos da America SA (DASA3)  tumbled in  Sao Paulo  after
reporting earnings that fell short of analyst estimates.
 Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333)  and  Poly Property Group Ltd. (119) 
retreated in  Hong Kong . The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.7
percent to 982.17 at the close of trading in  New York , posting
the longest stretch of declines since Aug. 30.  China’s housing ministry is on “high alert” if both
transaction volume and  home prices  increase “substantially,”
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing Minister of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development Jiang Weixin. European leaders have put
off until next week a decision on how to cover  Greece ’s
additional funding needs, while giving the nation two years to
bring down its budget gap.  “The situation in Europe continues to create an overhang
for markets while reports on China’s property tax are adding to
the pressure,” said Allan Yu, who helps manage $10.3 billion in
Manila-based  Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co.  The developing nations stock measure has risen 7.2 percent
this year, lagging a 7.5 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed countries. The  emerging-markets  gauge trades
at 11.3 times estimated earnings,  compared  with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Extra Yield  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, slumped 0.9
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, increased 0.3 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets/Energy Index (MXEF0EN)  and the MSCI
Emerging Markets/Materials Index fell to the lowest level in two
months as oil and commodities retreated for a second day.  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 2.4 percent to a July low and
the  Czech Republic ’s PX index fell 1.2 percent, declining for a
fifth day.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index gained 0.7 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 301, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Property Tax  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slumped 2 percent to
the lowest level since Oct. 10. The Shanghai Composite Index
fell 1.5 percent while  Taiwan ’s  Taiex index  retreated 1.8
percent.  Evergrande Real Estate tumbled 4.2 percent, while Poly
Property lost 1.5 percent. The government imposed a property tax
for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing and raised down
payment and mortgage requirements in its more than two-year
effort to curb the  property market .  PetroChina Co. plunged 8.5 percent while China Petroleum
and Chemical Corp. slid 3 percent in Hong Kong trading after the
Beijing Times said China may cut gas prices tomorrow. Gazprom
tumbled 3.6 percent to the lowest since May 23.  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest smartphone maker, sank 6.8
percent in Taipei as Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch reiterated their underperform rating.  Dasa, Sberbank  Diagnosticos da America , the medical-diagnostics firm known
as Dasa, tumbled 5.3 percent, the most since July. The company
posted adjusted net income of 26.9 million reais in the third
quarter, missing an average estimate of 41 million reais,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) 
gained 6.3 percent after posting third-quarter earnings that
beat estimates.  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  declined 6.3 percent in Bangkok,
the most in four months, as UBS AG offered to sell shares at
below market prices.  OAO Sberbank dropped in Moscow, retreating 2.7 percent. The
ruble fell to the weakest level in two months.  New World Resources Plc (NWR)  sank to the lowest since April
2009, losing 5.9 percent, as analysts estimate the Czech coal
company will post its first quarterly loss since 2010 tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  