-- End of U.S. Produce Tests for Pathogens Angers Advocates
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-11-13T23:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/end-of-u-s-produce-tests-for-pathogens-angers-advocates.html
A U.S. program that tests random
produce samples for salmonella and other pathogens is ending,
angering food-safety advocates who said the initiative that was
knocked down by industry lobbyists protects public health.  Produce sampling stopped Nov. 9 and testing of food already
collected will continue, Jim Brownlee, a spokesman at the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , which oversees the program, said in
an e-mail. The program ends Dec. 31.  The move is part of a phase out of the $4.4 million food-
testing program, which Congress opted not to fund in its fiscal
2013 budget to the dismay of food-safety advocates who say the
lack of screening will imperil consumers. Produce industry
leaders who lobbied to end the program say it didn’t protect
public health and the USDA isn’t the correct agency to oversee
such testing.  “Just last week, potentially contaminated produce was
recalled because of this critical program,” Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a Democrat from  Connecticut , said in a statement. “It
is imperative that we continue this cost-effective program that
supports more than three-quarters of federal produce testing. I
will continue this fight, and urge the administration to
continue the program.”  The program has conducted more than 14,000 tests annually,
according to the USDA. From 2009 to July 2012, 108 positive
tests for salmonella were conducted, two positive tests were
found for E.coli O157:H7, and nine positive listeria tests were
conducted. Produce is taken for testing from distribution
centers before sale, Brownlee said.  Lobbyist Push  The industry pushed to halt the program and has argued
testing should be done by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
which has jurisdiction over produce. Recalls of product because
of positives in the USDA testing program also occurred after the
shelf-life of produce had expired, David Gombas, senior vice
president of food safety and technology at the United Fresh
Produce Association, said in an e-mail.  That meant recalls are done too late to protect public
health, he said.  “Identifying contaminated produce after it has been eaten
or discarded does not protect public health,” Gombas said.
“Any such testing program belongs with a public health agency
that can take effective action, not when it’s too late.”  The program, known as the Microbiological Data Program,
started in April 2001. It collects information about
contaminated produce that is fed into a national database at the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta to match
data against outbreaks. The program, designed for data
collection, has spurred at least 30 recalls, according to data
analyzed by  Food Safety News , a daily online newspaper published
by Marler Clark LLP in  Seattle .  Meeting Plans  The Washington-based United Fresh Produce Association in
January 2011 held a meeting of its food safety and technology
council in  California  where they discussed plans to lobby
against the program, according to minutes of the gathering.
Those in attendance included managers from Sunkist Growers Inc.,
 Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) ,  Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc., (FDP)  Fresh
Express Inc. and  Monsanto Co., (MON)  according to the minutes.  “In 2007-8 the USDA started to use the results for
enforcement, not the original intention,” according to the
minutes. “Industry was never consulted or had input into the
changes.” A decision was made to have Gombas meet with
regulators about halting the program.  “Once reviewed, Dave will schedule a meeting with the FDA
to review the findings and try to stop this program,” the
minutes said.  Meeting Minutes  During another meeting on May 3, 2011, efforts to end the
program were also discussed. Plans included a one-day visit by
council members to meet with congressional staff, according to
the minutes. House support was expected to be easier to obtain
than in the Senate, the  minutes  state.  The minutes and lobbying efforts show industry was opposed
to a program that made them look bad,  Bill Marler , a food safety
lawyer in Seattle, Washington, said in an interview.  “Industry is embarrassed by the finding of pathogens in
their product and they don’t want to do a recall,” Marler said.
“It has saved people’s lives. United Fresh is killing a program
that is embarrassing to its members.”  United Fresh strongly supports the FDA using all resources
to ensure rigorous testing and sampling is done, Gombas said in
an e-mailed response to questions. The USDA program hasn’t been
shown to uncover incidence of foodborne disease or prevented
disease from occurring, he said.  “United Fresh Produce Association has been consistent in
our support of strong federal government oversight of produce
safety for many, many years,” he said.  Recalled Products  At least two companies that attended the council meetings
where the lobbying efforts were discussed also were subject of
recalls because of the testing.  Dole Food Co. Inc (DOLE)  and Salinas,
California-based Taylor Fresh Foods Inc., known as Taylor Farms,
attended the meetings, according to the minutes.  The program’s tests spurred a June 2012  recall  of bagged
salad by Dole Fresh Vegetables Inc., a subsidiary of Dole Food
Co., for possible listeria. They also led to a May 2012  recall 
by Taylor Farms of organic baby spinach with possible salmonella
contamination, Michael Jarvis, a former spokesman for the USDA,
said in July.  Mansour Samadpour, CEO of  IEH Laboratories & Consulting
Group  in Lake Forest Park, Washington, which does testing for
the FDA, said the program should continue and that the lobbying
by the produce industry is unethical.  “The movers and shakers in industry, Fresh Express and
Taylor Farms, are having recalls and they don’t like it,” he
said in an interview. “Trade associations were created to
promote trade. In my opinion, they should be punished if they
get involved in anything like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  