-- Meningitis Missteps Spur U.S. Regulators to Seek Control
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-13T22:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/meningitis-missteps-spur-u-s-regulators-to-seek-control.html
A U.S. probe into the compounding
pharmacy tied to a recent meningitis outbreak has found that
officials at an auditing company that cleared sterile procedures
used by the pharmacy in 2006 were previously convicted of
defrauding federal regulators.  The Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy
accepted the audit’s findings even though its staff knew the
company’s executives had earlier been “convicted of federal
crimes related to defrauding” regulators, said Lauren Smith,
interim commissioner of the State Department of  Public Health ,
in prepared  testimony  released by a House subcommittee in
advance of a hearing tomorrow.  Lawmakers are reviewing the actions of regulators dating to
2002 when New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., or NECC, was
inspected after the same type of steroid linked to the most-
recent outbreak was tied to meningitis-like symptoms in two
patients. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is seeking
stronger authority to regulate compounding pharmacies.  “We look forward to working with Congress to prevent this
from happening again.” said Sarah Clark-Lynn, an agency
spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  The latest meningitis outbreak has infected 438 people,
killing 32.  Staff Knowledge  Smith also said in her prepared remarks that staff never
advised the pharmacy board that officials involved with the
auditing company, Pharmaceutical Systems Inc., had been
convicted of a crime.  The FDA suggested suspending NECC’s operations in 2003 in
discussions with Massachusetts officials after inspections of
the pharmacy. The agency and Massachusetts regulators agreed
NECC was operating as a compounding pharmacy, not a drugmaker,
which kept the FDA from acting at the time.  Barry Cadden, owner of NECC, also served on a  task force 
convened by the pharmacy board in 2002 to study oversight of
compounding pharmacies. While the group met for about two years,
it appears never to have made recommendations for oversight
changes, Smith said in her prepared testimony.  Board member Karen Ryle, who still sits on the board and
serves as secretary, according to the website, convened the task
force. Energy and Commerce Chairman  Fred Upton , a Republican
from  Michigan , issued a subpoena for Cadden to testify at
tomorrow’s hearing.  Inspection Report  The pharmacy board’s executive director and counsel knew
about the convictions related to the auditor in April 2006,
Smith said. The board told Cadden two months later NECC had
satisfactorily completed the terms and conditions of a consent
agreement, according to a  report  summarizing inspection records
released yesterday by the House subcommittee.  The consent agreement was renegotiated in January 2006, and
was a weaker version of an earlier one with a provision for a
one-year probation to be stayed with the condition NECC hire an
independent auditor.  “Despite interviews with board and staff members involved
with these decisions and a thorough review of the limited
records retained from this period, troubling questions remain
about what influenced the more lenient consent agreement
resolution, given NECC’s track record,” Smith said. “I will
not be satisfied until we know the full story behind this
decision.”  Massachusetts has put new policies in place to increase
oversight of compounding pharmacies, including more inspections,
and Smith said she supports federal legislation to give the FDA
more authority over compounding pharmacies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  