-- EON Falls Most in 20 Years After Utility Scraps Forecasts
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-11-13T16:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/eon-may-shut-plants-as-generation-unit-faces-huge-challenges-.html
EON AG (EOAN)  plunged the most in 20 years
after  Germany ’s largest utility scrapped profit forecasts and
said the shift to renewable energy presents “huge challenges.”  The Dusseldorf-based company said today it may have to cut
dividends and close power stations because lower electricity
prices in Germany are making it difficult for gas-fired plants
to make money. EON is reviewing forecasts for the next three
years because existing targets are no longer achievable.  “We face huge challenges, particularly in our generation
business,” Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said today
in an earnings statement. “We’re further optimizing our
conventional generation portfolio and also exploring whether to
close some assets.”  Not since “World War II have power sales dropped so far in
so short a time span,” Teyssen said on a conference call.  Germany’s shift to renewables has helped cut wholesale
power prices 15 percent this year as  wind turbines  contribute
more electricity to the grid. EON has already seen earnings
trimmed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s decision to close all
nuclear power plants after last year’s Fukushima disaster.  The shares dropped 12 percent by the close in  Frankfurt 
trading, the most since August 1992. They fell 1.905 euros to
14.64, raising the stock’s loss this year to 12 percent.  EON today reported underlying net income, the profit
measure the company uses to calculate its dividend, advanced to
4.04 billion euros ($5.1 billion) in the first nine months from
1.59 billion euros a year earlier. That beat the 3.53 billion-
euro average estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales climbed 21 percent to 93.6 billion euros from a year
earlier.  Economic Uncertainty  Underlying net income rose 11 percent to 722 million euros
in the third quarter. Sales were up 15 percent to 28.23 billion
euros. Both numbers were calculated by subtracting half-year
earnings from nine-month results published today.  EON applied impairments of 1.2 billion euros in the third
quarter, for example on coal-fired  power plants  in the
Netherlands, wind farms in  Spain  and for halting the work on its
German Staudinger 6 hard coal-fired power plant, Chief Financial
Officer Marcus Schenck said on the call.  EON said yesterday its 2013 forecast of 3.2 billion euros
to 3.7 billion euros of underlying net income is no longer
achievable. The company is considering cutting dividend payments
because of the “substantial economic uncertainties and
structural changes in the  energy industry .”  Its disposal program may exceed the originally targeted 15
billion euros, Teyssen said today on the call.  The company confirmed its outlook for 2012 profit of 4.1
billion to 4.5 billion euros this year.  ‘Disastrous Communication’  “I consider the communication as disastrous,” said Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at Union Investment GmbH responsible
for the fund’s 0.71 percent stake in EON, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “Even for the dividend there is no
reliable lower limit. Shareholders don’t play the same important
role for EON as bond holders and rating agencies do.”  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, reports earnings
tomorrow and dropped 1.2 percent in Frankfurt.  “The question is by how much EON will reduce the profit
forecast and the dividend for 2013,” Sven Diermeier, an analyst
at Independent Research GmbH, said by phone from Frankfurt.
Ratings agencies may have to look at the company’s credit
profile if EON isn’t able to reduce debt as planned, he said.  Price Decline  German power prices for next year have declined 15 percent
this year to 47.10 euros a megawatt-hour, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “That causes difficulty” for EON, while
power from offshore wind farms will continue to increase the
offer, Deser said. The increase of wind and solar power “pushes
RWE and EON out of the business.”  As Germany takes reactors off line, it’s pledged to meet
power demand with more fossil-fuel-fired plants and alternative
energy. EON is raising investments in renewable-power generation
and wants to expand in Brazil and  Turkey .  EON expects to sign a deal “shortly” with grid operator
TenneT TSO GmbH to keep gas-fired power plants Staudinger 4 in
Hesse and Irsching 3 in Bavaria running, spokesman Guido Knott
said on the call with journalists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf Offc at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  