-- Hester, Sands Express Skepticism Over Bank Firebreak Plans
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-11-13T18:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/hester-sands-express-skepticism-over-bank-firebreak-plans-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  questioned government
plans to force banks to erect firebreaks around their retail
units, saying the costs will outweigh the benefits.  “I don’t think it will have the benefits people think it
will, but I’m not trying to create a controversy,” Hester told
a hearing of the  Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards 
in London today. “We’ll do what we’re told in any event.”  A government-commissioned report recommended in September
2011 that banks build firebreaks between their consumer and
investment banks as part of plans to increase the stability of
the financial system after the financial crisis of 2008. Lenders
with securities operations have expressed concern  John Vickers ’s
proposals will raise their cost of funding, reducing their
competitiveness internationally.  Hester was joined by  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  CEO  Peter Sands , who said he too was unsure about the benefits of
Vickers’s planned firebreak, or ringfence.  “I’m pretty skeptical about the benefits,” Sands told
lawmakers. “The notion that one bit of a group with a
ringfenced entity could get into trouble and the other bit would
be completely unaffected would be unlikely to hold.”  The Treasury plans to implement the proposals in full by
2019 and is preparing to put Vickers’s plans into law.  The Vickers proposals also risk creating the perception
that the ringfenced part of a bank will be safer because they
would benefit from an implicit taxpayer guarantee.  Unforeseen Consequences?  “We remain concerned that placing a ringfence between
retail and wholesale banking could exacerbate the inaccurate
perception that ring-fenced banks will be safe, while non-
ringfenced banks will be less safe,” RBS said in written
evidence to the committee today.  Hester also warned there could be unforeseen consequences
of the ringfencing plans for clients of a failed bank.  “You might have a customer who thought that they had a
fixed-rate loan, which is a combination of a floating rate loan
and a swap that made it fixed rate,” Hester said. “But
actually one of those is canceled, non-operative because it’s a
bust entity, and suddenly the customer is exposed” to the risk
that the interest on a loan could suddenly jump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  