-- ETF Fervor Shifts to Loans as Bonds Lose Luster: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-11-13T17:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/etf-fervor-shifts-to-loans-as-bonds-lose-luster-credit-markets.html
Exchange-traded funds that amassed
junk bonds at a record pace in the first half of 2012 are now
attracting unprecedented cash to buy speculative-grade loans as
investors wager that a four-year rally in the notes is ending.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, is planning its first ETF that will mostly buy loans, and
Pyxis Capital LP, spun off from Highland Capital Management LP,
announced its first such fund last week. Invesco Ltd.’s
 PowerShares Senior Loan (BKLN)  fund, started two years ago as the first
ETF solely dedicated to loans, has grown to become the third-
biggest speculative-grade debt ETF with $1.2 billion of assets.  ETFs, which allow investors to speculate on securities
without actually owning them, are shifting into floating-rate
senior loans as concern mounts that junk bonds are losing
momentum after gaining 114 percent since 2008. The gap between
yields on bonds and loans has fallen to less than half the
historic average amid the  Federal Reserve ’s actions to stimulate
the economy.  “Loans are a compelling asset class compared to high yield
at these levels,” said Jason Rosiak, the head of  portfolio
management  at Pacific Asset Management, the Newport Beach,
California-based affiliate of Pacific Life Insurance Co. “ETFs
regardless of the asset class are becoming a more widely used
vehicle to express a view.”  Loan Record  Flows into ETFs that buy bank debt reached a record $124.2
million in the week ended Oct. 24 and have accounted for 17
percent of all deposits into leveraged-loan funds since July,
according to data compiled by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
The average trading volume in PowerShares loan ETF shares has
surged to 1.5 million over the past five days, almost three
times the average over the past six months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  five-biggest ETFs  that focus on speculative-grade
corporate notes have lost $1.61 billion of assets since reaching
a peak of $32 billion on Sept. 20, while the funds that buy
loans on such companies reported $467.6 million of deposits.  Yields on  junk bonds  were 42 basis points more than those
on loans as of Nov. 9, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data.
That compares with an average 103 during the past three years.
Loans were paying as much as 13 basis points more than junk
bonds in mid-September, the analysts said.  Easier Trade  Leveraged loans  are the latest assets to benefit from ETFs
that have attracted buyers from retirees to the biggest banks
because they’re easier to trade than the underlying debt. Loans
trade less frequently than bonds, are only available in over-
the-counter markets to institutional investors and may take
weeks to officially change hands after a sale. Shares of an ETF
trade like stocks and prices are reported in real time.  “Investors have said they want another way to manage their
portfolios,” said  Diane Vazza , the head of  Standard & Poor’s 
global fixed-income research in  New York . “High-yield ETFs were
a natural. Loans are an extension of that.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Volkswagen AG is said to be
planning a sale of dollar-denominated debt in a three-part
offering that includes fixed-and floating-rate notes.  Principal
Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the seller of life insurance and
retirement products that is acquiring Chile’s  AFP Cuprum SA (CUPRUM) , is
said to be offering $800 million of bonds in three parts to help
fund the purchase.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, fell from the highest in more
than three months, declining 1.3 basis points to a mid-price of
105.3 basis points at 12:05 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  on 125
investment-grade companies fell 1 to 131.1.  The indexes typically fall when investor confidence
improves and rise when it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value should a borrower fail to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Volkswagen, the car manufacturer with $12.6 billion of
bonds maturing next year, intends to sell two-year notes with a
floating coupon and fixed-rate three- and five-year securities,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t set. The bonds will be
issued through the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company’s Volkswagen
International Finance unit, the person said.  Principal Offering  Principal may sell debt due in 2017, 2023 and 2043 as soon
as today, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Each portion will be at least $250 million.  Proceeds will help fund a tender offer for Cuprum shares,
the  Des Moines , Iowa-based company said today in a filing.
Principal is acquiring Chile’s fourth-largest pension manager
for $1.5 billion as it looks to add fee income from  Latin
America . The new bonds will be redeemed at 101 cents on the
dollar if the deal is not completed by Nov. 19, 2013.  Blackstone is working with  State Street Corp. (STT)  to create the
Blackstone/GSO Senior Loan Portfolio, which will seek to invest
at least 80 percent of its assets in leveraged loans and trade
under the ticker SRLN, according to a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Oct. 31.  The fund, which aims to return more than the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index, will be overseen by Blackstone
managing directors Daniel McMullen and Lee Shaiman, the document
said. It differs from Invesco’s leveraged-loan ETF in that it
will be actively managed, rather than seeking to mirror the
returns of a benchmark index.  Junk Shift  Pyxis Capital, which is based in  Dallas , and has $2.4
billion under management, started the Pyxis iBoxx Senior Loan
ETF on Nov. 7, the company said in a statement. The fund, which
trades under the ticker SNLN, seeks to track the returns on the
 Markit iBoxx USD Liquid Leveraged Loan index .  Investors funneled $568 million into U.S. leveraged-loan
funds in the five days ended Nov. 7, the most since the week
ended May 18, 2011, with $99 million going to ETFs, according to
data compiled by RBS. The loan funds have reported $3.3 billion
of inflows since Sept. 12 while junk-bond funds in the region
reported $427 million of withdrawals, the data show.  In the first five months of the year, the biggest junk-bond
ETFs increased their assets by $8.16 billion, Bloomberg  data 
show.  Easier Allocation  “People are searching for yield,” said  Deborah Fuhr , who
helped found the London-based research firm ETFGI this year
after heading ETF research at money manager BlackRock Inc.
“It’s harder to find products that historically have been able
to generate  junk-bond  level returns.”  Yields on speculative-grade bonds plunged to a record low
of 6.84 percent on Oct. 18 before rising to 7.1 percent on Nov.
9, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Investment managers are increasingly turning to ETFs since
it’s easier to allocate money by purchasing shares sold at $100
or less, Fuhr said. Bonds are typically available for sale in
$1,000 increments.  The notes have had annualized returns of 22 percent since
December 2008, when the Federal Reserve began holding its
benchmark  interest rates  at zero to 0.25 percent. The central
bank also plans to buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month in
its third round of debt purchases aimed at igniting an economy
that’s expected to grow at a rate of 2 percent next year,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Leveraged loans have  returned  9.3 percent this year and 58
percent since 2008, when spiraling declines in mortgage values
led to the demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Active Role  Loan investors usually play a more active role in
determining new covenants protecting creditors than bond buyers
and may choose to allow a company to amend existing deal
documents, according to  Robert Cohen , a senior credit analyst at
Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $45
billion in assets.  Investors also may want their fund managers to have
expertise in estimating the potential recovery on distressed
credits from the leveraged-buyout boom from 2005 through 2007,
which are a significant part of loan indexes, he said.  “All of these issues suggest that active management is the
way to go,” Cohen said in an e-mail.  Invesco’s ETF has gained 8.7 this year, 0.64 percent less
than the S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 Index that it seeks to
match, Bloomberg data show. It has increased its assets by $1.1
billion this year with its share price rising $1.01 to $24.82,
the data show.  “Because of the really strong demand for high-yield bonds
that we’ve seen for the past year, they’re now yielding about
the same as bank loans,” Rosiak said. “In the near term, I’d
rather be higher up in the  capital structure  and floating-rate
with loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  