-- EU Officials Draft Some Compromises on Basel Bank Law
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-13T18:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/eu-officials-draft-some-compromises-on-basel-bank-law.html
The European Union edged closer to
settling how to impose Basel bank capital rules on its lenders
after officials and lawmakers drafted potential compromises on
parts of the regulatory overhaul.  Officials and lawmakers said a deal on the legislation was
in sight following negotiations yesterday in Brussels. The
measures, known as Basel III, would more than triple the core
capital that lenders must hold as a buffer against insolvency,
and require banks to meet minimum liquidity rules. The European
Parliament has called for curbs on banker bonuses, too.  It’s “possible and probable” that there will be an
agreement on the draft law before the end of the year,  Michel
Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, told
ministers at a meeting in Brussels today. The main outstanding
issues are capital surcharges for systemically important banks
and bonuses, he said.  Nations are  struggling to meet  a Jan 1, 2013, deadline for
starting to apply the revised Basel rules, which were drawn up
by global regulators to prevent any repeat of the financial
crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  The  Financial Stability Board  said on Oct. 31 that only
eight of the 27 countries that drafted the requirements, known
as Basel III, were ready for the 2013 start date. The measures
are scheduled to phase in, and would fully apply from 2019.  ‘Major Step’  The EU’s draft law to apply the rules must be approved by
the EU parliament and by national governments before it can take
effect.  Yesterday’s negotiations were a “major step” toward a
deal, Barnier said. Governments should “redouble their
efforts,” to secure a final agreement with lawmakers, he said.  The rules, prepared by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , toughen the definition of what types of reserves
banks can count toward their core capital. The international
accord also sets minimum amounts of easy-to-sell assets that
banks must hold to survive a credit squeeze, and standards on
stable funding for lenders.  Draft political compromises were reached on 16 points
discussed at yesterday’s meeting,  Othmar Karas , the lawmaker
leading the parliament’s work on the rules, said after the
talks. He said he hoped the remaining issues can be resolved at
meetings next week in Strasbourg,  France .  The parliament has called for a ban on banker bonuses that
exceed fixed pay as part of crackdown against excessive risk
taking. The move has been resisted by governments, which are
concerned about the impact of the measure on competitiveness.  Further Curbs  Barnier said that further curbs on bonuses are “justified
and necessary” and that he backed the parliament’s planned
ban. Nations should “raise their level of ambition” on bonus
curbs, he told reporters today.  The EU should strive for an accord on the Basel law by Dec.
4, when the next regular meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers
takes place, Barnier said.  Barnier also warned nations against seeking too much
freedom to adopt bank capital rules that are tougher than those
required by EU law.  “I know and understand the wish for flexibility,” Barnier
said. “Nevertheless, I consider that this can’t be done to the
detriment of the EU’s common market and even more so not to the
detriment of neighboring countries.”  The debate over flexibility had become intertwined in the
negotiations on the draft Basel law with a push from the EU
parliament to impose extra capital rules on systemically
important banks, Barnier said.  Key Part  Sweden ’s Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said that flexibility
for national regulators to set tougher capital rules had been a
key part of a negotiating position agreed on by finance
ministers in May.  “It’s very important we stick to the general principles of
the agreement,” Borg said at today’s meeting.  U.S. regulators announced last week that they wouldn’t meet
the 2013 deadline.  “I can understand that they need a few extra months,”
Barnier said. “But what I expect is that we respect the
commitments we have all made.”  Barnier said that he is still seeking for the rules to
start applying to EU banks from January.  “We don’t just implement these rules to respond to demands
from the G-20, we do it because our banks need them,” he said.
“The European banking system needs to be more robust.”  The European Banking Federation has called for a delay in
the start date for phasing in Basel III, saying that lenders
have insufficient time to prepare.  “The rules are not yet definitive, and we expect them to
be rapidly finalized,” Barnier said. “For the moment I’m
sticking to the calendar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  