-- EU Plans to Exempt Foreign Flights From Emission Costs in 2012
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-13T17:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/eu-plans-to-exempt-foreign-flights-from-emission-costs-in-2012.html
The European Union won’t reintroduce
emissions-trading obligations on flights into and out of the
region for 2012 even if  United Nations  negotiators fail to agree
next year on a deal to limit discharges from airlines.  The freeze on compliance with EU carbon rules for foreign
flights, announced yesterday, is intended to facilitate
international talks about emission curbs on airlines. The
compliance requirements for all flights in 2013 remain
unchanged, an EU official said in Brussels today.  The 27-nation EU decided in 2008 that flights to and from
European airports should be included within the bloc’s emissions
trading system, the world’s largest, from this year after
airline emissions in the region doubled over two decades. The
enlargement of the European cap-and-trade program triggered
opposition from countries including the U.S.,  China  and  Russia .  Progress at a meeting of the United Nations’  International
Civil Aviation Organization  last week made a global deal on
emissions from airlines “within reach” next year, EU Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said yesterday, when she announced
the regulator’s plan to freeze the enforcement of European
carbon rules on foreign flights.  ICAO Deal  Should ICAO negotiators fail to reach a deal next year, the
ETS requirements for all flights will automatically resume,
obliging carriers to submit permits to cover all their 2013
carbon discharges by April 30, 2014. The draft measure is not
retroactive, meaning even without a deal operators of flights
into and out of the EU won’t need to pay for emissions in 2012,
said the EU official, who declined to be identified, citing
policy.  Under EU law, the commission should consider whether
changes to the emissions  program  are necessary in the light of a
global agreement.  The draft measure will need support from  member states  and
the European Parliament in a process that can take several
months. A delay in approval beyond April 30 should not impact
the proposed freeze as national governments don’t act against a
proposal tabled by the commission in such situations, according
to the official.  The freeze wouldn’t apply to flights within Europe, whose
operators will have to submit permits matching 2012 discharges
from such flights by the end of April. It won’t affect 2013
allocation and auctioning plans either, the official said.  Annual Limit  The EU ETS is the cornerstone of the region’s plan to cut
 greenhouse gases  that scientists blame for global warming. It
imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 manufacturers and
power companies, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21
percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters have to submit one
emission permit for every metric ton of CO2 they discharge or
pay a fine of 100 euros per ton.  The annual limit for the aviation industry began at 97
percent of average discharges from 2004 to 2006 and will fall to
95 percent in 2013. This year’s cap for the EU’s 27 member
states and Norway and  Iceland , which also participate in the
ETS, was set 214.8 million allowances.  Airlines that joined the ETS this year were given emission
permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap for free and
will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at auctions. They can
also trade among themselves.  The proposed freeze would affect around two-thirds of
flights, the EU official said. The commission will revise the
number of permits to be auctioned this year, potentially cutting
the volume to about 8 million from about 32 million metric tons,
and will cancel free allowances given to carriers for
international flights, according to the official.  Airlines that already sold free allowances that are to be
canceled will need to buy them back, the official said. EU
permits for delivery in December traded 6.9 percent down at 8.45
euros as of 5:06 p.m. on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, down
20 percent from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  