-- EU’s Juncker Confident IMF to Remain in Greek Aid Program
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-13T12:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/eu-s-juncker-confident-imf-to-remain-in-greek-aid-program.html
The euro area and the International
Monetary Fund will be able to work out a disagreement over the
timeline for reducing  Greece ’s debt load, Luxembourg Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said after the discord helped push
the euro down for a fifth day.  “I am confident that the IMF will stay on board” with
Greece’s aid program, Juncker said today in an interview in
Hingene,  Belgium . The IMF has contributed about one-third of
148.6 billion euros ($189 billion) in loans to Greece since
2010.  While euro-area finance chiefs at a meeting yesterday
pushed back the goal of getting Greece’s debt down to a
“sustainable” level of 120 percent of economic output by two
years until 2022, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said
the timetable “has to be 2020.”  Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said all agreed that Greece’s debt level must be
“sustainable,” adding that talks on the next steps for the
nation are continuing.  “The IMF is within its rights to be asking Europeans to
bring the necessary attention to the debt-reduction problem,”
Juncker said. “Some of us believe that this 120 percent level
could be postponed to the year 2022,” he said, adding that
“there’s no real dispute with the IMF.”  The discord helped push the euro to a two-month low against
the dollar before the currency rebounded from its lows after
German newspaper Bild-Zeitung reported that  Germany  favored
combining aid payments for Greece into a single package. The
euro traded at $1.2701 at 1:45 p.m. in Brussels, down less than
0.1 percent on the day after trading as low as $1.2662 earlier.  ‘Biggest Issue’  “It appears that the biggest issue that needs to be
resolved is what role the IMF will play in the program,” said
Dermot O’Leary, chief economist at Dublin-based Goodbody
Stockbrokers. The IMF’s Lagarde “is clearly pushing for debt
reduction to be part of the next program for Greece.”  The euro-area finance chiefs also gave Greece two extra
years -- until 2016 -- to cut its budget deficit to 2 percent of
gross domestic product. The ministers delayed until Nov. 20 a
decision on how to cover additional Greek financing needs of as
much as 32.6 billion euros ($41 billion).  “Greece has done a big part of what it was supposed to do,
adopted an ambitious reform program and a budget for 2013 that’s
impressive,” Juncker told reporters late yesterday in Brussels
after leading the meeting of euro-area finance ministers.  “We have an ongoing debate on the adjustment calendar”
for Greece’s finances, Juncker said today in Hingene.  “Debt sustainability of Greece has to be measured in
2020,” Lagarde said. “We clearly have different views. What
matters at the end of the day is the sustainability of the Greek
debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  