-- European Cross-Border Bank M&A Unlikely Soon, UBS Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-11-13T15:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/european-cross-border-bank-m-a-unlikely-in-near-term-ubs-says.html
Cross-border European financial-
services takeovers are unlikely to pick up in the next 18 months
as regulatory change makes it harder for banks to allocate
capital and tough market conditions persist,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said.  Basel III rules on bank liquidity and capital, combined
with proposals from European Union officials last month that
would put greater regulations on trading activities and bonuses,
have created “uncertainties” for banks seeking deals, said
Edouard de Vitry, co-head of financial institutions for  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  at UBS investment banking, said at a
conference the bank organized in London today.  “Even the best European banks aren’t willing to commit
capital to large acquisitions at the moment,” said de Vitry.
“That’s not going to disappear before uncertainty of the
regulatory landscape and progress of the euro zone is further
established.”  Announced deals involving a European bank this year have
dropped by more than a third to about $76 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg shows.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said in June that it won’t
sell its RREEF alternative asset-management unit to Guggenheim
Partners LLC, six weeks after ending talks with the U.S. firm
about the sale of three other asset-management divisions.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, ranks eighth among
advisers on global bank mergers and acquisitions this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Zurich-based firm
is exiting most of its fixed-income business to boost
profitability at the rest of the investment bank.  Smaller Deals  A group led by  Erkki Liikanen , a member of the  European
Central Bank ’s governing council, presented a report on Oct. 2
that proposed forcing EU banks to push much of their trading
activities into separately capitalized units. The separation
rule would apply to banks with available-for-sale assets valued
at more than 100 billion euros ($127 billion) or that amount to
more than 15 percent to 25 percent of a lender’s total assets.  “It’s unlikely that we will see a massive wave of large,
cross-border M&A transactions over 1 billion euros in the next
18 months or so,” de Vitry said. The deals that are taking
place are on a “much smaller scale,” he said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the biggest U.K. state-
owned bank, said last month that  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
pulled out of an agreement to buy 316 branches. That deal was
valued at about 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) and coincided
with increasing regulatory pressure on Spanish banks to bolster
capital amid mounting real estate losses at home.  Some euro-region banks are more troubled than their U.K.
counterparts because their deposit-to-asset ratios are lower and
they have become too dependent on central bank financing, said
Alistair Ryan, co-head of European bank research at UBS.  U.K. ‘Fixed’  “U.K. banks are liquid, well-funded and extremely well-
capitalized,” Ryan said at the briefing. “They were broken and
they are now fixed. I think the euro area is very much behind
that, partly because the ECB was so effective around 2007 and
2008 providing liquidity to the banks.”  Separately, Robert Ellison, UBS’s head of European debt
capital markets for financial institutions, said there may be a
third ECB longer-term refinancing operation next year.  “I think there will be an LTRO next year,” he said. “It
will come earlier than people expect, and there will be some
banks that are unable to wean themselves off” the central
bank’s funding, he said.  In December and February, the ECB offered banks unlimited
three-year loans after funding markets froze and yields on
southern European government debt hit euro-era records. The move
helped to reduce yields on both bank and government bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  