-- Dollar Weakens as Fed Minutes Suggest More Bond Buying
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-14T22:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/euro-trades-near-two-month-low-before-industrial-production-data.html
The dollar fell the most versus the
euro in two weeks after the minutes from the latest Federal
Reserve meeting showed a number of officials favored additional
monetary stimulus next year.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fluctuated on concern an expansion of the
Fed’s monthly purchase of bonds may undermine the currency. The
yen fell the most in eight months against the dollar amid
speculation the opposition political party will win power and
pressure the central bank into a more aggressive easing policy.
The pound fell after the Bank of England lowered its growth
forecasts.  “We’ve tempered the potential for dollar gains,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s
RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We are baking in
that there will be easing over the course of next year, even
with the U.S. growth story.”  The dollar fell as much as 0.6 percent to $1.2778, the
biggest decline since Oct. 30, before trading down 0.3 percent
at $1.2736 as of 5 p.m.  New York  time. The yen tumbled 1.1
percent to 80.25 per dollar after declining 1.2 percent,
matching the biggest drop since March 9. The Japanese currency
fell 1.4 percent to 102.20 per euro after dropping 1.6 percent,
the largest decline against the common currency since Sept. 14.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback versus six
major peers, rose for a sixth day, gaining 0.1 percent to
81.140.  FOMC Minutes  A number of Fed officials said the central bank may need to
expand its monthly purchases of bonds after the December
expiration of what’s become known as Operation Twist, according
to minutes of their October meeting.  The Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries on its balance
sheet for longer-term debt. The central bank in addition is
buying $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities in a third
round of so-called quantitative easing aimed at fueling economic
growth and reducing unemployment.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  joined three other Fed
officials who have endorsed tying zero  interest rates  with
progress on fighting unemployment as a way to provide more
clarity on the central bank’s outlook for monetary policy.  South Korea ’s won rose against all its major counterparts
and climbed to a 14-month high against the greenback. Bank of
Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a forum in  Seoul  today
domestic economic growth will “bounce back” next year as
global conditions improve. The won gained 0.4 percent to
1,085.05 per dollar.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened against most of its major
counterparts after retail sales in the South Pacific nation
dropped 0.4 percent in the third quarter, compared to a forecast
rise of 0.4 percent.  Key Support  The kiwi, nicknamed for the image of the flightless bird on
its one dollar coin, has risen 4.3 percent this year against the
U.S. currency. It fell 0.7 percent to 81.02 U.S. cents after
dropping as much as 0.9 percent.  The South Pacific currency may fall to 79.15, its lowest
level since Sept. 5, if it declines past the key support area
from 80.77 to 81, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote today in a note to
clients. The kiwi tested and failed to rise past 82.50 last
week, which pushed it back down toward the support range, he
said. Support refers to an area on a chart where buy orders may
be gathered.  The BOJ increased its asset-purchase program by 11 trillion
yen to 66 trillion yen ($822 billion) on Oct. 30, saying the
central bank and the government will make the “ utmost ” efforts
to overcome deflation. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board
next meet on Nov. 19-20.  ‘More Aggressive’  Speaking in  Japan ’s parliament a day after the  Democratic
Party  of Japan agreed with the two main opposition parties on
legislation to fund the rest of this year’s budget, Noda said he
would dissolve the lower house on Nov. 16 if a deal is reached
to cut the number of lawmakers in the chamber. Shinzo Abe, head
of the  Liberal Democratic Party  and a former prime minister,
said he agreed.  “The fundamental backdrop for dollar-yen is becoming more
conducive to yen weakness,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with
Sara Eisen. “Now that the BOJ is looking to become more
aggressive, we think, as a result of the political dynamics in
Japan, that would mean interest-rate differentials would start
to push against the yen.”  Pound Falls  A stronger yen makes Japanese products costlier overseas,
reducing the competitiveness of domestic exporters, while it
cuts the value of income earned abroad when repatriated. The yen
is 6 percent from its post-World War II record high of 75.35
against the dollar reached Oct. 31, 2011.  Sterling slipped 0.4 percent to 80.40 pence per euro, after
reaching 80.49 pence, the weakest level since Oct. 31 after the
 Bank of England  said the U.K. economy may shrink in the current
quarter.  “The weaker gross domestic product profile reflects the
judgment that the broader causes and repercussions of the
financial crisis may bear down more forcefully on demand and
productivity than assumed” previously, the central bank said in
its quarterly Inflation Report published in  London  today.
“There seems a greater risk that the U.K. economy may be in a
period of persistent low growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  