-- Texas Leads U.S. in Thanksgiving Fires as Diners Fry Turkeys
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-11-13T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/texas-leads-u-s-in-thanksgiving-fires-as-diners-fry-turkeys.html
Texas  had the highest number of
Thanksgiving cooking-related fire claims from 2007 through 2011
as deep-frying turkey led to more accidental blazes, State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. said.  Texans filed 19 such claims on the holiday over the past
five years, according to a report released today by State Farm,
the biggest U.S. home and car insurer.  Illinois  and  New York 
each reported 18 claims, followed by Ohio and  Florida  with 13
apiece. Data for individual years weren’t released.  “Frying the turkeys seems to be kind of a fad that took
off here 10 years ago or so,” Mark Hanna, a spokesman at the
Insurance Council of Texas, said in a phone interview. “More
and more people have tried it instead of just sticking it in the
oven, maybe found it was more exciting to cook it outside.”  More cooking fires occur on Thanksgiving than any other
day, State Farm said. Twice as many cooking-related claims are
filed from the holiday blazes than on any other day in November.  “It’s a very, very easy time to get distracted,” Heather
Paul, a State Farm spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.
“You’ve got people at your house, maybe you’ve got something
going on on the TV, and it just takes a second for you to turn
your back on it to have a fire be able to get out of control.”  The number of Thanksgiving claims nationwide was cut almost
in half from 66 in 2010 to 36 in 2011, Bloomington, Illinois-
based State Farm said. Paul credits the safety  video  released by
the insurer last year and starring actor  William Shatner , who
has burned himself using a turkey fryer.  “I love to fry turkey and have been doing it for years,
but I am not immune to frying accidents,” Shatner said.
“People need to remember that hot oil and turkey can be a
dangerous combination.”  U.S. fire departments respond to more than 1,000 fires
involving a deep fryer each year, according to the National Fire
Protection Association. The fires cause $15 million in property
damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut@bloomberg.net  