-- Mexico, U.S. Agree to Fight Stolen Phone Trafficking
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-11-13T20:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/mexico-u-s-agree-to-fight-stolen-phone-trafficking.html
Mexican and U.S. officials agreed to
increase cooperation to combat cross-border trafficking of
stolen mobile telephones.  Hector Olavarria Tapia, under-secretary of communications
of  Mexico ’s Secretariat of Communications and Transport, and
U.S. Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  signed an agreement pledging steps that include
promoting the use of security features such as personal
identification numbers and passwords.  “We’re continuing to crack down on the stolen phone
market,” Genachowski said at a signing ceremony at FCC
headquarters in Washington.  Mobile-phone theft is a growing problem, with more than 40
percent of robberies in Washington, New York and other major
cities involving smartphones and other wireless devices,
Genachowski said.  Mexican and U.S. wireless companies have agreed to
participate in international registries of stolen devices,
Olavarria and Genachowski said. Companies can disable devices
reported stolen, killing the phones’ worth on black markets.  U.S. mobile carriers led by Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) 
in April agreed to disable smartphones that are reported stolen.  Steps in Mexico and the U.S. to fight stolen-phone use
could create an incentive to export the phones, and authorities
wanted to get ahead of the problem, Washington Police Chief
 Cathy Lanier  said at the signing ceremony.  “When you squeeze one end of it to shut it down, it’s
going to move somewhere else,” Lanier said. “We didn’t want
that to happen.”  “It’s not a big problem right now. We don’t want it to
become a big problem,” Lanier said.  Thefts Increase  Officials don’t have good statistics on the extent of
cross-border trade in stolen phones, Genachowski said.  In July, the main mobile network operators in Latin America
agreed to connect to a stolen handset database, according to a
news release posted on the website of GSMA, a mobile-carriers
trade group.  Participants provide more than 500 million mobile
connections and include America Movil SAB, the biggest mobile-
phone carrier in the Americas by subscribers, and companies in
 Panama , Bolivia,  Chile , Colombia and the Dominican Republic, the
trade group said. Earlier, companies in Costa Rica, El Salvador,
 Guatemala ,  Honduras  and Panama collaborated to identify stolen
phones, GSMA said.  Across the U.S. there has been a sharp increase in
robberies of communication devices including phones, smartphones
and tablet computers, often through violent attacks, the Major
Cities Chiefs Association said in a Feb. 12 resolution. The
group represents police chiefs in the 50 largest U.S. cities,
including New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and Los Angeles.  In the agreement signed today, the U.S. and Mexico agreed
to “closely track, analyze, and report progress in preventing
mobile device theft” and work together on ways to educate
consumers about mobile-device security, according to an FCC news
release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  