-- Mexico Shoving Companies Like OGX From Top 500: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-11-13T15:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/mexico-shoving-companies-like-ogx-from-top-500-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil is losing to  Mexico  in the
ranking of the world’s 500 most-valuable companies as economic
growth falters in the South American country and President Dilma
Rousseff’s interventionist policies erode investor confidence.  The number of Brazilian companies among the world’s biggest
by market value fell to 10 from 15 two years ago, while Mexico’s
rose to nine from five as the country benefited from an economic
rebound in the neighboring U.S., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The one-company differential is the smallest since
1998. Shares of oil company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
and power utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  fell the
most in Brazil during the period, pushing both off the list.  The Bovespa index has  declined  33 percent in dollar terms
in the past two years as Rousseff reneged on utility contracts,
pressured banks to reduce profit margins, forced the country’s
biggest oil company to charge below-market gasoline prices and
weakened the real. The rout, which erased $323 billion in market
value, was the worst in the Western Hemisphere after  Argentina ’s
41 percent plunge.  “The government’s maneuvers have been a big surprise to
investors,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps manage $2.5 billion
of assets as a London-based director of global  emerging markets 
for Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said in a phone interview.
“They may be creating a better future for Brazilian people, but
there’s a balance that has to be struck between the investors
who provide the capital and the consumers.”  Slowing Growth  Foreign money managers sold a net $2.6 billion of Brazilian
stocks in the past two months, the most since the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to BM&FBovespa SA
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average price-to-earnings ratio
of members of the benchmark index jumped to 19.2 this month from
9 in September 2011 as profits tumbled.  Rousseff has turned to more interventionist policies in a
bid to spark a rebound in  Latin America ’s biggest economy. Gross
domestic product will expand 1.5 percent this year, according to
the median estimate from about 100 economists in a central bank
survey released yesterday. That would be the second-slowest pace
in nine years. Growth of 2.7 percent in 2011 lagged behind
emerging-market peers India and  China . Earnings among members of
the Bovespa index have dropped 52 percent from their September
2011 peak.  A report from the national statistics agency today showed
that  Brazil ’s gauge of  broad retail sales , which includes
construction materials and auto sales, rose 2 percent in
September from a year earlier. The increase was the smallest in
almost a year and trailed all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
20 economists.  Eletrobras Plunge  Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is known, fell to the
world’s 1,334th biggest company from 330th in 2010. Its shares
have plunged 49 percent this year, wiping out $7.6 billion of
market value, as the government forces power utilities seeking
concession renewals to cut rates by as much as 28 percent in an
attempt to curb inflation and boost the competitiveness of
Brazilian manufacturers.  OGX, the oil producer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , has sunk 77 percent in the past two years, the most
among the 15 Brazilian companies that were listed as the world’s
biggest in 2010.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company, which reached a record-
high of 23.27 reais in October 2010, is the worst performer on
the Bovespa index this year after cutting its first project
production targets by as much as 75 percent. OGX said on June 26
that it plans to stabilize production at 5,000 barrels a day at
each of its two wells at the Tubarao Azul field, down from an
initial target of 20,000 barrels daily.  Petrobras Underperformance  State-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s largest
company, slumped to the world’s 35th biggest from 10th in 2010.
Shares have dropped 4.9 percent in  Sao Paulo  this year after
tumbling 21 percent in 2011. The producer, which announced in
2008 the biggest oil discovery in the Western Hemisphere since
1976, has underperformed its main competitors since its $70
billion share offering in 2010 diluted minority shareholders’
ownership when the government used oil to pay for a stake.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, posted in the
three months ending in June its first quarterly loss since 1999,
and reported earnings that trailed estimates in the third
quarter. While  sales growth  has been curbed as the government
resists higher fuel prices in Brazil to avoid faster inflation,
drilling costs have increased as the producer tries to abide by
the so-called local-content rule, which obligates it to purchase
70 percent of its equipment from domestic suppliers.  ‘Lost Confidence’  “Since the share offering in 2010, investors completely
lost confidence in the company’s ability to keep away from the
government’s interventions,” Saulo Sabba, who helps manage 500
million reais ($243 million) as a director at Banco Maxima SA,
said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “Other
sectors have suffered from these concerns as well. We don’t know
how banks will do now that government-owned banks are pushing
borrowing costs lower and lower.”  Shares of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s biggest
bank by market value, have fallen 29 percent in the past two
years. The lender is now the 101st most valuable company in the
world, down from 53rd two years ago. Rousseff said in a
nationally-televised speech on Sept. 6 that she “won’t rest
until” lenders further reduce lending rates to consumers.  BRF Brasil Foods SA, Brazil’s largest maker of TV dinners
and frozen pizzas, was also cut out of the list of the 500 most
valuable companies, along with petrochemicals group Ultrapar
Participacoes SA and steelmakers Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
and Gerdau SA. Souza Cruz SA, the Brazilian maker of the Lucky
Strike and Dunhill brands, and Telefonica Brasil SA, a unit of
 Spain ’s largest phone company, were added to the group.  Mexico’s Outlook  Coke bottler Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, silver producers
Industrias Penoles SAB and Fresnillo Plc, and Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB were the Mexican companies included in the
list of the world’s most valuable.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy is outpacing growth
in Brazil for the second year, boosted by a pickup in automotive
exports as the recovery strengthens in the U.S., Mexico’s
biggest trading partner. The Mexican IPC benchmark index has
gained 10 percent this year and trades at 16.3 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, which compares
with a ratio of 15.5 times for the Bovespa.  Coca-Cola Femsa has boosted revenue with three acquisitions
in the past year, adding to a revenue surge driven by increasing
Coke consumption in Mexico, which has the largest per capita
 intake  of the soft drink. Penoles has benefited from a surge in
silver prices, which have risen 16 percent in the past two
years.  Currency Intervention  Rousseff’s measures to weaken the real to boost exports and
shield Brazil from increasing competition from imported goods
also contributed to the drop in companies’ market value. The
real has slumped 9 percent this year, the worst performance
after Argentina’s peso among 25 major emerging-market
currencies, as policy makers carried out the biggest interest-
rate cuts in the Group of 20 and bought dollars in the foreign-
exchange market. Mexico’s peso gained 5.5 percent in the same
period.  The spots lost to Mexico among the world’s 500 biggest
companies aren’t a sign that Brazil’s importance in the global
economy is shrinking because a drop in commodities accounted for
some of the lower market values on companies including the
steelmakers, said Oliver Leyland at Mirae Asset Global
Investments.  Growth Outlook  “A lot of what happened with Brazil’s biggest companies
has to do with a slump in commodities prices, not with the
country’s fundamentals,” Leyland, who helps manage about 1
billion reais in stocks, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The Brazilian economy is doing relatively well. Brazil
even surpassed the U.K. as the world’s sixth biggest economy.”  The outlook for growth in Brazil will depend on how clear
the government is about its plans for some industries including
energy and banks, given that the measures Rousseff has taken
made investors more cautious about investing in the country,
Henderson’s Palmer said.  “We don’t know enough about what the government thinks is
an adequate return on capital,” he said. “If returns become
too low because of legislation or regulation for any industry,
if taxes go to high on mining sector or Petrobras is required to
take too many non-core social-economic responsibilities, then
capital will go elsewhere. That’s why share prices fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  