-- ECB Counters Germany on Supervisor’s Oversight of Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-13T18:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/france-calls-for-eu-to-press-ahead-on-bank-supervisor-in-2012.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said a common bank supervisor under its control
would need power over all euro-area institutions, countering
Germany’s push to limit central oversight to systemically
important firms.  The ECB must be able to assert control over all banks in
participating countries, even if the system is set up “in a
very decentralized way,” Constancio told EU finance chiefs in
Brussels today. Speaking to reporters, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  advocated the curbs on its authority.  “We would be against any kind of two-tier system in this
respect,” Constancio said during public debate. The Frankfurt-
based ECB wants “to retain some powers and right of initiative
in the center of the single supervisory mechanism” to deal with
imbalances that threaten financial and economic stability.  EU leaders agreed in June and October to move forward with
common ECB-led bank supervision to separate financial-sector
risks from sovereign debt troubles, with the goal of agreeing on
a political framework by Jan. 1. If a common supervisor is set
up next year, it would open the door for the euro area’s
firewall fund to offer direct aid to banks.  “It’s ambitious, but it’s a particularly important
project,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told
reporters today. “This work will still take a few weeks,”
though an agreement can be reached by year-end, he said.  Unified System  Moscovici called for a “fully unified” supervisory system
when the ECB takes up its new role, a call echoed by Italian
Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli . Finance ministers mostly
differ on how long it will take to set up the new supervisor,
Grilli said, predicting a deal in coming months.  No bank will be left “out of this framework, all are part
of it,” Grilli said after the meetings, adding that “the ECB
sets the rule and can intervene whenever” it thinks it’s right
to act.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden stressed caution.
The plan drew skepticism from countries outside the 17-nation
euro zone. Sweden’s Anders Borg said there might be a need for
“technical treaty change” if the new supervisor is housed at
the ECB with the potential to supervise banks outside the
currency bloc, as proposed.  Frieden predicted it would take “several more months” to
iron out differences on the shape of bank supervision. The EU
needs to work out how the supervisor will interact with the
entire 27-nation single market and how the European Banking
Authority would adapt, he said.  Objective Sought  “It’s necessary first and foremost to decide what is the
objective of this banking union,” Frieden said. “If the
objective is to intervene when banks are in difficulty, we will
find another solution than if it is to replace national
authorities. I think we need a mix.”  Luxembourg last week joined  Germany ,  Finland  and the
Netherlands in seeking broad changes to the EU’s initial
proposal, which grants the ECB broad powers. Today, Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the ECB should wield
top authority once the new system is established.  “You should come up with a division of tasks that lets
national supervisors do a big part of the work, yet always under
ultimate responsibility” of the ECB, Dijsselbloem told
reporters. “A group of small banks can cause risks for the
financial sector or for the real economy. If those risks occur,
the ECB should be able to intervene.”  EBA Role  The ECB’s Constancio pledged that the central bank would
not seek an outsized role at the EBA, which handles disputes
among regulators from all 27 EU nations. The central bank
doesn’t have a view on how EBA voting should look in the future
and will accept being treated “like any other supervisor,” he
said.  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  has
proposed a system where the ECB would have final say over all
banks within its remit on issues that could affect financial
stability, while working closely with national authorities on
day-to-day issues.  Barnier urged nations to agree on a political framework
quickly during today’s talks. During a press conference, he said
the U.K. has raised “legitimate concerns” about EBA voting and
that efforts to design specific revisions on this issue are
under way.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  