-- Fund Managers Used Corrupt Chain to Make Money, Jury Told
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-13T20:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/fund-managers-used-corrupt-chain-to-make-money-jury-told.html
Level Global co-founder Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman, a former  fund manager  for Diamondback
Capital Management LLC, used a “corrupt chain” of insiders at
public companies to make more than $70 million for their funds,
a prosecutor told a jury at the start of the men’s trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe said today in
opening statements in federal court in  Manhattan  that Chiasson
and Newman were part of a group of portfolio managers, analysts
and technology company employees who were friends and reaped
millions of dollars by trading on illegal stock tips in  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Four members of the group agreed to plead guilty and will
testify for the government, Tarlowe said.  Chiasson made more than $57 million trading on Dell and
about $10 million on Nvidia, the prosecutor said. Newman made
about $3.8 million from Dell trades and earned about $48,000 on
Nvidia, he said.  “They used a corrupt chain of people to get the
information into the hands of the defendants,” Tarlowe said.
“The defendants chose to break the law. Why? Because they
wanted to make big money for themselves and for their  hedge
funds .”  Chiasson and Newman are charged with conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and five counts of  securities fraud . The latter
crime is punishable by as long as 20 years in prison. Both men
pleaded not guilty.  Guilty Pleas  Of the eight people charged in the case, six pleaded guilty
to  insider trading , including Jesse Tortora, a former
Diamondback analyst; Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, an analyst at
New York-based Level Global; and Danny Kuo, a former analyst at
Whittier Trust Co., a South Pasadena, California-based wealth-
management company.  Jurors will hear from conspirators including Tortora, who
will testify he passed illicit tips to Newman and Adondakis, the
prosecutor said. Tortora passed illegal tips to Newman, and
Adondakis passed illicit information to Chiasson, he said.  “These witnesses will paint a compelling picture of a
corrupt network of professionals who chose to break the rules
and trade on inside information to make a quick buck,” Tarlowe
said.  Stephen Fishbein, a lawyer for Newman, said his client
didn’t know the information provided to him by Tortora, the
Diamondback stock analyst, was obtained illegally.  “ Todd Newman  worked hard for his hedge fund,” Fishbein
said. “He did not cheat. He did not steal. He did not try to
get inside information.”  Mixed Data  Newman didn’t know confidential information was mixed with
legitimate research data provided by Tortora -- “information
that Mr. Tortora now says he obtained illegally,” Fishbein told
the jury.  “Mr. Newman did not know anything, because he was far
removed from the sources of inside information, and Tortora made
it look like he was conducting legitimate, honest research,”
the defense attorney said.  In 2008, when the alleged illegal Dell trades occurred,
Newman traded on more than 100 stocks a day and relied upon
analysts to prepare research for him, Fishbein said. After
Newman fired Tortora, the analyst held a grudge against his
former boss and the hedge fund, the lawyer said.  Chiasson’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , told jurors that his
client had no idea that Adondakis was passing illicit nonpublic
information to his client.  ‘Fight Club’  Adondakis, Tortora and company insiders were members of a
clique of friends who called themselves “the Fight Club” after
a Brad Pitt film, which passed on nonpublic information that was
unrelated to his client, the lawyer said.  “You will learn Adondakis was a criminal,” Weingarten
told jurors. “He is an easy, practiced liar, and when it is in
Sam Adondakis’s interest, he will lie,” Weingarten said. After
the FBI approached him, Adondakis decided to implicate his
friends as well as Chiasson, the lawyer said.  The case is the latest in a series of insider-trading cases
that last month yielded a two-year prison sentence for the
government’s highest-profile target, former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Director Rajat Gupta. Gupta was convicted of insider
trading for conspiring with Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. The fund manager is serving a term of 11 years in
prison.  Of 72 people charged with insider trading by U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara ’s Manhattan office since August 2009, 69 have
pleaded guilty or were convicted at one of six trials. One man
remains a fugitive.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 