-- Gasoline Falls on Europe Debt Crisis, U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-13T14:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/gasoline-falls-on-europe-debt-crisis-u-s-budget-talks.html
Gasoline fell on concern that
economic growth may slow as European leaders disagreed on how
 Greece  would repay its debt and a budget showdown loomed in
Washington between President  Barack Obama  and House Republicans.  Futures slid a second day as euro-area finance ministers
put off until Nov. 20 a decision on financing Greek debt. Obama
will meet tomorrow with corporate executives on his plan to
impose higher taxes on the wealthy to cut the deficit and avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff and risking another recession.  “A lot of people are nervous and avoiding risk,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “There’s uncertainty over Greece. And no doubt, the
prospect of the fiscal cliff is making us nervous as well.”  Gasoline for December delivery fell 3.86 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $2.6377 a gallon at 9:36 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Obama is counting on support from executives such as
General Electric Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt to
pressure lawmakers to make a deal before January when $607
billion in automatic tax hikes and spending take effect.  U.S. gasoline  inventories  probably rose 800,000 barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of seven analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. The Energy Department will report last
week’s inventories on Nov. 15, a day later than usual because of
the Veteran’s Day federal holiday yesterday.  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  may say in its SpendingPulse report today
that retail demand failed to recover last week because of
continued supply disruptions on the East Coast, John Gamel, a
gasoline analyst and director of economic analysis for
SpendingPulse, said in an interview Nov. 9.  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline demand sank 2.4 percent in the week ended Nov. 2
to an eight-month low and might have fallen more, except the
seven days covered in the report included the weekend before the
storm, when drivers were filling their tanks, Gamel said.  The U.S. Thanksgiving holiday is Nov. 22. AAA, the largest
U.S. motoring organization, will release its projections at
10:45 a.m. in  Washington  for travel during the four-day holiday
period, which begins Nov. 21.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  rose 0.3
cent to $3.440 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. Since
Oct. 7, prices are down 37.8 cents. The pump price reached a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  December-delivery heating oil declined 4.06 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $2.9586 a gallon on the exchange. Supplies of
distillates, including diesel and heating oil, probably fell
500,000 barrels last week, according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  