-- Gaza Rockets Dwindle After Militants Ask Israel for Truce
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-11-13T14:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/gaza-rockets-dwindle-after-militants-ask-israel-for-cease-fire.html
Rocket attacks from the  Gaza Strip 
into Israel dwindled to two today, after Palestinian militant
groups said they would cease fire if Israel refrained from
military strikes.  Israeli military aircraft hit three targets in Gaza
overnight, striking a weapons storage facility and two launching
sites, the army said in an e-mailed statement. No injuries were
reported from the strikes, Gaza officials said.  Gaza militants have fired more than 115 rockets into Israel
since Nov. 10, according to the army. Several were intercepted
by the Iron Dome anti-missile system. Even as calm returned,
Israeli leaders said they reserved the right to act in Gaza and
warned of a larger military operation if rocket fire and cross-
border attacks do not completely cease.  “Hamas and the other terrorist organizations are suffering
as a result of intense strikes in Gaza,” Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said today in an e-mailed statement. “But it is certainly
not over and we will decide how and when to act if necessary.”  Hamas convened a meeting of Palestinian militant groups in
Gaza last night to reach agreement on a truce in rocket attacks.
Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri told reporters after the meeting
that “the response of resistance will depend on the extent of
the Israeli aggression against our people.”  Iron Dome  The latest violence in the south escalated when Palestinian
militants fired an anti-tank missile at an Israeli patrol along
the Gaza Strip border fence on Nov. 10, wounding four soldiers.
The Israeli military responded with tank shelling and air
strikes into Gaza, killing seven people and wounding more than
30, according to Ashraf al-Qedra, spokesman for the Hamas-run
Health Ministry in Gaza. A seventh Palestinian died of his
wounds today, al-Qedra said.  Amid the concern over Gaza, Israel also faces the prospect
that fighting between forces loyal to Syrian Bashar al-Assad and
rebels seeking to oust him could destabilize its quietest
frontier since the 1973 Middle East war. Mortars fired from
 Syria  struck the Israeli-controlled side of the  Golan Heights  on
Nov. 11 and 12, spurring retaliatory fire from Israeli forces.  Maintaining Calm  “We have no interest in interfering with developments in
Syria,” Israeli President  Shimon Peres  said today in an e-
mailed statement from his office. “The message is clear that we
don’t want to involve ourselves in the conflict, but just to
maintain the calm on the border.”  Israel’s shekel strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.9278 per
dollar as of 4:13 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , after weakening as much as
0.7 percent yesterday.  The Islamic Hamas movement seized control of Gaza from
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party in
2007, ending a partnership government a year after winning
parliamentary elections. The group refuses to recognize Israel
or any prior deals signed with it, and is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Israel  sent troops into Gaza in December 2008 for a three-
week offensive it said was aimed at stopping rocket attacks.
More than 1,000 Palestinians and at least 13 Israelis were
killed in the fighting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  