-- Geithner Says Capping Deductions Won’t Be Enough
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-11-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/geithner-says-higher-u-s-income-taxes-unavoidable.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. must raise personal income-tax rates on
the highest earners to reduce long-term budget deficits because
capping deductions won’t raise enough revenue.  President  Barack Obama  is “not prepared to extend the
upper-income tax cuts,” Geithner said yesterday at the Wall
Street Journal’s CEO Council meeting in Washington. “There’s
obviously universal support for the middle-class tax cuts. Doing
that would remove the greatest source of anxiety and much of the
greatest risk in the fiscal cliff.”  Geithner comments set a marker between the administration
and Republican lawmakers as they prepare for talks on an
agreement to reduce long-term budget deficits and to avoid $607
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect
Jan. 1. The  Congressional Budget Office  has forecast that the
so-called fiscal cliff would push the economy into a recession
next year.  Obama has said repeatedly that he won’t extend the Bush-era
tax cuts for the highest-income Americans and his spokesman,  Jay Carney , on Nov. 9 said the president would veto “any bill”
that extends the current rates for the top 2 percent of wage
earners.  The same day, House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , cited public support for the re-elected House
Republican majority and said tax rates must not go up.  Tax-Code Overhaul  Still, Boehner has emphasized opposition to higher tax
rates, rather than talking about higher taxes or higher
revenues. He has endorsed the idea of higher revenue through an
overhaul of the  tax code  without saying explicitly whether he
would support a tax increase or the elimination of tax breaks
without a corresponding rate cut.  “Shoring up entitlements and reforming the tax code --
closing special-interest loopholes and deductions, and moving to
a fairer, simpler system -- will bring jobs home and result in a
stronger, healthier economy,” the speaker said on Nov. 7.  Geithner yesterday cast doubt on the idea that closing
loopholes or limiting deductions could raise enough revenue.  “When you take a cold, hard look at the amount of
resources you can raise from that top 2 percent of Americans
through limiting deductions, you will find yourself disappointed
relative to the magnitude of the revenue increases that we
need,” Geithner said.  In the Senate, Republicans and Democrats also squared off.  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, said in an interview
yesterday that higher tax rates are “not going to be” part of
any deal.  ‘Progressivity Test’  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Budget Committee, disagreed. “If you’re going to meet
the progressivity test, if you’re going to raise the revenue, it
can’t just be loophole closings,” he said in an interview.  Still, Geithner said he is optimistic that Republicans want
to reach an agreement.  “It’s very encouraging that you’ve seen the leadership
just in these last couple of days recognize that we’re going to
have to generate a modest amount of additional revenues from
high-income Americans,” he said. After conceding that
“revenues are going to have to go up on the most fortunate
Americans, why would you decide to take the economy over the
cliff, put the economy through the damage that’s going to
cause?”  Obama is holding meetings with labor and business leaders
at the White House this week. The talks are intended to shore up
the support for his plan before Nov. 16 discussions with
Boehner, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , Democratic
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  and Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid .  Raising Rates  Obama on Nov. 9 reiterated his call for Congress to pass an
immediate extension of existing tax rates for middle-income
Americans and to let rates rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent
for individuals with income of about $200,000 annually and
married couples earning more than $250,000.  Republican Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota  said
Geithner’s comments may signal “a very dangerous game” the
administration would be playing if it demands a tax-rate
increase “in a down economy.”  “There is a real risk” that higher taxes would “impede
or hurt economic growth,” he said in an interview.  “Revenues are starting back up again” after declining
“during the economic collapse,” so “it would be a big mistake
to now turn back and raise rates and put at risk and in jeopardy
the economic recovery we hope is under way,” Thune said.  Debt Ceiling  The deficits add to national debt, which will most likely
hit the $16.4 trillion limit at the end of December, with
extraordinary measures enabling the U.S. to meet its obligations
“until early in 2013,” the Treasury Department  said  Oct. 31.  Geithner said budget deficits should be brought down
gradually to below 3 percent of gross domestic product to avoid
damaging the prospects for economic growth.  Geithner, 51, will stay in his post through Obama’s
inauguration on Jan. 21 as the administration and Congress
negotiate, the White House’s Carney said Nov. 9. Geithner had
said before the election that he doesn’t plan to stay at the
Treasury for a second Obama term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  