-- Geithner Says Higher Income Tax Rates Can’t Be Avoided
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-11-14T12:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/geithner-says-higher-u-s-income-tax-rates-can-t-be-avoided.html
(Corrects John Boehner’s title in fourth paragraph of story
published Nov. 13.)  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said it will be necessary to raise personal income tax
rates on the wealthiest Americans to reduce long-term budget
deficits, because capping deductions won’t raise enough revenue.  President  Barack Obama  is “not prepared to extend the
upper-income tax cuts,” Geithner said today at the Wall Street
Journal’s CEO Council meeting in Washington. “There’s obviously
universal support for the middle-class tax cuts. Doing that
would remove the greatest source of anxiety and much of the
greatest risk in the fiscal cliff.”  Obama has invited leaders in Congress for talks on a deal
to reduce budget deficits that would avert the $607 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases slated to take effect
Jan. 1. The Congressional Budget Office has forecast that the
fiscal cliff would push the economy into a recession next year.  Obama, who plans to reduce the shortfalls by increasing
taxes for top earners, is holding meetings with labor and
business leaders in the White House this week. The talks are
intended to shore up the support for his plan before Nov. 16
discussions with Republican House Speaker John Boehner, Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, Democrat House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  While Obama said Nov. 6 elections showed voters back his
proposal, Boehner cited public support for the re-elected House
Republican majority and said that tax rates must not go up. Both
sides have left room for a compromise that would curtail tax
breaks to pay for preserving current rates.  The deficits add to national debt, which will most likely
hit the $16.4 trillion limit at the end of December, with
extraordinary measures enabling the U.S. to meet its obligations
“until early in 2013,” the Treasury Department  said  on Oct.
31.  Geithner today said budget deficits should be brought down
gradually to below 3 percent of gross domestic product to avoid
damaging the prospects for economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  