-- German Trade Surplus to Grow 10 Percent in 2012, BGA Lobby Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-11-13T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/german-trade-surplus-to-grow-10-percent-in-2012-bga-lobby-says.html
Germany ’s trade surplus will grow 10
percent to 174 billion euros ($220 billion) this year even as
sales to southern Europe shrink as a result of the region’s debt
crisis, the Berlin-based BGA trade lobby said today.  Sales to Greece fell 9 percent in the first six months
while deliveries to  Italy  dropped 8 percent and exports to
 Portugal  declined 14 percent, the BGA said. At the same time,
sales to  China  grew 9 percent, exports to the U.S. surged 19
percent and deliveries to Russia rose 15 percent, it said.  “In the first three quarters, growth in East Asian
countries and also in business with the U.S. more than offset
the losses especially in the southern European markets,” the
BGA, which represents 120,000 companies, said in a statement.
“However, this has changed toward the end of the year.”  German exports fell the most in nine months in September,
adding to signs that the sovereign-debt crisis is finally taking
its toll on Europe’s largest economy. The economy may shrink in
the fourth quarter, the Bundesbank has said.  While global trade will probably accelerate next year,
German import growth of 5.5 percent will outpace an expansion of
exports of 5 percent, the BGA said. Its forecast rests on the
assumption that protectionism can be contained, it said.  BGA President  Anton Boerner  said he’s worried about growing
protectionism around the world, including in Europe, which
threatens to lead to a “re-nationalization” and
“marginalization” of the continent.  “These deeply chauvinistic tendencies are completely
unacceptable,” Boerner said. “These countries not only harm
themselves, but also everyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  