-- Most German Stocks Gain on Speculation of Spanish Bailout
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-11-13T17:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/german-stocks-drop-on-investor-confidence-greek-spat.html
Most  German stocks  rose, as the DAX
Index erased losses in the final hour of trading amid
speculation Spain will seek a second European Union-led bailout.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  led financial shares higher as yields on
Spanish 10-year bonds reversed an earlier advance to the highest
level in six weeks. EON AG,  Germany ’s biggest utility, plunged
the most in at least two decades after lowering its earnings
forecast for 2013.  K+S AG (SDF)  slid 4.5 percent, the most in 11
months, after predicting that 2012 sales and profit will only
reach the bottom of a forecast range.  The DAX added less than 0.1 percent to 7,169.12 at the
close of trading in Frankfurt as three shares increased for
every two that fell. The gauge has  rallied 20 percent  from this
year’s low on June 5 as the European Central Bank approved an
unlimited bond-buying program and the U.S. Federal Reserve
started a third round of asset purchases. The broader HDAX Index
was also little changed today.  “There are rumors that a bailout for Spain is imminent and
that has pushed bond yields down,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a fund
manager at Agilis Gestion SA in Paris, which oversees about $77
million. “That explains the violent rebound in stocks.”  The DAX earlier declined as much as 1.3 percent as euro-
area finance ministers failed to reach agreement with the
International Monetary Fund on how  Greece  will repay its debt.  Greek Aid  Ministers meeting late yesterday put off until Nov. 20 a
decision on how to cover additional Greek needs of as much as
32.6 billion euros ($41 billion) and left unclear whether the
IMF will continue to contribute. IMF Managing Director Christine
Lagarde took issue with a decision by the representatives of the
17-nation currency zone to postpone the goal of getting Greece’s
debt down to 120 percent of GDP by two years, until 2022.  “The market is a little bit disappointed about the
conference yesterday,” said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at
MWB Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank in  Frankfurt . “One positive
sign is that the finance ministers gave Greece another two years
for their budget deficit, but all in all the market is very
nervous about the situation.”  In addition to the speculation of a Spanish bailout
request, German shares pared losses as Finance Minister Wolfgang
Schaeuble said a plan to combine aid payments intended for
Greece into a single package is being considered.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein also said he’d be shocked if U.S. politicians failed
to reach a deal to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  Fiscal Cliff  Congress begins meeting today in an attempt to reach a deal
to prevent $607 billion of spending reductions and tax increases
from coming into force early next year. President  Barack Obama 
will meet with Republican and Democrat leaders from the House
and Senate on Nov. 16.  Still, a measure of German  investor confidence  unexpectedly
declined in November. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, fell to minus 15.7 from minus 11.5 in
October. Economists had forecast an increase to minus 10,
according to the  median of 43 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, advanced 1.9
percent to 34.06 euros, erasing an earlier decline.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
 Europe ’s biggest insurer, increased 1.1 percent to 95.04 euros.  Spanish 10-year bonds rose, leaving the yield on the
securities four basis points lower at 5.85 percent. The yield
earlier rose as much as seven basis points to 5.96 percent, the
highest since Oct. 1.  BASF Gains  BASF SE (BAS)  increased 1.6 percent to 64.09 euros, the largest
gain in more than a month, as the world’s biggest maker of
chemicals  contributed the most  to the DAX’s gains.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  surged 5.3 percent to 3.10 euros as the German
wind-turbine maker posted earnings before interest and taxes of
15.4 million euros.  EON tumbled 12 percent to 14.64 euros, the biggest decline
since at least August 1992. The utility said its forecast of 3.2
billion euros to 3.7 billion euros of underlying net income next
year “no longer seems achievable” because gas-fired power
plants aren’t making money. EON said it will consider cutting
 dividend payments  because of the “substantial economic
uncertainties and structural changes in the energy industry.”  RWE AG (RWE) , the  nation’s second-largest utility , fell 1.2
percent to 32.93 euros.  K+S dropped 4.5 percent to 34.29 euros, its biggest
decrease since Dec. 8, as Europe’s largest potash maker said
that delayed Chinese and Indian contracts restrained market
prices for fertilizer.  Earnings before interest and taxes excluding some hedging
transactions, referred to as Ebit I, will be 820 million euros
this year. The company had predicted earnings of as much as 900
million euros. Revenue will reach 3.9 billion euros, compared
with an earlier forecast of as much as 4.2 billion euros.  Hochtief AG,  Germany’s biggest builder , dropped 2.1 percent
to 38.04 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  