-- Gilead May Move Ahead of Rivals With Hepatitis C Results
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-11-13T21:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/gilead-may-top-rivals-with-hepatitis-c-therapy-results.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  may have an
edge on rivals developing new hepatitis C drugs for a potential
$20 billion market after a study showed its experimental drugs
cleared the liver disease virus in 100 percent of patients.  The  Foster City , California-based company rose to the
highest price in its 20 years of trading yesterday on research
presented at the meeting of the  American Association  for the
Study of Liver Diseases in Boston. Results showed that combining
Gilead’s experimental drugs with a standard medicine cleared the
hepatitis C virus in all 25 patients in a 12-week trial.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  also
featured positive results on their hepatitis C drugs at the
medical meeting. Still, Gilead’s data “sets a nearly impossible
rate for competitors to exceed,” Bret Holley, an analyst with
Guggenheim Partners, wrote yesterday in a research note.  “Gilead will likely be the first to market with a simple
and efficacious one pill, once-daily regimen,”  Michael Yee , an
RBC Capital Markets analyst in San Francisco, said in a note.
“All this adds up so far to supporting our thesis that Gilead
has a $5 billion plus drug.”  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park , Illinois, countered with data
showing a combination of its therapies rid 87 percent of 79
patients of the virus after 12 weeks of therapy, or 97 percent
when given ribavirin.  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) 
and  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  are among other drugmakers
developing medicines for the liver disease.  Bristol-Myers  Bristol-Myers reported results at the meeting showing that
combining three of its experimental medicines -- daclatasvir,
asunaprevir and BMS-791325 -- cleared the hepatitis C virus in
94 percent of 16 patients in a trial. The company plans to take
the therapy into final-stage trials in 2014.  Hepatitis C affects as many as 170 million people
worldwide, according to the  World Health Organization . The liver
disease is currently treated for as long as a year with
injection drugs including interferon, which can be unpleasant to
take because of the flu-like symptoms that accompany it. The new
drug regimens in testing are designed to be taken as pills, with
shorter treatment durations and fewer side effects.  Gilead  sank  1.7 percent to $72.69 at the close of trading
in  New York , after yesterday reaching its highest closing price
since the company first offered shares to the public in 1992.
Abbott fell less than 1 percent to $64.68. Bristol-Myers
declined less than 1 percent to $31.87.  Abbott Competitive  Abbott’s drug data measured patients 12 weeks after the end
of treatment. Gilead’s studies looked at patients four weeks
after its therapy ended.  Abbott’s “strong results” keep it competitive with Gilead
and position the company to become one of first drugmakers to
bring an all-oral hepatitis C treatment to the market,  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst with Wells Fargo in New York wrote in a
note to clients.  Abbott’s clinical trial included more patients and was
conducted in more locations than Gilead’s, making it “slightly
lower risk in phase 3,” or the final of three phases of trials
typically required for U.S. regulatory approval, Biegelsen said.
He said, though, Gilead’s regimen would require three pills a
day, versus six for Abbott’s.  The combination regimens from Abbott and Bristol-Myers
didn’t include a class of drugs called nucleotide polymerase
inhibitors, which have been thought to be a key part of therapy
for hepatitis C. The quest for “nucs” led to Gilead’s $10.8
billion purchase of Pharmasset Inc., giving it GS-7977, known as
sofosbuvir.  Bristol-Myers also acquired a nucleotide, spending $2.5
billion for Inhibitex Inc. in January. By August, the drugmaker
had abandoned the medicine after one patient died and others
were hospitalized while taking the drug in a study.  No Nucs  Data presented at the liver meeting suggest regimens not
containing nucs may be viable.  “The nuc may not be as sacrosanct as we thought it may
have been,” Doug Manion, head of neuroscience and virology
research at Bristol-Myers, said in an interview. “It was a big
’a-ha!’ moment with our internal triple” combination.  Achillion, based in  New Haven , Connecticut, gained less
than 1 percent to $7.92 and Vertex, based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, rose less than 1 percent to $44.10.  Idenix
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , which is developing the experimental
hepatitis C drug, IDX184, rose 7.3 percent to $4.99.  Vertex’s Incivek was approved last year, days after U.S.
regulators approved a drug from  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-
based Merck. They were the first medicines for hepatitis C to
win Food and Drug Administration approval in almost a decade.  “A few years ago, no one thought you could develop a
regimen without interferon,” Milind Deshpande, Achillion’s
chief scientific officer, said yesterday in an interview at
AASLD meeting.  Now, hepatitis C could become the seventh disease in human
history to be eradicated, joining others like small pox, said
Bristol-Myers’s Manion.  “It’s a whole different paradigm,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  