-- Glaxo-Pfizer HIV Drug Helps Hard-to-Treat Patients
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-11-13T15:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/glaxo-pfizer-hiv-drug-helps-hard-to-treat-patients.html
An experimental treatment for HIV
developed by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Shionogi & Co. (4507) 
reduced the virus in hard-to-treat patients in a late-stage
study, providing further support for a regulatory filing by the
end of this year.  After 24 weeks on dolutegravir, 63 percent of 183
participants who had shown resistance to previous treatments had
undetectable levels of the virus, the drugmakers’ HIV joint
venture ViiV Healthcare Ltd. said in a  statement  today.  The study, dubbed Viking-3, is the third of four late-stage
trials to be reported this year that Glaxo plans to use in
filing for regulatory clearance of dolutegravir. If approved,
dolutegravir would be the second, behind Merck & Co.’s
raltegravir, in a new class of HIV medicines called integrase
inhibitors that work by blocking the virus’s ability to
replicate.  “Viking-3 was designed to address a significant medical
need in one of the most difficult populations to treat,” John
Pottage, chief scientific and medical officer of ViiV, said in
the statement. “We are encouraged by these results.”  In the first of the four late-stage trials, Glaxo said in
April that dolutegravir suppressed the HIV virus in 88 percent
of study participants, compared with Merck’s raltegravir, which
quelled the disease in 85 percent of the group.  In the second study, 88 percent of patients receiving a
combination of dolutegravir and two other drugs had undetectable
levels of virus in their blood, compared with 81 percent of
those getting Gilead Science Inc.’s Atripla, the world’s best-
selling AIDS medicine  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  