-- Goldman’s Risk-Weighted Assets Seen Jumping Under New Rules
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-13T18:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/goldman-s-risk-weighted-assets-seen-jumping-67-under-new-rules.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, would have $728 billion in risk-
weighted assets under new capital rules, a 67 percent jump from
the amount it had under earlier regulations.  The investment bank plans to cut the figure to $700 billion
by the end of next year, Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, said today at an investor conference in  New York 
sponsored by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. About
$18 billion of the reduction will come from cutting credit risk,
and $11 billion from market risk, Blankfein said in his seventh
straight appearance at the annual event.  The comments mark Goldman Sachs’s first public estimate of
how new Basel III rules have increased the risks the firm must
assign to its assets, a factor in determining the size of the
company’s capital buffer. While larger banks such as Citigroup
Inc. and  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. face a smaller jump in RWAs, they
will have to hold more capital against those assets based on
their size and business mix.  “For more than a decade, larger size and complexity were
viewed entirely as synergistic and virtuous,” Blankfein said.
“For the first time it’s clear that size and complexity come
with a higher cost.”  Capital Buffer  Earlier this month, the Financial Stability Board disclosed
capital surcharges for the largest global banks. New York-based
Goldman Sachs is required to hold a 1.5 percent capital
surcharge above the 7 percent minimum. That equals the 8.5
percent ratio the firm estimated it had under the new rules at
the end of the third quarter. The bank probably will maintain a
1-percentage-point buffer above the requirement, Blankfein said.  JPMorgan and Citigroup, along with Deutsche Bank AG and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , face surcharges of 2.5 percent as they are
deemed more systemically important.  “Many of our investment-banking competitors also have
sizable commercial and consumer businesses,” Blankfein said.
“Any synergy from housing multiple businesses together must be
weighed against the requirements for more capital and
liquidity.”  The need to boost the proportion of equity capital has
pressured  return on equity , a measure of profitability. Goldman
Sachs generated an 8.8 percent return on common shareholder
equity in the first nine months of this year, down from 19.2
percent in the same period of 2009.  ‘Nature Rules’  Banks have sought to cut holdings of assets with high risk
weightings to reduce capital needs for trading businesses and
improve returns. Goldman Sachs traders have been adjusting their
positions to the new rules since about June, according to
Blankfein’s  presentation .  “We’ve found that risk-weighted assets have started to
drop already,” he said. “Nature rules in our firm. If we give
people information and put a charge on something or a cost on
something, that incentive structure will get people going places
much faster than we otherwise would have gotten by fiat or
instruction.”  Changes in Basel III rules have a greater impact on Goldman
Sachs’s holdings than those of competitors. The firm’s risk-
weighted assets were 67 percent higher than under Basel I rules,
a greater difference than  Citigroup (C) ’s 27 percent or JPMorgan’s
28 percent.  Of Goldman’s $728 billion of risk-weighted assets as of
Sept. 30, $250 billion are related to market risk, according to
Blankfein’s presentation. Credit risk from derivatives account
for $125 billion. Credit risks from principal investments make
up $121 billion and other credit risks constitute $186 billion.
The firm’s operational risk contributed $47 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  