-- Governors Lobby to Extend U.S. Wind Tax Credit Set to End
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-11-13T17:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/governors-lobby-to-extend-u-s-wind-tax-credit-set-to-end.html
Governors from states such as  Iowa 
and  Oregon  with wind-energy industries urged Congress to extend
a tax credit set to expire next month, warning of further job
losses if lawmakers fail to act.  “We’re beginning to see a negative economic impact and
loss of jobs in our states” because of uncertainty over the tax
break’s future, Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, a Republican, said
today at a Washington event.  Branstad is chairman of the Governors’ Wind Energy
Coalition, a group of state leaders that supports extension of
the credit, which shaves as much as a third off the costs of
wind power.  The coalition sent lawmakers a letter yesterday saying a
decline in wind-development orders was taking an economic toll.
 Siemens AG (SIE)  laid off more than 400 workers from a factory in Fort
Madison, Iowa, according to the letter.  The Senate Finance Committee approved a bill in August to
extend the credit for a year. Wind producers now get 2.2 cents
per kilowatt-hour generated for 10 years after the project
begins. The 10-year credit in the Senate bill would cost about
$12.2 billion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.  Some House Republicans have said the nation can’t afford to
extend the credit amid a  budget deficit .  Wind supporters said they would accept a phase-out of the
credit.  “We know this is something that’s not going to last
forever,” Branstad said.  Supporters said the credit’s fate may depend on whether
President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders can reach a
deal on the fiscal cliff, the looming deadline when a series of
tax cuts expire and automatic spending cuts kick in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  