-- Greenpeace Boycotts French Power Debate Laying Out Energy Policy
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-13T12:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/greenpeace-boycotts-french-power-debate-laying-out-energy-policy.html
Greenpeace will boycott French plans
for a six-month national debate on nuclear power intended to lay
the groundwork for future energy policy and legislation in June.  The government has shown “extremely negative signals on
the environment,” Greenpeace, which campaigns against atomic
generation in  France , said in a statement. It cited plans to
build an airport near Nantes and work being carried out on the
Fessenheim nuclear reactor, which has been slated to close.  President Francois Hollande was elected promising to lower
dependence on atomic energy to half of all power generated by
about 2025 from more than three-quarters now. Government-owned
Electricite de France SA plans to strengthen the concrete base
of its oldest reactor at Fessenheim after the regulator ordered
it to improve safety or shutter the plant by the middle of 2013.
Hollande says the facility will be closed at the end of 2016.  “We have lost confidence in the government’s desire for
truly open debate and change,” Greenpeace said late yesterday.  The government debate is scheduled to start Nov. 20 and run
through May in preparation for legislation in June. The law may
determine the spending plans for EDF’s reactors for decades.  Greenpeace criticized the nomination of Anne Lauvergeon,
former chief executive officer of reactor builder  Areva SA (AREVA) , and
previous administrator of the Atomic Energy Commission Pascal Colombani to the commission piloting the debate. It said they’re
“representatives of the interests of the nuclear industry.”  Power demand fell 6.8 percent last year to 478.2 terawatt
hours, with nuclear output of 421.1 terawatt hours making up 78
percent of the total, according to data from grid operator RTE.  Power generator lobby UFE forecast demand may rise to 555
terawatt-hours to 625 terawatt-hours by 2030, depending on
energy savings and economic growth. The increase will be driven
partly by demand from electric cars and faster trains.  EDF’s new 1,650-megawatt EPR reactor being constructed in
Flamanville, Normandy, is scheduled to begin commercial power
output in 2016, the same year Fessenheim will close.  France owns 84 percent of EDF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  