-- Icahn Seeks Talks on Strategic Options With Greenbrier
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-13T22:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/icahn-may-push-strategic-options-with-greenbrier-stake.html
Carl Icahn  is seeking talks with
 Greenbrier Cos. (GBX)  on its strategic options as he disclosed buying
a 9.99 percent stake in the railcar maker, four years after
failing in a bid to merge the company.  Icahn, an activist investor, contacted Greenbrier’s Chief
Executive Officer Bill Furman yesterday notifying him of the
investment and suggested they have further discussions
“possibly relating to strategic opportunities,”  Lake Oswego ,
Oregon-based Greenbrier said in a statement today.  “Greenbrier noted that no specific proposals or
opportunities have been suggested, nor any specific times
established for further conversations,” the company said. The
shares posted their biggest gain in more than three years at the
close.         In February 2008, Icahn proposed Greenbrier and his
 American Railcar Industries Inc. (ARII)  held merger talks and disclosed
a 9.45 percent stake in the company. The discussions fell
through in June that year due to “certain unresolved issues,”
Icahn said at the time. Should Icahn again propose a merger with
American Railcar, he “likely has a stronger hand today,” said
Bascome Majors, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group.  “Fundamentally, the mixes of these two companies are
complementary,” said Majors, who has a neutral rating on
Greenbrier and doesn’t cover American Railcar. Icahn may be
looking to capitalize on American Railcar’s stock performance
this year “and take advantage of that when another company has
underperformed,” Majors said.  Biggest Advance  Greenbrier has fallen 43 percent this year through
yesterday,  trailing  a gain of 11 percent for American Railcar
and a 7.1 percent gain for the Russell 2000 Index.  Greenbrier jumped $2.78 to $16.73 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest advance since April 2, 2009, to give it a market
value of $454.1 million. American Railcar rose 18 percent to
$31.16, for its biggest gain since Nov. 26, 2008, to give it a
value of $665.3 million.  Icahn began buying Greenbrier stock in October and paid
about $40.3 million, including commissions, for 2.71 million
shares, according to a regulatory filing today. His Icahn
Associates reported holding a 55.6 percent stake in St. Charles,
Missouri-based American Railcar as of July 1.  “We believe this purchase of Greenbrier shares validates
our business model and strategic decisions,” Furman said in the
Greenbrier statement. “We agree that our stock is a very good
value opportunity at present pricing. Greenbrier remains
committed to enhancing  shareholder value  and to maintaining an
open dialogue with its shareholders.”  Poison Pill  Icahn, 76, has pressed for buyouts and management changes
to bolster shareholder value at some companies in which he has
previously invested.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the largest subscription
video service, adopted a so-called poison pill this month to
guard against a hostile takeover after Icahn bought a stake of
similar size.  “Further discussions possibly relating to strategic
opportunities” are planned with Greenbrier management, Icahn’s
parties said in the filing today and they also said “the shares
were undervalued.”  Messages left for comment with Icahn weren’t immediately
returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  