-- IMF Starts New Loan Talks With Serbia as Inflation Rises
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-11-13T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/imf-starts-new-loan-talks-with-serbia-as-inflation-rises.html
An International Monetary Fund
mission started talks with Serbian officials on a new loan
arrangement as the Balkan nation seeks to overhaul the economy
and tame  Europe ’s fastest  inflation .  The IMF delegation, led by Zuzana Murgasova, met with
Serbian central bank Governor Jorgovanka Tabakovic, Finance
Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Labor Minister Jovan Krkobabic, the
Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije said in an e-mailed
statement today. The IMF will complete its visit by Nov. 20.  Talks will focus on the “draft budget for 2013, the
program of fiscal consolidation and a mid-term macroeconomic
pattern,” the central bank said. The IMF suspended a $1.3
billion loan in February after the government slipped on agreed
fiscal targets ahead of May 6 general elections.  Serbia is grappling with a surge in consumer prices on
rising food costs even as the central bank last week raised its
benchmark interest rate for a fifth time since June to ease
price growth. The inflation rate advanced to 12.9 percent in
October, the highest level since April 2011.  The government of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic is seeking to
slow public-sector wage growth and pensions and raise taxes as
it focuses on cutting the budget gap to 6.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 and to 3.6 percent of GDP next year.  Bold Plan  “The plan to cut the budget gap is bold and we welcome it,
but it’s a question if it’s going to be achieved,” Pavle
Petrovic, the president of an independent supervisory Fiscal
Council, said today in Belgrade. The budget draft for 2013
“lacks additional measures to control spending” and the IMF
may seek such guarantees, without which the gap may be reduced
to just 4.3 percent of GDP in 2013, he said.  “We strongly suggest to the government to do what it takes
to reach an agreement” with the IMF, he said.  Risks to meeting the target include the state’s debt to
contractors and suppliers, estimated at as much as 1.5 percent
of GDP, Petrovic said. Paying even a portion of that will widen
the gap, he said.  Last week, the state said it would pay drugmakers about 26
billion dinars ($296 million) owed for supplying state hospitals
and the dominant, state-controlled health  fund .  Restricting growth of public wages and pensions, regardless
of double-digit inflation, has emerged as key austerity “but
that may be exhausted as a method” in 2013, and the government
strives to achieve a balanced budget in 2016, Petrovic said.  On the revenue side, the 2013 targets will “probably be
achieved nominally due to high inflation,” which the Fiscal
Council sees at 11.6 percent next year, compared with the
government’s expectation of 10.1 percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  