-- Indian Stocks Retreat in Diwali Trading; DLF, Tata Motors Drop
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-11-13T13:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/indian-stocks-retreat-in-diwali-trading-dlf-tata-motors-drop.html
Indian stocks dropped for a fourth
day in a shortened trading session amid concern a slowdown in
the economy will hurt corporate earnings.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 0.3 percent
to 18,618.87 in special Diwali trading in Mumbai, the longest
losing streak since Aug. 29.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the largest developer,
retreated to a one-week low after second-quarter profit missed
estimates.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of luxury brands Jaguar
and Land Rover, lost 1.1 percent. The 30-stock measure slid 0.1
percent yesterday after factory output unexpectedly contracted
in September and the trade deficit widened to a record last
month as exports declined, adding to signs that  Asia ’s third-
largest economy is struggling.  “There’s nothing to be bullish about at the moment,”  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services
Pvt., said by phone today. “The latest data points --
industrial production, exports and some company earnings -- have
all disappointed. Plus, the global situation is grim.”  Investors and traders made ceremonial purchases of stocks
during the 75-minute session until 5 p.m., marking Diwali, the
festival of lights and the start of the Hindu new year, Samvat
2069. The session known as Muhurat trading held every year on
Diwali is deemed the most auspicious time to start investments.  The Sensex has climbed 8 percent since last Diwali on Oct.
26, 2011, boosted by purchases by overseas investors, and is the
second-best performer this year among benchmark measures in
nations with at least $1 trillion in market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  BSE-200 Index (BSE200)  rose 10 percent in
the period, the data show.  ‘Superb Rally’  Shares of 17 of the 30 Sensex firms have risen since last
year’s Muhurat trading, led by  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the
biggest home-products maker, and Tata Motors.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. are among the biggest losers.  “The rally has been superb since last Diwali and perhaps
it is time to book some profit,” said Kejriwal.  DLF declined 1.3 percent to 202.85 rupees. Second-quarter
group net income slumped 63 percent to 1.38 billion rupees, the
company said after market hours yesterday. That compares with a
2.63 billion rupees estimated by analysts.  Tata Motors fell 1.1 percent to 277.55 rupees and Bharti
advanced 1.1 percent to 283 rupees.  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India fell 0.3 percent to 5,666.95. India VIX, which gauges the
cost of protection against losses in the Nifty index, slid 0.3
percent to 14.81.  The NSE and the BSE  traded  904 million shares yesterday,
equal to the 12-month daily average.  Reviving Growth  The Sensex has increased 20 percent this year, driven by
overseas fund purchases and government policy reforms announced
since mid-September to revive economic growth. Foreigners have
bought a net $18.6 billion of local shares this year, the most
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China .  Industrial output dropped 0.4 percent from a year earlier
after a revised 2.3 percent increase in August, government data
showed yesterday. The median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 2.8 percent increase. The trade deficit was
$20.96 billion in October, the Commerce Ministry said in a
separate report yesterday.  Earnings at 12 of the 30 Sensex companies lagged analysts’
estimates for the three months ended September, same as for the
June quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  started the biggest policy
overhaul in a decade on Sept. 13, including fuel-subsidy curbs
and a push to spur investment in domestic industries. India
needs to take more steps to revive its economy and must correct
its weaknesses, Singh said in Mumbai on Nov. 10.  Stock exchanges will remain closed tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  