-- Irish Central Bank Chief Says Euro 2.0 Needs Deposit Defense
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-11-13T22:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/irish-central-bank-chief-says-euro-2-0-needs-deposits-backstop.html
Irish Central Bank Governor Patrick Honohan said a common deposit guarantee regime and an agency to
deal with failing banks are key to the redesign of the euro.  “It is true that there are subtly different expectations
concerning what can and will be achieved,” Honohan said in a
speech today in Edinburgh. While the setting up of a single
supervisor “is in full active preparation,” a bank deposits
backstop and resolution regime are also “very important
elements of euro 2.0,” he said.  Leaders agreed to move forward with common bank supervision
led by the European Central Bank as a way to separate risks in
the financial industry from sovereign debt troubles, with the
goal of agreeing on a political framework by Jan. 1. If a common
supervisor is set up next year, it would open the door for the
euro area’s firewall fund to offer direct aid to banks.  While Honohan said it’s not within his remit, politicians
involved in looking at the future of the euro need to ensure the
region maintains popular support for the changes.  “You can’t go to where this system needs to be without an
improved structure of democratic legitimacy,” Honohan said in a
question-and-answer session after his speech. “It is recognized
by the people who are concerned in the debate that this is a
dimension we need to strengthen.”  ‘Under-Designed’  Honohan, 63, has led the Irish central bank since September
2009, a year after the nation guaranteed its ailing banks and
just as  Europe  headed toward its debt crisis. The country was
forced to seek an international bailout 14 months later
following the near collapse of its banking industry.  “The view from Ireland, one of the economies most damaged
in the crisis, allows us to see just how release 1.0 of the euro
was under-designed and robust only to moderate shocks,” he said
in the speech organized by the David Hume Institute.  While financial markets didn’t always enforce discipline on
countries before the crisis as they ran up debt at an excessive
rate, their “reassessment of the degree to which things can go
wrong has generated a potentially lethal combination of high
yield and high debt,” Honohan said.  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark 5 percent security due in
October 2020 rose two basis points to 4.77 percent today. While
it’s down from 14 percent in July 2011, the yield on 10-year
German debt was 1.34 percent.  Yield Divide  Honohan said he expects gaps to remain in yields between
euro countries.  “We’re in for a period of time where spreads are going to
remain different for quite a while but we don’t want to see tham
at 300 or 400 basis points,” Honohan said. “We can see a
degree of narrowing in the short term but it’s going to be a
long time before we see them converging again.”  It has been argued that the ECB could have moved sooner to
try and resolve the euro-region debt crisis, he said.  “History is of course littered with at least as many
unhappy episodes consequential on hyperactive central banks and
those which were destructively compliant with the desires of
spendthrift governments and imprudent bankers as with those
resulting excessive central bank caution,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh  at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  