-- IRS Warns of Filing Delays If Congress Ignores AMT Fix
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-11-13T21:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/irs-warns-of-filing-delays-if-congress-ignores-amt-fix.html
Taxpayers would face “serious
repercussions” if Congress doesn’t act by Dec. 31 to prevent
the alternative minimum tax from expanding, according to the
 Internal Revenue Service .  About 28 million taxpayers would face an unexpected
liability for tax year 2012 that has been estimated at $92
billion. Furthermore, the IRS would also need to reprogram its
computer systems, delaying tax filing for 60 million taxpayers
from January 2013 until “late March 2013, if not even later,”
 Steven Miller , the acting IRS commissioner, wrote in a letter
today to Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who’s chairman
of the Senate Finance Committee.  “Tens of millions of these taxpayers would unexpectedly
have to pay additional income tax for 2012, leaving them with a
balance due return or a much smaller refund than expected,” he
wrote. “For millions of other taxpayers, refunds would be
delayed.”  He sent identical letters to the other top tax writers on
 Capitol Hill , Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on
the Senate Finance Committee, and Michigan Representatives  Dave Camp  and  Sander Levin , the Republican chairman and the top
Democrat, respectively, on the House Ways and Means Committee.  Parallel System  The expansion of the AMT is part of the $607 billion fiscal
cliff of tax increases and spending cuts that Congress is trying
to avert.  The alternative minimum tax operates as a parallel tax
system. Taxpayers must pay the higher of what they owe under the
regular tax system or the AMT, which disallows some deductions
and exemptions. It disproportionately affects taxpayers with
large families and those in high-tax states such as New York and
New Jersey.  Lawmakers in both parties want to enact a so-called patch
to prevent the AMT from expanding beyond about 4 million
households. The issue is bound up in other disputes over taxes
and spending.  The income thresholds used to calculate the tax aren’t
indexed for inflation in the permanent  tax code  and have been
increased by Congress only on a temporary basis. The last such
patch expired at the end of 2011.  A delay in tax filing caused by the failure to enact an AMT
patch would have a significant effect, said Michael Mundaca, co-
director of national tax at Ernst & Young LLP.  “Refunds are significant and a delay could take more money
of the economy,” said Mundaca, who was the Treasury
Department’s top tax policy official earlier in President Barack Obama’s administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  