-- Israel Returns Fire on Syria as Rockets From Gaza Persist
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-11-13T01:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/israel-returns-fire-on-syria-as-rockets-from-gaza-persist.html
Conflict on  Israel ’s borders
escalated as rockets from the Gaza Strip to the south and a
mortar shell from Syria to the north drew retaliatory strikes
from Israel’s Defense Forces.  Israeli warplanes struck three targets in Gaza overnight,
according to a statement early today from the Israeli Defense
Forces. The targets were a weapons storage facility and two
sites used to launch rockets into Israel, according to the IDF,
which said the action was in retaliation for the more than 115
rockets fired at southern Israeli communities since Nov. 10.  In the North, Israeli tank fire across the Syrian frontier
yesterday was aimed at the source of the mortar fire and scored
“direct hits,” the army said in an e-mailed statement. The
army said that “fire emanating from  Syria  into Israel will not
be tolerated and shall be responded to with severity.”  The clashes involving Gaza have greater potential than
Syria border incidents to metastasize into a regional
confrontation, according to analysts such as Marina Ottaway, a
senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, a Washington policy group.  While Syria’s internal conflict has raged for 20 months,
Aaron David Miller of the Wilson Center is among several
analysts who said that border spillover isn’t likely to lead to
a war involving the Jewish state.  The attacks on two fronts underscored Israel’s
vulnerabilities at a time when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
is seeking re-election on Jan. 22. Speaking prior to the
overnight air strikes, Netanyahu vowed yesterday to escalate
military operations to defend the country’s citizens.  ‘Unshakeable Commitment’  “I don’t know any of your governments who could accept
such a thing,” Netanyahu told foreign ambassadors he took on a
visit to the coastal city of Ashkelon, a target of Gaza rocket
strikes. “We will not allow our borders to be violated or our
citizens to be fired upon.”  The U.S. reiterated its “unshakeable commitment to
Israel’s security” yesterday when National Security Adviser Tom Donilon hosted a delegation of senior Israeli officials on Nov.
12 for consultations on  Iran , Syria and other regional security
issues, National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said in
a statement. The meetings were the latest in a series of
regular, high-level consultations between the U.S. and Israel,
according to the statement.  Netanyahu has faced criticism from political foes such as
former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert for strained personal
relations with President  Barack Obama  and for allegedly favoring
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in the U.S. presidential race.  ‘Won’t Hesitate’  Defense Minister Ehud Barak consulted yesterday with senior
military commanders in Tel Aviv on the security situation in the
south. Barak raised the prospect of a new ground offensive, the
first since Israeli troops withdrew from Gaza in 2009 after a
three-week military assault that left more than 1,100
Palestinians dead.  “If we are forced to re-enter Gaza in order to strike
Hamas and restore security to Israeli residents, we won’t
hesitate,” Barak said in Tel Aviv yesterday.  Israel’s Knesset plans to hold a special session on Nov. 15
to discuss security issues, the Jerusalem Post reported.  According to the Israel police, at least 10 rockets were
fired from Gaza yesterday, a drop from the more than 100 rockets
in the past two days.  The danger of a major Israeli military operation in Gaza,
Ottaway warned, is that domestic political pressures will make
it almost impossible for  Egypt  to avoid involvement.  In such a case, the Egyptian leaders “simply cannot not
react the way Mubarak did not react,” she said in a telephone
interview, referring to Egypt’s ousted leader President  Hosni Mubarak .  Cold Peace  Twenty percent of the seats in President Mohamed Mursi’s
government went to Salafists, or conservative Muslims, who would
object vociferously if Morsi didn’t take action, Ottaway said.
The president would also come under intense attack from
secularists who strongly distrust Morsi’s government and its
religious bent.  “Does this mean they would go to war?” Ottaway said, “I
doubt it.” The long-standing Camp David Accords that
established Egypt’s peace with Israel could well come under
attack though, Ottaway said, leaving “the U.S. really stuck in
the middle.”  Aaron David Miller, a vice president at the Wilson Center,
a Washington policy group, said Egypt would work hard to calm
both sides before the situation spirals out of control. He added
in a telephone interview that “neither Israel nor Hamas have
any interest in escalating this to where we were in 2008 or
2009,” when Israel sent its army into Gaza after Hamas took
over the territory in 2007.  Quiet Border  Amid concern about Gaza, Israel also faced the prospect
that fighting between forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and rebels seeking to oust him could destabilize its
quietest frontier since the 1973 Middle East war.  Barak said Israeli’s military “has been instructed to
prevent” the Syrian conflict “from spilling over into our
territory. Additional shelling into Israel from Syria will
elicit a tougher response, exacting a higher price from Syria.  Ottaway, Miller and other analysts, such as Jon Alterman,
director of the Middle East program at the Center for
International and Strategic Studies, a Washington policy group,
said the Syrian front is far less likely to cause long-term
problems.  One factor is Israel’s clear military superiority to
Syria’s embattled forces.  “The fact is, for all his bluster, Bashar al-Assad and his
father before him were very wary of being in any engagement with
Israel,” Alterman said in a telephone interview.  Hitting Hamas  Miller said, “Unless chemical weapons are loosed or used
that would force Israelis to respond, neither side has a stake
in pushing this to a crisis.”  The latest violence in the south was ignited when
Palestinian militants fired an anti-tank missile at an Israeli
patrol along the Gaza Strip border fence on Nov. 10, wounding
four soldiers, the army said in a statement. The Israeli
military responded with tank shelling and air strikes into Gaza,
including a direct hit on a rocket-launching squad, killing six
and wounding more than 30, according to Ashraf al-Qedra,
spokesman for the Hamas-run Health Ministry.  “We need to change our response,” Vice Prime Minister
Moshe Ya’alon said on Army Radio yesterday. “We need to change
it until Hamas says ‘enough.’”  Barak said Israel holds the Islamic Hamas responsible for
the attacks from Gaza and the group will pay a “severe and
painful” price for them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  