-- Italy’s Bersani Seeks Votes With Appeal for Ease on Austerity
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-13T10:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/italy-s-bersani-seeks-votes-with-appeal-for-ease-on-austerity.html
Pier Luigi Bersani, head of  Italy ’s
most popular party in opinion polls, said he will seek to ease
budget rigor if elected prime minister in next year’s election.  Italy should strike a deal with European Union allies for
“a relaxation of austerity,” the former industry minister said
late yesterday in a televised primary debate with four rivals.
The comment showcased a contrast between Bersani, 61, and his
chief  Democratic Party  competitor, Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi,
37. Any renegotiation of EU covenants would hurt Italy, Renzi
said.  The candidates are faced with the task of proposing
remedies for Italy’s deepening recession, while convincing
voters they won’t squander budget improvements made under Prime
Minister  Mario Monti . Bersani said he expected leaders in
 Germany  to accept his strategy of loosening deficit commitments
in order to stimulate economic growth.  “Even Germany has to understand that we’re all on the same
train,” Bersani said.  The primary is scheduled for Nov. 25, with the winner
squaring off in a 2013 election against politicians ranging from
communists on the left and the former separatists of the
 Northern League  on the right. Italy’s main center-right party,
headed by  Silvio Berlusconi , also plans a primary, while the
Christian democrats and Beppe Grillo’s euro-skeptic movement
will also field candidates.  The Democratic Party, or PD as it’s called in Italy, leads
all parties with the support of 26 percent of voters, according
to a Nov. 9 poll by SWG Institute. Grillo’s 5 Star Movement was
second with 21 percent. Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, or
PDL, polled at about 15 percent.  Marchionne Cited  Standing side by side in the debate, the candidates avoided
challenging each other. They agreed on the need to lower taxes,
change a labor-market overhaul passed this year and persuade
 Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  to expand
production in Italy. The audience was allowed to react, with
Renzi and Nichi Vendola, head of the Left, Ecology and Freedom,
often eliciting more enthusiastic reaction from the public than
Bersani.  “The country is dying by taxes,” Renzi said.  Bersani and the PD are reintroducing themselves to voters
after a year in which they renounced participation in both
government and opposition. PD members initially provided
parliamentary support for Monti’s caretaker government, voting
for measures like pension- and labor-reform laws that were
controversial among its electorate, and as a consequence
suffered in opinion polls.  Monti’s Future  Monti, a former university president and senator for life,
has said that while he won’t run in the election, he will be
willing to form another government if politicians are unable to
create a solid majority without him after the election. The PD,
in order to prevent a second Monti term, would need broad
support from voters as well as allegiances from smaller parties
to secure a mandate to govern.  Bersani and Renzi appealed to their base constituency of
laborers last night by targeting Marchionne for criticism. The
head of Italy’s biggest manufacturer was also maligned, to
cheers from the studio audience, by Vendola and the other two
candidates sharing the stage in  Rome , Veneto regional councillor
Laura Puppato and national representative Bruno Tabacci.  Renzi, who had a public spat with Marchionne last month,
said he, like many Italians, “was let down, betrayed” by the
manager. Vendola said he never believed in Marchionne, while
Bersani called the Fiat CEO’s business plan “rather
audacious.”  Richard Gadeselli, a Fiat spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 