-- Italy Sells 6.5 Billion Euros of Bills as Borrowing Costs Fall
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-13T10:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/italy-sells-6-5-billion-euros-of-bills-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
Italian borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of 6.5 billion euros ($8.3 billion) of one-year
Treasury bills as maturing debt left investors with cash to
spend on the new securities.  The Treasury in  Rome  sold the 364-day bills at 1.762
percent, down from 1.941 percent at the last auction on Oct. 10.
Investors bid for 1.76 times the amount of bills offered today
compared with 1.77 times last month. Italy returns to the market
tomorrow with the sale of as much as 5 billion euros of longer
maturity-debt.  The Treasury will pay out 5.5 billion euros on maturing
bills on Nov. 15, giving investors funds to repurchase Italian
securities. The Treasury also dropped plans to sell three-month
bills today after taking in more than 18 billion euros from the
sale of bonds to retail investors last month, easing the
country’s financing needs for the rest of the year.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose 2 basis points to 5.049 percent
at 11:09 a.m. in Rome, pushing the difference with comparable-
maturity German debt to 372.3 basis points. Most bonds in  Europe 
gained today after European finance chiefs yesterday granted
Greece an additional two years to meet its deficit reduction
goals.  “Since the last 12-month bill auction, investors have
become more cautious on the periphery mainly due to Greek woes
and volatile expectations regarding  Spain ’s request for aid,”
Elia Lattuga, fixed income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan,
wrote in a note to investors yesterday.  Italy’s bond yields have been rising for the past month as
investor expectations that Spain would quickly seek a bailout
dissipated. The Spanish 10-year yield rose to the highest level
in a month today as the government in  Madrid  continues to resist
an aid request.  A Spanish bailout should be “positive” for Italian yields
“in the medium term,” Italy’s debt agency head Maria Cannata
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Rome
yesterday.  Italy has no need to tap the European rescue fund, Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said yesterday.  -- Editors:  Andrew Davis , Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  