-- J&J Ponders Elan Tie While Alzheimer Drug Future Reviewed
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-19T15:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/j-j-ponders-elan-tie-while-alzheimer-drug-future-reviewed.html
(Corrects school name in third paragraph of article
published Nov. 13.)  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  hasn’t given up on
the ability of its experimental drug bapineuzumab to alter the
course of Alzheimer’s disease, even after two key studies failed
to find a benefit, the company’s neuroscience unit head said.  Researchers are still reviewing the disappointing studies,
looking to see whether there are signs the drug may slow the
progression of dementia if taken earlier, said Husseini Manji,
head of neuroscience at J&J, the world’s biggest maker of
health-care products. Additional analysis is also being done on
its ability to reduce tau, a tangled protein found in the brains
of those with the mind-robbing disease, he said in an interview.  “We remain optimistic there is something there,” Manji
said yesterday in an interview at a conference hosted by the
 London Business School .  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, is expecting to
see more data in the “next few months” on intravenous
bapineuzumab from studies conducted by New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) , its partner on the drug, Manji said. The companies will
decide how to continue development of the experimental medicine
based on the results of the Pfizer studies and the separate
findings from mid-stage studies of another version of the drug
given as a shot instead of intravenously, he said.  J&J won’t decide what to do with its stake in a planned
spinoff of bapineuzumab’s original developer, Elan Corp., until
its sees more data from the trials, Manji said. Future studies
may evaluate one or both formulations in people who aren’t yet
showing signs of dementia, he said.  Elan Deal  J&J gained its share in bapineuzumab and the right to help
develop the drug with its 2009 purchase of an 18 percent stake
in Dublin-based Elan for $1 billion. Elan announced its plans to
spin off its drug discovery unit to existing shareholders in
August, after the second bapineuzumab failure.  The new company, previously called Neotope Biosciences Plc,
will now be known as Prothena Corp., Elan said today. Prothena
will be incorporated in Ireland and will trade on a U.S.
exchange, Elan said. Elan will own 18 percent of Prothena, while
Elan’s investors will own the rest. Shareholders will vote on
the plan at a meeting in Dublin on Dec. 12.  GE Collaboration  J&J has a collaboration with General Electric Co. to devise
“biosignatures” for Alzheimer’s disease, using blood and
imaging tests to determine a person’s risk for the condition
before signs and symptoms start to appear. Future research may
target those high-risk patients who don’t yet have even mild-to-
moderate disease, Manji said.  Recent research has shown changes begin to develop in the
brains of people destined for Alzheimer’s disease a quarter of a
century before forgetfulness or other symptoms start to appear.
By preventing the amyloid plaque and tau tangles in the brain
from worsening in those people, doctors say they may one day be
able to stop or delay the devastation caused by the disease.  By the time Alzheimer’s has taken hold, it’s too late for
the intravenous form of bapineuzumab to make a difference, even
in those with the mildest cases, Manji said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  