-- Stocks Drop With Commodities While U.S. Treasuries Gain
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-11-13T21:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/japanese-stocks-gain-yen-falls-on-stimulus-hopes-oil-slides.html
U.S. stocks fell as concern about
the  federal budget  debate wiped out an earlier rally led by
retailers after Home Depot Inc.’s earnings bolstered confidence
in the housing market. Treasuries rose while commodities slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed down 0.4 percent at
1,374.53 at 4 p.m. in New York after a 0.6 percent  morning
rally . Yields on 10-year U.S. notes lost two basis points to
1.59 percent, while the dollar strengthened against 13 of 16
major peers. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities dropped 0.2
percent as declines in coffee, gold and oil overshadowed a surge
in natural gas to a one-year high.  A majority of Americans expect the U.S. to go over the so-
called fiscal cliff at the beginning of 2013 and would blame
Republicans if it happens, according to a poll published today.
Concern about the automatic spending cuts and tax increases,
triggered if a budget deal isn’t reached, has weighed on stocks
since voters re-elected President  Barack Obama  and Republicans
held control of the House following last week’s elections.  “The market waits to see what Congress and the
administration will do on the fiscal cliff,” said Tom Mangan,
who helps oversee about $3.6 billion as a money manager at James
Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio . “The market will react
to each soundbite coming out of Washington,” he said. “In the
absence of the macro issues, Home Depot would have led the
market higher by a large amount.”  Yield Curve  Treasury 10-year note yields touched a two-month low of
1.57 percent earlier as trading resumed after the Veterans Day
holiday. The yield curve, or  difference  in rates on two-year and
10-year debt, narrowed to the least since August in a sign that
investors anticipate slower economic growth.  The S&P 500 is down almost 4 percent since the Nov. 6
elections set up a showdown between Obama and the Republican-
controlled House of Representatives over the budget. The
Democratic president meets leaders from both parties in Congress
this week. Lawmakers need to reach a deal in order to avert $607
billion in spending cuts and tax increases starting in January,
an outcome that many economists predict would cause a recession.  A survey by the Pew Research Center and the  Washington  Post
found 51 percent of those polled said they don’t think Obama and
Congress will be able to agree on a package to replace the
automatic measures agreed to in previous negotiations. Thirty-
eight percent said they expected Obama and Congress to cut a
deal.  The economy is already being damaged by concern about the
budget, said Brian Moynihan, president and chief executive
officer of Bank of America Corp.  ‘Number One Issue’  “The impacts of the potential cliff are already being
felt,” Moynihan said at a Bank of America conference today. In
a survey of chief financial officers, “the number one issue
they see is the fiscal cliff. They tell us it’s affecting their
business plan. That uncertainty continues to hold back the
recovery. Simply put, our clients tell us they will not be
aggressive in times of uncertainty.”  Technology and financial shares led declines among the 10
 main industries  in the S&P 500 today, falling at least 0.7
percent as groups. Microsoft Corp. slumped 3.2 percent to a 10-
month low as Steven Sinofsky, a 23-year veteran who ran the
Windows division, left the company.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
lost 1.3 percent and 2.4 percent respectively to pace a drop in
 banks.  AK Steel Holding Corp. slid 18 percent, the most in four
years, as it forecast a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss
with a decline in prices for the last three months of the year.  A gauge of retailers in the S&P 500 had the biggest gain
among  24 groups , rising 1 percent as Home Depot jumped 3.6
percent to the highest price since April 2000.  Commodities Slip  Coffee, heating oil and Brent crude oil lost at least 1
percent to lead declines in 15 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI
Index. New York-traded oil slipped 0.2 percent to $85.38 a
barrel after the International Energy Agency reduced demand
estimates and U.S. inventories were forecast to reach a three-
month high. Coffee futures tumbled the most since July, losing
4.4 percent, on signs of abundant global supplies.  Natural gas surged to a one-year high in New York, rising
4.7 percent to $3.739 per million British thermal units, on
speculation that U.S. inventories will drop for the first time
this season as below-normal temperatures spur fuel demand.  The dollar and yen rose versus most major peers after euro-
area policy makers gave  Greece  two extra years to lower its
budget deficit. The euro touched two-month lows against the
dollar and Swiss franc as European finance ministers struggled
to agree on how to provide additional aid for Greece.  Brazil ’s
real weakened against 13 of 16 major peers on bets the central
bank will continue to intervene.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  finished 0.4 percent higher,
reversing a 0.8 percent drop. Italian and Spanish lenders
rallied as Intesa Sanpaolo SpA jumped 5.2 percent after
reporting that operating profit surged in the third quarter. EON
AG slumped 12 percent after  Germany ’s biggest utility lowered
its earnings forecast for 2013. Vodafone Group Plc slid 2.5
percent in  London  after the world’s second-largest mobile-phone
company took a $9.4-billion writedown for its operations in
Spain and  Italy .  Ten-year Spanish yields fell four basis points to 5.85
percent, erasing an earlier seven-point gain, amid speculation
the nation will ask for a bailout.  “There are rumors that a bailout for Spain is imminent and
that has pushed bond yields down,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a fund
manager at Agilis Gestion SA in Paris, which oversees about $77
million. “That explains the violent rebound in stocks.”  Greek Talks  European shares also recovered as Greek Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras told a European Parliament hearing that
yesterday’s euro-area meeting was “constructive” and he
expects an accord to be reached on rescue funding at a Nov. 20
meeting.  Euro finance chiefs left unanswered how they’ll fill a
fresh hole in Greece’s balance sheet without tapping their own
bailout-weary taxpayers for money after giving the country two
extra years to trim its budget deficit.  In the latest compromise in three years of crisis fighting,
creditors led by Germany opted late yesterday to keep money
flowing to Greece instead of risking a default that could lead
to the nation’s exit from the euro and stir more turmoil for the
countries that remain in the single-currency bloc.  German Confidence  German investor confidence unexpectedly declined in
November, according to a report from the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim. Its index of investor and analyst
expectations fell to minus 15.7 from minus 11.5 in October.
Economists forecast an increase to minus 10, according to the
median of 43 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Emerging market stocks fell for a fourth day, the longest
streak since August. Energy and technology companies  led losses 
amid speculation  China  will expand a property tax trial. Gerdau
SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, snapped a two-day rally
as Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, Brazil’s state-run power
utility, plummeted to an eight-year low. OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s
biggest company, sank 3.6 percent to the lowest since May.
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. and Poly Property Group Ltd.
retreated in Hong Kong.  China’s housing ministry is on “high alert” if both
transaction volume and home prices increase “substantially,”
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing Minister of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development Jiang Weixin.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.7 percent as the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.5 percent, while  Taiwan ’s
Taiex slid 1.8 percent with trading volume 31 percent higher
than the 30-day average. South Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  