-- Japan Post to Choose Adviser for Global IPO ‘Shortly’
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-11-14T08:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/japan-post-to-select-adviser-for-initial-share-sale-shortly-.html
Japan Post  Holdings Co., the
country’s biggest deposit holder, said it will soon select an
adviser for its initial public offering, a deal that may exceed
4 trillion yen ($50 billion).  The adviser will help state-owned  Japan  Post find ways to
boost internal controls, profitability and new businesses before
the share sale, said Yuuki Takemura, group leader for the
company’s IPO Preparatory Office.  “Several  banks  and brokerages, mainly local firms, are
visiting us now,” Takemura said in an interview on Nov. 12,
declining to name the companies. Japan Post will choose an
adviser “shortly” after reviewing presentations, he said.  Local and overseas brokerages are expected to vie for what
could be Japan’s largest state asset sale, exceeding  Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432)  in 1987. Advising on the deal could
boost the winning firm’s chances of underwriting the offering,
which the government plans to complete by October 2015.  “It will be a huge IPO and banks worldwide will want to
get involved,” said Kazumi Tanaka, an IPO analyst at T&C
Financial Research Inc. in Tokyo. “Given the the big fees that
are likely to come with this deal, competition for the mandate
will be hot.”  Takemura declined to name the firms or give a timeline for
the selection process. Tokyo-based Japan Post doesn’t plan to
make a public request for advisory proposals, he said.  Bank Opposition  Japan Post formed the IPO Preparatory Office on Nov. 1,
consisting of eight members, including Takemura, as part of
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s privatization plan. Noda has
said proceeds from the sale would help pay for rebuilding
following last year’s record earthquake and tsunami.  Lending unit  Japan Post Bank Co.  in September applied to
begin selling mortgages next April. Banks including  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s largest lender, oppose
the move, saying it’s unfair for a state-backed bank to join the
market before a level playing field is created.  Japan Post won’t exclude lenders from the adviser selection
process and will judge proposals fairly, Takemura said.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  is Japan’s top equity underwriter this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , the country’s second-biggest bank, is No.
2, followed by Mitsubishi UFJ,  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-largest lender.  The offering will probably take place in phases because of
its size, which may exceed $50 billion, Postal Reform Minister
Mikio Shimoji said last month. The Ministry of Finance owns the
company and is required to retain at least a third.  The company boosted profit 2.7 percent to 236.9 billion yen
in the six months ended Sept. 30, compared with a year earlier,
it said in a  statement  today. Net assets increased to 11.2
trillion yen.  Japan post got 75 percent of revenue from its life
insurance business, 14 percent from banking and 10 percent from
postal services, in the fiscal first half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  