-- Kemira Targets Shale-Oil Chemistry Amid Moves by Sabic
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-11-13T11:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/kemira-targets-shale-oil-chemistry-amid-moves-by-sabic.html
Kemira Oyj (KRA1V)  plans to bring additives
for extracting shale oil to market in the next two years as it
diversifies beyond chemicals used in natural-gas production,
Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Buechele said.  Europe ’s largest maker of water-treatment chemicals expects
a quick pick-up by customers when the additives, now being
developed, become available toward the end of 2014, Buechele
said in a phone interview from Kemira’s Helsinki headquarters.  A drop in gas prices in North America damped production,
resulting in a 9 percent third-quarter revenue decline at
Kemira’s oil-and-gas division. Volume is recovering, and  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  is among petrochemical companies seeking
expansion in the industry. Growth in shale-oil additives would
help protect against gas-price volatility, Buechele said in the
interview yesterday.  “Everybody is trying to make stronger inroads into oil and
gas,” Buechele said. “It’s a competitive market but, at the
end of the day, it’s a market that requires innovation. We are
strong in shale gas, but we at this point have little to no
chemistry required for shale oil.”  Producers operating in the Eagle Ford shale formation in
 Texas  are shifting to extracting oil from a focus on gas,
according to a Bloomberg Industries study released yesterday.
Sabic, as the Saudi chemical maker is known, plans to invest in
the U.S. and elsewhere to gain technology for turning shale gas
into chemical products, Mohamed Al-Mady, CEO of the Riyadh-based
petrochemical company, said yesterday in an interview.  Career Helps  Buechele drew on careers at  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
to put together a savings blueprint for Kemira, dubbed “Fit for
Growth,” that went into effect in July.  The chemical maker is ahead of schedule on simplifying its
organization and raising earnings before interest and taxes to
more than 10 percent of sales by 2014, the CEO said. Working in
private equity helped Buechele spot opportunities for short-term
savings, while being head of fine chemicals at BASF gave a
longer-term perspective on reorganizations, he said.  The savings program will help Kemira hold earnings steady
this year, Buechele said, adding that he travels to one of the
company’s sites each week to oversee the reorganization.  Any acquisitions will probably be limited to smaller deals
of as much as 100 million euros ($127 million), he said.  Paper Industry  Paper chemicals remain a principal focus for Kemira, which
is gaining market share and preparing a 25 million-euro plant in
Nanjing,  China , to start production in early 2013.  Clariant AG (CLN) ,
based in Muttenz, Switzerland, is seeking to get rid of its
paper-chemical division, though Buechele has said Kemira has no
interest in the unit.  Kemira won’t bid for the water business of Munich-based
 Siemens AG (SIE)  because the bulk of the unit’s 1 billion euros in
sales is from machinery and engineering, an area too removed
from the Finnish company’s chemical heritage, he said.  A planned initial public offering of a titanium dioxide
venture with  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC)  is also on hold because of
stock-market volatility and temporary overcapacity in the
industry. Demand for TiO2, used as a whitener in coatings and
toothpaste, is set to improve in 2013, and the two partners will
reconsider the situation then, Buechele said.  Given overcapacity and markets, the current environment
wouldn’t “foster a successful and value-generating IPO,” he
said. “We have the time, and we will definitely try to generate
as much value as we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  