-- Killing From the Sky Is No Way to Defeat Terrorists
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-11-13T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/killing-from-the-sky-is-no-way-to-defeat-terrorists.html
It’s clear the  Barack Obama 
administration needs to  answer for failing  to secure the U.S.
Consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , where four Americans died in a
September terrorist attack. Yet the accountability debate is
getting in the way of the more important discussion the Benghazi
attack should provoke.  That’s a debate over whether the U.S. has the right
counterterrorism strategy to start with. The administration
claims its elimination of al-Qaeda leaders using drones and
special operations forces has crippled the organization. Has it,
really?  The Benghazi attack occurred a day after al-Qaeda chief
Ayman al-Zawahiri urged Libyans  to avenge  the death of  his top
lieutenant , Libyan Yahya al-Libi, in a drone strike in June in
 Pakistan . If Zawahiri’s call prompted the attack on the Benghazi
mission, al-Qaeda, far from being a spent force, retains
sufficient capability to threaten U.S. security.  Even if the Benghazi attack had nothing to do with al-
Qaeda, there’s no doubt the organization, and like-minded
groups, is enjoying a comeback in other places, notably  Mali  and
 Yemen . How did this happen?  After the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. saw the war on
terrorism as a battle of ideas: Violent extremism had to be
defeated by moderate Islam and the spread of liberal Western
values. The  Iraq War  was largely an effort to install a
democracy in the heart of the Arab world. Because war proved the
wrong way to build democracy, however, American policy makers
became convinced that the whole idea of addressing terrorism
through reform was unfounded.  Hounding Al-Qaeda  Accordingly, the Obama administration took a far narrower
approach. Its counterterrorism policy has been focused on
relentlessly hounding al-Qaeda leaders, relying on drones in the
skies and special forces on the ground to eradicate them. The
campaign has had successes, driving al-Qaeda out of  Afghanistan ,
loosening the group’s hold over the insurgency in  Iraq , and
disrupting operations by removing effective leaders such as
Anwar al-Awlaki and  Osama bin Laden .  It has been a seductive policy. Drones are a low-cost, low-
risk way to wage war. They give the impression a country can
defeat terrorism without engaging in costly military campaigns,
economic development or nation-building. The administration
insisted the policy was working, and the country bought it. This
might have dulled the instinct to better protect facilities such
as the U.S. mission in Benghazi. Taking seriously the threat of
violent extremism in newly democratic Libya would have
challenged the administration’s claim that it was defeating the
jihadists.  Yet history tells us that assassination alone isn’t an
effective strategy. During the  Vietnam War , the CIA killed
thousands of Vietcong leaders in Operation Phoenix. The campaign
set the Vietcong back, but the organization survived it.  The effort to decapitate al-Qaeda looks to be similarly
futile. Drones have killed al-Qaeda leaders with devastating
precision but with the unintended consequence of pushing the
organization out of its lair in northwest Pakistan and into
every other broken part of the Muslim world. The options for
asylum, meanwhile, have spread beyond Africa’s Sahel region
because of the effects of the Arab Spring.  Syria ’s civil war has
pulled in global jihadists. Extremists are exploiting a
breakdown of order in parts of Egypt, Libya and Yemen caused by
the dissolution of authoritarian regimes.  As Americans learned after Sept. 11, terrorists thrive in
failed or failing states. They need space to recruit, train,
organize and launch operations.  Terrorist Redoubts  Given the growing number of terrorist redoubts, the limited
U.S. counterterrorism strategy is at the end of its
effectiveness. Going forward, the U.S. can no longer rely
principally on drone strikes. The policy in Obama’s second term
should focus more on shoring up failing states and denying al-
Qaeda new havens. Only then would counterterrorism efforts
actually diminish the organization.  Hiding behind  Russia ’s opposition to a United Nations
resolution on Syria, the U.S. has done almost nothing to stop
the country’s disintegration. The Obama administration needs to
assert leadership in organizing the opposition, forging a cease-
fire and facilitating the exit of President Bashar al-Assad.
This would not only stop the  violence in Syria  but also reduce
the chances of the country becoming the next field of jihad.  The U.S. must also help Libya build effective state
institutions and assist  Egypt  and Yemen in addressing the
decline of social order and state authority. That requires
greater diplomatic engagement, economic aid and support for
civil society.  This is an ambitious agenda, but the U.S. can no longer
afford a minimalist approach. In the campaign, President Obama
identified terrorist networks as the most  serious threat  to U.S.
national security. His response should be as serious as that
threat.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View contributor, dean of the
Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at  Johns
Hopkins University  and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the
 Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  Keystone XL pipeline
should be approved now  and on why the  IMF director is right on
Greece ;  Margaret Carlson  on  adultery as a firing offense ; Clive
Crook on why  China and the U.S. must get along ;  Edward Glaeser 
on why  diversity has built support for a welfare state ;  Peter
Orszag  on why  China may face slower economic growth ;  Stephen
Smith  on why  a politician shouldn’t be transportation secretary.   To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vnasr@jhu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Lisa Beyer  at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 