-- Klarman’s Baupost Cuts Its Holdings in Hewlett-Packard
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-11-13T22:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/klarman-s-baupost-cuts-its-holdings-in-hewlett-packard.html
Baupost Group LLC, the Boston-based
hedge fund run by Seth Klarman, sold almost half of its shares
in  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in the third quarter as the technology
firm stumbled.  Baupost sold 12.47 million of Palo Alto-based Hewlett-
Packard, cutting its holdings to 14.38 million shares, according
to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Baupost also sold 5.6 million shares of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , bringing its stake in the software company to 1.4 million
shares, the firm said.  Hewlett-Packard cut its forecast for full-year profit in
August, underscoring the challenge facing Chief Executive
Officer Meg Whitman. In October, Whitman projected 2013 profit
that missed analysts’ estimates and told analysts a turnaround
at the computer maker wouldn’t happen any time soon. Hewlett-
Packard lost 49 percent this year, making it the fourth-worst
performing stock in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baupost bought Hewlett-Packard in the third quarter of
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hewlett-Packard and Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
have lost ground as competition from tablets have squeezed
sales. Microsoft, the largest software maker, reported fiscal
first-quarter revenue and profit in October that missed
estimates on declining sales of Windows. Its shares have gained
4.4 percent this year.  Klarman is a bargain hunter who wrote the preface to the
sixth edition of “Security Analysis,” a 1934 book by Benjamin
Graham and David Dodd that is considered the bible of value
investing.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  