-- Natural Gas Jumps to One-Year High on Stockpile Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-11-13T20:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/natural-gas-advances-as-colder-weather-may-reduce-stockpiles.html
Natural gas futures rose to a one-
year high in New York on speculation that U.S. inventories will
drop for the first time this season as below-normal temperatures
spur fuel demand.  Gas rose 4.7 percent, the most in six weeks, as a
government report on Nov. 15 may show that stockpiles fell 15
billion cubic feet last week to 3.914 trillion, according to
Donald Murry, an economist at C.H. Guernsey & Co. in Oklahoma
City. That would be the earliest seasonal decline since 2007.  “A withdrawal from inventories would tell the market that
winter is already here,” said Tom Saal, senior vice president
of energy trading at INTL Hencorp Futures LLC in Miami. “We’re
obviously seeing colder weather than what people remember from
the latter part of last year.”  Natural gas for December delivery rose 16.9 cents to $3.739
per million British thermal units on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest settlement price since Nov. 8, 2011. The
futures had their biggest one-day percentage increase since Oct.
1, excluding contract rollover days. Prices are up 4.3 percent
from a year ago.  January $3 puts were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were 0.4 cent lower at 0.4 cent per
million Btu on volume of 2,134 contracts as of 2:47 p.m. Puts
accounted for 50 percent of options volume.  Today’s rally was triggered after prices rose above key
resistance at $3.62 per million Btu, a level that futures had
approached several times since early November, Aaron Calder, an
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston, said in a note to
clients today.  Technical Trading  Gas climbed above the upper Bollinger band in intraday
trading, signaling a decline may be imminent. Some traders use
the bands, developed by technical analyst John Bollinger, to
judge support and resistance levels based on moving averages.  The five-year average storage change for the seven days
ended Nov. 9 is a gain of 17 billion cubic feet. Last year,
supplies rose by 20 billion during that week.  Inventories were 6.6 percent above the five-year average in
the week ended Nov. 2. The  surplus  has declined from a six-year
high of 61 percent in March. The government’s weekly storage
report is due at 10:30 a.m. on Nov. 15 in  Washington .  The weather may be colder than normal across most of the
eastern half of the U.S. through Nov. 17, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Cold Weather  The low in  Cleveland  on Nov. 16 may be 32 degrees
Fahrenheit (0 Celsius), 8 below normal, according to  AccuWeather
Inc.  in State College,  Pennsylvania . The low in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , may be 38 degrees, 6 lower than the usual reading.  Heating demand in the south-central U.S. may be 20 percent
above normal on Nov. 16, according to Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri .  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  The coming U.S. winter will probably be colder than a year
ago, boosting demand for heating fuels such as natural gas, a
panel of forecasters said.  While December will be warmer than normal, temperatures
will drop through February, increasing natural gas use by 13
percent over the same period a year earlier, Commodity Weather
Group LLC President Matt Rogers said during a panel discussion
at Earth Networks Inc.’s seventh annual energy weather seminar
in New York Oct. 18.  The U.S. winter, measured by meteorologists from Dec. 1 to
Feb. 28, may be 21 percent cooler than last year in terms of
natural gas-weighted heating degree days, Rogers said.  Gas Output  The U.S. boosted its outlook for 2012 natural gas prices
and lowered its forecast for production, according to the Energy
Department’s Nov. 6 Short-Term Energy Outlook.  Gas at the benchmark Henry Hub in Erath,  Louisiana , will
average $2.77 per million British thermal units, up from the
previous estimate of $2.71, the department said.  Marketed gas production will average 68.84 billion cubic
feet a day this year, up 4 percent from last year, according to
the Nov. 6 report from the department’s Energy Information
Administration.  “EIA expects some small declines in production in the
coming months, related to recent drops in the rig count,” the
department said in the report.  The number of rigs drilling for gas in the U.S. fell by 11
to 413 in the week ended Nov. 9, according to Baker Hughes Inc.
in Houston. The rig count has dropped 49 percent this year.  Energy Independence  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first six months of the year, department
data show. If the trend goes on through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
338,237 as of 2:44 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 365,000. Volume was 248,229 yesterday. Open interest was 1.15
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.14 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  