-- NBC Universal Shifts ‘Today’ Chief Jim Bell to Olympics
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-11-14T00:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nbc-universal-shifts-today-executive-producer-bell-to-olympics.html
NBC Universal  said Jim Bell will
take over as the full-time executive producer of its Olympics
coverage after seven years of running the “Today” show.  Bell, 45, will have “editorial and creative control” over
NBC’s Olympics coverage, the New York-based TV, film and
amusement park company said today in a  statement . Bell spent 16
years with NBC Sports before joining “Today” in 2005. He was
the executive producer of the London Games this summer and will
report to NBC Sports Group Chairman Mark Lazarus.  NBC, majority owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , is shaking up the
“Today” show after losing its 16-year lead in viewers to ABC’s
“Good Morning America.” Alexandra Wallace, an NBC News senior
vice president, will take an oversight role on the show, a
person with knowledge of the plans said. The network replaced
co-host Ann Curry with Savannah Guthrie in June.  “After a 16-year run, which is kind of gravity-defying, we
were due for a little turbulence, and we certainly hit that
patch,” Bell said. “Ann deserved her chance and got it, but I
think we had to make a change there, and we did, and I feel good
about it.”  Curry replaced Meredith Vieira as co-host last year. She
said in a USA Today interview that she wasn’t given enough time
on the program to fix “kinks” that occurred in her year of
hosting and said she wasn’t to blame for the ratings slip.  The New York Times  first reported  Curry would leave
“Today” eight days before she announced it, leading to a week
of speculation surrounding her eventual departure.  ‘Family Moment’  “We like to call ourselves a family on TV, and I don’t
know too many families that don’t have their moments, and we had
a tough family moment,” Bell said. “But moving forward, we’re
going to be fine. I guess there are a lot of different things we
could do differently. We made a hard decision but a right
decision.”  “Today” will also announce a new executive producer from
within NBC’s own ranks, according to the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. Megan Kopf, a spokeswoman for the
show, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  