-- NBC Universal Said to Cut About 450 Jobs Across Its Units
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-11-13T21:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nbc-universal-said-to-cut-about-450-jobs-across-its-units.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  is
cutting about 450 jobs at several divisions of the broadcast,
film and cable company, according to two people with knowledge
of the situation.  The reductions, some of which have taken place already,
amount to about 1.5 percent of NBC Universal’s 30,000 employees,
according to the people, who weren’t authorized to discuss the
matter publicly. Most of the cuts are in  California .  NBC is eliminating jobs as cable and broadcast networks
experience an industrywide advertising slowdown. Third-quarter
ad sales at NBC cable channels including USA rose less than 1
percent from a year earlier, after growth of about 5 percent in
the first half, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  At G4, the cable channel targeting young male viewers, two
programs including “Attack of the Show” were canceled,
accounting for some of the firings, one of the people said.
 Universal Pictures ’ home-video department and a sound-mixing
operation also are being targeted.  Some of the cuts have been filed with the State of
California under  regulations  requiring notice of reductions. A
total of 360, including 80 in September, were listed in a state
announcement on Nov. 7. The balance of those in the state are
scheduled by Dec. 31, according to the announcement. The website
Deadline Hollywood reported yesterday on NBC’s action.  NBC Universal, majority owned by Comcast Corp., operates
some of the most-watched U.S. cable TV channels, in addition to
its flagship broadcast network, a film studio and the Universal
Studios amusement parks.  ‘Today’ Show  Separately, NBC is planning leadership changes at the
“Today” show, the  New York  Times reported, citing people at
the network it didn’t name. Alexandra Wallace, an NBC News
senior vice president, may be named to oversee the program’s
entire four hours, the newspaper reported.  Wallace and another producer are likely to be named to
succeed Jim Bell, who has led the show since 2005, the New York
Times reported. He will head Olympics programming at NBC Sports.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, fell 0.2 percent to $36.11
at the close in New York. The stock has gained 52 percent this
year, to lead the 16-member S&P 500 Media Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  