-- NFL Acknowledges Blown Call on Broncos’ Punt Return Touchdown
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nfl-acknowledges-blown-call-on-broncos-punt-return-touchdown.html
The  National Football League  said
Trindon Holliday’s 76-yard punt return for the  Denver Broncos 
against the  Carolina Panthers  two days ago was mistakenly ruled
a touchdown rather than a touchback.  In the second quarter of the Broncos’ 36-14 victory,
television replays showed Holliday flipped the ball out of his
hand before he crossed the goal line on the punt return.  Because of his premature celebration, the NFL said the play
should have been a touchback, with officials taking the
touchdown away from the Broncos and giving Carolina possession
at its 20-yard line. The NFL said in a statement that replay
official Bob Boylston should have stopped the game for a video
review, which would have given referee Alberto Riveron the
visual evidence to overturn the on-field ruling.  Broncos coach John Fox said the issue has already been
addressed with Holliday, as the team seeks to eliminate any
premature celebrations in the future.  “He’s got full instructions from Jeff Rodgers, our special
teams coach, to bring the ball all the way back to him,” Fox
told reporters yesterday. “Bring it to the sideline, hand it to
your coach.”  The NFL also said more than one minute was mistakenly run
off the game clock during the second quarter of the 24-24 tie
between the  San Francisco 49ers  and  St. Louis Rams  two days ago.  The NFL said the clock operator erred in not stopping the
timing as officials measured for a possible first down. Timing
issues can’t be reviewed by instant replay and, once the next
play begins, the clock can’t be adjusted.  The league said timing procedures will be “carefully
reviewed” with game officials and clock operators this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  