-- Japan Fiscal Cliff Averted as Deal Paves Way for Election
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-13T07:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/noda-s-disapproval-rating-reaches-record-as-japan-election-looms.html
Japan’s ruling party reached an
agreement to end a budget standoff, paving the way for elections
as soon as next month as a poll showed voter discontent with
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  at a new high.  The deal was reached today after last night’s preliminary
accord, Akira Amari, policy chief for the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party , told reporters in Tokyo. Noda has
decided to dissolve parliament before the end of the year and
call new elections either in the second half of December or in
January, the Nikkei newspaper said today without citing anyone.  Today’s compromise between the  Democratic Party  of Japan
and the two main opposition groups achieves one of Noda’s three
conditions for fulfilling an August pledge to call an election
“soon.” Public dissatisfaction over his handling of an economy
that contracted in the third quarter increases the possibility
of  Japan  getting its seventh leader in as many years.  “I welcome the fact that the three parties have reached an
agreement,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told
reporters today in Tokyo. “It is my strong hope that the bill
itself will be enacted quickly.”  The three-party agreement calls for the authorization of
deficit-financing bonds for the fiscal year ending in March, as
well as for the subsequent three years. The measure was blocked
by the opposition-controlled upper house of parliament, leading
Finance Minister Koriki Jojima to warn that the government would
run out of money by the end of November.  Election Promise  “One down, two more to go,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief
economist at Japan Macro Advisors who has worked as an economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA. “Noda must
have promised an election before the end of the year in return
for passage of the deficit-financing bill.”  The stalemate hampered efforts to boost an economy hit by
falling exports amid a territorial dispute with  China , Japan’s
biggest trading partner. Gross domestic product fell an
annualized 3.5 percent in the third quarter of the year, a
government report yesterday showed.  “It’s extremely difficult to oversee fiscal policy without
the deficit-funding bonds,” Jojima said today in parliament.
“I would like parliament to authorize them as soon as
possible.”  Noda’s disapproval rating rose five percentage points to 64
percent, the highest since he took office in September 2011, an
Asahi newspaper poll published today showed. His approval rating
was unchanged from three weeks ago at 18 percent.  The prime minister is also calling on the opposition to
back measures on electoral reform and agree on a framework for
revising social security policy before the election.  Asked which party they would vote for in the proportional
representation section if the election were held now, 29 percent
of respondents to the Asahi poll picked the LDP, compared with
12 percent who opted for the DPJ.  The newspaper surveyed 1,611 people in its Nov. 10-11
telephone poll and provided no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  