-- Nordex Shares Soar as New Orders Put 2012 Target in Reach
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-11-13T12:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nordex-shares-soar-as-new-orders-put-2012-target-in-reach.html
Nordex SE (NDX1) , whose losses have spurred
a stock drop this year exceeding 20 percent, jumped the most in
nine months after the German maker of  wind turbines  returned to
profit and said orders put its 2012 sales goal within reach.  Nordex gained as much as 8.7 percent to 3.20 euros, the
biggest intraday increase since Feb. 2, and traded up 6.7
percent as of 1:02 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Volume was almost four
times the three-month daily average.  Third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes amounted
to 15.4 million euros ($19.6 million), following a loss in each
of the previous three quarters, according to  results  published
today. Firm orders of 735.1 million euros, up from 515 million
euros a year earlier, “ensure that the full-year sales target
for 2012 will be achieved,” the Hamburg-based company said.  Operating profit amount to about 1 percent of full-year
sales, compared with a previous margin forecast of 1 percent to
3 percent, it said. The prediction includes extra expenses
resulting from delays in the delivery of towers and rotor
blades, Nordex said. The company is optimistic of reaching the
top end of its order forecast range of 1 billion euros to 1.1
billion euros.  “Third-quarter orders are weak, but the indication for the
fourth quarter is encouraging,” Sven Kuerten, an analyst at  DZ
Bank  in Frankfurt, wrote in a report to clients. Kuerten has a
sell  recommendation  on the stock.  Nordex and market leader  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  of Denmark
have slumped on stock markets this year as they struggle with
narrowing margins. Wind-turbine makers across the globe have
reduced prices to compete for orders with their Asian peers as
U.S. and European governments cut clean-energy incentives to
curb budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Frankfurt at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  