-- Norway Central Banker Reviles Fed Cash in John Law Quip
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/norway-central-banker-reviles-fed-cash-in-john-law-quip.html
Ben Bernanke  risks being remembered
for the same monetary folly that was perpetrated by John Law,
the banker who fled 18th century  France  after creating an asset
bubble, the deputy governor of Norway’s central bank said.  “If printing money is not followed up by action -- in euro
area countries, in the U.K. and in the U.S. --  Mario Draghi ,
 Mervyn King  and Ben Bernanke run the risk of being recorded in
history in the same chapter as the Scotsman John Law,” Norges
Bank Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said in the text of a
speech delivered yesterday in Oslo.  European Central Bank President Draghi, Federal Reserve
Chairman Bernanke and Bank of England Governor King are pursuing
unprecedented stimulus programs in an effort to drag their
economies out of the worst crisis since the Great Depression.
The ECB’s main interest rate is 0.75 percent, the Fed’s rate
hovers near zero and the  Bank of England ’s is 0.5 percent.
Draghi in September pledged unlimited debt purchases to support
euro markets. Bernanke a week later vowed to buy bonds until the
U.S. labor market recovers.  John Law, born in 1671, was a Scottish economist who moved
to France. Under the Duke of Orleans, he set up Banque Generale
-- a lender that was able to issue bank notes -- to help revive
the French economy. He’s best known for the Mississippi Scheme,
a venture that ballooned into a bubble. When it burst, the
French economy was plunged into a crisis, forcing Law to flee.
He died a pauper in  Italy  in 1729, according to the Encyclopedia
Britannica.  ‘Unrestrained Printing’  “Unrestrained printing of money has led to problems on
many occasions through history,” Qvigstad said.  In an interview after the speech, Qvigstad said his
comments had been “a bit rhetorical.” The intention “was to
underline the point that central banks cannot solve the
problem,” he said. “The politicians and real actions, like
pension reforms, labor market reforms budget balance, budget
reforms, those are the things that are needed to solve the
problems.”  The Fed’s third round of quantitative easing may extend
through next year and climb past $1 trillion, according to
economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Pierpont Securities LLC.
Bernanke has kept  interest rates  near zero since December 2008,
and the Fed in September extended the horizon for record-low
rates through at least the middle of 2015.  Operation Twist  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion in securities in its previous
two rounds of bond-buying and has swapped its short-term
Treasuries with longer-term securities in a program called
Operation Twist, due to expire in December.  At the Bank of England, policy makers said on Nov. 8 that
they don’t plan to buy more bonds beyond the 375 billion pounds
($595 billion) already purchased, concluding a third round of
quantitative easing. The next day, the bank said that it will
transfer income from gilts it holds under that program to the
Treasury in a move that King equates to an easing of monetary
conditions.  Norway ’s central bank has signaled its next move will be to
raise its main rate from 1.5 percent to counter the effects of
overheating. Still, Qvigstad and Governor Oeystein Olsen have
said they don’t want Norwegian rates to stray too far from
policy rates elsewhere to avoid fanning krone appreciation.  Norway’s economy, which is backed by a $660 billion
sovereign wealth fund, has been overheating for the past half
year, Qvigstad said yesterday. His bank has managed to build up
trust in inflation targeting, giving it more time to achieve its
goals, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  