-- Djokovic Turns Defense Into Offense to Dethrone Federer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-13T02:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/novak-djokovic-turns-defense-into-offense-to-dethrone-fed.html
Under pressure after being pulled
out wide by  Roger Federer ,  Novak Djokovic  slid across the
baseline to crack a backhand winner and secure his second
season-ending tennis championship.  The shot gave the top-ranked Serb a 7-6 (8-6), 7-5 win
against defending champion Federer in last night’s title match
at the  ATP World Tour Finals  in London.  “It’s the best way to finish the match, with a passing
shot, one of my favorite shots,” Djokovic told reporters after
winning the eight-man event. “I tried to stay in the rally and
get more aggressive in that rally. But he came in. That was the
only space left for me to make a passing shot, and I made it.”  Throughout the two hour, 15-minute match, Djokovic turned
defense into attack. He came back from a break down in both sets,
and saved two set points at the end of the second set.  “Even in defense, he stays somewhat offensive,” Federer,
a record six-time winner of the Tour Finals, told reporters.
“It’s what separates him from the rest a little bit.”  Switzerland ’s Federer produced 30 winners and 42 unforced
errors, compared with 19 and 29 from Djokovic.  Federer raced to a 3-0 lead before Djokovic got back into
the match. The Serb failed to serve out the set at 5-4, netting
a forehand on set point.  Federer saved a second set point at 5-6 down in the tie-
breaker, chasing down a pick-up at the net by Djokovic to hit a
forehand pass almost behind his back. He screamed as the crowd
cheered “Roger, Roger.” A wide backhand gave Djokovic a third
set point, which he converted with a forehand winner.  ‘Hang in’  “I was just trying to hang in there,” said Djokovic, who
beat Federer in two U.S. Open semifinals after saving match
points. “It’s not the first time that Roger starts against me
so well.”  Federer broke serve in the opening game of the second set.
Rushing to the net to keep the points short against one of the
game’s best retrievers, Federer appeared to have regained the
momentum as he served for the set at 5-4. Instead, he failed to
convert two set points with two forehand errors and got broken.
Serving to stay in the match, Federer dropped serve for the
fourth time to hand Djokovic his 75th win of the season.  “I knew that he’s going to come in and really have nothing
to lose, playing his game,” Djokovic said. “So I tried to stay
focused and be patient in the rallies in a way and wait for my
chance.”  Djokovic, 25, ends the season the way he began it: with a
title. He secured his fifth major championship at the Australian
Open in January following a breakthrough 2011, when he won three
Grand Slam tournaments, got to No. 1 and didn’t lose a match
until June.  No. 1 Player  Djokovic receives $1.76 million for winning the ATP Finals
and going unbeaten through the tournament, which starts with a
round-robin format. He’ll finish the season as the No. 1 player
in the world for the second straight year.  Although the Belgrade native didn’t achieve his two main
goals this season -- winning the French Open and the Olympic
gold medal -- he ends 2012 with six titles and more match wins
than anyone else on the men’s tour.  Djokovic said he’ll travel to  Brazil  this week to play a
few exhibitions, before going on vacation.  “Two-and-a-half weeks completely off in a very tropical,
very beautiful place with no racket, no nothing, no tennis,” he
said.  Federer, 31, still leads Djokovic  16-13  in career meetings
in a rivalry that began on the clay of  Monte Carlo  in 2006. Last
night’s victory put Djokovic 3-2 up this season.  “I thought it was a good match,” Federer said. “It was
great intensity, good crowd. So it was fun playing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at London’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  