-- NYC High-Rise Homes Rebounding With Financing, Buyers
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-11-13T17:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nyc-high-rise-homes-rebounding-with-financing-buyers.html
Financing for condominium
construction and purchases has become available in  New York  as
the supply of new homes ebbs, according to developer Kenneth S. Horn, president of Alchemy Properties Inc.  “Product began to recede” after the 2008 financial
crisis, Horn, whose closely held firm is developing condominiums
on the top 40 floors of the Woolworth Building in lower
 Manhattan , said today on a panel at the Bloomberg Commercial
Real Estate Conference in New York.  The inventory of Manhattan homes for sale fell to a seven-
year low in the third quarter as owners waited for prices to
recover before trying to sell, according to appraiser  Miller
Samuel Inc.  and broker  Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate .  The number of homes on the market totaled 5,847 at the end
of the quarter, a 24 percent decline from a year earlier and the
lowest since the first three months of 2005, the companies
reported Oct. 2. Listings in new developments fell 28 percent
from a year earlier to 1,090 properties.  Sales fell 5 percent to 2,952 deals, while still reaching
the second-highest level since 2008, according to the report.  Horn said he plans to build 40 to 45 condos at the
Woolworth Building at 233 Broadway, which was the world’s
tallest tower until 1930. The project is likely to attract
mostly foreign buyers and the prices will be “we hope, high,”
he said.  While a recovering housing market has made condo
construction viable, the tax benefits of rental apartments are
more favorable for builders, said Steven C. Witkoff, chairman of
the Witkoff Group, a New York-based investor in offices, hotels
and multifamily real estate.  Manhattan apartment rents surged in September to a median
$3,195, coming within 2.1 percent of the 2006 peak, as improving
employment boosted competition among tenants,  Miller Samuel  and
Prudential reported Oct. 11.  The cost of land in New York usually makes rentals too
expensive to develop, which is why more condos are being built,
Horn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  