-- NYC Luxury Retail Areas Emerging in Downtown, Brooklyn
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-11-13T20:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nyc-luxury-retail-areas-emerging-in-downtown-brooklyn.html
Luxury retail districts are emerging
in New York’s financial district and  Brooklyn  as boutique hotels
and new offices for companies such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
draw shoppers.  “It’s a very different city today than 20 years ago, as
far as luxury more than anything,” Jason Pomeranc, co-chairman
of Commune Hotels & Resorts, said today on a panel at the
Bloomberg Commercial Real Estate Conference in New York.  Capitalization rates, a measure of return on investment
that falls as prices rise, on  Manhattan   retail  properties
dropped to 4.5 percent in September from 5.6 percent a year
earlier, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. The properties
sold for $1,497 a square foot, compared with $496 for office
space and $513 for industrial space, the New York-based research
firm said.  “There’s a flight to quality for investors,” Laura H. Pomerantz, founding partner of PBS Real Estate LLC, a New York
retail consulting firm, said on the panel.  Manhattan’s Flatiron District, the World Trade Center and
the financial district area near the New York by Gehry apartment
building, as well as Bedford Avenue in Brooklyn’s Williamsburg
are becoming new centers for luxury retailers, Pomerantz said. 
 Hermes International (RMS)  and other luxury vendors follow boutique 
hotels, fitness spas and restaurants to emerging neighborhoods, 
she said on the panel.  “Brands want a cool factor,” Pomerantz said.  New parks, such as the High Line and Hudson River Greenway,
have made Manhattan’s Lower West Side a more livable place, said
Pomeranc, whose company owns the Thompson and Joie de Vivre
hotel brands. Massive projects under construction, such as 1
World Trade Center and Hudson Yards on Midtown’s far west side,
will transform other areas, he said.  “Large-scale projects change neighborhoods,” Pomeranc
said. “You’ll see a wave of that in 2014, 2015 and 2016. It
will change New York.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  