-- NYC Real Estate Will Rebound After Sandy, Executives Say
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-11-14T02:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/nyc-real-estate-will-rebound-after-sandy-executives-say.html
New York City ’s commercial-property
market will rebound from Hurricane Sandy as it has from previous
disasters, according to local real estate executives.  “As bad as Sandy is, I believe, in a year, we will be back
to normal,” Peter Hauspurg, chairman and chief executive
officer of Eastern Consolidated, an investment sales brokerage,
said today on a panel at the Bloomberg Commercial Real Estate
Conference in  New York . “New York City has shown itself to be
the real estate Treasury bill of the world.”  Flooding in lower Manhattan after Sandy, the biggest
Atlantic storm in history, displaced workers at companies
including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Morgan Stanley.
As of Nov. 12, almost 29 percent of lower Manhattan office space
was out of operation because of the storm, which made landfall
Oct. 29, according to brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  within the next week will
reopen 1 New York Plaza in lower Manhattan, where Morgan Stanley
leases more than 800,000 square feet (74,000 square meters),
Chairman Ric Clark said during a separate panel. The company
also owns downtown New York’s 8 million-square-foot World
Financial Center.  Financial District  Even before the storm, the Manhattan office market’s
performance was mixed. In midtown south, technology, media and
other so-called creative firms have driven the vacancy rate to
the lowest in the U.S., while demand remains sluggish in Midtown
and lower Manhattan, where financial companies have been
reluctant to expand.  Rents at Manhattan’s best offices fell 7.1 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, the biggest drop
in more than three years, according to CompStak Inc., a New
York-based leasing-data provider.  Manhattan ’s office vacancy
rate rose to 9.6 percent in the period from 9 percent, Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. data show.  Sandy hasn’t slowed interest among potential tenants in the
financial district because the neighborhood has more energy-
efficient space and its mass-transit connections make it more
accessible than other parts of the city, said Janno Lieber,
president of World Trade Center Properties LLC. The company is
an affiliate of Silverstein Properties Inc., which is developing
towers at the site.  “Every substantial company in New York is looking at
downtown,” Lieber said at the conference.  His company owns 120 Wall St., which has been closed since
the storm hit. The building will reopen tomorrow, he said.  Reimagined City  Jobs lost after Sandy will be replaced by firms that will
“help reimagine the city” and hire architects, engineers,
designers and construction workers, said Bill Rudin, CEO of
Rudin Management Co., the landlord of two lower Manhattan
buildings that flooded as a result of  Hurricane Sandy .  The city should move to assist people who lost their homes
or businesses and take its time to consider large projects such
as a sea wall, Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate
Board of New York, said at the conference. While the board has
no position on whether  climate change  is causing more frequent
storms, “there’s an acceptance we’ll see these storms more
often,” Spinola said. “Therefore, we’ll have to take steps to
deal with them.”  Stephen Ross, chairman of Related Cos., said the
devastation caused by the storm was underestimated and the city
needs better protections.  “The government’s going to have to step up and have some
sort of solution,” Ross, whose company developed Manhattan’s
Time Warner Center, said at the conference.  Communities should be rebuilt to account for the increasing
frequency of severe storms, said Norman Sturner, president and
CEO of Murray Hill Properties. Trucks had to be dispatched from
 Oklahoma  to  New Jersey  to deliver replacements for telephone
poles lost during Sandy, he said.  “We just weren’t ready for this magnitude of damage,”
Sturner said at the conference. “We have to be smarter next
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  