-- Obama’s Welfare State Needs Republican Guardians
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-11-13T23:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/obama-s-welfare-state-needs-republican-guardians.html
For most of the past century, the
U.S. and continental Europe have followed different paths.
Social Democrats often ran European governments, which typically
taxed and spent a  greater share  of their national incomes on
social programs, such as public health care. The U.S. has been
far more conservative.  Our last Democratic president, Bill Clinton, accepted this
fact, and won re-election as the triangulator who  declared  that
“the era of big government is over.” But President  Barack Obama 
was re-elected on an aggressively progressive program. Is the
U.S. finally converging toward the European model?  In 2004, my colleague Alberto Alesina and I wrote a book
 titled  “Fighting Poverty in the U.S. and Europe: A World of
Difference,” which tried to document and explain America’s
exceptional politics.  We  noted  that governments in the U.S. in 1998 spent 14.6
percent of gross domestic product on social-welfare programs,
such as unemployment insurance and Social Security. The European
average was 25.5 percent of GDP. The Swedes and the French spent
3.9 and 3.1 percent of GDP respectively on unemployment and
other labor-market programs; Americans spent four-tenths of 1
percent on them. U.S. tax rates compared with  Europe ’s were
higher for poorer workers and lower for richer workers.  More Europeanism  The Europeans also regulated their labor markets more
extensively, with many mandated vacation days, strong
restrictions on firing and higher minimum wages relative to
average earnings.  We didn’t judge the two systems. (Why alienate half our
potential readership?) We sought only to understand why U.S. and
European social policies diverged so sharply. Political-economy
theories suggested that a nation will have a smaller welfare
state if it has less innate inequality, less economic volatility
or more social mobility. Yet pretax, pre-social-spending
inequality is higher in the U.S. than in Europe, and the
American economy is more volatile. Studies looking at  Italy ,
 France  and  Germany  often find that more Europeans than Americans
escape from the bottom rungs of income distribution.  These findings don’t mean that the U.S. lacks opportunity
or that its rising inequality has created an ossified, closed
upper class. Moving from the middle to the top of society in the
U.S. is often easier than it is in Europe. An astonishing share
of students at top colleges receive financial aid. At  Harvard , I
meet far more hardworking, gifted first-generation
undergraduates than trust-fund kids. But European public
education is more uniform in quality than it is in the U.S., and
America leaves far too many children of the disadvantaged
trapped in poverty.  If economic fundamentals don’t explain the differences
between the U.S. and Europe, then what does? Two  forces  are
paramount -- political institutions and racial heterogeneity.
Evidence supports the view that more racially fragmented
societies, such as the U.S., give less to their poorer citizens,
especially when racial minorities are disproportionately poor.  Around the world, more racially fragmented countries have
smaller welfare states. In the U.S., before the welfare reform
of 1996 created more national uniformity, there was a powerful
negative correlation across the states between welfare
generosity and the black population, even controlling for state
income levels. A rich historical literature -- C. Vann Woodward’s “ The Strange Career of Jim Crow ” may be the most
prominent example -- demonstrates how racial and ethnic
divisions often divided progressive alliances within the U.S.  Welfare Skepticism  The strong connection between ethnic fractionalization and
less redistribution doesn’t mean that people who oppose welfare
are racist. There are good reasons to be  skeptical  about a more-
generous welfare state. But the historical and international
track record suggests it is easier to convince wealthy Swedes
that poor Swedes deserve a helping hand than to persuade people
in any nation to sacrifice their hard-earned prosperity for the
well-being of people who seem culturally alien.  We estimate that about one-half of the difference between
the U.S. and Europe can be explained by greater American ethnic
heterogeneity. The remaining gap reflects the  exceptionalism  of
American political institutions. The U.S. has a majoritarian
system that favors senators and presidents who appeal to the
middle; many European countries have proportional representation
that makes it easy for fringe parties, including Socialists and
Communists, to get a seat at the table. The American separation
of powers creates plenty of checks and balances; many European
countries allow a popularly elected government to swiftly carry
out huge changes.  The property-owning, prosperous American founders feared
ochlocracy and wanted a system that would limit the power of
temporary popular sentiment. Only a century ago, most of Europe
had more conservative political institutions than those in
America. Kings and emperors still ruled, and popular government
was limited. But in the rebuilding after the horrors, wars and
devastation of the 20th century, many Western European
constitutions were rewritten, often by the left, who crafted
institutions made for social democracy. The U.S. enjoyed safety
and stability -- no rewriting of James Madison’s Constitution
was necessary.  Does Obama’s victory, which was convincing but not
overwhelming, represent a change in the U.S.-European divide? He
is the first president since Lyndon Johnson to win election
after aggressively expanding the welfare state.  U.S. institutions will continue to be a formidable check on
Obama. While the growing diversity of the population favors the
Democrats, Republicans have plenty of room to reinvent
themselves as supporters of smarter, less-wasteful government.  Demographic Shift  Mitt Romney   received  59 percent of the white vote, more
than the 56 percent Ronald Reagan  received  in 1980. Changing
demographics means that Republicans now face a less-conservative
political environment: The majority of Hispanics  see  more, not
less, need for government programs that aid the poor.  Yet a more liberal nation still needs budgetary sanity. The
next year’s political discussion is far more likely to be
dominated by fiscal cliffs than by expanded social-safety
spending. If the Republicans become the party of smart financial
probity, they will have a decent chance of convincing Americans
of every race that they will be better guardians of the nation’s
finances.  Although diversity may be breaking down America’s anti-
welfare consensus, there is little reason to think that a more-
diverse country naturally leads to a larger central government.  The more standard view is that diversity reduces the demand
for central control, which can never produce the diversity of
policies to accommodate extremely different preferences. The
Republican penchant for localism, at least if it is
intelligently managed and linked to a competently run
centralized safety net, might appeal to a diverse America.  A Republicanism for a more diverse America can’t be seen as
solely anti-Washington rhetoric but as providing sensible tools
and delivering diverse policies for a diverse nation.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  Keystone XL pipeline
should be approved now  and on why the  IMF director is right on
Greece ; Margaret Carlson on  adultery as a firing offense ; Clive
Crook on why  China and the U.S. must get along ; Vali Nasr on why
 drone strikes alone won’t defeat al-Qaeda ; Peter Orszag on why
 China may face slower economic growth ; Stephen Smith on why  a
politician shouldn’t be transportation secretary.   To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 