-- Lockheed Told It Must Put F-35’s Success Over Profit
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-14T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/lockheed-told-it-must-put-f-35-s-success-over-profit.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  executives
must put improving performance of the F-35 fighter, the
Pentagon’s costliest program, over immediate profit, the
military’s purchasing chief said.  “We want to know that when they come to us with an
initiative or proposed solution to a problem that it’s motivated
by the welfare of the program” and not “focused on a short-
term business goal they are trying to accomplish,” Frank Kendall, undersecretary of defense for acquisition, told
reporters yesterday at the Pentagon.  The company is in the midst of prolonged negotiations with
the Pentagon on orders for the fifth batch of F-35s, and the
program has faced cost overruns and testing delays. Kendall said
yesterday the resignation Nov. 9 of Lockheed’s incoming chief
executive officer, Christopher Kubasik, because of a
relationship with a subordinate won’t hurt the company’s
dealings with the Pentagon.  “Lockheed has dealt with the situation appropriately” as
it’s an internal matter, Kendall said. “We are adult
professionals. We come to things with our own business
perspectives, and we can meet and work out deals. This stuff
isn’t personal.”  Marillyn Hewson, a Lockheed employee for almost three
decades who was selected to take over as CEO in January instead
of Kubasik, has a reputation as a “capable professional, and I
am looking forward to working with her,” Kendall said.  Lockheed was the Pentagon’s biggest contractor in the
government’s fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2011, with $36.4
billion in direct, or prime, awards, according to a Bloomberg
Government study on the top 200 contractors.  ‘Worst’ Relationship  Buying a planned inventory of 2,443 F-35s for the Air
Force, Navy and Marine Corps is now estimated to cost $395.7
billion, a 70 percent increase since Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed won the contract in late 2001.  The deputy head of the Pentagon’s F-35 program, Air Force
Major General Christopher Bogdan, said in September his office’s
relationship with Lockheed had deteriorated to “the worst I’ve
ever seen.”  Bogdan was referring to the communications between Lockheed
and the program office, Kendall said.  “Lockheed has seemed to them to be focused on short-term
business goals, and we’d like to see them focused more on
execution of program and successful delivery of the product,”
Kendall said.  Eighty-two percent of the company’s $46.5 billion in
revenue last year came from the U.S. government, mostly from the
Defense Department, according to the company’s annual report.  Work on the F-35 “is progressing very well,” Hewson said
Nov. 12 on a conference call with analysts.  “We are going to meet our commitments this year on
delivering the aircraft that we’ve committed to” and “we’ll
continue  to be very much engaged.”  “We won’t miss a beat on F-35,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  