-- Oil Industry Revives Campaign to Avoid Losing Tax Breaks
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-11-13T17:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/oil-industry-revives-campaign-to-avoid-losing-tax-breaks.html
U.S. oil and gas producers began a
public-relations campaign to protect industry tax breaks as
Obama administration and congressional negotiators seek revenue
to offset spending cuts that take effect next month.  The  American Petroleum Institute , which represents  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , will broadcast commercials in
the Washington area and in select states warning against higher
taxes on producers, Khary Cauthen, senior director of federal
relations, said today on a conference call.  “Discriminatory tax treatment of the oil and gas industry
is a bad idea,” Cauthen said in an interview. “They can keep
us from doing what we do to help the economy; jobs, energy
production and over the long term, even the revenues our
industry provides to the government.”  Oil Change International , a research group that opposes
fossil-fuel tax breaks, also plans to advertise, said Steve Kretzmann, executive director of the Washington-based group.
Both sides hope to sway public opinion as Congress debates
measures to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff -- $607 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases set to start in January.  “It looks to us like there definitely is some possibility
of the Republicans going along with some elimination of oil-
company tax breaks,” Kretzmann said in an interview. “It’s
probably the smallest slice possible that they’re interested
in.”  Obama, Menendez  President  Barack Obama  has called for a repeal of about $40
billion in industry tax breaks over a decade. In 2011, Senator
 Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, sponsored a bill that
would eliminate tax breaks worth about $24 billion over 10 years
for the largest oil and gas companies operating in the U.S. The
Senate fell nine votes short of the 60 needed to advance the
measure.  The petroleum group, the largest trade group representing
the oil and gas industry, in May opposed Menendez’s legislation
to end the benefits for selected energy companies.  “The amount of tax breaks we’re giving them is less than
the profits Exxon Mobil makes in a quarter,” Ben Schreiber, tax
analyst for the Washington environment group Friends of the
Earth, said in an interview. Higher U.S. production is “not
because of tax breaks. It’s because of technological
developments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  