-- Oil Drops for Second Day as IEA Lowers Demand Forecast
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-11-13T20:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/oil-drops-for-second-day-as-iea-lowers-demand-forecast.html
Oil dropped for a second day as the
 International Energy Agency  cut its demand estimate and U.S.
inventories were expected to reach a three-month high.  Prices fell 0.2 percent after the IEA lowered its forecast
for the fourth quarter for a second time, citing weakness in
Europe’s economy and disruption to U.S. fuel delivery by
 Hurricane Sandy . U.S. oil inventories probably rose to 377.3
million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg survey. Oil
erased losses earlier as U.S. stocks rallied.  “The fundamentals are weak and you’ll see higher
inventories in the U.S.,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “We are going to see prices drifting downward.”  Crude for December delivery slid 19 cents to settle at
$85.38 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange after
climbing to $85.95. Prices are down 14 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement declined 81 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $108.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Global oil consumption this quarter will average 90.1
million barrels a day, 0.3 percent less than previously
forecast, the Paris-based IEA said today in a monthly report.
The energy adviser to 28 industrialized nations trimmed the
full-year forecast to 89.6 million.  ‘Bearish Factor’  U.S. oil  supplies  probably rose 2.5 million barrels last
week to the most since July 20 as production climbed and two
refineries in  New Jersey  remained shut after Sandy, according to
the median of nine analyst estimates before an Energy Department
report on Nov. 15. Output reached 6.68 million barrels a day in
the week ended Nov. 2, an 18-year high.  “The IEA report is a bearish fundamental factor and
another marker that shows oil is going to struggle,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “Inventory data this week
won’t be supportive.”  Gasoline  supplies  probably slid 500,000 barrels and
inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, probably dropped 900,000, the survey showed.
The Energy Department report will be released a day later than
normal because of yesterday’s Veterans Day holiday.  “The market is very well-supplied,” Abdalla El-Badri,
OPEC’s secretary-general, said today at the Oil & Money
conference in London. “There is no doubt about it. Stocks are
very high.”  ‘Supply, Demand’  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will need
to supply 30 million barrels a day this quarter, 500,000 barrels
a day less than previously projected because of the weaker
demand outlook and expectations for increased non-OPEC supply,
the IEA said.  Crude’s settlement price has ranged from $84.44 to $86.07
for the past week. The last settlement above $90 was Oct. 19.  “We are seeing some range trading today,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “There could be some swings going forward.”  Oil also fell as leaders disagreed over a target for
Greece’s debt reduction and President  Barack Obama  prepared for
talks to avert a so-called fiscal cliff. Without legislation, a
combined $607 billion in tax increases and spending cuts will
take effect starting in January.  “The fiscal cliff and worries about Greece are still
keeping us bearish,” Lynch said.  Futures rose as much as 0.4 percent in early trading as
U.S. equities gained after  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ’s earnings beat
forecasts. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent
as the Nymex floor closed.  “The markets are just following the equities,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania .  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 700,607
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. Volume totaled 548,296 contracts
yesterday, 4.8 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  