-- Hollande Rebuffs Critics, Asks to Be Judged in 5 Years on Jobs
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n ,   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-11-13T23:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/hollande-rebuffs-critics-asks-to-be-judged-in-5-years-on-jobs.html
French President  Francois Hollande ,
confronting a  stalled economy  and sliding popularity, rejected
calls for “shock” measures and asked to be judged on growth
and jobs at the end of his five-year mandate.  “The question that matters in my eyes isn’t the state of
opinion, it’s the state of France in five years,” Hollande said
yesterday in a 2 ½-hour press conference in Paris, the first of
such semi-annual gatherings he has promised. “I want to be
judged, when the time comes, on employment and growth.”  Six months after gaining office, the Socialist president is
struggling to retain support from those who voted for him while
convincing critics from Berlin to  Washington  that he’ll
modernize  Europe ’s second-largest economy amid the region’s
three-year-old sovereign debt crisis.  With unemployment at a 13-year high, a record trade deficit
and at least three quarters without gross domestic product
growth, a majority of French voters are dissatisfied with
Hollande’s performance as president, according to an  Ifop poll 
for Paris Match magazine published yesterday.  At the same time, allies of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
have expressed concern that Hollande isn’t moving quickly enough
to bolster French competitiveness and the  International Monetary
Fund  in Washington this month urged Hollande to embark on a
“vigorous” revamp of the economy, saying its rigid labor rules
and high costs are a “major challenge” to economic stability.  German Criticism  France is  Germany ’s closest partner in Europe and it
“would be good if the Socialists there would courageously
initiate real structural reforms now,”  Volker Kauder , head of
the parliamentary group of Merkel’s Christian Union bloc said,
according to a  Spiegel  magazine report.  Germany would like Hollande to “move a little more”
toward Merkel, Spiegel quoted Kauder as saying.  Reports of German concern about Hollande’s policies
prompted German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  to warn
yesterday against calling France the “sick man” of Europe,
saying the governments of the continent’s two largest economies
shouldn’t criticize each other. Hollande picked up that refrain
at his press conference.  “We speak frankly with the chancellor,” he said. “We
don’t give each other lessons, lessons in history. It’s true we
have to show we’re serious on competitiveness. Germany needs to
show solidarity; it’s not easy for a country that’s made so much
effort in the past decade.”  No Shocks  Sticking to his election promises, Hollande has cut the
 retirement age  for some workers, imposed a tax of 75 percent on
earnings over 1 million euros ($1.27 million) and lifted the
minimum wage. He has also pressed Merkel to ease her push for
austerity to fight Europe’s debt crisis.  More recently, Hollande has set out a plan to give a tax
credit to companies to ease labor costs and raise France’s two
highest sales tax rates starting in January 2014.  He has asked unions and business leaders to come up with a
plan to make labor rules more flexible by the end of this year.  “I’ve been told by some we need a shock but economies
don’t like shocks,” Hollande said. “What is needed is
visibility and stability, not improvisation.”  Hollande said yesterday that he intends to reduce public
spending by 12 billion euros a year over his mandate, for a
total reduction of 60 billion euros by 2017.  Efficient State  “Public spending is now 57 percent of national output,”
Hollande said. “This may not mean much to the average French
person. It was 52 percent five years ago. Are we living better
for it? No. So we need to reform the state.”  So far, bond investors haven’t shared German concern about
 France . The yield on France’s benchmark 10-year debt dropped
about 0.05 basis points yesterday to 2.055 percent. It hit an
intraday record low of 2.002 percent on Aug. 3.  The  spread  between French and German government 10-year
debt is about 72 basis points, down from more than 200 basis
points a year ago and 143 basis points when Hollande took office
in mid-May.  Hollande yesterday jumped on that as evidence of the
credibility of his policies.  “We’ve reduced the spreads with Germany by almost 40
percent,” he said, pointing out that France has even sold
short-term debt at negative yields. “Those asking what our
position is with Germany,” should note that, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  