-- Olympus Rises After Raising Full-Year Net Income Forecast
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-11-13T07:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/olympus-rises-after-raising-full-year-net-income-forecast.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the camera and
endoscope maker that admitted an accounting fraud, rose the most
in three months in  Tokyo  trading after revised earnings
forecasts boosted confidence in the stock.  The  shares  jumped 5.9 percent to 1,317 yen as of the close
in Tokyo trading, the biggest gain since July 26, while the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent. Olympus had
dropped 11 percent in the previous five trading days.  Olympus raised its full-year net income  forecast  14 percent
as it sells assets to boost capital while cutting expected
operating earnings amid losses at its camera unit. Investors are
more comfortable with the new forecasts as the company recovers
from a 13-year accounting fraud, said Tomoki Komiya an analyst
at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  “The revision is reassuring as the previous forecast for
its digital camera business had been unrealistic,” Komiya said
by telephone today.  “Olympus showed us its attitude towards
its restructure and that’s comforting.”  Net income will be 8 billion yen in the 12 months ending
March, up from an earlier forecast of 7 billion yen, Olympus
said after markets closed yesterday. Operating profit, or sales
minus cost of goods sold and administrative expenses, will
probably be 38 billion yen compared with the August estimate of
50 billion yen.  Camera Losses  The digital camera unit is expected to report a loss of 8
billion yen in the current fiscal year, compared with its
previous forecast of a 1 billion yen profit, as the market for
compact models shrinks, the Tokyo-based company said. Full-year
sales for its digital cameras will drop by 11 percent to 7.3
million units compared with the previous forecast, Nobuyuki
Onishi, head of accounting, said in a briefing in Tokyo
yesterday.  The reduction follows  Canon Inc. (7751)  , the world’s largest
camera maker, as it also reduced its full-year profit and sales
forecasts last month on consumers’ increasing use of smartphones
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  ’s iPhone to take pictures.  “The compact camera market is shrinking rapidly because
people are switching to smartphones and the economic situation
in  Europe  became worse,” Chief Executive Officer Hiroyuki Sasa
said in the same event yesterday.  Canon lowered its sales forecast for Powershot, Ixus and
other compact models by 9.5 percent to 19 million units, and for
professional-grade EOS models by 4.3 percent to 8.8 million.  “Imaging still poses a risk,” Kunihiko Kanno, an analyst
at BNP Paribas SA, said in a report. The broker reiterated its
 buy recommendation  on Olympus stock.  Olympus has climbed by more than 180 percent in the past
year, following a plunge of as much as 81 percent after the
board fired President  Michael Woodford  in October 2011. He had
questioned fees paid by the company for takeovers.  Sony Corp. (6758)  said it would invest 50 billion yen in Olympus,
which admitted to a 13-year accounting fraud after the Woodford
firing, to shore up its capital ratio as it recovers from the
scandal that led to restated earnings and the replacement of
directors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  