-- Olympus Sued by Manulife, 47 Investors for $241 Million
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-11-13T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/olympus-sued-by-manulife-47-investors-for-241-million.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the camera and
endoscope maker that admitted an accounting fraud, said it was
sued by a group of 48 investors for 19.1 billion yen ($240
million) in damages.  The lawsuit by investors including State Street Bank and
Trust Co. and Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte
Ltd. was disclosed after markets in Tokyo closed yesterday. It
was filed on June 28 to Tokyo District Court, Olympus spokesman
Yasutoshi Fujiwara said.  Olympus shares yesterday rose the most in three months
after it raised its earnings forecast. Former chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and two other former executives in September pleaded
guilty to covering up losses at the company for 13 years
starting in the 1990s.  The lawsuit is in addition to 14 similar cases Olympus has
in  Japan  where investors are suing over the accounting fraud,
said another Olympus spokesman, Sam Kobayashi.  The company is studying the content of the notification
received and hasn’t decided how it will respond, Kobayashi said.
The impact on Olympus’s earnings is unclear, according to its
statement.  Other investors include the Japanese unit of  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC) , London Life Insurance Co., and the Teachers’
Retirement System of the State of  Illinois , according to the
statement.  Earnings Forecasts  Terumo Corp. (4543)  which bought 6.8 million shares for 15 billion
yen in 2009 from Olympus, had also sued Olympus for the
accounting fraud, seeking 6.6 billion yen in damages. Olympus
admits the accounting fraud claimed by Terumo, though it’s
negotiating a lower payment, Kobayashi said.  Olympus  surged  5.9 percent to 1,317 yen in  Tokyo  trading
yesterday after revising earnings forecasts.  The company raised its full-year net income  forecast  14
percent as it sells assets to boost capital while cutting
expected operating earnings amid losses at its camera unit.
Investors are more comfortable with the new forecasts, said
Tomoki Komiya, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co.  “The revision is reassuring as the previous forecast for
its digital camera business had been unrealistic,” Komiya said
by phone yesterday. “Olympus showed us its attitude towards its
restructure and that’s comforting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  