-- On Greece, Christine Lagarde Is the Grown-Up at the Table
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-13T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/on-greece-christine-lagarde-is-the-grown-up-at-the-table.html
One way or another, the governments
and other official lenders that have bailed out  Greece  and now
hold its debt are going to lose some or all of that money. They
can let it go now, by providing Greece with debt relief, or they
can lose it later -- possibly as part of a disorderly Greek
default and exit from the euro area.  Their failure to recognize this binary choice was on
display again Nov. 12, when finance ministers from the 17-nation
euro area put off until later this month a decision to release
the next 31.3 billion-euro ($39.8 billion) tranche of bailout
funds, leaving Greece to figure out how to roll over a 5
billion-euro debt payment this week.  Instead of confronting Greece’s debt problem head-on, the
finance ministers  sought  to give the government two more years  
-- until 2022 -- to get its debt burden down to the target of 120
percent of gross domestic product. Once they’ve figured out how
to pay for Greece’s extra time, projected to cost 32.6 billion
euros, the euro leaders will no doubt declare victory. They’ll
pretend that they haven’t just approved yet another bailout, and
that a return to solvency is within Greece’s financial and
political ability to achieve.  Realistic Debate  No wonder the International Monetary Fund’s general
director  Christine Lagarde  rolled her eyes at a post-meeting
news conference. She insisted on sticking to the current 2020
target date, and she was right: Europe’s leaders must have a
more realistic debate now on what a Greek rescue will take, and
not just for the sake of the IMF’s integrity. Waiting, if that’s
the plan, until after German elections in 2013 would probably be
too late for Greece and possibly for the euro.  A leaked draft review of the Greek bailout by the so-called
troika of official creditors -- the IMF, the European Commission
and the  European Central Bank  -- underscores the urgent need to
stop pretending and give Greeks and investors reason to believe
in the program’s eventual success. The assessment warns that
“risks to the program remain very large” -- primarily due to the
Greek government’s weakness and the threat that continued lack
of confidence in its ability to emerge from under its debt pile
will make failure self-fulfilling.  Perceptions in northern Europe that make it harder to
spend more money on the bailout are also self-reinforcing. Greek
governments have been feckless in the extreme, but as the
European commissioner for finance,  Olli Rehn ,  said  this week,
“It is time to debunk the perception that no progress has been
made. This perception is damaging, it is unfair, and it is
simply wrong.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, for all his previous
sins in blocking early reforms, last week took enormous
political risks to satisfy the troika’s demands. The effort
nearly collapsed his coalition government and prompted violent
protests in the streets.  Consider the scale of the pain that Greece has already
suffered. Amid a Depression-scale economic contraction, the
government has cut spending and raised taxes by a total of about
13 percent of gross domestic product since 2009. That’s more
than the 10 percent target the troika had set for 2010-2014, and
roughly twice the size of the feared U.S. fiscal cliff. The new
cuts that Greece’s government pushed through last week should
amount to a further 5 percent of GDP over the next two years.  Undeniable Pain  Budget cuts have fallen primarily on public-sector
salaries, pensions, health care and -- in a country that’s
deeply sensitive over territorial disputes with  Turkey  --
defense. Public expenditure on health, for example, dropped by
25 percent and is now scheduled to fall by a similar amount over
the next two years.  There are good reasons for many of the cuts. Greek public-
sector wages and pensions rose unsustainably before the crisis
and now need to come back to earth. Pharmaceutical prices in
Greece were outlandishly high. But the pain is undeniable, and
it’s nothing short of amazing that Greece’s government has
agreed to more of it. With more than half of all young people
unemployed, and the government forecasting that the economy will
shrink by a further 4.5 percent next year, it is hard to imagine
Greeks carrying through with the cuts and societal
transformation demanded unless they can see a believable path to
recovery. If  Europe ’s leaders refuse to consider the only
solution likely to work -- a debt writedown -- they will have
nobody but themselves to blame if they lose their money to a
default.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  Keystone XL pipeline
should be approved now ;  Margaret Carlson  on  adultery as a firing
offense ; Clive Crook on why  China and the U.S. must get along ;
 Edward Glaeser  on why  diversity has built support for a welfare
state ; Vali Nasr on why  drone strikes alone won’t defeat al-
Qaeda ;  Peter Orszag  on why  China may face slower economic
growth ;  Stephen Smith  on why  a politician shouldn’t be
transportation secretary.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 