-- London Luxury Homes Seen Losing Luster on Tax Plans
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-11-13T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/london-luxury-homes-seen-losing-luster-on-tax-plans.html
London  luxury homes won’t rise in
value next year for the first time since 2008 as proposals to
extend property-transaction taxes deter buyers,  Jones Lang 
LaSalle Inc. said.  Prices in affluent neighborhoods like Knightsbridge,
Mayfair and Belgravia will be unchanged in 2013, the Chicago-
based broker said in a report today. Homes across London will
gain 2 percent, the most of any part of Britain, Jones Lang
said.  “Many potential buyers in the 2 million pound-plus ($3.2
million) market have deferred action until all consultation
issues have been finalized,” Jones Lang said in the report,
referring to a policy review. “From 2014, we believe the
significance of the new tax regime will diminish. There will be
fewer reflections on the past, more global city comparisons and
a greater acceptance of the new rules.”  Luxury- home prices  in London have soared as overseas
investors sought less-risky assets. Prime central London prices
will rise an estimated 4 percent this year after an 8.8 percent
gain in 2011, according to Jones Lang. Values are 16 percent
higher than their previous peak in March 2008 and have risen 52
percent since a post-credit crisis low in March 2009, according
to  Knight Frank  LLP.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  targeted the wealthy to pare a
record budget deficit by lifting a transaction tax to 7 percent
from 5 percent on homes sold for more than 2 million pounds. On
top of increasing the stamp duty, the government is weighing an
annual charge of 140,000 pounds on homes owned by offshore
companies and valued at more than 20 million pounds.  Similar Forecast  Knight Frank, like Jones Lang, forecast that London luxury-
home prices will be little changed in 2013. That would be the
worst year for properties with an average value of 3.7 million
pounds since 2008, when values slumped by about 17 percent,
according to the London-based broker.  Britain came out of a double-dip recession in the three
months through September with its strongest growth since 2007.
Recent data has shown signs of weakness and the recovery has
been uneven. Manufacturing data last week showed output barely
grew in September, indicating the economy’s rebound lost some
momentum, while services and factory surveys signaled cooling
activity in October.  “London and Southern  England  are expected to see stronger
economic and employment growth in 2013,” Jones Lang said.
“Better job opportunities and prospects in and around London
will continue to lure U.K. and international migrants. Stronger
housing demand will be an inevitable consequence.”  The U.K.’s biggest decline next year will be in Wales,
where home prices will fall 3 percent, Jones Lang said in the
report. That’s followed by a 1.5 percent decrease in England’s
northwest and Yorkshire and Humberside regions. U.K. values will
gain 1 percent in 2013 and 2.5 percent the following year,
according to the broker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 