-- Long Island Power Authority Sued Over Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-13T22:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/long-island-power-authority-sued-over-hurricane-sandy.html
New York’s Long Island Power
Authority and  National Grid Plc (NG/) , which operates the utility’s
electricity network, were sued over their Hurricane Sandy
response while about 45,000 of LIPA’s customers remained blacked
out two weeks after the storm.  Two customers accuse LIPA of failing to provide electric
services because of its “disregard” in management and
maintenance of equipment, facilities and personnel and its
“failure to replace an outdated, obsolete outage management
system which lacks the ability to manage large-scale outages,”
according to a complaint filed today in New York State Supreme
Court in Nassau County.  “LIPA’s failure and omission to provide electric services
to plaintiffs and residents was occasioned by the fact that LIPA
neglected vital maintenance, including, but not limited to, tree
trimming and electric/transmission pole inspections and
replacement,” the plaintiffs said in the suit.  Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29, bringing 85 mile-per-hour
(137 kilometer-an-hour) winds and record-setting floods to  New
Jersey  and New York. The hurricane and a subsequent snowstorm on
Nov. 7 knocked out power to 8.66 million customers in 21 states,
including about 2 million in New York, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  LIPA, based in Uniondale, New York, had restored
electricity to 99 percent of customers, or about 1.1 million,
who could safely accept it of as 10 a.m. local time, according
to its  website .  Homes, Businesses  The state-owned authority’s customers accounted for about
53 percent of an estimated 106,000 still without power
yesterday, including homes and businesses with property damage
that were unable to reconnect, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from utility websites.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo today said he convened a
commission to investigate  utility companies  for what he said was
their failure to properly prepare for the storm.  The probe will look into how utilities responded to Sandy
and tropical storms Irene and Lee last year, according to a
statement e-mailed today. The review will be conducted by a so-
called Moreland Commission, which under a 105-year-old state law
has the power to subpoena witnesses and documents, hold hearings
and administer oaths.  National Grid, based in  London , operates and maintains
LIPA’s power grid under a contract that expires at the end of
next year. The authority last year approved a new contract under
which  Newark , New Jersey-based  Public Service Enterprise Group
Inc. (PEG)  will take over operation of its Long Island grid on Jan. 1,
2014.  ‘Our Focus’  “We are aware of the lawsuit, however our focus continues
to be on those most affected by the devastation caused by
 Hurricane Sandy ,” Karen Young, a spokeswoman for National Grid,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to work with local
officials and relief agencies to provide ongoing support to
those communities and to be there for our customers.”  LIPA’s media relations department didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Customers claim in the complaint that the utility “grossly
under-budgeted” for responses to storms with large-scale
outages, didn’t reconfigure substations to minimize flood
damages and used “rudimentary storm and damage prediction
models.” The lawsuit, filed as a class action, seeks
unspecified damages.  The utility’s outage management system works on a 25-year-
old mainframe computer that uses an “obsolete computer program
language,” and its engineers used highlighted paper maps to
track thousands of outages, according to the complaint.  ‘Rendered Unusable’  The utility also failed to use a real-time distribution and
outage management system, and was unable to communicate because
its  call centers  -- which rely on customers to report outages --
were “rendered unusable by the public,” according to the
complaint.  “LIPA failed to give plaintiffs and residents accurate
estimates on when their power would be restored using an online
map which showed more outages than there were customers and
featured inaccurate recovery information,” according to the
complaint.  LIPA also failed to tell customers until a week after the
storm struck that inspectors would need to examine electrical
panels in flooded homes before it could restore power, according
to the complaint.  ‘Unified Message’  A  report  by the state’s  Public Service Commission  issued in
June on LIPA’s response to Tropical Storm Irene last year urged
the utility to improve communications with the public,
collaborate with municipalities to “provide a unified message”
during and after emergency events and to reevaluate and improve
vegetation management and tree-trimming policies.  More than 523,000 LIPA customers lost power from Irene,
which struck on Aug. 28 last year, according to the state
report. The storm cost the authority about $171 million and left
some customers without power for more than a week.  The case is Mollins v. Long Island Power Authority,
602288/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court, Nassau County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  