-- Lonmin Says Would Be Vulnerable to Xstrata Without Rights Issue
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-13T11:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/lonmin-says-would-be-vulnerable-to-xstrata-without-rights-issue.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the platinum producer
that rebuffed an approach by its largest shareholder  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) , urged investors to participate in its $817 million stock
sale or the company could become vulnerable to new offers.  “Failure to proceed with the rights issue would leave the
company in a highly vulnerable position in its discussions with
its banking group and, potentially, in relation to Xstrata if it
were to make a further proposal,” Lonmin said today in a
statement.  Xstrata is sounding out other shareholders’ views on the
performance of Lonmin management and its planned stock sale
while considering a revised offer, two people familiar with the
matter said yesterday.  Lonmin has already rejected a proposal to buy Xstrata’s
South  African platinum  and alloys businesses. The plan called
for Lonmin to hold a $1 billion share sale that would be fully
underwritten by Xstrata, increasing the Zug, Switzerland-based
company’s stake to 70 percent from 25 percent in a reverse
takeover.  Lonmin also spurned a second offer from Xstrata to support
its rights issue, which is necessary to meet pledges to
creditors, on the condition that senior management are replaced.
Xstrata said last week it was concerned about management and
“longstanding operational problems” at Lonmin.  “We think Lonmin is fearful that Xstrata’s previous
proposals have merit and shareholders may approve a separate
offer under similar terms,” Ben Davis, an analyst at Liberum
Capital Ltd. in  London , said in a note.  Lonmin needs to raise at least $700 million from the share
sale by Dec. 31 after negotiating a deal with creditors amid
plans to restructure its balance sheet, the company said.
Shareholders are due to vote on the rights issue on Nov. 19.  “If the rights issue does not proceed by 31 December 2012
and the amended facilities agreements do not come into effect,
the company may be unable to comply with its financial covenants
in future tests which may ultimately jeopardize its very
future,” Lonmin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  