-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Falls; Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Bets
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-11-13T00:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/top-oil-market-news-crude-falls-hedge-funds-cut-bullish-bets.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Falls as Euro-Area Finance Ministers Meet on Greek Aid  Oil in New York dropped for the first time in three days as
European policy makers met to discuss aid for Greece and Japan’s
economy shrank.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Hedge Funds  Cut Bullish Oil Bets to Two-Year Low: Energy Markets  Hedge funds trimmed bullish bets on crude to the lowest in
more than two years as demand fell in the wake of  Hurricane
Sandy , production increased to the highest since 1994 and U.S.
President  Barack Obama  won re-election.  AAA Says 75-80 Percent of New York City Stations Selling Gas  Up from 65% to 70% on Nov. 9,  Michael Green , Co. spokesman,
said by e-mail.  Gasoline Declines on Europe Debt Crisis and U.S. Budget Talks  Gasoline slid, reversing an earlier gain, on concern the
European debt crisis will linger and U.S. lawmakers won’t reach
consensus on how to avoid a looming so- called fiscal cliff,
curbing growth and fuel demand.  Forties Crude Cargo F1011 Said to Be Deferred for Fifth Time  One North Sea Forties crude cargo which was originally
planned for loading in October was deferred for a fifth time,
according to two people with knowledge of the loading program.  Shell Sells Forties at Lower Price; Buzzard Said to Halt Output  Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold North Sea Forties crude at a
lower price than a previous transaction. Petraco Oil Co. sought
to buy Russian Urals blend in northwest Europe without success.  North Sea Buzzard Oil Field Said to Halt Output on Weekend (1)  The Buzzard oil field in the North Sea ceased production
during the Nov. 10 to Nov. 11 weekend and output was still
halted earlier today, according to three traders with knowledge
of the matter, who declined to be identified as the information
is confidential.  ICE Gasoil November Deliveries Fall to 210,000 Metric Tons (1)  The amount of 0.1 percent sulfur gasoil to be delivered
through the ICE Futures Europe exchange in November fell on the
month, according to data on Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s
website.  U.K. to Spend 39 Million Pounds on Energy Efficiency Centers  The U.K. government will spend 39 million pounds creating
five centers around the country to help businesses and
households examine their own  energy efficiency , part of a
broader program to reduce fossil fuel use.  OPEC  OPEC Likely to Keep Oil Quota Unchanged, Samba Financial Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is likely
to keep its group production quota unchanged when OPEC oil
ministers meet next month,  Samba Financial Group  said in an e-
mailed report.  U.S. Oil Output to Overtake Saudi Arabia’s by 2020, IEA Says (5)  U.S. oil output is poised to surpass Saudi Arabia’s in the
next decade, making the world’s biggest fuel consumer almost
self-reliant and putting it on track to become a net exporter,
the  International Energy Agency  said.  Abu Dhabi Seen Softening Stance Toward BP on New Oil Rights (2)  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. may be softening its position
toward BP Plc, a stakeholder in the emirate’s onshore fields,
after initially indicating it may not invite the company to
renew a concession agreement.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Exxon Torrance Oil Refinery Said to Plan Unit Shutdowns in March  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Torrance refinery in Southern
California will take several process units out of service for
planned repairs in early March, a person with knowledge of the
schedule said.  Ethanol Falls Most in More Than Week as Production Costs Ease  Ethanol futures fell the most in more than a week as
production costs for the biofuel eased.  New Jersey Fuel Trucks Face Delays as Terminals Remain Idle (2)  Trucks that deliver fuel to retail stations in New Jersey
are facing waits more than twice as long as normal as some
regional loading terminals remain offline following superstorm
Sandy that struck Oct. 29.  Tesoro’s Martinez, California, Refinery Shuts Unit on Leak (1)  Tesoro Corp. shut a unit at its Martinez, California,
refinery Nov. 8 after a small vapor leak, according to a filing
with county regulators.  France Says Libya Fund Expresses Interest in French Oil Refinery  Libya’s sovereign wealth fund is in preliminary talks with
France as a potential co-investor in an insolvent oil refinery
in Normandy, French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said.  New Jersey Fuel Trucks Face Delays as Terminals Remain Idle (1)  Trucks that deliver fuel to retail stations in New Jersey
are facing waits more than twice as long as normal as some
regional loading terminals remain offline following superstorm
Sandy that struck Oct. 29.  Tesoro Martinez, California, Refinery Shut Unit After Leak  Tesoro Corp. shut a unit at its Martinez, California,
refinery Nov. 8 after a small vapor leak, according to a filing
with county regulators.  Exxon Had Flaring Late Yesterday at Baton Rouge Refinery  Exxon Mobil Corp. had two to three hours of flaring at its
Baton Rouge refinery late yesterday, according to a recorded
message left on community hot line. The flaring was part of
“routine operations,” according to the message.  Iraq Cuts Basrah Light Crude Premium to Asia: Persian Gulf Oil  Iraq and Kuwait cut the premiums they will charge for their
main export crude grades for buyers in Asia in December.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 3.7 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan fell 3.7 percent to 10.48 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 1.5% to 40.92 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 1.5 percent to
40.92 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London.  West Africa Oil Field Outages, Maintenance for 2012 (Table)  Following are details of maintenance at West African oil
fields, pipelines and terminals and unplanned closures for 2012.
Information is added as it becomes available.  Abu Dhabi Seen Softening Stance Toward BP on New Oil Rights (1)  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. may be softening its position
toward BP Plc, a stakeholder in the emirate’s onshore fields,
after initially indicating it may not invite the company to
renew a concession agreement.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Africa and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in U.S. dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Hu Targets Beautiful China as Energy Use Jumps: Chart of the Day  It’s time for “beautiful China.” That’s the task
President  Hu Jintao  has handed his successors after a decade in
power in which his nation became the world’s biggest energy
consumer and largest emitter of carbon dioxide.  Long Island Lawmakers, Customers Angry as Blackouts Linger (1)  Frustrated residents joined lawmakers in calling for a
shakeup of the Long Island Power Authority as 76,160 of its
customers remain blacked out two weeks after Hurricane Sandy.  Petronas Offers Board Changes in Progress Energy Rebid, FT Says  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. offered to appoint more independent
directors to Progress Energy Resources Corp.’s board to help win
Canadian approval for its takeover, the Financial Times said,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar
Abbas.  Exxon Says Cost of PNG LNG Project Surges 21% to $19 Billion (3)  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s third-biggest company, said
the cost of its  natural gas  project in Papua New Guinea jumped
21 percent to $19 billion because of a stronger Australian
dollar and construction delays.  U.K. Probes Allegation Natural Gas Market Fixed by Utilities (1)  The U.K. government is “extremely concerned” about
allegations that the wholesale natural gas market has been
manipulated by some of the nation’s biggest power companies,
Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said.  China Solar Lifelines Defy Speculation of Forced Mergers: Energy  China’s $20 billion solar industry is avoiding loan
defaults and mergers by taking aid from local governments,
preserving jobs at money-losing companies such as LDK Solar Co.,
the world’s second-biggest maker of solar cells.  Long Island Lawmakers, Customers Angry as Blackouts Linger (2)  Frustrated residents joined lawmakers in calling for a
shakeup of the Long Island Power Authority as about 56,000 of
its customers remain blacked out two weeks after Hurricane
Sandy.  Natural Gas to Be Most-Used Fuel in U.S. by 2030, IEA Says (1)  Natural gas will overtake oil as the most-used fuel in the
U.S. by 2030 as the country’s supplies balloon, the
International Energy Agency said.  OTHER MARKETS  Most U.S. Stocks Fall as Europe Ministers Meet While Metals Gain  Most U.S. stocks fell, following the worst weekly drop
since June, as investors awaited budget talks in Washington and
results of a European meeting on Greek aid. Industrial metals
rallied as China’s exports topped forecasts.  Euro Close to 2-Month Low on Greek Aid Needs; Kiwi Strengthens  The euro traded close to a two-month low against the dollar
as a draft policy makers’ report said Greece may require an
extra $15 billion during the next two years and there are “very
large risks.”  Euro Finance Chiefs to Meet November 20 on Greece, Juncker Says  Euro-area finance ministers will meet again Nov. 20 to
discuss Greece, Luxembourg’s Prime Minister Jean- Claude
Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
told reporters in Brussels.  U.S. Stocks Erase Gains as Finance Chiefs Meet on Greece Aid  U.S. stocks erased gains, failing to rebound after the
 Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s biggest weekly retreat since June,
as investors awaited budget talks in Washington and European
finance chiefs met to discuss Greek aid.  NYSE Computer Issue Means No Closing Auction in 216 Securities  The New York Stock Exchange canceled trading and closing
auctions in 216 securities after an outage in a computer that
matches orders and processes transactions.  Bulls Cut Wagers as Prices Rally Most in Two Months: Commodities  Speculators cut bullish commodity wagers by the most in
five months as prices had their biggest gain in eight weeks on
mounting speculation that stimulus measures will bolster
economic growth.  Copper Rises on Stronger-Than-Estimated Growth in China Exports  Copper rebounded from a fifth straight weekly decline after
a jump in exports by China, the world’s biggest user of the
metal, bolstered the outlook for demand.  Wukan Woes Show Land-Reform Delay Risks as Hu Leaves Task to Xi  Lin Zuluan, head of the council in the village of Wukan,
has the same dinner interruption almost every evening. Unhappy
residents come with complaints, almost always bringing up one
topic: getting back their land.  South Koreans Fret World-Beating Chaebol Destroy Small Business  Lee Bok Sun is ready to shut her 28- year-old fruit store
in Seoul, after her customers switched to a new hypermarket
owned by one of South Korea’s chaebol, the family-controlled
business groups that dominate the economy.  SPORTS  Arsenal’s Wenger to Strengthen Squad in January: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Cowan, Clark Hit 100s as Australia Reaches 306-4 in First Test  Ed Cowan  and  Michael Clarke  hit centuries as Australia
reached 306-4 in reply to South Africa’s first-innings 450 in
their opening cricket Test in Brisbane.  Messi Beats Pele Scoring Mark in Barcelona Victory; Inter Loses  Lionel Messi  scored twice as  Barcelona  beat Real Mallorca
4-2 to extend its unbeaten start in Spanish soccer’s La Liga.
 Inter Milan  lost ground on Italian Serie A leader Juventus with
a 3-2 loss at Atalanta.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  