-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Falls; Supply Hits Three-Month High
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-11-13T07:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/top-oil-market-news-crude-falls-supply-hits-three-month-high.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Drops a Second Day in New York as Supplies Seen Increasing  Oil declined for a second day in New York amid signs
supplies are rising in the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest
crude consumers.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Crude Supply Reaches Three-Month High in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. oil supplies probably rose to the highest level in
more than three months as production climbed and two refineries
in New Jersey remained shut after Hurricane Sandy, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  China Oil Output Rises 8.4% to Record; Gas Production Gains (1)  China’s crude output rose 8.4 percent from a year earlier
to an all-time high in October as  producers responded to demand
from refineries.  Indonesia’s Constitutional Court Revokes Role of BPMigas  Oil and gas regulatory role will be returned to govt or its
agencies or ministries until new regulation is issued,
 Constitutional Court  says in its ruling obtained by Bloomberg
today.  Japanese Utilities’ LNG Imports Rise on Shut Nuclear Power (1)  Liquefied natural gas imports by Japanese power utilities
increased by 15 percent in October as all but two of the
country’s atomic reactors remained shut because of safety
concerns after last year’s nuclear disaster.  Japan to Start Discussions for LNG Futures Trading Tomorrow  Japan will start discussions tomorrow for listing a
liquefied natural gas futures contract on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange to help lower the costs of surging imports.  Qatar’s Tasweeq Offers 4.2 Million Barrels of January Al-Shaheen  Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co., known as
Tasweeq, is offering to sell seven cargoes of Al-Shaheen crude,
totaling 4.2 million barrels, for loading in January, according
to a copy of a tender obtained by  Bloomberg News .  PetroChina Profit Squeezed by Below-Market Gas Price: Energy  PetroChina Co. is losing the support of analysts who say
earnings growth at  Asia ’s biggest oil producer is stunted by its
unprofitable  natural-gas  imports.  U.K. to Spend 39 Million Pounds on Energy Efficiency Centers  The U.K. government will spend 39 million pounds creating
five centers around the country to help businesses and
households examine their own  energy efficiency , part of a
broader program to reduce fossil fuel use.  OPEC  OPEC Likely to Keep Oil Quota Unchanged, Samba Financial Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is likely
to keep its group production quota unchanged when OPEC oil
ministers meet next month,  Samba Financial Group  said in an e-
mailed report.  U.S. Oil Output to Overtake Saudi Arabia’s by 2020, IEA Says (5)  U.S. oil output is poised to surpass Saudi Arabia’s in the
next decade, making the world’s biggest fuel consumer almost
self-reliant and putting it on track to become a net exporter,
the  International Energy Agency  said.  Abu Dhabi Seen Softening Stance Toward BP on New Oil Rights (2)  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. may be softening its position
toward BP Plc, a stakeholder in the emirate’s onshore fields,
after initially indicating it may not invite the company to
renew a concession agreement.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  TonenGeneral Resumes Wakayama Refinery After Maintenance Checks  TonenGeneral Sekiyu KK resumed operations at its Wakayama
oil refinery in western Japan yesterday after maintenance,
according to a company official who asked not to be identified,
citing internal policy.  Exxon Torrance Oil Refinery Said to Plan Unit Shutdowns in March  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Torrance refinery in Southern
California will take several process units out of service for
planned repairs in early March, a person with knowledge of the
schedule said.  Ethanol Falls Most in More Than Week as Production Costs Ease  Ethanol futures fell the most in more than a week as
production costs for the biofuel eased.  New Jersey Fuel Trucks Face Delays as Terminals Remain Idle (2)  Trucks that deliver fuel to retail stations in New Jersey
are facing waits more than twice as long as normal as some
regional loading terminals remain offline following superstorm
Sandy that struck Oct. 29.  Tesoro’s Martinez, California, Refinery Shuts Unit on Leak (1)  Tesoro Corp. shut a unit at its Martinez, California,
refinery Nov. 8 after a small vapor leak, according to a filing
with county regulators.  France Says Libya Fund Expresses Interest in French Oil Refinery  Libya’s sovereign wealth fund is in preliminary talks with
France as a potential co-investor in an insolvent oil refinery
in Normandy, French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said.  New Jersey Fuel Trucks Face Delays as Terminals Remain Offline  Trucks that deliver fuel to retail stations in New Jersey
are facing waits more than twice as long as normal as some
regional loading terminals remain offline following superstorm
Sandy that struck Oct. 29.  Exxon Had Flaring Late Yesterday at Baton Rouge Refinery  Exxon Mobil Corp. had two to three hours of flaring at its
Baton Rouge refinery late yesterday, according to a recorded
message left on community hot line. The flaring was part of
“routine operations,” according to the message.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 3.7 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan fell 3.7 percent to 10.48 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Forties Crude Cargo F1011 Said to Be Deferred for Fifth Time  One North Sea Forties crude cargo which was originally
planned for loading in October was deferred for a fifth time,
according to two people with knowledge of the loading program.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 1.5% to 40.92 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 1.5 percent to
40.92 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Africa and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in U.S. dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  Iraq Cuts Basrah Light Crude Premium to Asia: Persian Gulf Oil  Iraq and Kuwait cut the premiums they will charge for their
main export crude grades for buyers in Asia in December.  Abu Dhabi Seen Softening Stance Toward BP on New Oil Rights (1)  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. may be softening its position
toward BP Plc, a stakeholder in the emirate’s onshore fields,
after initially indicating it may not invite the company to
renew a concession agreement.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Asian Stocks Fall as Euro Drops on Greece Concern; Oil Declines  Asian stocks fell for a fourth day and U.S. equity futures
declined as European leaders delayed a decision on Greek
funding, Australian business sentiment ebbed and the Xinhua News
Agency said China may widen a property tax trial. The euro, oil
and metals slid.  Hedge Funds  Cut Bullish Oil Bets to Two-Year Low: Energy Markets  Hedge funds trimmed bullish bets on crude to the lowest in
more than two years as demand fell in the wake of  Hurricane
Sandy , production increased to the highest since 1994 and U.S.
President  Barack Obama  won re-election.  China Solar Lifelines Defy Speculation of Forced Mergers: Energy  China’s $20 billion solar industry is avoiding loan
defaults and mergers by taking aid from local governments,
preserving jobs at money-losing companies such as LDK Solar Co.,
the world’s second-biggest maker of solar cells.  Hu Targets Beautiful China as Energy Use Jumps: Chart of the Day  It’s time for “beautiful China.” That’s the task
President  Hu Jintao  has handed his successors after a decade in
power in which his nation became the world’s biggest energy
consumer and largest emitter of carbon dioxide.  U.K. Probes Allegation Natural Gas Market Fixed by Utilities (1)  The U.K. government is “extremely concerned” about
allegations that the wholesale natural gas market has been
manipulated by some of the nation’s biggest power companies,
Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said.  Long Island Lawmakers, Customers Angry as Blackouts Linger (2)  Frustrated residents joined lawmakers in calling for a
shakeup of the Long Island Power Authority as about 56,000 of
its customers remain blacked out two weeks after Hurricane
Sandy.  Lawmakers, Airlines to Push U.S. Airline Emissions Measure (1)  The U.S. House will consider as early as tomorrow a bill
barring airlines from paying fines in a European Union plan to
cut  carbon emissions , a day after an EU commissioner proposed
halting implementation of the program.  California Gasoline Drops as Exxon Scheduled to Finish Repairs  Spot gasoline in California tumbled to the lowest level
against futures in a week as Exxon Mobil Corp. was expected to
finish maintenance on a unit at the Torrance refinery in
Southern California.  Natural Gas to Be Most-Used Fuel in U.S. by 2030, IEA Says (1)  Natural gas will overtake oil as the most-used fuel in the
U.S. by 2030 as the country’s supplies balloon, the
International Energy Agency said.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Fall as Euro Drops on Greece Concern; Oil Declines  Asian stocks fell for a fourth day as European leaders
delayed a decision on Greek funding, Australian business
sentiment ebbed and the Xinhua News Agency said China may widen
a property tax trial. The euro, oil and metals slid.  Euro Falls to 2-Month Low on Greece Bailout Concern; Yen Climbs  The euro fell to a two-month low as finance ministers from
the currency bloc struggled to agree on Greek aid, curbing
demand for the common currency.  Europe Gives Greece Extra Time, Spars With IMF on Debt Plan (1)  Euro-area finance ministers gave Greece two extra years to
wrestle down its  budget deficit , pledging to plug the resulting
financing gaps in order to keep the country in the single
currency and prevent a renewed flareup of the debt crisis.  Asian Stocks Decline for Fourth Day as Banks, Developers Slide  Asian stocks fell to a two-month low led by banking shares
and developers after Australia’s business confidence
deteriorated and on a report China may expand a property tax
trial.  China Stocks Cheapen Most Among BRICs Under Hu: Chart of the Day  China’s new leaders face the challenge of reining in the
dominance of state-owned enterprises that has helped drag stock
valuations down the most among the so-called BRIC nations in the
past decade.  Chocolate Rush Hits Record as Cocoa Shortages Loom: Commodities  Cocoa grinders are increasing output by the most in two
years to meet record demand for chocolate, at a time when
declining West African supply means the first shortages of beans
in three seasons.  Gold Industry Facing Mine Discovery Challenge, Barrick CEO Says  Gold discovery rates are decreasing even as exploration
spending in the industry reached a record $8 billion last year,
according to Jamie Sokalsky, chief executive officer of Barrick
Gold Corp., the world’s largest producer.  Wukan’s Woes Show Risks of Delaying Land Law Reform in China (1)  Lin Zuluan, head of the council in the village of Wukan,
has the same dinner interruption almost every evening. Unhappy
residents come with complaints, almost always bringing up one
topic: getting back their land.  Panetta Says U.S. Reviewing Afghanistan Troop Levels After 2014  A review of options for the size and scope of the U.S.
military’s role in  Afghanistan  after 2014 will be completed
within weeks, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said.  SPORTS  Real Madrid Monitors Palace Winger Wilfried Zaha: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Chelsea’s Gourlay Experiences Ups and Downs With Triumphs, Terry  Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said the past
12 months have delivered some of his best memories in soccer.
They’ve also been among the most turbulent in the English
Premier League team’s recent history.  Arsenal’s Wenger to Strengthen Squad in January: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Energy Prices:  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       85.18  -0.39  -0.5  Nymex     Dec.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    108.69  -0.38  -0.3    Ice December
Gasoil ($/Ton)         931.00  -5.75  -0.6    Ice     Dec.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       266.58  -1.05  -0.4  Nymex     Dec.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.58  +0.01  +0.3  Nymex     Dec.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    108.34  -0.09  -0.1    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            299.43  -0.49  -0.2  Nymex     Dec.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            81.12  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,730.90    --
MSCI World Index     1,273.21  -0.1  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  