-- Topless Tampa Agent Topples Two Top Generals
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-11-13T23:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/topless-tampa-agent-topples-two-top-generals.html
The David Petraeus affair has to be
a dream you wake up from. It can’t be true.  Surely the FBI agent at the heart of the investigation
couldn’t have been sending  shirtless photos  to Jill Kelley, the
damsel in distress and wealthy socialite in Tampa,  Florida , who
was allegedly being harassed by Paula Broadwell. Broadwell, of
course, is the former mistress and Petraeus biographer who wins
the prize for the  least clothing worn  in an interview with  Jon Stewart , who asked her the most pressing question raised by her
book about the former Army general and Central Intelligence
Agency director: “Is he awesome, or incredibly awesome?”  Then another general fell. As federal agents were carrying
a computer out of Broadwell’s house in  North Carolina , the
 Pentagon announced  that the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  was
investigating four-star Marine General John Allen, who took over
in Afghanistan after Petraeus went to the CIA. Allen is said to
have sent thousands of pages of e-mails to Kelley, whose
complaint about Broadwell got this whole story going.  All of which raises an important question about national
security: What’s in the water at the Pentagon, stupid juice?
It’s only a matter of time before the headline atop this column
comes true.  It’s hard not to follow all this and resist thinking, “I’m
dumb, but I’m not that dumb.” Each character is so predictable
this story could go straight to  HBO . In Broadwell, Petraeus met
his match in mixing love and career -- he’d married the daughter
of the superintendent at  West Point  -- but failed to realize she
was attracted as much to the four stars on his shoulder as to
his sense of humor and love of long walks on the beach.  Intensive Research  The two stars collided at a large apres-lecture dinner at
Harvard when she asked for some time to ask a few questions, as
she was a “researcher.” (So that’s what they call it
nowadays.) He even gave her his card (and here I thought I was
the only one with his personal e-mail address!). She posed her
questions, sometimes while running six-minute miles with him,
and thus was the biography “All In” produced.  Those around Petraeus saw how blinded he was, questioning
how much access she had. There was a war going on, after all. He
listened to some criticism, once telling her to put away the
revealing outfits when in  Afghanistan . But his door stayed open.  With Petraeus’s resignation, it’s time to rethink why
personal stupidity that doesn’t affect someone’s job should
automatically result in resignation. In matters romantic, we can
all be stupid. Once the FBI saw that it had uncovered an
extramarital affair, not an affair of state, the agency should
have reined in that rogue topless agent and called it a day. But
it didn’t, and when Director of National Intelligence James
Clapper learned of Petraeus’s behavior, he told him he would
have to resign -- and eventually the president accepted.  There was no crime or breach of national security. The
rules regarding personal behavior at the CIA are more lenient
than those in the military. The antiquated fear that someone
with a sexual secret can be blackmailed is operative only if
Clapper and others make it so. If having an affair isn’t enough
to get someone fired, then it probably isn’t enough to be used
as blackmail.  Petraeus rightly didn’t think he would have to resign until
last week. The Petraeus family was picture-perfect  just last
month  at his daughter’s wedding. He must have known then that
all hell was about to break loose -- the investigation was well-
along -- but he probably thought he would keep his job.  Which raises another question: Why is there a different
standard of private conduct for public servants than, say, for
the reporters who cover them, or the lobbyists hoping they’ll
approve the weapons system they’re selling? (On second thought,
maybe the standards are the same, as illustrated by  the
resignation  last week of Lockheed Martin Corp.’s incoming chief
executive officer over a “close and personal relationship”
with a subordinate. At least he got $3.5 million to soften the
blow.)  Puritanical Habits  Yes, government officials are stewards of the public trust
in a way that private executives are not. Still, it’s not clear
that the Puritan streak that persists in U.S. public life is
serving the public interest.  Divorce rates in the military  are higher  than they’ve been
in more than a decade. Multiple deployments are hard on
everyone, from grunts to the brass. Are we willing to fire all
these people if we find out about their infidelities?  Imagine the second term of President  Bill Clinton  had his
terrible affair not consumed Congress and the rest of us. A few
months ago, Petraeus watched as his friend Brett McGurk lost his
chance to become ambassador to  Iraq  over an affair with a
reporter. It didn’t matter that everyone -- from former
President  George W. Bush  to the current president -- thought
McGurk would be a great ambassador. He’d been exposed by e-mails
to his then-girlfriend, now wife. Nothing unethical or criminal
was found, yet they both lost their careers over it.  Once upon a time, it would have been hard to expose
Petraeus. Love letters could be stashed away in a box. No more.
Love may be fleeting, but e-mail is forever. We’ve now had this
technology  long enough to know  that any time you click “Send,”
your innermost thoughts may become known not just to the
recipient but to your employer, the recipient’s employer, the
FBI and the  New York  Times. Yet we keep tapping away, day and
night, giving our ephemeral feelings technological permanence.
It’s a worldwide addiction. We can’t stop ourselves.  The FBI can, however. What’s criminal here is that the
agency kept investigating even after realizing what it had on
its hands was a reckless affair -- and aren’t they all? -- not a
threat to national security.  We’re not  Saudi Arabia . We don’t stone adulterers. The
punishment suffered privately is more than enough.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  Keystone XL pipeline
should be approved now  and on why the  IMF director is right on
Greece ; Clive Crook on why  China and the U.S. must get along ;
 Edward Glaeser  on why  diversity has built support for a welfare
state ; Vali Nasr on why  drone strikes alone won’t defeat al-
Qaeda ;  Peter Orszag  on why  China may face slower economic
growth ;  Stephen Smith  on why  a politician shouldn’t be
transportation secretary.   To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 