-- Morgan on Leucadia, Wachtell, O’Melveny: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/morgan-on-leucadia-wachtell-o-melveny-business-of-law.html
Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  agreed to
buy the portion of  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  it doesn’t already own
for about $2.76 billion.  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP acted as legal advisers to
Jefferies, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as legal
advisers to the Transaction Committee. Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP
acted as legal advisers to Leucadia, and Proskauer Rose LLP
acted as legal advisers to the Leucadia Board of Directors.  Morgan Lewis ’s team was led by R. Alec Dawson, Sheryl Orr
and Robert Robison and included Stephen Farrell, Kenneth Kail,
tax and Richard Petretti, finance.  Weil advised Leucadia and the team was led by mergers and
acquisitions partners Andrea Bernstein and Matthew Gilroy and
also included tax partners Mark Hoenig and Chayim Neubort.  The Proskauer partners advising the Board of Directors of
Leucadia National Corp. on the deal are  Martin Bienenstock  and
Lorenzo Borgogni.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partners Edward D. Herlihy and David E. Shapiro. It also includes partners:
Jeannemarie O’Brien, executive compensation and benefits; and
Jodi S. Schwartz and Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Citigroup
Global Markets, financial adviser to the Transaction Committee
of Jefferies Group Inc. The Cleary Gottlieb corporate team
includes partner Victor Lewkow.  Investors will receive 0.81 Leucadia share for each
Jefferies share they own, the companies said yesterday in a
statement, valuing the entire company at $3.59 billion, based on
data from the company’s most recent 10-Q regulatory filing.
Jefferies management will run the firm, according to the report.  Leucadia, which already holds about 28.6 percent of New
York-based Jefferies, boosted its stake in November as
Jefferies’s stock slid on investor concern it may be burned by
Europe’s sovereign-crisis. The combined firm, to be led by
Jefferies Chief Executive Officer Richard Handler, will make the
investment bank’s balance sheet more resilient, helping it
weather and take advantage of market turmoil, the firms said.  “For Jefferies, the deal may allow them to grow and invest
without market pressures in the short term,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London.  The deal values Jefferies about 24 percent higher than its
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on Nov. 9.
Jefferies has climbed 3.8 percent this year, after dropping 48
percent in 2011. Leucadia has declined 4.1 percent this year.  Handler also will remain CEO of Jefferies as the
transaction with New York-based Leucadia is completed in the
first quarter, the companies said.  For more, click here.  Sherwin-Williams to Buy Paint Maker Comex for $2.34 Billion  Jones Day  is advising  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , the largest
U.S. paint retailer, in its agreement to acquire closely held
Consorcio Comex SA de CV for about $2.34 billion including debt
to gain Mexico’s largest paint maker.  The Jones Day deal team is led by Cleveland mergers and
acquisitions partner James Dougherty. The team also includes
partners Javier Martinez del Campo, mergers and acquisitions;
and Jose Estandia, mergers and acquisitions/energy.  Sherwin-Williams will fund the all-cash deal by selling $2
billion in 5-, 10- and 30-year bonds, the Cleveland-based
company said in a presentation yesterday on its website. It
didn’t specify how much debt it’s assuming. The acquisition
would be the biggest takeover in Mexico by a U.S. company since
2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sherwin-Williams Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Christopher M. Connor is adding to the company’s 3,500 North
American stores after an improving North American housing market
led to record  earnings  in the third quarter. Comex, which has
exclusive sales to 3,300 paint stores in Mexico, generated two-
thirds of its $1.4 billion of revenue last year in Latin
America, Sherwin-Williams said in the  presentation .  “While the financial details remain unclear, we view the
deal as strategically accretive to the Sherwin-Williams
franchise as it extends the company’s already impressive
distribution network to Mexico and Latin America,”  Ghansham Panjabi , a New York-based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. who
rates the shares neutral, or the equivalent of hold, said in a
report yesterday.  For more, click here.  Precision Castparts to Acquire Simmons’s Timet for $2.9 Billion  Precision Castparts Corp. (PCP) , the maker of metal forgings for
 jet engines , agreed to buy Texas billionaire Harold Simmons’s
 Titanium Metals Corp. (TIE)  for $2.9 billion in its largest
acquisition in almost two decades.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP provided outside legal counsel
to Titanium Metals and Glenn West led the team. Additional
partners on the deal included Greg Danilow, litigation; Jay Tabor, corporate; Jared Rusman, tax; Michael Kam, benefits;
Douglas Nave, antitrust; P.J. Himelfarb, public company advisory
group.  O’Melveny & Meyers LLP and Stoel Rives LLP advised
Precision.  Titanium Metals stockholders will get $16.50 a share, 44
percent more than the Dallas-based company’s closing price on
Nov. 8, according to a statement. Entities controlled by Simmons
have agreed to sell their 45 percent stake in the company, known
as Timet, Precision Castparts said.  The deal, Precision’s largest since at least 1995, extends
an acquisition spree under Chief Executive Officer Mark Donegan,
who has overseen more than two dozen purchases in the past
decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Planemakers  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and Airbus SAS have urged suppliers to consolidate to help
support record increases in jet output.  Donegan said in a July interview that he foresaw at least
$1 billion in merger opportunities in the next 16 months.
Portland, Oregon-based Precision agreed last month to acquire
pipe processor Texas Honing Inc., and said in July it was buying
four factories from Canadian landing-gear maker  Heroux-Devtek
Inc. (HRX)  to expand in the aviation-parts industry.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Ashurst Opens Middle East Office in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia  Ashurst LLP is starting a  Jeddah ,  Saudi Arabia , office by
establishing an association with Saudi partner Faisal Adnan
Baassiri, the head of legal at SEDCO, a Saudi, Shari’ah-
compliant wealth-management company.  The firm will focus on energy, transport and infrastructure
matters and offer corporate services in the region, especially
in Jeddah.  Baassiri, who joins Ashurt as a partner, is a general
practice lawyer, with expertise in general corporate work, real
estate and funds, the firm said.  “The economy in Saudi Arabia is undergoing significant
expansion, which is set to continue over the next few years.
There are substantial business opportunities that fit well with
our regional strategic focus on the energy, transport and
infrastructure industries,” Joss Dare, head of Ashurst in the
Middle East, said in a statement. “This is the first step for
us in the Kingdom and we are confident that our offering will
grow in breadth and depth.”  Ashurst has over 1,700 lawyers in 24 offices in 14
countries around the world.  O’Melveny & Myers Opens Office in Seoul  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  opened an office in  Seoul  yesterday,
the firm’s 16th office worldwide.  Korea practitioners Jinwon Park and Sungyong Kang will be
residents of the Seoul office. Los Angeles-based partner Joseph Kim, head of the firm’s Korea practice, will work with Kang and
Park as well as other O’Melveny attorneys who work on Korea-
related matters.  O’Melveny has advised Korean clients on antitrust and
patent litigation, among other matters. The firm represented
Asiana Airlines, which had an antitrust claim dismissal affirmed
by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit. O’Melveny
led the briefing and argued on behalf of about two dozen
airlines, including Asiana, that were accused of conspiring to
fix air cargo rates, the firm said.  Seoul will be O’Melveny’s seventh Asia office, along with
locations in Shanghai,  Hong Kong , Beijing, Singapore, Tokyo, and
Jakarta (in an association with Indonesian  law firm  Tumbuan &
Partners). The firm has about 130 legal professionals resident
in its Asia offices. O’Melveny has 800 lawyers in 16 offices
worldwide.  Moves  Cozen O’Connor Hires Former Pennsylvania Attorney General  Cozen O’Connor hired Jerry Pappert, who was the executive
vice president, general counsel and secretary of
biopharmaceutical company Cephalon Inc., as a commercial
litigation partner in Philadelphia.  He is the former Pennsylvania Attorney General and current
chairman of the Pennsylvania Banking and Securities Commission.
He will work with Cozen O’Connor Public Strategies, the firm’s
ancillary government relations firm.  Pappert will assist clients with government investigations,
white collar criminal matters, corporate compliance, government
relations and strategy, and general commercial litigation.  At Cephalon, he was responsible for directing company legal
matters, including the sale of the company to Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. Pappert was Attorney General of
Pennsylvania from 2003 to 2005. From 1997 to 2003, he was
Pennsylvania’s First Deputy Attorney General. He started his
career as a summer associate at Cozen O’Connor.  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 21 offices in the U.S.,
Toronto and London.  Squire Sanders Hires IP and Technology Litigation Head  Squire Sanders  LLP hired Steven M. Auvil as a partner and
head of the intellectual property and technology group’s
litigation practice in the U.S. He joins from Benesch,
Friedlander, Coplan & Aronoff LLP, where he was chairman of its
intellectual property practice group, the firm said. He will
split his time between the Cleveland and Washington offices.  “Steve is held in high regard by his clients and by the IP
litigation bar, he has a consistent history of winning tough
cases, and he has an enviable track record as a practice group
leader,” David S. Elkins, global chairman of Squire Sanders’
intellectual property and technology practice group said in a
statement.  Auvil has been first chair in patent, trade secret,
copyright and trademark/trade dress cases in district courts as
well as disputes before U.S. administrative agencies. He has
also argued patent-related appeals before the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit. He is also a patent lawyer
admitted to practice before the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office,
and has experience counseling clients on IP portfolio
developments; patent preparation and prosecuting; freedom to
operate, infringement and invalidity opinions; and IP-related
deals, the firm said.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 37 offices in
18 countries.  Litigation  Mariner Health Sues Law Firm Troutman Sanders Over Sale Payment  Mariner Health Care Inc., the nursing-home operator, sued
its former law firm for allegedly allowing $40 million from an
asset sale to go to another client and trying to paper over the
payment after the fact.  The money, from the $50 million sale of a medical-supply
unit to  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , wound up going to Rubin Schron, an
investor who bought some of Mariner’s real estate through a
company he controlled, according to a complaint filed Nov. 9
against the law firm, Troutman Sanders LLP, in Georgia state
court in Atlanta. Mariner and Schron’s company were both
represented by lawyers who eventually joined Troutman Sanders,
according to the complaint.  Mariner received $10 million directly for the medical-
supply sale, while the rest was to be paid through an
intermediary. The lawyers didn’t complete documents recording
payment for the Omnicare deal until after they got a subpoena
from the U.S. Justice Department, which was investigating the
transaction for possible violation of kickback laws, Mariner
alleged.  “If Troutman could account for the missing $40 million
payment on ‘paper,’ then Schron could avoid the risk of being
found guilty of violating the Anti-Kickback Statute,” according
to the complaint. Atlanta-based Mariner is seeking $40 million
and punitive damages.  This isn’t the only lawsuit involving Schron and Troutman
Sanders. He sued in New York state court 2010, accusing the law
firm of breaching fiduciary duties. That case is pending. Schron
isn’t a defendant in the Mariner lawsuit.  Troutman Sanders yesterday issued a statement calling
Mariner’s claims “without merit” and saying the firm will
fight the Georgia lawsuit. Steve A. Engel, an attorney for
Schron, called the Georgia lawsuit “baseless.”  The law firm of Jenkens & Gilchrist represented Schron in
the 2004 purchase of the Mariner real estate, according to the
Georgia complaint. A few months later, most of the firm’s New
York office left to join Troutman Sanders, according to the
complaint. Atlanta-based Troutman Sanders was Mariner’s
“outside general counsel” from April 2005 to April 2012,
according to the complaint.  L. Lin Wood, an attorney for Mariner, said yesterday in a
phone interview that the sale of Mariner Medical Supply to
Omnicare wasn’t a disguised kickback. Mariner Medical Supply
“was not a shell company,” Wood said. “It was a fair price
for the company and Mariner is owed the $40 million.”  The case is Mariner Health Care Inc. v. Troutman Sanders
LLP, State Court of Fulton County, Georgia (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  CME Lawsuit Over CFTC’s Swap-Database Rule Faulted by DTCC  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s lawsuit over U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission swap-data rules will undermine efforts to
boost transparency following the 2008 credit crisis, the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. said.  The suit, filed in federal court on Nov. 8, “threatens to
dismantle and disrupt the entire regulatory regime statutorily
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act in order to preserve CME’s
exclusive access to data that it acquires through its role as a
derivatives clearing organization,” DTCC General Counsel Larry E. Thompson said in a letter to the CFTC Nov. 11.  CME, the Chicago-based exchange operator that runs a swaps
clearinghouse, is seeking an injunction against CFTC rules for
reporting private trade information, claiming that submissions
to so-called swap-data repositories would be redundant. DTCC,
based in New York, is one of the firms given CFTC approval to
run data repositories for  interest rate  and credit-default
swaps, among other types of trades.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul,
directed the CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission to
write rules for swap-data repositories to give regulators a
better view on prices and volume in a $648 trillion market
dominated by banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The CFTC has granted provisional registration to DTCC Data
Repository LLC and ICE Trade Vault LLC, a repository operated by
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc. for information on
energy, interest rate, credit and other swaps.  “One of the essential parts of financial reform is
promoting transparency; transparency both to the public and to
regulators,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a Sept. 20
interview after the agency announced DTCC’s registration.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mail requests for comment while U.S. government
offices are closed for observance of Veterans Day.  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 