-- Ottoman-Era Bank Taps Foreign Cash After 23 Years: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-11-13T09:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/ottoman-era-bank-taps-foreign-cash-after-23-years-turkey-credit.html
TC Ziraat Bankasi AS, the bank
founded in 1863 during the  Ottoman Empire , plans to sell
Eurobonds for the first time in 23 years to finance lending at
cheaper rates than the cost of deposits.  Turkey ’s biggest state-run lender will sell as much as $3
billion in foreign currency-denominated bonds over the next
year, the first time since 1989 it will tap international
investors, the company said Nov. 8. Ziraat only has lira-
denominated debt. The yield on its notes due in February 2013
fell to 6.5 percent today from 7.75 percent on Sept. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s more cost-effective for the bank to fund growth
through bonds and move away from expensive deposits,” Ates Buldur, analyst at Credit Suisse Securities Ltd. in Istanbul,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The bank is clearly
moving towards a more profitable structure.”  Turkish banks, faced with paying three-month deposit rates
of 10 percent, have sold a record $28 billion in bonds this
year, double the amount for all of 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield on the July 2017 dollar bonds of
 Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , Turkey’s second-largest state-run bank,
has fallen to 3.9 percent from 4.7 percent at the end of July,
below the 4.6 percent average for emerging-market banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  Junk Rating  Ziraat Bank, wholly owned by the government, is looking to
the international  debt market  after Fitch Ratings’ Nov. 5
decision to raise Turkey’s credit rating to BBB-, its lowest
investment-grade level. Fitch cited a sound banking system,
favorable growth prospects and “a relatively wealthy and
diverse economy.”  “There will be plenty of demand for these bonds, and
Ziraat will probably pay even less than the recent issues
because it’s a large  state bank ,” Recep Demir, an analyst at
Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said by phone yesterday. “Costs
will come down even more for Turkish banks, as the market now
expects other  ratings agencies  to upgrade Turkey like Fitch.”  The bank is rated Ba2, the second-highest non-investment
grade status, at Moody’s Investors Service. The government is
rated one step higher at Ba1.  Default Risk  Credit-default swaps on Turkey rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 153 today. That compares with 155 for
 Russia , rated three steps higher at Moody’s. Rising prices show
deteriorating perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Ziraat Bank, set up to support Turkish farmers, said last
week it also plans to sell as much as 7 billion liras ($3.9
billion) of bonds in the domestic market. Profits rose 30
percent to 614.5 million liras in the third quarter from a year
earlier as total deposits shrank 10 percent to 108 billion
liras. Ziraat’s asset size fell 6 percent to 154 billion liras,
forcing it to cede the spot as Turkey’s largest bank by that
measure to  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS.  “Deposits are costly and we’ve left that to the other
players in the market,” Chief Executive Officer Huseyin Aydin,
said on Sept. 19. The company’s spokesman didn’t respond to an
e-mail and calls seeking comment.  Borrowing Costs  Turkey’s four major banks have borrowed at an average cost
of 7 percent in recent lira bond issues. The weighted average
 interest rate  on Turkish banks’ three-month deposits is around
10 percent,  according to the central bank .  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8054 per dollar at 11:20
a.m. in Istanbul today, paring this year’s gain to 4.7 percent.
The yield on the government’s benchmark  two-year notes  rose
three basis points to 6.41 percent today, rebounding from the
lowest level since at least April 2005.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish debt in
dollars rather than  U.S. Treasuries  rose one basis point to 202
today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index. That compares
with 385 at the end of last year and 200 for Russia today.  “Funding through local bonds is also cheaper than deposits
but banks prefer Eurobonds because of their longer maturity,”
Garanti’s Demir said.  Falling Yields  Turkish lenders sold $10 billion of eurobonds this year,
compared with $5 billion for all of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) , Turkey’s
third-largest state lender, and Isbank, the biggest bank by
assets, each paid 6 percent to sell 10-year dollar bonds in the
past month. The yield on Vakifbank’s $500 million of debt due in
November 2022 fell to 5.65 percent yesterday, and Isbank’s $1
billion of October 2022 securities yielded 5.34 percent.  “We like eurobonds because it’s a simple structure for the
investor to understand and we’re happy with the maturities,”
Erdal Aral, deputy CEO for Isbank, said at a Fitch conference
Nov. 8 in Istanbul. “As long as external demand continues,
they’re the easy way of funding for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  