-- Pacino’s ‘Glengarry’ Party; Sigourney Weaver Romps: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/pacino-s-glengarry-party-sigourney-weaver-romps-stage.html
David Mamet and the “Glengarry Glen
Ross” team had an opening-night party on Sunday without going
through the bother of an opening night with those possibly mood-
ruining reviews.  Mamet’s 1984 Pulitzer winner has been in previews since
Oct. 19. A few performances were cancelled because of  hurricane
Sandy , but you do have to wonder: How much more fine-tuning do
these folks have to do?  Critics were disinvited from the final previews and asked
to wait an extra month before weighing in. So I bought an
orchestra seat for $167.75.  This is not a new play undergoing revisions, but the second
Broadway revival in recent years of Mamet’s comedy about cocky,
desperate, smooth-talking, backstabbing Chicago confidence
artists selling worthless Florida tracts to suckers.  Al Pacino earned an Oscar nomination for his performance in
the 1992  film  as Richard Roma, the young gun who leads the
office in sales. Here, he’s playing Shelly Levene, who’s past
his shelf life and has to scrounge for the “prime leads” that
offer the best shots at a “close.”  The young stud Pacino once played is now in the competent
hands of Bobby Cannavale. The show is staged by  Daniel Sullivan ,
who directed Pacino most recently in his Broadway turn as
Shylock in “The Merchant of  Venice .”  American Patois  “Glengarry” unfolds with a machine-gun American patois
full of four-letter words, thoughts sheared off in mid-sentence
and overlapping dialogue that require precision, thrust and grim
pathos.  Sullivan’s staging is workmanlike, which is not good enough
for a vehicle whose star is making $125,000-plus per week and
whose tickets are selling in the non-preview stratosphere.  The 30-minute Act I comprises three short scenes in a
Chinese restaurant (fortune-cookie sentiments are projected
above the stage).  In the first, Shelly debases himself before a new manager
(David Harbour) like an addict in need of a fix, which in this
case would be a prime lead. Scrawny, bleakly wide-eyed and
obsessively ruffling his cockscomb hair, Pacino is focused but
low key; the effect is enervating.  Post Break-In  Act II, about 50 minutes long, takes place in the office
(the unflashy sets are by Eugene Lee) following a burglary. The
centerpiece is a conversation between Shelly and Richard, mentor
and mentee. It’s the evening’s high point -- as well as its
undoing.  Cannavale’s entertainingly lizardlike Roma transmutes from
suave unctuousness to foul-mouthed viper in the blink of an eye.
Pacino makes a good foil and is winning when he first enters the
room emitting the self-satisfied glow that comes with having
made what he thinks is a big close.  But the alchemy that makes violent poetry of these speeches
is missing from Sullivan’s production. Much of “Glengarry”
sounds stilted and self-conscious. The off-putting result is
that the play seems delivered in one voice -- the playwright’s
-- and not those of the five central characters.  While there are a few sparks between Pacino and Cannavale,
the pleasure in hearing a master stylist in peak form is only
barely realized.  Through Jan. 20, 2013 at the Schoenfeld Theatre, 236 W.
45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **  Pocono Chekhov  Count on Christopher Durang and his ageless muse  Sigourney Weaver  to turn the vogue for Chekhov into a master class in
comedy with the exhilaratingly funny “Vanya and Sonia and Masha
and Spike,” at Lincoln Center Theater.  Weaver plays Masha, a vain star of “Alien”-like movies
who has come home to the cozy family farmhouse in Bucks County,
 Pennsylvania  (enticingly designed by David Korins) with Spike
(Billy Magnussen), her latest boy toy, in tow. Spike’s greatest
achievement, besides his astonishingly gifted abs, is having
come this close to a part on the sequel to “Entourage.”  Masha’s siblings Vanya (David Hyde Pierce) and Sonia
(Kristine Nielsen) live there, lamenting their empty lives.
There’s to be a costume party up the road at the Dorothy Parker
House and Masha wants Vanya and Sonia to come as dwarfs to her
 Snow White .  Spike’s Eye  Things get complicated when a pretty young neighbor (named
Nina, it almost goes without saying, and played by Genevieve
Angelson) catches randy Spike’s eye.  Durang (“Beyond Therapy,” “Why Torture Is Wrong and the
People Who Love Them”) covers acres of comic territory that
include Hyde Pierce’s off-the-rails lament for “The Adventures
of Ozzie and Harriet,” Nielsen’s dead-on impersonation of
 Maggie Smith  and a voodoo-proficient enchantress named Cassandra
(Shalita Grant) given to dire predictions that have a way of
coming half-true.  Such comedy is very difficult to sustain beyond sketch
length, but Durang has the good fortune of a director, Nicholas
Martin, with a perfect sense of timing and a touch that pushes
everyone in this fine company just up to the too-much line
without going over.  The payoff is the funniest show in town -- one that, like
the master invoked, has an emotional kick that lifts it to a
very high level.  At Lincoln Center Theater at the Mitzi E. Newhouse.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.lct.org .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  books  and  art auctions .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 