-- Pakistan Editor Gets Lifetime Award, Loses Husband
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/pakistan-editor-gets-lifetime-award-loses-husband.html
In 1975, when Zubeida Mustafa got a
job at  Dawn ,  Pakistan ’s leading English-language newspaper, she
was the only woman.  This year, she received the Lifetime Achievement Award from
the  International Women’s Media Foundation .  In her long career, Mustafa battled censors and extremists
to cover politics, social inequality, education and health
issues. After a piece on  breast cancer , for example, outraged
religious conservatives raided the Dawn office for printing
“obscene” material.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: What’s the biggest misconception about the U.S.
in Pakistan?  Mustafa:  Generally there’s a feeling that the U.S. is
trying to dominate Pakistan to have its way.  Lundborg: What’s the biggest misconception about Pakistan
that we have in the West?  Mustafa: People over here think that the Pakistanis are
extremists, that they are militant. They’re conservative, I
don’t deny that. There are elements, but that they’re extremists
as far as religion goes is really not the case -- I can tell you
that.  Lundborg:  Osama Bin Laden  was living perfectly happily in a
nice compound in Abbottabad. What was the Pakistani response to
U.S.  Navy SEALs  going in and taking him out?  Drone Deaths  Mustafa: People were quite shocked when the raid took
place. Many people thought that it was good to get rid of him,
but at the same time, the drones are becoming a very sensitive
issue.  It’s not that people want the terrorists to be there, but
they want other ways to be found in which innocent people, even
women and children, would not be killed.  Lundborg: What’s been the impact of the Taliban shooting of
schoolgirl Malala Yousufzai?  Mustafa: There was an immediate reaction of some fear but
that was very short lived. It galvanized the whole nation in
support of her and girls’ education. So you know it had just the
opposite effect of what the Taliban wanted.  Lundborg: Unesco just published a report saying that three
million girls in Pakistan are not being educated at all, the
second highest number in the world.  No School  Mustafa: Many of these girls who are not going to school
don’t have the opportunity -- there are not enough good schools
for girls. We have elections due in a few months and education
has become a big issue.  Lundborg: I was shocked to read on your website that 90
percent of Pakistani women experience physical or emotional
abuse. That’s almost everybody -- why are men so violent toward
women?  Mustafa: Women are trying to get a law against domestic
violence but it has been so difficult to get it through because
even men who seem to be very modern and progressive have to be
persuaded.  If a woman doesn’t have economic independence, she can’t
really break away from the domination of a man. We don’t have
many women who have economic independence.  Even those who are working, they’re still subject to the
control of their husbands or men, whoever they are. The whole
society is so patriarchal in nature that there’s a lot to be
changed.  Sole Woman  Lundborg: For many years, you were the only woman working
at your newspaper. What was that like?  Mustafa: It was pretty lonely I would say. I received a lot
of support from my male colleagues, but I always felt that it
was important that there should be more women.  I was able to change policies, and when more women came, I
tried to help and guide them in every way I could.  Lundborg: Being a woman actually helped you as a
journalist?  Mustafa: In Pakistan in many sections the women are
segregated so it was easier for me to walk into a house and talk
to the female members -- a man couldn’t have done it.  Lundborg: So what was the toughest thing about being a
pioneer?  Proving Oneself  Mustafa: I wanted to be taken seriously and after some time
I could prove myself. But then I always felt that there were so
many men who didn’t have to prove themselves and they were
accepted.  Lundborg: How did your husband come to be so supportive of
your career ambitions?  Mustafa: At the beginning he felt very proud of me, but
then I became too independent for him and he decided to walk
out.  Lundborg: What’s the most important thing you’ve taught
your two daughters?  Mustafa: I think the mother becomes a role model to the
daughter -- they were quite happy about my working and they sort
of just followed me.  One daughter is now in  France , where she did her Montessori
training and works in a school. And the elder one is in Toronto
working for Microsoft.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 