-- Palestinian Monetary Authority Ready for UN Bid Backlash
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-11-14T08:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/palestinian-monetary-authority-readies-for-un-bid-repercussions.html
Palestinian Monetary Authority
Governor Jihad Al Wazir said he has readied the financial system
to withstand the repercussions that may follow a planned
statehood bid at the United Nations as soon as this month.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said Nov. 11
he’ll resist global pressure to drop the bid or wait until after
Israeli elections on Jan. 22. That decision may spur Israel to
halt the transfer of tax revenue to the Palestinian Authority,
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said this week.  “The political decision has been taken and the leadership
has been very outspoken in saying that there will be
repercussions, and we are willing to take these repercussions,”
Al Wazir, 49, said in an interview at his office in the West
Bank city of  Ramallah . From the window, there is a view of a
large hole in the distance, where the monetary authority’s new
headquarters is being built, and on the wall hangs an artist’s
rendering of the project.  Almost five years after he was appointed to run a financial
system that still uses Israel’s currency, Al Wazir, says he has
taken “all the mitigation that can reasonably be taken” to
ensure the stability of Palestinian banks. Outside his office, a
Palestinian pound printed by the pre-state British mandate is
displayed, a currency he hopes to resurrect in a future
independent state.  Economy, Deficit  More immediate challenges include a slowing economy and a
widening budget deficit that has left the government unable to
pay its employees.  The Palestinians will breach the Oslo Accords if they
proceed with their UN bid, an Israeli official said today,
speaking anonymously as he wasn’t authorized to talk on the
record. Israeli diplomats were instructed to spread the message
that in response,  Israel  may cancel part or all of the accords,
which were signed in 1993 to create a framework toward a final
peace agreement, the official said in a phone interview.  Environmental Protection Minister Gilad Erdan said that
among the steps Israel should take if the Palestinian UN bid
proceeds is annexation of its West Bank settlements.  “When Israel speaks of unilateral steps, it’s not just
cancellation of the Oslo agreement,” Erdan said in an interview
with Israel Radio today. “Israel should announce in a clear
manner that it is also preparing to annex Jewish settlements”
in the West Bank.  Abu Jihad  Al Wazir was born in the Gaza Strip four years before
Israel captured the territory in 1967. His father, Khalil al
Wazir, was assassinated in 1988, when he was Palestine
Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat’s top deputy.  While the father, known as Abu Jihad, ran operations
against Israel from the PLO’s headquarters in Tunis, his son
studied electrical engineering at Marquette University, a
Catholic institution in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin . Later he earned a
doctorate in business administration at Loughborough University
in Leicestershire, U.K.  Al Wazir’s four-year mandate to serve as governor was
renewed this year. His achievements include a deposit insurance
law and the creation of a credit bureau to encourage the flow of
loans. He has also announced plans to securitize $200 million of
government debt in the first quarter of 2013, turning loans from
banks into tradable bonds, and to sell $50 million of sukuk
sometime after that.  “Financial stability is our brief and we take it very
seriously,” said Al Wazir, who has pictures of both Arafat and
Abbas in his office. “It’s the external environment you can’t
control, and the political environment. You do what you can.”  Two States  Even if Israel decides to cut off the transfer of tax
income, it “won’t last long,” Al Wazir said, adding that he
expects Arab nations to help offset any lost tax revenue.  Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
broke down two years ago when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
refused to extend a partial 10-month construction freeze in West
Bank settlements and the Palestinians said they wouldn’t resume
talks as long as building continued.  “The day after the UN vote, we will sit down with the
Israelis,” Al Wazir said. “The whole objective is to salvage
the two-state solution.”  In the meantime, the Palestinian Authority is grappling
with a budgetary crisis.  ‘Serious Risks’  A slump in international aid has hurt a $10 billion economy
that depends on donors. Israel’s military occupation restricts
trade and investment opportunities, according to the World Bank.
The West Bank and Gaza probably grew about 5 percent last year,
down from an average of 9 percent in the previous three years,
and unemployment rose to 19 percent in the first half of 2012,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  The IMF warned in September that the Palestinian economy is
facing “serious risks” and urged the government to pursue a
contingency plan to cover its “financing gap.” The deficit
this year is projected to be around $1.3 billion, compared with
a projected $950 million, Al Wazir said.  “We are in a crisis now,” Al Wazir said. Government
employees received only one-third to one-half of their October
salaries, he said. The shortfall has led to escalating street
protests against the Palestinian Authority’s rule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  