-- Panetta Heads to Australia to Ramp Up Marine Presence
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-11-13T01:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/panetta-heads-to-australia-to-ramp-up-marine-presence.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
arrives in Australia today to discuss ways to increase the U.S.
Marine Corps presence in the country as well as secure Air Force
access to its bases, a senior U.S. defense official said.  The two countries are in the first phase of deploying 250
Marines to the northern port city of Darwin on six-month
rotations with the goal of expanding to as many as 2,500 troops.
Panetta will discuss with Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  how to
increase Air Force access to bases in northern Australia and the
arrangements necessary to achieve those goals, according to the
official, speaking on condition of anonymity.  President  Barack Obama  and Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  announced last November the deployment accord as part of
an increased American commitment to the Asia-Pacific region in
the face of China’s rising regional influence. The U.S. presence
aids Australia in safeguarding sea lanes that host more than $5
trillion in annual trade.  Panetta is attending the annual Australia-U.S. ministerial
meeting along with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . The
bilateral talks come at a time when Australia is cutting defense
spending by A$5.4 billion ($5.6 billion) over four years to help
eliminate a  budget deficit .  Increasing the Marines’ presence in Darwin will require
building additional housing for the troops, and the two sides
will discuss how to accomplish that, an Australian official told
reporters in Washington Nov. 8, speaking on the condition of
anonymity to preview official discussions.  Panetta and Smith also are likely to discuss improvements
to airfields near Darwin that are necessary to allow landing of
heavier U.S. aircraft like the B-52 bombers and those questions
are unlikely to be resolved in the short term, the Australian
official said.  After Australia, Panetta will travel to  Thailand , becoming
the first top U.S. defense official to visit the country since
2008. He will meet with counterpart Sukumpol Suwannatat as well
as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Panetta also will visit
Siem Reap, Cambodia, to meet with the defense minister, General
Tea Banh, as well as other defense ministers from the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam on board U.S. military airplane via
at   gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  