-- Panetta Demotes Ex-Head of Africa Command for Spending
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-11-14T00:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/panetta-demotes-ex-head-of-africa-command-for-spending.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has
demoted the former head of U.S. Africa Command who spent
thousands of dollars of taxpayer money on unofficial travel and
other unauthorized expenses, the Defense Department said.  Army General William Ward will be forced to retire as a
three-star lieutenant general and repay the government about
$82,000, said Pentagon Press Secretary  George Little .  Panetta “insists that leaders within the  Department of
Defense  exemplify both professional excellence and sound
judgment,” Little said in an e-mailed statement. “The secretary
is committed to ensuring that any improprieties or misconduct by
senior officers are dealt with swiftly and appropriately.”  Ward, who served as the first commander of Africa Command
until last year, “engaged in multiple forms of misconduct
related to official and unofficial travel,” wasted government
money and “misused his position,” according to a redacted
version of an inspector general’s report obtained in August
through a Freedom of Information Act request.  Ward denied wrongdoing in a letter to the inspector general
cited in the report. His spokesman, Chris Garrett, said in a
statement today that Ward “has never been motivated by personal
gain and fulfilled each and every mission assigned to him and
served his country and the men and women assigned to his
commands with distinction.”  ’Not Perfect’  While Ward ‘is not perfect,” Garrett said, for more than
40 years Ward “has dedicated his life to honorably and
selflessly serving his soldiers, their families and the  United
States of America .”  Ward served as head of Africa Command, the newest of six
regional geographic commands, from Oct. 1, 2007, to March 9,
2011. He was a four-star general, the highest rank in the Army.  Since leaving Africa Command last year, Ward served as a
special assistant to the Army’s vice chief of staff, according
to Army spokesman George Wright.  The inspector general, the Pentagon’s watchdog, found Ward
used taxpayer money for personal trips, let his staff rent cars
at public expense to take his wife to a spa, and accepted meals
and Broadway theater tickets from a Defense Department
contractor.  It said Ward spent public money on trips to  New York  City
in 2010 and Atlanta in 2011 “when the primary purpose was
personal,” in violation of federal guidance and military
policy, according to the report, which was dated June 26.  Disputed Trips  In denying wrongdoing, Ward said the disputed trips
involved official business for Africa Command, according to his
letter.  The inspector general said Ward let his wife accompany him
on military aircraft 15 times “for purposes that were not
unquestionably official” and without reimbursing the  U.S.
Treasury . The report also found Ward spent more than $34,000 a
year on a one-day holiday party held at his residence in 2009
and again in 2010. Ward brought a “protocol specialist” from
the U.S. to Stuttgart,  Germany , where Africa Command is based,
for a month to help organize the party, according to the report.  Ward said use of the specialist “supported a training
program and execution requirement for a very important official
function.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  