-- Pertamina Interested in Lyondellbasell Oil Refinery, France Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-13T17:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/pertamina-interested-in-lyondellbasell-oil-refinery-france-says.html
PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state oil
company, is interested in a refinery in southern  France  that
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  threatened to shutter permanently,
according to French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg .  The minister “received today a letter of intent in which
Pertamina state-owned oil and gas company confirms its interest
in the Berre-l’Etang refinery,” Montebourg said in a statement,
without saying whether it was considering buying the facility.  The state pressured LyondellBasell to mothball the refinery
after the company said last year it planned to shut the plant
permanently and cut 370 jobs because it couldn’t find a buyer.
It was at the time the third closing of a crude-processing plant
announced in France within 18 months as weaker demand for fuel
curbed earnings. Petroplus Holdings AG’s Petit-Couronne refinery
in Normandy has since been placed under administration.  A court postponed a deadline for offers for Petit-Couronne
to Feb. 5, the managers of the plant said today in a statement.  Administrators have also asked the court to extend past
Dec. 16 an authorization under which the plant can operate.  Petit-Couronne is processing fuel for Royal Dutch Shell Plc
in a deal expiring Dec. 15. The request for an extension will be
considered by the court on Dec. 4, according to the statement.  Libya ’s sovereign wealth fund is in early talks with France
as a possible co-investor in the site, Montebourg said yesterday
on a visit to Tripoli. France’s strategic investment fund would
be a minority partner in viable energy and industry projects, he
said. The 154,000 barrel-a-day Petit-Couronne has been on sale
since owner Petroplus went into administration this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  