-- PetroChina Profit Squeeze Erodes Ratings Helping Putin
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-11-13T12:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/petrochina-profit-squeeze-erodes-ratings-helping-putin-energy.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  is losing the support
of analysts who say earnings growth at  Asia ’s biggest oil
producer is stunted by its unprofitable natural-gas imports.  The average analyst rating slid to 3.4 on Nov. 8 from 4.1
in June. That’s the lowest in three years and the smallest of
the world’s 15 largest oil and gas companies, according to data
from 34 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Buy ratings earn five
points, holds get three and sells one.  China ’s growing appetite for gas is squeezing the company
more than competitors, pushing it to seek cheaper imports from
exporters such as  Russia . State-controlled PetroChina, which
trades in Hong Kong,  Shanghai  and the U.S., is forced to import
more natural gas every year for resale in the world’s largest
energy market at below-market prices. The Chinese government
curbs fuel costs for industries from power generation to
fertilizer manufacturing to help limit inflation.  “Loss-making on gas is not likely to slow down for
PetroChina, especially in the near term,” Sonia Song, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , said Nov. 6 by
telephone. “It’s unlikely the government will increase prices”
enough to return gas imports to profit, she said.  The company will face increased pressure to do import deals
involving Russian President  Vladimir Putin  or foreign operators
in the U.S., which is years ahead in using advanced techniques
to extract gas from rock formations that previously were off
limits to explorers.  PetroChina, whose $250 billion market value is exceeded
only by Exxon Mobil Corp., must double gas imports over the next
three years and continue selling at a loss if state-price
controls remain, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Hong Kong-based
analysts  Neil Beveridge  and Ying Lou said in a Nov. 5 report.  Profit Low  In September, the company blamed higher import costs for
producing its lowest third-quarter profit in at least five
years. Nine-month operating profit at the gas and pipeline unit,
which includes selling gas from domestic fields, dropped to 885
million yuan ($142 million) from 13.23 billion yuan a year
earlier, the company said.  Even so, PetroChina’s total return including dividends to
investors this year has been about 11.6 percent, beating the 4.5
percent average of the 15 biggest  oil companies  with full-year
data, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Thirteen analysts  have
buy recommendations, five have sells and 16 rate it hold. At the
end of June there were 21 buys, one sell and 14 holds.  Shares closed down 1.9 percent to HK$10.14 in Hong Kong,
more than the 1.1 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .
The stock has declined 4.5 percent in the past 12 months, while
the benchmark gained 8.6 percent.  ’Golden Age’  PetroChina is set to boost profit 1.7 percent to 135
billion  yuan  this year, according to analyst data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings will be buoyed by sales at market rates of
crude that’s pumped overseas. It also sells oil from local
fields to Chinese refiners at prices benchmarked to
international prices, benefiting from higher crude rates.  “This may be the golden age of gas but it’s not yet the
golden age for PetroChina,” Beveridge and Lou wrote in the
report. “Gas will continue to act as a headwind on PetroChina
earnings as losses mount” from imports.  China’s gas use will jump 56 percent to 5.6 quadrillion
British thermal units in the four years through 2015, the U.S.
Energy Information Administration has forecast. That’s about 10
fold the increase the agency expects for U.S. demand.  Price Reform?  The pinch for PetroChina could be a boon to Putin’s plans
to invest $45 billion to produce and pipe natural gas from
eastern Siberia to a liquefied natural gas plant in Vladivostok
port for shipping to Asia. Confirmed customers in Asia could
allow Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , the world’s biggest gas exporter, to
go ahead with the project that will start supplies from 2018.  Export capacity to Asia may equal that volumes sold to
 Europe , Gazprom Chief Executive Office Alexey Miller said on
Oct. 29 when the plans were announced.  China will rely on imports through pipelines and in liquid
form in tankers to meet 30 percent of its gas requirements this
year and 35 percent by 2015, according to the Bernstein report.  PetroChina controls more than 80 percent of its home gas
market and imports are growing quickly, now accounting for about
a third of China’s supply, Beveridge said.  “The problem is the cost of imported gas is significantly
higher than the price they are able to sell it for,” he said.
“Only a complete price reform can solve the problem, but we are
not going to see much progress in the next six months because of
China’s leadership transition.”  The company’s gas business is losing money because of the
delay in energy price reform, PetroChina Chairman  Jiang Jiemin ,
said at a briefing on Nov. 9 at the 18th Chinese Communist Party
congress in Beijing.  Gas Imports  Despite that, PetroChina “will do the utmost to import
gas” to meet China’s increasing demand, Jiang said. “The
supply of natural gas is one of the biggest civil projects.”  Mao Zefeng, PetroChina’s Beijing-based spokesman, didn’t
respond to calls and e-mails seeking further comment.  China sets the price at which gas can be sold in the
country at about $7 per million British thermal units, the
standard measure, to keep it affordable for lower-income regions
and to control inflation, Song at Nomura said.  The government is experimenting with price increases for
the fuel, mostly used in factories, and is running a pilot
project in Guangdong and Guangxi, where it’s sold at about $12
per million British thermal units, she said.  Prices need to rise to about $20 per million Btu to hand
PetroChina a profit from gas sales, Song said. This includes
recovering expenditure to build pipelines.  Shale Gas  China is providing incentives to speed up production of
shale gas, which is extracted from rock by blasting in liquids
that break up shale trapping the fuel.  The country will subsidize shale gas production by offering
0.4 yuan a cubic meter for the fuel that’s developed and
consumed from 2012 to 2015, the Ministry of Finance said in a
Nov. 5 statement.  That will bring down the breakeven cost for output of shale
gas to about $8 per million Btu, Song said. That’s almost
equivalent to current prices and any increase will help
companies make a profit.  “The breakeven price for shale gas is lesser, but shale is
still far away,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  