-- Phil Jackson Learned of Lakers Hiring D’Antoni in Midnight Call
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/phil-jackson-learned-of-lakers-hiring-d-antoni-in-midnight-call.html
Mike D’Antoni  is the new coach of
the  Los Angeles Lakers  and  Phil Jackson  said he was as surprised
as anyone, learning of the team’s decision when he was awakened
by a midnight phone call.  Jackson, who won five of his record 11  National Basketball
Association  titles in  Los Angeles , met with Lakers’ Executive
Vice President Jim Buss and General Manager Mitch Kupchak for 90
minutes on Nov. 10 about succeeding  Mike Brown . Jackson said he
reached a handshake agreement that he had until yesterday to
make a decision about returning to coaching.  Jackson never got the chance to get back to the Lakers, who
early yesterday announced D’Antoni, a former  Phoenix Suns  and
New York Knicks coach, agreed to a multiyear contract. Jackson
said it was Kupchak who informed him of the Lakers’ decision to
hire D’Antoni in the midnight phone call.  “I did convey to them that I did have the confidence that
I could do the job,” Jackson, 67, said last night in a
statement. “They felt he was the best coach for the team. The
decision is of course theirs to make.”  The Los Angeles Times, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the situation, reported yesterday that Jackson had
sought an  ownership stake  in the team. Jackson said in his
statement that he “did not solicit or ask for the opportunity”
to return to the Lakers and that no contractual terms were
discussed during their weekend meeting.  “We concluded with a hand shake and an understanding that
I would have until Monday to come back to them with my
decision,” Jackson said.  Instead, the Lakers said in a statement a few hours after
their Sunday night game that Buss, Kupchak and owner Jerry Buss
were unanimous that D’Antoni was the best coach at this time.  D’Antoni’s Deal  The Los Angeles Times said D’Antoni, 61, agreed to a three-
year contract worth $12 million.  He inherits a roster that includes 2007-08 NBA Most
Valuable Player  Kobe Bryant  and four-time All-Star  Pau Gasol  as
well as offseason additions Dwight Howard and  Steve Nash . The 6-
foot-11 Howard is a three-time Defensive Player of the Year,
while Nash is a two-time NBA MVP who ranks fifth in league
history in career assists.  “We’re excited for D’Antoni,” Howard told the Lakers’
website after yesterday’s practice. “It’s a fast-paced offense
and everything he’s done with the teams he’s had in terms of how
they push the ball and how they play in the open court, I think
it’ll be good for Steve and for all of us.”  While in Phoenix, D’Antoni had Nash as his point guard and
asked players to get off a shot within seven seconds of gaining
possession. With the Knicks last season, he helped in the
emergence of Jeremy Lin, the Harvard University product who took
over at point guard and led a midseason surge that propelled New
York to its first postseason win since 2001.  Knicks’ Exit  D’Antoni resigned from the Knicks in March after locker-
room bickering and a six-game losing streak left the club with
an 18-24 record. He was in the last season of a four-year, $24
million contract with New York.  D’Antoni is expected to arrive in Los Angeles tomorrow or
the following day, the team said on its website. Interim coach
Bernie Bickerstaff has led the Lakers to two straight wins after
a 1-4 start and will be on the bench tonight as the team hosts
the  San Antonio Spurs . The Lakers will also be without Nash, who
is continuing to recover from a fractured fibula.  D’Antoni has a 388-339 coaching record in 10 NBA seasons.
During his time in Phoenix, the Suns led the NBA in scoring
three straight seasons beginning in 2004-05 and reached the
Western Conference finals in 2005 and 2007.  “We’re all excited to have him here and learn his
principles and offense and defense,” Gasol said. “It should be
a fun system to play in. There are a lot of opportunities with
an up-tempo kind of game. We all look forward to working with it
and exploiting the options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  