-- Philippine Peso Weakens for Second Day on Central Bank Signal
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-11-13T08:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/philippine-peso-retreats-from-4-year-high-on-central-bank-signal.html
The Philippine peso fell for a
second day, after touching a four-year high last week, on
concern the central bank will slow gains in the currency to
support the economy.  Government bonds  advanced.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has been “more closely
monitoring market conduct to ensure that movements in the
 exchange rate  are not excessively volatile,” Governor  Amando
Tetangco  said in an e-mailed reply to questions yesterday. The
currency has appreciated more than 6 percent this year, the
second-best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 41.113 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 41.050 on
Nov. 8, the strongest level since March 2008. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was little changed at 4.7 percent.  “We have seen the BSP hold the 41.050 level firmly,
signaling that it’s probably not going to allow further
appreciation for the meantime,” said Alan Cayetano, head of
foreign-exchange trading at Bank of the Philippine Islands in
Manila, the nation’s largest lender by market capital. “There’s
also some mid-month corporate demand for dollars from oil and
manufacturing companies.”  Bangko Sentral has “policy space given the current level
of  interest rates ” and it’s looking at possible refinements in
the tools to manage domestic cash flows, Tetangco said in the e-
mail. Businesses must find ways to boost productivity and take
advantage of the lower cost of imports, he said. Coordination
between monetary and fiscal authorities must be “pursued more
vigorously in terms of debt management,” he added.  Asset Bubbles  Exports rose 23 percent in September from a year earlier,
the fastest pace in 21 months, after falling 9 percent in August,
the statistics office said in Manila today.  The expansion in overseas shipments signals demand is
stabilizing, central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said
today. The central bank won’t tolerate asset bubbles, Deputy
Governor Nestor Espenilla said in a speech today in Manila.  The government may offer new bonds in exchange for less-
frequently traded securities in January instead of December,
Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola told reporters yesterday.  The yield on the 4.625 percent securities due July 2017
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.03
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  