-- Polio Cases Slowing in Pakistan Spur Hope for Elimination
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-11-13T21:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/polio-cases-slowing-in-pakistan-spur-hope-for-elimination.html
Polio cases caused by one of two
circulating strains of  poliomyelitis  virus weren’t reported in
 Pakistan  in six months, speeding global eradication of the
crippling disease.  Type-3 polio is close to being eliminated in Pakistan, one
of three countries in the world where transmission has never
been interrupted, researchers said in presentations today at a
medical meeting in Atlanta.  Globally, 177 polio cases were identified from January to
October 2012, compared with 502 during the same period last year.
Fighting the paralyzing disease has been challenging in Pakistan,
where a  World Health Organization  doctor was injured in July in
a gun attack in Karachi. He was returning from supervising a
polio vaccination campaign -- a program the Taliban has opposed
elsewhere in the country.  “There have not been any Type-3 cases reported for six
months, which is the longest gap in incidence there to date,”
 Steven Wassilak , a medical epidemiologist with the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, said in a statement.
“CDC works with Pakistan officials to monitor different chains
of transmission and Type-3 is down to only one chain, which is
an indication that we are close to breaking the last link.”  The attack in the southern port city of Karachi was a month
after Pakistan’s Taliban guerrilla movement said it would oppose
polio immunization in the country’s northwestern tribal areas of
North and South Waziristan to protest missile strikes by U.S.
unmanned drone aircraft.  Afghan Border  About 250,000 children in tribal areas located along
Pakistan’s border with  Afghanistan  won’t get the vaccine because
of the opposition by the Taliban, the  BBC   reported  July 16,
citing WHO officials it didn’t identify.  Polio control is also being hindered in urban Karachi by
parents refusing to allow vaccinators to give their children the
two drops of the oral vaccine that will prevent infection, said
 Anita Zaidi , a pediatrician at the city’s Aga Khan University.  “Efforts should focus on building trust through grass-
roots effort using community elders in populations with high
vaccine-refusal rates,” she said. “By providing vaccination at
mass transit sites, such as bus routes used to travel up country
throughout the year, we can at least isolate the viral
reservoirs and make sure we avoid what happened last year, which
was exporting the virus to  China .”  The other endemic countries are Afghanistan and  Nigeria .  India  hasn’t reported a polio infection since January 2011
and the  World Health Organization ’s Southeast Asia region will
be certified polio-free in 2014 if no new cases arise, Wassilak
told the annual meeting of the  American Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  