-- Pound Strengthens Versus Majority of Peers on Inflation, Greece
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-13T16:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/pound-advances-versus-euro-on-inflation-data-greek-debt-concern.html
The pound strengthened versus most
of its major counterparts after a U.K. report showed inflation
accelerated in October more than analysts forecast and amid
concern the Greek debt crisis is worsening.  Sterling gained the most against  Brazil ’s real and South
Africa’s rand as a gauge of British house prices showed the best
result in two years, adding to signs the economy is recovering.
European finance ministers meeting yesterday left unanswered how
they will fill a shortfall in  Greece ’s balance sheet. Gilts were
little changed before the Bank of England publishes its latest
growth and inflation projections tomorrow.  “The pound is being supported by a combination of
improvement in the economic outlook and the uncertainty about
Greece,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro Group
Ltd. in London. “There is still a big question mark about
Greece’s debt sustainability.”  The pound was little changed at 80.05 pence per euro at
4:58 p.m.  London  time after appreciating as much as 0.4 percent
to 79.70 pence. The U.K. currency reached 79.61 pence on Nov. 8,
the strongest level since Oct. 1. Sterling rose less than 0.1
percent to $1.5886, after falling earlier to $1.5858, the
weakest since Sept. 5.  U.K.  consumer prices  climbed 2.7 percent last month from a
year earlier, the most since May, compared with a near three-
year low of 2.2 percent in September, the Office for National
Statistics said in London. Inflation was forecast to quicken to
2.4 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  House Prices  An index of  U.K. house prices  rose to minus 7 in October
from minus 14 in September, London-based Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors said in an e-mailed report, citing a monthly
poll of property surveyors. A result below zero means more of
them saw values decline than increase last month.  In the latest compromise in three years of crisis fighting,
creditors led by  Germany  opted yesterday to keep money flowing
to Greece instead of risking a default that may lead to the
nation’s exit from the euro and stir more turmoil for the
countries that remain in the single-currency bloc.  Prospects of a funding deal at a Nov. 20 meeting are
clouded by objections from the International Monetary Fund,
which took issue with the ministers’ decision to postpone the
goal of getting Greece’s debt down to a “sustainable” level of
120 percent of gross domestic product by two years to 2022.  ‘Still Concerned’  “Despite the reprieve from the finance ministers, the
market is still concerned about potential Greek default,” said
Soeren Moerch, head of government-bond trading at Danske Bank
S/A in Copenhagen. “Demand for safe assets should be
underpinned.”  The pound has gained 1.2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro weakened 3.3 percent and
the dollar dropped 1.2 percent.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield dropped less than one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.71 percent. The rate
fell to 1.67 percent on Nov. 9, the lowest level since Sept. 10.
The 1.75 percent bond maturing in September 2022 rose 0.065, or
65 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 100.355.  The five-year U.K.  break-even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yields between
conventional and index-linked gilts, widened for the first time
in eight days. The rate increased six basis points to 2.12
percentage points.  Gilts returned 3.4 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
4.1 percent and U.S. Treasuries rose 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  