-- Prince Charles Seeks to Dispel Seven-Breakfast-Eggs Story
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-13T11:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/prince-charles-seeks-to-dispel-seven-breakfast-eggs-story.html
Prince Charles doesn’t order seven
boiled eggs for breakfast in order to choose the one he likes
best, his office said in a statement designed to dispel myths
about the heir to the British throne.  The claim was made by BBC Television presenter Jeremy Paxman in a 2006 book. The website of the Prince of  Wales , as
Charles is officially known, was updated today to dismiss that
assertion and other commonly held views about the prince and his
family.  “Does the Prince of Wales have seven boiled eggs cooked
for his breakfast but only eat one, as claimed in Jeremy
Paxman’s book ‘On Monarchy?”’ reads one entry on the  website .
“No, he doesn’t and never has done, at breakfast or any other
time.”  As Britain’s monarch, Queen Elizabeth II, 86, celebrated 60
years on the throne this year, courtiers are gradually managing
the process of succession. The prince will celebrate his 64th
birthday tomorrow.  Charles has a reputation for eccentricity. In 1994 he was
mocked in the press for revealing he talks to plants. He’s been
a vocal critic of some modern architecture, including calling an
extension of the National Gallery in  London  a “monstrous
carbuncle.” He criticized traditional science in a 1996 speech
in which he said it had assumed a “tyranny” over “our
understanding of the world.”  Today’s statement on the prince’s website also explains
why, despite his environmental interests, the prince is driven
in a Bentley and owns a classic Aston Martin that his son Prince William used on his wedding day last year.  Cutting Emissions  “The prince does not own or choose to drive around in a
Bentley,” it says. “The car is required for some engagements
for security reasons” and is owned by London’s Metropolitan
Police. It points out that the prince’s cars have been converted
to run on biodiesel or bioethanol to reduce emissions.  The website also denies that Charles advocates dangerous
and untested medical therapies, saying that he favors a “wider,
preventative approach to health care by addressing the
underlying social, lifestyle and environmental causes.”  It also poses the question: “Does the prince dislike all
modern architecture?” It answers: “No. The prince has been the
patron of several contemporary architects, and has provided
training to young architects through his charity, the Prince’s
Foundation for Building Community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  