-- Projected Post Office Pension Surplus Shrinks as Rates Fall
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-11-13T21:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/projected-u-s-post-office-pension-surplus-shrinks-as-rates-fall.html
A pension-fund surplus the U.S.
Postal Service has been counting on to help dig out of its
financial hole is smaller than previously estimated because of
lower interest rates.  The projected excess in the Federal Employees Retirement
System for benefits covering about 471,000 current postal
employees shrank to $2.6 billion from $10.9 billion a year
earlier, John Berry, director of the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management, said in an Oct. 30 letter to Postmaster General
Patrick Donahoe.  The lower estimated pension surplus adds to the financial
woes of the Postal Service, which is scheduled on Nov. 15 to
report its loss for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30. The agency
has said it may lose $15 billion in fiscal 2012, during which it
exhausted its borrowing authority from the U.S. Treasury. The
service skipped two payments due to the U.S. Treasury totaling
$11.2 billion for health benefits of future retirees, saying it
couldn’t afford them.  Postal legislation the Senate passed in April would refund
what was then an estimated $11 billion FERS account surplus and
allow the post office to create its own health-benefits system.
The Senate legislation would determine the repayment amount
based on OPM’s analysis, meaning that sum would be less under
the new estimate than it was when the bill passed.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat who is a sponsor of
the Senate bill, is reviewing the OPM’s latest calculation,
Emily Spain, a spokeswoman, said.  Assessing Assumptions  “During this process, it will be necessary to look at
whether OPM is using the correct assumptions to calculate this
new surplus and if using USPS-specific assumptions would result
in a more accurate assessment of what USPS is owed from the
Federal Employees Retirement System,” she said in an e-mail.  The Postal Service has said it would use any refund to
shore up its finances as it tries to cut costs and find new
revenue sources as it handles less mail volume.  Berry said the pension surplus estimate was reduced because
actuaries recommended lowering projected long-term interest
rates to 5.25 percent from 5.75 percent.  “We are committed to ensuring the financial viability of
the Postal Service and welcome the opportunity to discuss ways
we can help,” Berry wrote.  The Postal Service has said it’s overpaid the Civil Service
Retirement System as much as $75 billion, though the fund is now
estimated to have a $17.8 billion shortfall for postal employee
benefits, according to Berry’s letter.  Temporary Projection  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman
Darrell Issa, a California Republican, has said the FERS surplus
is a temporary budget projection and shouldn’t be relied on for
planning the service’s future.  “Any projection is only as good as the assumptions that
underlie it,” the committee’s Republicans say on a  website 
about their postal overhaul legislation. “One obvious factor is
historically low inflation rates. When the projection changes,
the surplus may melt away leaving the Postal Service with a
deficit it cannot afford to pay back without serious reform.”  The service last year asked the U.S. government for
permission to leave the federal employee and civil service
plans, as well as the health benefits program for U.S.
government employees.  Seeking Refunds  It’s also tried to get refunds of money paid into both
retirement accounts. The personnel management agency has
supported returning to the Postal Service some of the surplus
paid to FERS. The agency has said it doesn’t have the legal
authority to refund money paid into the CSRS plan.  “We have received OPM’s annual financial reporting data
relating to the Postal Service’s pension obligations under the
Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees
Retirement System,” Susan McGowan, a Postal Service
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We are currently reviewing and
analyzing their latest pension liability estimates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  