-- Puerto Rico Voting Out Fortuno Drives Debt Cheaper: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/puerto-rico-voting-out-fortuno-drives-debt-cheaper-muni-credit.html
Investors have pushed Puerto Rico
bonds to the cheapest in more than two years after Republican
Governor Luis Fortuno, who cut workers and deficits, lost his
re-election bid.  Securities of the U.S. commonwealth, which are tax-exempt
in all states, are poised to end a three-year run in which they
beat the $3.7 trillion municipal market. Now buyers are
penalizing the territory. The  extra yield  on 30-year revenue
debt from Puerto Rican issuers relative to top-rated munis
reached the widest since 2010 last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Standard & Poor’s laid out the risk to investors Nov. 9,
saying it may cut Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds to one
level above speculative grade if Democratic Governor-elect
Alejandro Garcia Padilla fails to strengthen the pension system.
The plan’s funding ratio is weaker than in any U.S. state.  Investors are wondering “will there be the same momentum
of fiscal discipline that Fortuno had?” said John Flahive,
director of fixed income in  Boston  at BNY Mellon Wealth
Management, which manages $22 billion of munis. “Until we get
better clarity on that, I’m not surprised that the market is
being cautious.”  One Term  Garcia Padilla, of the Popular Democratic Party, takes
office Jan. 2. He beat Fortuno, a member of the pro-statehood
New Progressive Party, by 47.8 percent to 47.1 percent Nov. 6
after the one-term governor cut payrolls by 17 percent from when
he took office in 2009 to help close spending gaps.  The governor-elect, a member of the commonwealth’s Senate,
has said he won’t raise income or business taxes. He said he’d
add 50,000 private-industry jobs within 18 months through
business-incentive programs. Garcia Padilla, 41, didn’t respond
to requests for comment through an aide, Rolando Padua.  Bonds sold in the commonwealth began to slide before the
election as polls showed the 52-year-old Fortuno trailing.  Puerto Rico debt has earned about 0.05 percent in the past
three months, worse than the 26 states tracked by S&P and below
the 2.1 percent gain for the broader muni market.  ‘More Risky’  “The market had perceived that Governor Fortuno’s defeat
would make Puerto Rico debt a little more risky,” said Guy Davidson, who oversees $31 billion as director of munis at
AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  Puerto Rico’s BBB rating from S&P is below that of
California and  Illinois , which have the weakest marks among
states. A downgrade would drop commonwealth debt backed by
annual appropriation from the legislature, now rated BBB-, to
junk.  Thirty-year revenue debt from commonwealth issuers yields
about 5.44 percent, or  2.21 percentage points  above benchmark
securities, the most since February 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Puerto Rico general-obligations have also weakened since
the vote. Bonds due in 2041 traded Nov. 9 with an average yield
of 4.97 percent, about 2.2 percentage points above a benchmark
index, Bloomberg data show. That difference is 10 percent
greater than when the bonds first sold in March.  The commonwealth had $9.8 billion of general-obligation
debt as of March 31, in addition to $5.5 billion of bonds sold
by government agencies that it guarantees and $3.8 billion of
appropriation debt, according to the Government Development Bank
for Puerto Rico.  Debt Plan  Officials don’t plan on selling any more debt this year,
Juan Carlos Batlle, president of the Government Development
Bank, the island’s fiscal agent, said in an e-mail.  “We will be respectful of the incoming administration and
work with them so that there is an orderly transition,” said
Batlle, a Fortuno appointee.  The tax-exempt market has rallied since Nov. 6 as traders
speculated lawmakers will raise levies to help reduce the U.S.
federal deficit. Yields on a Bond Buyer index of 20-year
general-obligations bonds fell to  3.55 percent  last week, the
lowest in 45 years.  Puerto Rico has declined enough relative to benchmark debt
that Tom Spalding, who helps manage $10 billion of munis in
 Chicago  at Nuveen Investments Inc., said he’s “getting close”
to buying.  ‘Moving Up’  “Everything else has moved up in price,” Spalding said.
“So it becomes more attractive eventually.”  As of June 30, 2011, Puerto Rico’s Employees Retirement
System had assets equaling 6.8 percent of estimated retirement
payments, making it the worst-funded in the nation. Illinois had
a ratio of about 43 percent, the lowest among states, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  If Garcia Padilla delays changes to the retirement system
or adopts “a diluted pension reform package that provides only
temporary relief,” the commonwealth would face a downgrade,
Horacio Aldrete-Sanchez, an S&P analyst, said in a Nov. 9
report. The rating might drop one step in the next few months
with the potential for further cuts, he wrote.  The island’s economy grew 0.9 percent in the year ending
June 30, the first expansion since 2006, according to
projections from the Puerto Rico Planning Board. Still, the
September jobless rate was  13.6 percent , higher than in any U.S.
state.  Fortuno cut Puerto Rico’s budget deficit to $933 million
for the year through June 2013, down from $3.3 billion in 2009.  “Padilla is just going to have to continue to make that
kind of progress or certainly the market’s not going to be as
accepting of the debt,” Spalding said. “There’s not a lot of
backtracking that he can do.”  Following are pending municipal-bond sales:  NEW JERSEY plans to sell $2.6 billion of short-term debt as
soon as this week with JPMorgan Securities LLC as underwriter.
The state postponed the sale because of  Hurricane Sandy .
(Updated Nov. 13)  TEXAS MUNICIPAL GAS ACQUISITION & SUPPLY CORP. plans to
sell $1 billion of gas-supply revenue bonds as soon as next
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will finance the
prepayment of a 20-year supply of natural gas, according to bond
documents. (Added Nov. 13)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  