-- RBA’s Kearns Says Housing Pick-Up to Offset Weaker Mining Growth
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-11-13T02:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/rba-s-kearns-says-housing-pick-up-to-offset-weaker-mining-growth.html
Australian dwelling investment is
showing “tentative signs” of picking up as demand outstrips
supply, helping offset a resource-industry slowdown, according
to the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia .  “It looks likely that dwelling investment will pick up at
a relatively moderate rate in the medium term,” Jonathan
Kearns, head of economic analysis at the RBA, said in prepared
remarks in Sydney today. The expected increase would “in part
offset the smaller contribution to growth that we expect from
resource investment in the coming years,” he said.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has reduced the  benchmark
interest rate  by 1.5 percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011, to
revive industries outside of the resources boom that’s expected
to peak next year at a lower level than previously forecast. The
rate cuts are showing signs of reviving the nation’s housing
market, with mortgage approvals, building permits and
residential construction all climbing in September.  Australia’s housing supply has grown at a little more than
1.5 percent for the past 15 years, compared with 2 percent to 3
percent growth in prior decades, Kearns said. That compares with
the nation’s population, which has grown at a faster rate over
the past seven years than in the preceding 30 years, he said.  The rental market, which serves as an indicator of housing
supply, also points to a shortage of housing, he said.  “For the past seven years or so, real rents have been
rising and the vacancy rate has been below its long-run average,
suggesting the rental market has been quite tight,” he said.  Still, a reluctance by home buyers to take on debt at the
same rate as they did in the 1990s and early 2000s, and a higher
ratio of prices to income than in previous years, suggest “that
it is unlikely that a large increase in prices is in prospect,”
Kearns said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  