-- RBS’s Asia Heads of Flow, Convertible Bond Sales Depart
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-11-14T02:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/rbs-s-asia-heads-of-flow-convertible-bond-sales-leave-amid-cuts.html
Jerry Yoon, who was head of equity
derivatives flow in  Asia  for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
and Nick Langford, who ran convertible bond sales in the region,
said they have left the bank.  The departures come as RBS seeks to combine its investor
products and equity derivatives businesses into its global
trading arm, according to a Sept. 28 internal announcement seen
by Bloomberg. Approvals to move ahead have been obtained,
according to a second internal statement on Nov. 8.  RBS, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, is among
banks that are shrinking payrolls following the global financial
crisis. Banks worldwide have announced more than 190,000 job
cuts since the start of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show, as stricter rules,  Europe ’s sovereign debt woes and waning
demand for investment banking services hamper profitability.  “In line with market conditions, we are undertaking an
internal review that will lead to increased efficiencies for the
business,” said Yuk Min Hui, an RBS spokeswoman in  Hong Kong .
The bank remains “committed” to its investor products and
equity derivatives business, she said.  Yoon and Langford, reached by telephone, confirmed their
departures when asked whether they had left the bank.  RBS will eliminate 3,800 jobs at its investment banking
unit by the fourth quarter of next year, compared with an
earlier target of 3,500, according to slides based on a
presentation delivered by John Hourican, chief of markets and
international banking, to analysts on Sept. 24. About 3,000 of
the cuts will be completed this year, RBS said. Hui declined to
identify specific individuals.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  has cut assets by
more than 800 billion pounds, eliminated 36,000 jobs and scaled
back the securities division since taking over from  Fred Goodwin 
when the lender was rescued by the U.K. government in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  