-- Real Madrid Monitors Palace Winger Wilfried Zaha: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-13T06:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/real-madrid-monitors-palace-winger-wilfried-zaha-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Madrid Monitors Zaha  Real Madrid is closely monitoring Crystal Palace winger
Wilfried Zaha, who was called up to the England squad this week,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Real coach  Jose Mourinho  has sent scouts to check on the
20-year-old, who is valued at 20 million pounds ($31.7 million)
and is also being courted by Arsenal, Tottenham, Manchester City
and Chelsea, the newspaper added.  Ferdinand Future  Rio Ferdinand has told  Manchester United  there is no
guarantee he will sign a new contract to continue playing next
season after the club indicated that he’ll be offered a new 12-
month deal, the  Daily Mail reported .  Ferdinand, 34, has struggled with a back complaint in
recent years and will take his time over the next few months
before deciding whether to play on, the newspaper added.  Party Boy  Manchester City is ready to sell  Mario Balotelli  after the
Italian striker went out partying 12 hours before the club’s
last Premier League game, the  Sun reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini  will get the go ahead to make
a club-record bid of 45 million pounds for Atletico Madrid’s
Radamel Falcao if City can get back the 24 million pounds it
paid for Balotelli in August 2010, the newspaper added.  Balotelli doesn’t want to leave City and has no intention
of going back to Italy, the  Guardian cited  his agent, Mino
Raiola, as saying.  Debuchy Bid  Newcastle United  is set to renew its interest in Lille’s
Mathieu Debuchy in January after failing in its off-season
pursuit of the France national team defender, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Newcastle managing director Derek Llambias is likely to
return with a bid of 7 million pounds for the full-back, who
remains keen on a switch to the Magpies, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  