-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Touches 2-Month Low Before Fiscal-Cliff Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-13T22:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/treasuries-snap-three-day-advance-before-u-s-inflation-data.html
Treasury 10-year note yields reached
a two-month low before President  Barack Obama  meets Democratic
and Republican leaders in Congress this week for negotiations to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The difference between the yield on the two-year note and
the 10-year security narrowed to the least in two months,
signaling market anticipation of slower economic growth.
European officials and the  International Monetary Fund  clashed
about the time  Greece  will be given to reduce its debt levels,
boosting haven demand. The  Federal Reserve  bought $4.85 billion
of Treasuries due from 2018 to 2020 today as part of its program
to reduce longer-term borrowing costs.  “The fiscal cliff is going to be the overriding factor
from now until January,” said Jeffry Feigenwinter, head of
Treasury trading in  New York  at  Societe Generale  SA, one of 21
primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the Fed. “We’ll keep
a bid in Treasuries till year-end. We’ll remain in the same
range we’ve been in, 1.87 to 1.58 percent.”  The 10-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.59 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after dropping to 1.57 percent,
the lowest level since Sept. 5. The 1.625 percent note due in
November 2022 rose 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to
100 9/32.  The U.S. bond market was shut yesterday for Veterans’ Day.  Trading Pace  Treasury trading volume dropped to $192 billion as of 5:01
p.m. in New York, marking the lowest level in November,
according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S.
government debt . It touched a 2012 high of $464 billion on Sept.
13, the highest in 13 months.  A so-called triangular consolidation trading pattern on 10-
year Treasury note futures suggests a bullish breakout for the
contract that would equal the high reached in July, according to
Bank of America Corp.  “While bearish momentum divergences should be a concern
for longer term bulls, the increasingly triangular consolidation
points to a bullish break,”  MacNeil Curry , chief rates and
currencies technical strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in New York, wrote today in a client note.  The December 10-year futures contract touched a high of 134
18/32 on July 25. It climbed today to 134 5/32. The note is
“carving out a four-day symmetrical triangle, which points to a
push” to the higher level, Curry wrote.  Yield Difference  The so-called yield curve measuring the gap between yields
on two- and 10-year debt narrowed to 1.32 percentage points. It
steepened to a 2012 high of 2 percentage points in March.  Historically, a flatter yield curve reflects rising demand
from investors anticipating slower economic growth and
inflation.  Ten-year yields have fallen about 16 basis points since the
Nov. 6 re-election of Obama, who supports the Fed’s plan to spur
the economy through bond purchases. Obama is due to meet with
Republican and Democrat leaders from the House and Senate on
Nov. 16.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that
it was “deeply implausible” that Republicans in Congress would
force the U.S. over the fiscal cliff. Geithner was speaking at
an event in  Washington .  Budget Debate  The fiscal cliff stems from a standoff between the
President and Congress about how to curb soaring  U.S. debt 
through a mix of tax-code changes and reduction in federal
spending. Without legislation, a combined $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts will take effect starting in
January.  “People are concerned it will lead to slower economic
growth and a potential downgrade for U.S. debt,” said Dan Mulholland, head of U.S. Treasury trading in the capital-markets
unit of BNY Mellon Corp. in New York.  The U.S. government’s  budget deficit  widened in October,
the first month of the new fiscal year, the Treasury Department
said today in Washington.  The deficit expanded 22 percent to $120 billion from a
$98.5 billion  shortfall  in October 2011, The gap exceeded the
$113 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  took issue with a
decision by euro-area chiefs to postpone the goal of getting
Greece’s debt down to a “sustainable” level of 120 percent of
gross domestic product by two years, until 2022.  Greek Debt  “Debt sustainability of Greece has to be measured in
2020,” Lagarde said yesterday. “We clearly have different
views. What matters at the end of the day is the sustainability
of the Greek debt.”  Treasuries pared gains after  Germany ’s Bild newspaper
reported that the nation favored disbursing 44 billion euros
($55.9 billion) of additional aid to Greece in one payment.  “We’re held captive to any headlines out of  Europe  and any
equity movements,” Societe Generale’s Feigenwinter said. “It’s
the whole region that’s the concern.”  Economists said a U.S. report this week will show
consumer-price inflation stayed higher than Treasury yields.  U.S. consumer prices excluding food and energy gained 2
percent in October from a year ago, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
data is released Nov. 15. A similar gauge for producer prices
climbed 2.4 percent, a separate Bloomberg survey showed before
the report tomorrow.  Real Yields  The so-called real yield on U.S. 10-year notes, or the
difference between their yield and the current rate of
inflation, was minus 40 basis points, the most negative since
May.  U.S. government securities traded close to the most
expensive levels in almost six weeks. The 10-year  term premium ,
a model created by economists at the Fed that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was
negative 0.93 percent, the near the most costly since Oct. 3. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value. The average this year
is negative 0.76 percent.  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer and founder of
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., addressed the low-yielding environment in a Twitter post
today.  “Making money w/money is increasingly difficult w/near
zero yields,” Gross wrote, adding that investors should “go
light on banks, insurance, real estate investment trusts and
other finance companies.”  The Fed has kept the federal funds target rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  