-- Roche Propels Cancer Drug Sales in China With Insurance
-- B y   D a r y l   L o o   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-11-13T23:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/roche-propels-cancer-drug-sales-in-china-with-insurance.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  has found a way to
sell cancer drugs to millions in China who couldn’t otherwise
afford them: first sell them insurance.  The world’s biggest maker of tumor medicines is getting
together with reinsurer Swiss Re to sell a Swiss-engineered
private insurance that’s on track to garner 10 million clients
this year, says Harald Sprenger, Roche’s director of private
insurance and market-access strategy in China. Both partners
expect a 20 percent enrollment jump next year.  The collaboration between Roche and Swiss Re, the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, is carving out a new business in China
for private insurance aimed at cancer, a disease blamed in more
than a quarter of the country’s deaths. Advanced tumor medicines
can cost about 10 times an average Chinese person’s income.  “We’re creating a market” in China, Roche Chief Executive
Officer Severin Schwan said in an interview on Oct. 23. “The
biggest hurdle in emerging countries is access.”  Roche of  Basel ,  Switzerland , provides health data needed to
set up the policies.  Swiss Re (SREN) , based in Zurich, does the
statistical heavy lifting and then re-insures local insurers who
sell the policies. So far about 6 million people have enrolled,
Sprenger said in an interview on Oct. 25. The goal is to have 12
million by the end of next year.  “The old theory was that there are only two segments:
there’s the rich, who can afford it, and there’s the poor who
cannot afford it at all,” Schwan said in the interview in
Paris. “Now what you have is an emerging middle class. This
emerging middle class is able to make a contribution.”  Cost of Drugs  The cost of the insurance can range from about $50 a year
for a basic product to several thousand dollars for the most
complete coverage, according to Swiss Re.  The average annual wage of urban workers in  China , the
world’s third-biggest market for drugs, has almost quadrupled in
the past decade to reach 41,799 yuan ($6,681) in 2011, according
to government statistics. A one-year course of Roche’s cancer
medicine Herceptin costs between $27,000 and $59,000, while
Avastin can cost as much as $106,000 in the U.S. Roche won’t
disclose prices for China, though it says they’re similar to
those in the U.S.  Roche and Swiss Re first dreamed up the program in 2010.
International companies aren’t allowed to sell retail insurance
in China, Schwan said, though they can provide re-insurance. So
Roche’s Swiss partner had to approach local first-line insurers
in China to get the program started.  Pay When Sick  Now the partners work with five local insurers and are in
talks with  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the nation’s biggest
insurer, which should join the program at the start of next
year, according to Swiss Re. The insurance is a supplement for
public coverage, which pays for about 70 percent of hospital
expenses and doesn’t cover costly outpatient drugs like
Herceptin for  breast cancer .  State funding for China’s health insurance programs has
sextupled to 240 yuan per person in the past five years,
government data shows. While that’s enough to cover basic
treatment, about 13 percent of Chinese households last year had
to foot so-called catastrophic health expenses accounting for
more than 40 percent of their income, according to a  study 
published in The Lancet in March.  China aims to raise subsidies for in-hospital expenses to
as much as 75 percent by 2015 and is considering whether to
include  lung cancer  under a new insurance program for the
seriously ill, the Xinhua news agency reported on Nov. 5, citing
health minister Chen Zhu.  ‘Wait for Death’  The Roche-Swiss Re program is a new concept for China.
While other drugmakers have set up access plans for expensive
medicines, those programs are a form of charity and some rely on
the patient to pay the full drug price for a period of time,
such as six months, before donating it, said Tony Mok, an
oncology professor at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong .  Cancer is a growing problem in China. More than a quarter
of the country’s deaths are due to malignancies, and the rate is
expected to rise for the next 10 to 25 years, said Qiao Youlin,
director of the Department of Cancer Epidemiology at the Cancer
Institute in Beijing.  An investigation in Yangcheng county, in the coal-mining
province of Shanxi, found that before China introduced public
health insurance in 2003 only a third of people could afford
full cancer treatment, according to Qiao. Another third of
people in the survey sought treatment with traditional Chinese
medicine.  “The remaining one-third totally gave up,” Qiao said.
“They could not get standard treatment, so they just go back
home, suffer the endless pain and wait for death.”  Hoping for Charity  And for patients who do manage to pay, the cost can be
crippling.  Tu Biqing, a restaurant worker from Sichuan province, said
he spent more than 10,000  yuan  ($1,601) in the first month after
being diagnosed with esophageal cancer in late September. Ten
times his monthly wage, the cost came out of his own savings, he
said in a telephone interview from his hospital bed in Mianyang
city in Sichuan.  Tu, 60, said he now fears he’ll need to ask for charity
from family and friends as he becomes sicker.  “I can’t really swallow my medicine now because of my
throat, but I am on transfusion,” said Tu, his voice frail and
barely audible over the telephone. “It is going to be difficult
to pay for it.”  While Roche and Swiss Re are expanding the program rapidly,
it may be a long while before Tu and other lower-income workers
can expect to benefit. Next year’s estimated 12 million clients
represent less than 1 percent of China’s total population.  Flag in China  Roche itself has bought a group policy for all its
employees in China, along with their families, for $50 per
person per year.  The two companies may introduce the concept elsewhere in
 Asia , according to Robert Wiest, head of the reinsurer’s China
unit. Thailand and  Indonesia  are possible markets, Wiest said in
a telephone interview.  Though the program now makes up less than 5 percent of
Swiss Re’s volume in China, it’s an important positioning tool
for the future, he said. The company expects China to overtake
the U.K. as the second-biggest reinsurance market within 10
years. “It holds up a flag in what is for us a very important
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  