-- Tronox Drops After Reporting Weak Demand for Pigments
-- B y   L y d i a   M u l v a n y   a n d   A r i e   S h a p i r a
-- 2012-11-13T21:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/tronox-drops-after-reporting-weak-demand-for-pigments.html
Tronox Ltd. (TROX) , a producer of titanium
dioxide used in plastics and paper, fell the most in more than a
year after “weak” demand and lower volumes for its pigments
resulted in lower-than-estimated third-quarter revenue.  Tronox  dropped  19 percent to $15.18 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since Sept. 26, 2011. The shares have
tumbled 37 percent this year.  The company reported a net loss of $16.7 million, or 14
cents a share, compared with net income of $98.9 million, or
$1.25, a year earlier,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Tronox said
today in a statement. Sales rose 4.7 percent to $487.3 million,
missing the $610.8 million estimate by Los Angeles-based
Imperial Capital LLC.  Tronox posted weaker results than competitors because it’s
integrating a mineral-sands operation that it acquired in June
from  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , said Edward Mally, a New York-based
analyst at Imperial Capital.  “Tronox was suffering from higher-than-average feedstock
costs because of legacy inventories, and it had some undermarket
contracts for the sale of feedstocks, so they got squeezed from
two sides on that,” Mally said in a telephone interview.
“That’s something that will reverse and unwind over the next
six months.”  Sales of pigments, which made up  92 percent  of the
company’s revenue last year, fell 30 percent to $279.8 million
from a year earlier because of lower volumes, particularly in
 Asia , Tronox said. The company said it slowed production at its
pigment plants because of weak demand.  “While demand for our pigment products has been weak, we
believe the fundamental conditions underlying the demand for
these products have begun to recover and we believe sales will
begin to increase next year,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Casey said in the statement.  The company processes ore into titanium dioxide, a white
pigment used to add opacity to paper, plastics and paints.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lydia Mulvany in  New York  at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net ;
Arie Shapira in New York at 
 ashapira3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  