-- Russia Stocks Drops to 3-Month Low as Oil, Power Shares Retreat
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-11-13T15:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/russia-stocks-head-for-three-month-low-as-oil-producers-retreat.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  oil and gas companies drove
the benchmark  stock index  to a three-month low as crude oil
retreated for a second day and investors sold riskier assets
after European officials delayed a decision on Greek aid.  The Micex Index dropped 2.4 percent to 1,373.83 by the
close in Moscow, the lowest level since July 25. Utilities,
consumer services and oil and gas stocks tumbled the most,
losing at least 2.7 percent on average. OAO Surgutneftegas
dropped 3.3 percent, while OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s biggest company
and natural gas producer, slumped 3.6 percent. Power stocks OAO
MRSK Holding and Federal Grid Co. dived 5.2 percent and 4
percent, respectively.  Oil, Russia’s main export earner, sank 0.6 percent to
$85.06 a barrel, declining for a second day. Russia receives
about half of its government revenue from oil and natural gas.
Euro-area finance ministers put off until Nov. 20 a decision on
how to cover  Greece ’s need for additional financing of as much
as 32.6 billion euros ($41 billion).  “Weakening oil is a negative factor for the Russian
market,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , head of research at Deutsche Bank
AG in Moscow, said by phone. “The Greek problems remain. The
delay in talks is fueling growth concern among Russian
investors.”  The volume of shares traded on the Micex was 24 percent
above the 10-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Slow Growth  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities slid 0.4
percent to 631.99.  Russia’s economy expanded in the third quarter at the
slowest pace since its recovery began at the start of 2010 as
droughts ravaged crops, slowing growth in  China  and the slump in
 Europe  curbed demand for shipments of oil, natural gas and
metals.  Euro-area finance ministers’ meeting in Brussels late
yesterday gave Greece until 2016 to trim its  budget deficit  to 2
percent of gross domestic product, pledging to plug the
resulting financing gap to prevent the country from exiting the
single currency.  OAO Novolipetsk Steel dropped 1.7 percent to 59.13 rubles,
the lowest since Oct. 31. Societe Generale SA cut the stock to
sell from hold, citing a “worsened” financial outlook for 2013
steel prices, according to an e-mailed report.  Euroclear, Stocks  Russian equities will be accessible to Euroclear Bank SA
clients starting from early 2014, Moscow Exchange Chief
Executive Officer Alexander Afanasiev said at a conference in
 London  today.  Russia made the National Settlement Depository a central
depositary on Nov. 6, clearing one of the last barriers for
foreign investors to buy and sell ruble-denominated debt through
Euroclear, the world’s biggest bond settlement system.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  after
falling 1.8 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
6.9 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  