-- San Miguel in Talks With Cayman Airways for Possible Investment
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-11-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/san-miguel-in-talks-with-cayman-airways-for-possible-investment.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the Philippines’
biggest company, and affiliate Philippine Airlines Inc. are in
talks with  Cayman Airways  for a possible investment.  Discussions with the Cayman Islands government and the
state-owned carrier cover “a number of investment
opportunities,” Ramon Ang, president of both San Miguel and
Philippine Air, said today in a mobile-phone message. He didn’t
elaborate.  Philippine Air is in talks to invest in a foreign carrier,
Ang said in June, as he applies the same strategy of expanding
through  acquisitions  to build up San Miguel. The brewer of the
century-old San Miguel beer brand has expanded from food and
drinks to industries including oil, power and infrastructure to
meet a target of doubling sales.  “San Miguel’s investment in Cayman Airways may turn out to
be a really wise investment, but it needs to communicate the
strategy better,” said  Jomar Lacson , an analyst at Campos
Lanuza & Co. in  Manila .  San Miguel  rose  0.2 percent to 109.20 pesos in Manila
trading yesterday. The stock has lost 6.5 percent this year,
 compared  with a 25 percent gain for the benchmark Philippine
Stock Exchange Index.  The discussions with Cayman Airways were reported by the
Cayman Free Press earlier today. The airline operates six planes
serving Caribbean and U.S. destinations, according to its
 website .  Fleet Expansion  Talks between Cayman Airways and San Miguel are “very
preliminary” and include “reviewing the ability to code share,
to provide aircraft operations and other strategic areas,”
Cayman Islands Premier McKeeva Bush told lawmakers on Nov. 9,
according to a transcript provided by his office yesterday when
asked for comment.  San Miguel may also buy non-voting shares in the airline,
though the approval process is “lengthy,” Bush said.  Ang has said San Miguel’s acquisition of stakes in PAL and
affiliate Air  Philippines  Corp. would help boost sales this year
to almost $20 billion and to $30 billion by 2017.  PAL agreed to purchase 64 aircraft from Airbus SAS this
year and is in talks with Airbus and Boeing for 35 more wide-
body aircraft to complete a 100-plane fleet expansion and
upgrade, Ang said Oct. 20. PAL’s long-haul expansion plans
depend on the country improving safety standards, Ang said
earlier this year.  European Blacklist  The Asian nation is blacklisted by the European Union and
has a Category 2 rating from the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration, meaning it doesn’t meet international
regulations. The Philippines aims to address the safety issues
by February, Transport Secretary Joseph Abaya told reporters
today.  San Miguel has bid to make a $5 billion acquisition and
separately was in talks with regional carriers, Ang said last
month.  San Miguel owns the Philippines’ largest oil company,
 Petron Corp. (PCOR) , and is the country’s biggest electricity producer.
It bought most of Esso Malaysia Bhd in March, a month before it
announced the investment in PAL. San Miguel and billionaire
Lucio Tan, its partner in PAL, may invest $6 billion to build a
new airport in Manila, Ang said on Sept. 28.  The company has announced 35 deals worth more than $7
billion in the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  