-- Schaeuble Warns Against Calling France ‘Sick Man’ of Europe
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-13T12:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/schaeuble-warns-against-calling-france-sick-man-of-europe.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble warned against calling  France  the “sick man” of
Europe, saying the governments of continent’s two largest
economies shouldn’t criticize each other.  “I would warn against this constant calling one or the
other the sick man or the sick woman,” Schaeuble told
journalists in response to questions in Brussels. “We have
trust in the policies of the French government.”  Allies of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  have expressed
concern that President  Francois Hollande ’s isn’t moving quickly
enough to bolster French competitiveness. Schaeuble spoke at a
joint press conference with his French counterpart,  Pierre
Moscovici , the day after  Liberation  newspaper ran a front-page
article highlighting German anxiety about the policies of
France’s Socialist government.  France is  Germany ’s closest partner in Europe and it
“would be good if the Socialists there would courageously
initiate real structural reforms now,”  Volker Kauder , head of
the parliamentary group of Merkel’s Christian Union bloc said,
according to a  Spiegel  magazine report. Germany would like
Hollande to “move a little more” toward Merkel, Spiegel quoted
Kauder as saying.  Since coming to power six months ago, Hollande has lowered
the  retirement age  for some workers, imposed a tax of 75 percent
on earnings over 1 million euros ($1.27 million) and lifted the
minimum wage. He has also consistently pressed Merkel to ease
her push for austerity to fight  Europe ’s three-year old debt
crisis.  More recently Hollande has set out a plan to give a tax
credit to companies to ease labor costs and raise France’s two
highest sales tax rates starting in January 2014. He’s told
unions and business leaders to come up with a plan to make labor
rules more flexible by the end of this year.  ‘Huge Subject’  “The  government is attacking its problems and acting on
competitiveness,” Moscovici said. “On the labor market, we’re
not immobile. It’s a huge subject and President Hollande has
insisted on tackling it.”  So far, bond investors haven’t shared German concern. The
yield on France’s benchmark 10-year debt dropped about 0.05
basis points today to 2.055 percent. That’s close to the record
low of 2.054 percent reached Aug. 2.  The spread between French and German government 10-year
debt is about 72 basis points, down from more than 200 basis
points a year ago and 143 basis points when Hollande took office
in mid May.  Even so, the French economy has failed to grow for three
quarters and national statistics office Insee estimates that
growth won’t return in the final two quarters of 2012. France is
on track to roughly match last year’s record trade deficit,
according to the  Finance Ministry , and  unemployment  has jumped
to a 13-year high as companies such as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  SA
and  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  slash thousands of jobs.  German Recovery  Schaeuble pointed to Germany’s own recovery from high
unemployment and waning competitiveness a decade ago as reason
for hope that France can turn around its situation.  “A few years ago Germany was seen as the sick man of
Europe and that was wrong,” Schaeuble said. “It’s not as if we
do everything right in Germany, just as it’s not as if -- and I
mean this well -- that everything is done right in France.”  Moscovici said he was astonished about questions of discord
between France and Germany.  “It’s extraordinary that we’re speaking about divergences
at a time when we’re holding a press conference together,”
Moscovici said. “I’m grateful to  Wolfgang Schaeuble ” for
expressing his confidence “so forcefully.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Brussels at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  