-- Schaeuble Urges Transaction-Tax Action as Nations Seek Details
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-13T17:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/schaeuble-urges-transaction-tax-action-as-nations-seek-details.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urged the European Union to allow a financial-
transaction tax for willing nations, a plan that other countries
threatened to block unless they can review details first.  “We should move ahead,” Schaeuble said during public
debate at a finance ministers’ meeting in Brussels today.  All 27 nations and the European Parliament must agree for
the Brussels-based commission to design a tax for willing
nations under so-called “enhanced cooperation” procedures.
Skeptical nations that won’t take part, such as the U.K. and
Poland, say they won’t allow the smaller group of countries to
proceed unless they know what to expect.  “There must be a pragmatic way of letting us see the
directive to make sure there are no spillover effects,” Polish
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  EU lawyers said it would be difficult to reassure non-
participating nations because the plan can’t be formally
presented until it’s allowed to go ahead. At the same time, EU
Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta renewed his reassurances that
opt-out nations won’t be harmed.  “All in all, we are working very hard on the substance and
also on supplementary analysis,” Semeta said today. “We could
find ways to inform non-participating  member states  about
substantive elements of the forthcoming proposal.”  Eleven nations so far have said that they would like to be
part of the transaction-tax planning: France, Germany,  Austria ,
 Belgium ,  Portugal , Slovenia, Greece, Italy, Spain, Slovakia and
 Estonia . The Netherlands also has expressed interest, with Dutch
officials saying they will insist on getting an exemption for
their pension funds.  Enhanced Cooperation  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said his
country’s new government is “seriously considering joining the
enhanced cooperation” if its conditions are met. The
Netherlands wants the impact of the tax to be in proportion to
the effect of other levies, and it will insist that proceeds
from the tax be used nationally instead of passed on to the EU,
he said.  The EU’s new transaction-tax proposal will be based on a
previous plan that, when considered for all 27 EU nations, was
estimated to be able to raise 57 billion euros ($72 billion)
each year.  Semeta said yesterday that the EU would revise its revenue
estimates and also take into account concerns raised with the
previous initiative. He said EU lawmakers could consider the
transaction tax as early as a December plenary debate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  