-- Scrapping ECB Plan, Popular Discount, CME: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/scrapping-ecb-plan-popular-discount-cme-compliance.html
The European Union may scrap plans
to give the European Central Bank sole power to grant and
withdraw banking licenses in the euro area as nations tussle
over the details of setting up a single supervisor.  Some EU countries insist “that the key issue of access to
and removal from the market should remain within the remit of
national authorities,” according to  a document  on the bloc’s
website, which doesn’t name the countries. Some governments have
also pushed for the power to grant and withdraw licenses to stay
at the national level unless and until the EU sets up a central
system to handle failing banks, according to the document.  This debate means the proposal will be revised, the
document says. EU finance ministers also may adjust the
timetable for the ECB to take on bank oversight tasks because of
concerns that plans to fully phase in the responsibilities by
Jan. 1, 2014, may not be feasible, according the document.  Squabbling among EU nations may derail the bloc’s bid to
reach agreement by the end of the year on how to make the ECB a
supervisor. Nations are split over how to give a voice to non-
euro nations that volunteer for ECB supervision, according to
the document, which was prepared for a meeting of EU finance
ministers today in Brussels. They also disagree on how to divide
up tasks between the ECB and national regulators.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU’s Semeta Urges ‘Quick Progress’ on Financial Transaction Tax  European Union Tax  Commissioner Algirdas Semeta called on
finance ministers to make “quick progress” toward a financial-
transaction tax for participating nations.  All 27 nations and the European Parliament must agree for
the Brussels-based commission to design a tax for willing
nations under so-called “enhanced cooperation” procedures. The
commission requested clearance last month.  Semeta told lawmakers yesterday he will urge finance
ministers gathering in Brussels to push the measure forward when
he addresses them today. The commissioner is expected to speak
at a meeting of the European Parliament budget committee.  The EU’s new transaction-tax proposal will be based on a
previous plan that, when considered for all 27 EU nations, was
estimated to be able to raise 57 billion euros ($72 billion)
each year. Semeta said the EU would revise its revenue estimates
and also take into account concerns raised with the previous
initiative.  Eleven nations so far have said that they would like to be
part of the transaction-tax planning. Semeta said EU lawmakers
could consider the transaction tax as early as a December
plenary debate. He also called on EU finance ministers to move
ahead with a proposed savings tax that has been stalled.  Compliance Action  Popular Selling Stock at Discount to Cover Capital Deficit  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  plans to sell as much as 2.5
billion euros ($3.2 billion) of discounted shares as the Spanish
lender bids to close a capital shortfall.  Popular said on Oct. 1 it would  sell shares  and suspend its
dividend as the lender seeks to avoid tapping state aid to cover
a 3.22 billion-euro capital deficit revealed in  stress tests 
that accompanied a European bailout for Spain’s banking system.  Shares of Popular, the only publicly traded bank with a
capital shortfall that hasn’t been nationalized, have declined
66 percent this year.  The 15 underwriting banks include Deutsche Bank AG,  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. unit and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which will act as global
coordinators, Chairman Angel Ron said. They have guaranteed 2.08
billion euros of the sale, with the remainder covered by pledges
to buy stock from existing shareholders, he said.  Deutsche Bank underwrote 400 million euros and Santander
300 million euros, with the other global coordinators taking 230
million euros each, Chief Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-
Robatto said in an interview after the shareholder meeting.
Commissions were about 2 percent plus a 1 percent success fee,
he said.  While Ron faced questions from 16 shareholders, some of
whom criticized management for making failed bets on real
estate, shareholders at the Nov. 10 meeting approved the capital
increase.  For more, click here.  BPI to Consider Share Sale to Boost Capital Ahead of Basel III  The  Bank of the Philippine Islands  will review its capital
in the first quarter as it considers ways to boost capital ahead
of the Basel III accord, President Aurelio Montinola told
reporters in Manila yesterday.  The lender, known as BPI, is monitoring exposure to real
estate and conducting a quarterly review, Montinola said.  Remittances are to keep rising, he said.  Courts  CME Lawsuit Over CFTC’s Swap-Database Rule Faulted by DTCC  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s lawsuit over U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission swap-data rules will undermine efforts to
boost transparency following the 2008 credit crisis, the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. said.  The suit, filed in federal court on Nov. 8, “threatens to
dismantle and disrupt the entire regulatory regime statutorily
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act in order to preserve CME’s
exclusive access to data that it acquires through its role as a
derivatives clearing organization,” DTCC general counsel Larry
E. Thompson said in a letter to the CFTC Nov. 11.  CME, the Chicago-based exchange operator that runs a swaps
clearinghouse, is seeking an injunction against CFTC rules for
reporting private trade information, claiming that submissions
to so-called swap-data repositories would be redundant. DTCC,
based in New York, is one of the firms given CFTC approval to
run data repositories for  interest rate  and credit-default
swaps, among other types of trades.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul,
directed the CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission to
write rules for swap-data repositories to give regulators a
better view on prices and volume in a $648 trillion market
dominated by banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Deutsche Bank AG.  The CFTC has granted provisional registration to DTCC Data
Repository LLC and ICE Trade Vault LLC, a repository operated by
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc. for information on
energy, interest rate, credit and other swaps.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mail requests for comment while U.S. government
offices are closed for observance of Veterans Day.  CME said in the lawsuit that it is awaiting a response from
CFTC on its June 7 application to become a data repository.  The case is Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. v. U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 12-cv-01820, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Events  Bank Returns May Drop on Basel III Capital Needs, Maree Says  Bank returns are expected to decline given the high levels
of capital lenders will have to hold to meet Basel rules,
 Standard Bank Group (SBK)  CEO Jacko Maree said at conference in Cape
Town.  Liquidity is going to be “huge issue” for banks in  Africa 
after Basel III, Maree said. The rules on capital designed for
first-world markets are “quite punitive” for markets with less
depth, he added.  World Islamic Banking Conference to Convene in Bahrain, BNA Says  The World Islamic Banking Conference will hold its 19th
annual meeting Dec. 9 to 11 in Bahrain, Bahrain News reported
yesterday.  The conference will be a forum for  Islamic finance  experts
to created “next generation” solutions to satisfy the
increasing demands of consumers and investors, the paper said.
The Islamic finance industry has experienced “mammoth growth”
over the past decade, reaching an estimated $1 trillion in
assets, BNA reported.  About 1,200 people are expected to attend from 50
countries, according to a statement on conference  website .  Comings and Goings  Barclays Saudi Probe Adds to CEO Jenkins’s Regulatory Woes  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , almost
two years after his predecessor said it was time for banks to
stop apologizing, is still grappling with a multiplying number
of  probes  by regulators.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  is investigating whether the
lender made payments that violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act to win a banking license for its wealth-management unit and
investment bank in Saudi Arabia, the Financial Times reported on
Nov. 9, citing unidentified people familiar with the talks. The
bank is already being probed by the  Serious Fraud Office  over
fees it paid in 2009 to Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund as the
lender sought money to avoid a government bailout.  For Jenkins, who replaced  Robert Diamond  after the lender
paid a record fine for manipulating Libor, the probes are likely
to be a bigger setback to his efforts to show politicians the
bank can put regulatory missteps behind it than the size of any
fines, according to analysts. He may have to include stiffer
internal controls to detect staff who break laws in pursuit of
 revenue  when he announces the results of his review of
Barclays’s operations in February, said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA.  U.S. regulators this month also proposed levying a record
$470 million in penalties on Barclays after it allegedly gamed
energy markets in the Western U.S. from late 2006 to 2008.  John McGuinness, a Barclays spokesman, and the Department
of Justice’s Rebekah Carmichael declined to comment on the Saudi
probe.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  