-- Sears Must Face Class Suit on Washer Mold Claims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-13T23:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/sears-must-face-class-action-over-washer-mold-claims-court-says.html
Sears (S)  Holdings Corp. must face a
group lawsuit by consumers in six U.S. states claiming the
company’s Kenmore-brand washers have a defect that causes mold,
an appeals court said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago  today reversed an
earlier ruling that barred consumers from pursuing their claims
as a class, or group, action. The plaintiffs contend the front-
loading machines, made by  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and sold by Sears
under the Kenmore brand, don’t clean themselves adequately,
leading to mold.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman found that the
consumers couldn’t pursue claims in a class action because
common issues didn’t predominate over individual questions of
fact, a requirement of such suits. The appeals court reversed,
saying the consumers’ claim of a defect leading to mold and bad
odors was a common issue.  “A class action is the more efficient procedure for
determining liability and damages in a case such as this
involving a defect that may have imposed costs on thousands of
consumers, yet not a cost to any one of them large enough to
justify the expense of an individual suit,”  U.S. Circuit Judge
 Richard Posner  said in eight-page decision.  The court upheld Coleman’s decision allowing consumers to
pursue a class action on claims that a defect in the machines’
control unit causes them to stop suddenly.  Six States  The lawsuit covers breach-of-warranty complaints by
consumers in six states -- California,  Indiana , Illinois,
Kentucky,  Minnesota  and Texas.  Sears will likely seek a rehearing by the appeals court,
Chris Brathwaite, a spokesman for the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-
based company said in an e-mail. The ruling “conflicts with
several established Supreme Court decisions,” Brathwaite said.  “Our service data, and service data reported in media
articles, show that an overwhelming majority of our customers
have never experienced any mold or odors in these machines, even
after many years of use,” he said. “In fact, four of the six
plaintiffs in this lawsuit have admitted they’ve had no such
problem.”  The appeals court “reaffirmed that when a manufacturer
sells a defective product to thousands of consumers, the doors
to the federal courts -- and justice -- are not closed just
because each consumer only suffered a few hundred or thousands
of dollars in damages,” Jonathan Selbin, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in a statement.  The case is Butler v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 11-8029,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  