-- Sex, Madness Inject New Blood in Old Greeks: S.F. Stage
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/sex-madness-inject-new-blood-in-old-greeks-s-f-stage.html
Intertwined tales from the ancient
Greeks -- Homer’s  “Iliad”  and Sophocles’  “Elektra”  -- are
being retold onstage in powerful San Francisco-area productions.  “Elektra,” at the American Conservatory Theater, is a
story of women and the bloody after-effects of war. The princess
of the title is grieving over the murder of her father,
Agamemnon, and plotting revenge against her mother,
Clytemnestra, who killed her husband when he returned home to
Argos after commanding the Greek army in the Trojan War.  The queen is now living with her lover, the pretender king
Aegisthus.  “I share a house with murderers,” Elektra laments.  A woman, not a warrior, Elektra must rely on her missing
brother, Orestes, to exact revenge, which comes quickly in this
90-minute staging. Directed by Carey Perloff, the play
efficiently lays out the complicated back-story and propels it
forward through the skillful women in the cast: Rene Augesen as
the resentful Elektra, Olympia Dukakis as the Chorus and, in a
spectacular performance, Caroline Lagerfelt as the wily and
imperious Clytemnestra.  The action takes place on a grungy set accented by a chain-
link fence topped by barbed wire guarding the entrance to the
institutional-modern palace. The cast is dressed in vaguely
contemporary costumes and accompanied by dissonant music from a
single cello. Yet the play effectively taps into the ancient
emotions of the story, thanks to the pared-down language of
Timberlake Wertenbaker’s translation.  These Greeks bear grudges that can never be erased.
“Forgiveness,” Elektra declares when her sister urges her to
submit to those in power, “is for cowards.”  ‘An Iliad’  Compared to “Elektra,” with its multiple characters and
elaborate set, Lisa Peterson’s staging of “An Iliad” at the
Berkeley Repertory Theatre is simplicity itself.  The grizzled Henry Woronicz plays the Poet, telling his
epic tale of men at war on a bare stage, using only a wooden
table and chair and a suitcase as props. (He’s accompanied by a
single string bass rather than a cello.)  Like Homer, he begins his story in the ninth year of the
siege of Troy and focuses on the rivalry between the
temperamental Greek hero Achilles and the Trojan champion
Hector. The Poet sets the scene in a casual, conversational way,
briefly reminding us of Helen and how she ran off with Paris to
Troy.  Mortal Vanity  “Actually, Paris isn’t that important,” he says. “He
stole Helen but he’s not that interesting to me.”  What do concern him are the vanities of mortal men and the
interventions of the gods. When Achilles is sulking in his tent,
because of a slight by Agamemnon (him again), Achilles lends his
armor to his closest friend, Patroclus, who is wounded in battle
by a Trojan and finished off by Hector.  Seeking revenge, Achilles returns to the battle, slays
Hector and tries to defile his body by dragging it behind his
chariot in front of the city walls. (Apollo and Aphrodite
magically preserve the body to spite the Greeks.)  Achilles, of course, is near his end as well, felled by a
spear to the famous heel. And the sack of the city will come
soon afterward, an event the Poet compares to Sarajevo or
Aleppo. In its prime, Troy was a place with “a great sense of
serenity,” and he makes you feel its destruction as a personal
loss.  It’s a moving performance by Woronicz. His recital of
blood-soaked wars, from the Punic War to the First Crusade to
World War II to Afghanistan and  Iraq , is as effective an antiwar
statement as any protest in the streets.  “Sophocles’ Elektra” runs through Nov. 18 at  American
Conservatory Theater , 415 Geary St.,  San Francisco . Information:
+1-415-749-2228;  http://www.act-sf.org . Rating: ****  “An Iliad” runs through Nov. 18 at  Berkeley Repertory
Theatre , 2025 Addison St. Information: +1-510-647-2949;
 http://www.berkeleyrep.org . Rating: ****  (Stephen West is an editor for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 