-- SingTel Cuts Annual Sales Forecast After Earnings Miss
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-11-14T02:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/singtel-earnings-miss-estimates-on-currency-affiliates.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ’s
shares fell the most in more than a month after Southeast Asia’s
biggest phone company forecast annual sales may drop for the
first time in 13 years on declining Australian revenue.  The  carrier declined  as much as 1.3 percent, the most since
Oct. 11, to S$3.15 and changed hands at S$3.16 as of 9:41 a.m.
in Singapore trading. The shares have gained 2.3 percent this
year, compared with a 13 percent advance for the  Straits Times
Index. (FSSTI)   Revenue will fall by a “low single-digit level” in the 12
months ending March, compared with a previous forecast for an
increase, the Singapore-based company known as SingTel said in a
statement today. The company also reported second-quarter  net
income  that missed analysts’ estimates as competition with
Telstra Corp. and a venture of Vodafone Plc and  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in Australia crimped growth at Optus, SingTel’s
biggest unit by sales.  “The cut in sales forecast was a little bit of a
surprise,” said Carey Wong, an analyst at OCBC Investment
Research said in Singapore. “It will probably be flat growth
for the rest of the year. I don’t think we’re going to see a
sharp slowdown as telco business is basically very stable.”  A recovery in revenue in Singapore may start when more
consumers adopt the so-called Long Term Evolution technology,
which permits faster browsing of the Internet, he said.  Net income fell 1.6 percent to S$868 million ($710 million)
in the July-September quarter, missing the S$953 million average
of three  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian Impact  SingTel’s annual revenue last had a year-on-year  decline  in
the 12 months ended March 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s annual sales have  beaten analyst 
estimates in each of the past five years.  “The group revenue is really sort of diluted by the impact
of what’s happening in  Australia ,” Chief Financial Officer
Jeann Low told reporters at a press conference. “The Singapore
revenue-growth continues to be strong.”  The Singapore dollar’s appreciation against the Indonesian
rupiah and the Thai Baht cut the value of earnings from
affiliates.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the Indian phone operator part
owned by SingTel, last week reported a 30 percent drop in profit
in the quarter on higher costs in the world’s second-largest
phone market.  “A downside for Singtel is some of its associates -- some
of their results have been disappointing, like Bharti’s,”
Kelvin Goh, an analyst at CIMB Securities Sdn in Kuala Lumpur,
said before the announcement.  ‘Stable’ Earnings  The company affirmed its forecast for “stable” full-year
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  Second-quarter Ebitda at Optus, Australia’s second-largest
phone company, was “stable” at A$560 million ($585 million)
while revenue dropped 4 percent amid competition from larger
 Telstra Corp. (TLS)   Ebitda from Singapore, where the former government agency
has about 47 percent of the mobile-phone market, rose 2 percent
to S$541 million. The division accounted for about half of the
company’s full-year operating income last year.  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in six other mobile
operators with 468 million customers in more than 20 countries
in Asia and  Africa .  The earnings contribution from regional associates rose 17
percent to S$549 million in the quarter on rising sales in
Indonesia and  Thailand , the company said. In constant currency
terms, profit rose 26 percent, it said.  Bharti,  India ’s largest mobile-phone operator, on Nov. 7
reported a drop in profit as rising network costs and call-rate
reductions in the world’s second-largest mobile-phone wireless
market squeezed margins.  SingTel also announced paying an interim dividend of 6.8
 Singapore  cents a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  