-- Singapore’s Casinos Lose Luster as Gaming Revenue Decline
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-14T11:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/singapore-casinos-lose-luster-as-profits-slide-southeast-asia.html
Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  and  Las Vegas 
Sands Corp. reported the lowest gaming revenue in at least 18
months at their Singapore casinos, signaling slower economic
growth and tighter rules are restricting spending by gamblers.  “We have been waiting for the novelty factor of
Singapore’s casinos to finally wear off, and that time may have
finally come,” said  Jonathan Galaviz , managing director of
Galaviz & Co., a Las Vegas-based tourism industry analyst.
“Gaming revenues are sometimes a leading indicator of overall
macroeconomic activity in a region. This may be a sign of things
to come economically for  Southeast Asia .”  The decline in revenue from gaming coincides with a
slowdown in the island-state’s economy, which the government
forecasts will expand as little as 1.5 percent this year, from
4.9 percent last year. Efforts to lure gamblers with discounts
and giveaways including free concert tickets have been stifled
by the industry’s regulator, which charges local residents S$100
($82) each time they enter one of the casinos.  Genting Singapore’s gaming revenue dropped 20 percent to
S$528.4 million in the third quarter and profit slid 47 percent,
the company said Nov. 12. Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las
Vegas Sands (LVS)  said Nov. 1 gaming revenue in Singapore slumped 28
percent to $470.8 million. Its  Marina Bay Sands  resort was the
only one of its seven locations to post a decline in the period.  Genting Singapore shares slumped 2 percent to S$1.21 at the
close in Singapore, the lowest since July 23, 2010. The stock
slid 20 percent this year, the second-worst performer on
Singapore’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) , which gained 13 percent. Las
Vegas Sands rose 1.7 percent in 2012, while the S&P 500 Index’s
advanced 9.7 percent.  Free Tickets  “Singapore is strict on regulations, and recently they
have been stricter on the local mass market,” said Hoe Lee Leng,
a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , who maintained
her underperform rating on Genting Singapore after the earnings.
“As long as the economy is uncertain, that could affect your
general VIP volumes,” she said, referring to high-stake
gamblers.  Genting Singapore’s Resorts World was fined S$600,000 by
the regulator in September for illegally reimbursing entry fees
through promotions including free concert tickets and passes to
its Universal Studios theme park, according to the  Casino
Regulatory Authority of Singapore .  A month earlier, Marina Bay Sands was fined S$357,500 for
offenses including waiving the levy for local gamblers, and
Resorts World paid S$140,000 for “breaching social safeguard
requirements,” according to the regulator.  ‘Customer Loyalty’  Genting Singapore, which opened its casino resort in the
city-state at the start of 2010, said in response to queries
that it’s focusing on building its gaming customer database
during the first two years of operations.  “On a backdrop of a softer  Singapore  gaming market and
increased regional capacity, growing our gaming revenue remained
challenging,” Tan Hee Teck, president of Genting Singapore and
chief executive officer of Resorts World, said in an e-mailed
statement on Nov. 12. “As we enter year three of our operations,
our initiatives will focus on customer loyalty and increasing
our foreign visitation.”  Singapore’s economy “slowed discernibly” in the past two
quarters and will grow at below-potential levels for a second
year in 2013, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said Oct. 30.  For Las Vegas Sands, the drop in Singapore revenue led to a
larger-than-expected 18 percent slide in third-quarter profit.
The Las Vegas-based company is increasing its marketing efforts
in Singapore, which accounted for 30 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the quarter,
by adding sales representatives, new shows and aircraft for its
biggest-spending customers, it  said .  More Tables  Revenue at the company’s Venetian Macao casino in Macau
rose 14 percent to $671.1 million, exceeding the contribution of
Marina Bay Sands even though the Singapore site has 23 percent
more gaming tables, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  While gaming revenue fell, Marina Bay Sands recorded a 12
percent increase in hotel revenue in the three months ended
September, according to its statement. The resort filled 99.8
percent of the 2,560 rooms at the three-tower property connected
by a roof-top garden and pool, which charged an average daily
rate of $361. Both occupancy and room rates were the highest
among the company’s operations in locations that include Macau,
Las Vegas and Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Resorts World’s 1,800 rooms in six  hotels  were 93 percent
filled at an average rate of S$432. Its Universal Studios theme
park drew 9,100 visitors a day who spent S$86 each, it said in
the statement. Resorts World is opening new attractions,
including the  Marine Life Park  on Dec. 7.  Revenue from hotels and other operations may help the
companies weather a downturn in demand for gaming, Galaviz said.  “The size of this drop cannot be explained by anything
other than a fundamental downshifting of consumer appetite for
gaming, at least temporarily,” he said. “Even with this
significant downturn in casino revenues, the fact is that
Singapore’s casinos remain highly lucrative and profitable for
their owners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  