-- Small Business Optimism Index in U.S. Rises to a Five-Month High
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-13T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/small-business-optimism-index-in-u-s-rises-to-a-five-month-high.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses rose to a five-month high in October as more
companies projected a pickup in sales, a survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s  optimism
index  increased 0.3 point last month to 93.1 from 92.8 in
September. Four of the measure’s 10 components contributed to
the advance, the Washington-based group said.  The gauge in October was down from the end of 2011,
pointing to little progress among small-business owners. A
record 23 percent said they were “uncertain” about economic
conditions in the next six months as a lack of clarity
surrounding tax and regulatory policies hampers hiring plans.  “Uncertainty about the election has been a major
impediment to spending because the presidential candidates
offered very disparate policies for the economy,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
“If owners are unable to even predict the direction of the
economy let alone the pace of growth, uncertainty will seriously
impede spending and hiring.”  The index measuring respondents’ outlook for sales rose to
a net 3 percent, up 2 points from the previous month. The
proportion of small businesses planning to make capital
investments in the next three to six months advanced by 1 point
to 22 percent in October.  Four percent of small business owners said they planned to
create new jobs, the same as in September. A net 16 percent said
they had  job openings  that were hard to fill, down 1 point from
the prior month. The jobless rate in the U.S. has remained near
8 percent since early 2009.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  Business Conditions  The gauge of expectations for improved business conditions
six months from now held at 2 percent, while 7 percent,
unchanged from September, said it was a good time to expand.  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 2,029 small-
business owners through Oct. 30. Small companies represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S.
Small Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise with no more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  