-- SomCable, Bluwan to Expand Fast Wireless Service From Somalia
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-11-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/somcable-bluwan-to-expand-fast-wireless-service-from-somalia.html
SomCable , a broadband operator in
Somalia, has chosen wireless technology company  Bluwan SA  to
help introduce a high-speed wireless  Internet service  in the
sparsely populated and predominately rural Somaliland region.  “We can do this Fibre Through the Air project at one-10th
of the price of a fixed-line fiber connection,” Mike Cothill,
chief executive officer of SomCable, said in a phone interview.
“To run a cable to a home, you have to dig up people’s
properties and management of the network is pretty expensive.”  Globecomm Systems Inc. (GCOM) , a New York-based provider of
satellite services, will deliver and integrate the system,
according to an e-mailed statement from the companies. The goal
is 1 million subscribers by 2015. Paris-based Bluwan will
initially deploy hubs in Hargeisa, the capital, with a 5-
kilometer (3.1-mile) range offering links fast enough for video
and audio.  The network will expand to Burco, Borama and Berbera, and
then across the border to  Djibouti , which is connected to
underseas fibre-optic cables. It may then extend to Ethiopia,
 Rwanda ,  Uganda  and  South Sudan , the companies said.  Somaliland, a former British colony, declared independence
from Somalia in 1991, after the fall of dictator Mohammed Siad Barre. No country officially recognizes its independence.  Users will connect to the wireless service via an outdoor
antenna and the deal is worth at least $3 million for Bluwan,
according to today’s statement. Each Bluwan hub will offer
constant speeds of 2 megabits per second and peak speeds of 100
megabits per second to thousands of customers.  Standard access costs $5 a month and doesn’t allow
downloads of video such as YouTube, SomCable said in a separate
e-mail. A premium service at a minimum of $20 a month is “open
completely to the Internet.”  Remittances from overseas workers account for an estimated
80 percent of Somaliland’s $500 million annual gross domestic
product, while the sale of  livestock  mainly to buyers in the
 Middle East  is its biggest generator of export income.  Internet connection speeds have improved and costs have
fallen since 2009 in the region as at least four undersea cables
began operating off  Africa ’s Indian Ocean coast, replacing more
expensive satellite links.  Africa has fewer than five mobile-broadband subscriptions
per 100 inhabitants, compared with more than 10 percent in all
other regions of the world, according to the  International
Telecommunications Union , a Geneva-based industry group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  