-- South Korea Restricts Carbon Offsets, Sets Rules for Giveaways
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-11-13T05:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/south-korea-asks-for-carbon-cuts-at-home-before-allowing-offsets.html
South  Korea  asked its largest
emitters to make cutbacks at home before giving them credit for
overseas spending to reduce  greenhouse gases , and it will begin
charging for about 3 percent of pollution allowances in 2018.  The nation won’t allow so-called global  carbon offsets 
until after 2020, according to an e-mailed statement today from
the prime minister’s office and other government agencies. South
Korea agreed in May to start a cap-and-trade system in 2015 to
rein in the fastest-growing emissions in the developed world.  The trading system will “provide economic motivations to
emitters for cutting greenhouse gases and bolster their
developments of green technologies,” the prime minister’s
office said in the statement.  The government will give emitters all their allowances for
free from 2015 until 2017, rejecting requests for giveaways
through 2020, according to the statement. The nation announced
guidelines today for awarding as much as 97 percent of firms’
emission allowances for free between 2018 and 2020. They stand
to get 90 percent free after 2021 under rules designed to favor
emitters with overseas competition and the highest carbon costs.  “We hope the government will grant exceptions to export
contributors,” Kim Tae Yoon, head of the strategic industries
team at the Federation of Korean Industries, a business lobby
group with about 500 members, including Samsung Electronics Co.,
Posco, and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  “The exceptions should be given to
boost their global competitiveness.”  30% Reduction  South Korea, which pledged to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions by 30 percent from forecast levels in 2020, is
following a more restrictive policy with regard to offsets.
These global credits allow emitters subject to cap and trade to
pay for overseas abatement as a less-expensive alternative to
domestic reductions.  The European Union, which runs the world’s biggest
emissions market, has allowed emitters to turn in offers under
the United Nation’s programs since 2005.  Australia  is set to
allow polluters to use UN credits for as much as 12.5 percent of
their compliance starting in 2015, while  New Zealand  allows
unlimited use of offsets.  Offsets won’t be permitted in the first phase of  South
Korea ’s emissions trading, scheduled to run from 2015 to 2017,
the prime minister’s office said. They will also be banned in
the second phase, which covers 2018 to 2020, according to the
government’s final guidelines.  “Korea’s decision to not allow international credits into
its program will ensure a higher carbon price than would have
otherwise been the case,” said Milo Sjardin, the Singapore-
based head of Asia-Pacific analysis at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. “However, the fact that the government intends to
provide most allowances for free until 2020 indicates that the
actual compliance cost for industrials and power generators will
be mitigated.”  Cheaper Offsets  UN Certified Emission Reductions for December rose 9.4
percent yesterday on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange,
closing above 1 euro ($1.27) a ton for the first time since Nov.
6. The offsets are down 85 percent from a year ago and sell for
less than EU permits, which rose 9 percent yesterday to settle
at 9.08 euros.  South Korea’s cabinet passed the cap-and-trade enforcement
system today after finalizing details in hearings with
industrial and academic leaders over the past few months.  While the government didn’t clarify which sectors will get
free permits, it announced guidelines for awarding allowances
based on trade exposure and emission costs. Beneficiaries of
free allowances include emitters who export more than 30 percent
of a sum of annual revenues and import amounts.  The  Ministry of Environment , which will govern the trading
system, will create or designate a carbon-trading exchange
depending on negotiations with related organizations, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  