-- Spain Postpones Deal on Foreclosures as Talks Drag On
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-13T11:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/spain-postpones-deal-on-foreclosures-as-talks-drag-on.html
Spain’s government headed toward a
deal with the opposition to prevent evictions in cases of
mortgage default, as Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy battles
growing social unrest.  After six hours of talks late yesterday, government and
Socialist party officials agreed to reconvene at 4:30 p.m. today
to thrash out a decree the Cabinet plans to approve on Nov. 15,
said spokespeople for the government and opposition, who asked
not to be named in line with policy.  “I’m confident there will be an agreement today,” Alfonso Alonso, the ruling People’s Party’s parliamentary leader, told
reporters in  Madrid . “The issue can’t wait any more,” he said.
“The bones” of a deal are in place. he said.  Rajoy, who faces a general strike tomorrow, pledged
measures to stem evictions on Nov. 9 after a woman committed
suicide as officials tried to seize her home. Rajoy is trying to
respond to outrage over foreclosures amid a taxpayer-funded bank
bailout without inflicting further losses on a financial system
crippled by the collapse of a debt-fueled housing boom.  “No family in good faith should end up homeless as a
result of the crisis,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
the European Parliament in Brussels yesterday.  Amaia Egana became the second person in the past month to
commit suicide in Spain over an eviction when she threw herself
from her apartment in Baracaldo as officials arrived to change
the locks on Nov. 9. Egana, a 53-year-old former city councilor,
worked as a human-resources director for the public bus company
in the northern region of Vizcaya, El Mundo reported.  ‘Humanitarian’ Banks  Spain’s  banking association  pre-empted the bipartisan
committee yesterday, announcing a two-year freeze on
repossessions in cases of extreme need for “humanitarian
reasons.” It didn’t give details on what that meant. The
measures being discussed by the committee include grace periods,
PP No. 2 Maria Dolores de Cospedal said yesterday.  Officials from the PP, which has enjoyed a parliamentary
majority since a landslide election win last year, have
repeatedly said they want the Socialists’ support for any
measures. The opposition party, which has called for a broad
overhaul of mortgage laws, is still reeling from its worst
electoral defeat after former Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero abandoned traditional Socialist principles and used one
of his last Cabinet meetings to grant a pardon to  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  Chief Executive Alfredo Saenz.  Foreclosure Tally  Some 400,000 homes have been foreclosed in Spain since the
collapse of the decade-long property boom five years ago. The
number is set to increase without government action after
 unemployment  reached a record 26 percent in September. Banks
have more than 600 billion euros ($762 billion) of  mortgage 
loans outstanding. They have a default rate of 3.1 percent,
compared with 10.5 percent for lending as a whole, according to
data from the Bank of Spain, which predicts further increases in
bad loans.  “There will be pressure to try to limit the number of
mortgage evictions and iron out some of the inconsistencies in
the legislation,” Daragh Quinn, a banking analyst at Nomura
International Plc in Madrid, said in a phone interview. “It
could cause increased losses on mortgages for banks and reported
rates of NPLs if it affects their ability to recover assets.”
NPLs are non-performing loans.  Spanish banks, some of which are set to benefit from a
European rescue package of as much as 100 billion euros and the
creation of a so-called bad bank backed by taxpayers, have
become the focus of public outrage over foreclosures.  In a Metroscopia poll published on Nov. 11, 91 percent of
respondents said lenders exploit clients’ lack of legal
knowledge to insert abusive clauses into mortgage contracts,
while 31 percent said some banks have acted in good faith.  “If we bail out the banks, how can we not bail out
families?” Socialist Party No. 2 Elena Valenciano said in a
Nov. 7 interview on Telecinco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  