-- Spanish Core Inflation Surges as Rajoy Mulls Pension Hike
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-13T08:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/spanish-core-inflation-surges-as-rajoy-mulls-pension-hike.html
Spain’s  underlying inflation 
accelerated in October after tax increases, adding to pressure
on the government as it considers whether to risk the budget by
compensating pensioners for higher living costs.  Annual core  inflation , which excludes energy and fresh food
prices, rose to 2.5 percent from 2.1 percent a month earlier,
the National Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said today. That
compares with a 2 percent median forecast of six estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 1.3 percent from September.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has set himself a December
deadline to decide whether to raise pensions in line with
inflation and which gauge of prices he should use to do so. As
the government struggles to rein in the euro region’s second-
largest budget gap, the statistics institute has created a new
inflation measure that excludes tax increases.  Headline inflation was 3.5 percent, according to both
European Union and Spanish calculations, matching an estimate
published on Oct. 30. Excluding the impact of tax increases, the
annual inflation rate based on Spanish calculations was 1.5
percent, falling to 0.5 percent if fresh food and energy were
also stripped out.  Pensions Increase  The government increased pensions 1 percent this year in
one of the few campaign pledges it kept since coming to power in
December, and says it’s still considering whether to apply a law
that obliges it to compensate pensioners for inflation above
that level. It may change the indicator it uses to calculate
prices,  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said
on Oct. 11.  The government has said it will decide on pensions once it
sees the November inflation data, which INE will publish as an
initial estimate on Nov. 30 and with a full breakdown on Dec.
13. Updating pensions in line with the headline rate, as set out
in the existing law, would cost an additional 3 billion euros
($3.8 billion), according to the Bank of  Spain .  The European Commission last week forecast the five rounds
of tax increases and spending cuts Rajoy has implemented in less
than a year won’t be enough for Spain to meet its deficit goals
through 2014. The second  recession  since 2009, which has pushed
unemployment above 25 percent and is undermining revenue, will
continue next year, according to commission estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  