-- Springsteen’s Family Tragedy, Tough Nuns Recalled: Book Review
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/springsteen-s-family-tragedy-tough-nuns-recalled-book-review.html
Bruce Springsteen ’s life has long
been a mystery compared with his work. Peter Ames Carlin’s
“ Bruce ” fixes that.  Carlin delves into the Boss’s family background and
personality for a perspective largely absent from  Dave Marsh ’s
“Born to Run” and “Glory Days,” which have until now been
the definitive biographies.  The book benefits from the depth of Carlin’s reporting. He
interviewed Springsteen himself as well as members of the
musician’s family, current and former band mates and others.  Plenty of rough spots are covered: family relationships in
the ’50 and ’60s, comings and goings of girlfriends in the ’70s,
tensions with his E Street Band that led to its firing in the
’80s, and a search for musical direction in the ’90s that
culminated in the band’s reunion.  The book begins with the family’s roughest moment: the
death of Springsteen’s father’s sister, Virginia, as a 5-year-
old. She was hit by a truck while riding her tricycle in April
1927. The death created a void that went unfilled until Bruce’s
birth in September 1949, as the book recounts.  Springsteen’s family lived with his paternal grandparents
at first, and his grandmother set few rules for him, Carlin
says. Four-year-old Bruce stayed up until the middle of the
night, as he later did as a musician.  Starting School  His grandmother’s lack of discipline contrasted with his
mother’s approach: When he was ready for elementary school, she
sent him to  St. Rose of Lima , the local Catholic school. Carlin
quotes Springsteen as saying he was caught between these women
as he was later with his first two managers, Mike Appel and Jon
Landau, and then with Landau and band mate  Steve Van Zandt .  Carlin touches on the anger Springsteen felt at the rules
imposed by the school’s nuns. That anger would later resurface
in relationships with women, on concert stages, in courtrooms
and elsewhere, as the book chronicles.  The most insightful observation in “Bruce” may be one
pertaining to his time in elementary school: “For Bruce, his
tendency for social isolation came as naturally as his secret
desire to be at the center of everything.”  Conflicting Goals  Springsteen’s personality conflict helps explain why he
adamantly opposed stadium concerts, music videos, marketing
campaigns and other moves at first and then reversed himself.  Yet Carlin presents the changes of heart without exploring
the mindset that drove them. This is one reason why “Bruce”
doesn’t render Marsh’s biographies and other books about
Springsteen obsolete.  Another is that not everyone in Springsteen’s story gets
into the book. There’s no mention of Maria Espinosa, the first
girl he ever kissed, though she was identified in the unreleased
song “In Freehold.” Jim McDuffie, an assistant for much of the
1980s, is also unnamed. The omissions are telling.  Springsteen’s interest in Espinosa, who was Hispanic, was
at odds with the racial divisions in his hometown and elsewhere
during the 1960s. So was his high-school friendship with Richard
Blackwell, an African-American who played congas on “The Wild,
the Innocent and the E Street Shuffle,” his second album.  Those relationships foreshadowed the defining moment of his
musical career: meeting  Clarence Clemons , the African-American
saxophonist later known as the Big Man, in September 1971. The
encounter occurred about a year after race riots in Asbury Park.  Charitable Work  McDuffie still works for Springsteen as executive director
of The Foundation, which helps lower-income homeowners in  New
Jersey  pay for house repairs. Carlin makes no mention of the
Foundation or the Thrill Hill Foundation, a supporter of non-
profit groups.  The omissions reflect a cursory treatment of Springsteen’s
charitable work, which goes beyond writing checks. He has made
personal connections with the Community Food Bank of New Jersey
and other groups. He routinely asks audiences to donate, rather
than touting his own contributions.  Also, “Bruce” would be better off without the footnotes
sprinkled throughout the text. They bury details that deserve
more prominence -- the origin of the E Street name, for one --
or provide snarky asides that distract from the narrative.  The disruptions are a greater flaw because there’s so much
story to get through, and it’s so compelling. Carlin has written
a book that any Springsteen fan will appreciate, even with its
shortcomings.  “Bruce” is published by Touchstone (494 pages, $28). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( David Wilson  is a reporter-at-large at  Bloomberg News .
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and an
 interview  by Zinta Lundborg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 