-- Steelers Beat Chiefs 16-13 After Losing Roethlisberger to Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-13T05:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/steelers-beat-chiefs-16-13-after-losing-roethlisberger-to-injury.html
The Pittsburgh Steelers beat the
Kansas City Chiefs 16-13 on a field goal less than one minute
into overtime, a win that was marred by the loss of quarterback
 Ben Roethlisberger  to a right shoulder injury.  Shaun Suisham kicked a 23-yard field goal for the Steelers
one play after linebacker Lawrence Timmons intercepted a pass by
Kansas City quarterback Matt Cassel and returned it to the
Chiefs’ 5-yard line. It was the fourth National Football League
win in a row for the Steelers, who improved to 6-3 and won their
15th straight Monday night home game.  “It was a great win for our team, it showed that even our
quarterback can go down and we can still be victorious,”
Steelers wide receiver  Mike Wallace , who had a 7-yard touchdown
catch in the second quarter, said in a televised interview.
“But we’re going to need him to get back as fast as he can.
He’s one of the best in the game and we need him.”  The Chiefs lost their sixth straight game to fall to 1-8,
tied with the  Jacksonville Jaguars  for the NFL’s worst record.  Roethlisberger, who has led the Steelers to two Super Bowl
titles in his nine seasons, was knocked out of the game on the
opening drive of the second half after being sacked and driven
to the ground by Chiefs linebackers Tamba Hali and Justin
Houston. Roethlisberger was shown leaving the stadium with his
arm in a sling and ESPN said he was taken to a local hospital
for evaluation. Steelers coach  Mike Tomlin  said after the game
he didn’t know the extent of Roethlisberger’s injury.  “I’m not going to get into hypotheticals,” said Tomlin,
whose team next faces the division-leading  Baltimore Ravens .
“I’ll wait to see what his status is like.”  Quarterback Concussions  Roethlisberger’s injury came a day after starting
quarterbacks  Michael Vick  of the Philadelphia Eagles,  Jay Cutler 
of the Chicago Bears and  Alex Smith  of the San Francisco 49ers
suffered concussions during Week 10 games.  Byron Leftwich replaced Roethlisberger in the second half
last night and completed 7-of-14 passes for 73 yards.  The Chiefs opened a 10-0 first-half advantage after failing
to hold a lead in regulation play in any of their first eight
games. Their lone win came on an overtime field goal.  The Steelers then scored 13 straight points, including
Suisham’s 31-yard field goal with 12:37 left that gave the home
team its first lead.  Ryan Succop made a 46-yard field goal for the Chiefs as
time expired to force overtime after missing a 33-yard attempt
in the third quarter.  On the second play of overtime, Cassel’s pass over the
middle was intercepted by Timmons, setting up Suisham’s winning
kick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  