-- Swedish Inflation Misses Estimates as Economy Loses Momentum
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-11-13T10:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/swedish-inflation-misses-estimates-as-economy-loses-momentum-1-.html
Swedish  inflation  unexpectedly held
last month amid falling interest rates as an expansion in the
largest Nordic economy shows signs of stalling.  Consumer prices rose an annual 0.4 percent, the same pace
as in the previous month, Stockholm-based  Statistics  Sweden  said
today. Inflation was estimated at 0.5 percent in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 economists. Prices fell a  monthly  0.1 percent.
 Adjusted for mortgage  costs, prices rose an annual 1.1 percent
and 0.1 percent in the  month .  “The inflation rate is low and will stay low for a long
time,” said Per Sellden, an analyst at Swedbank AB in
Stockholm. The central bank will cut its main lending rate to 1
percent next month because of “weak growth and a clearly
weakening labor market,” he said.  The Riksbank last month signaled it was prepared to cut the
repo  rate  again in December to support growth as  Europe ’s debt
crisis hurts exports and pushes up unemployment. The bank has
cut rates three times since December while warning over
imbalances as low borrowing costs spur debt growth.  The krona slid less than 0.1 percent to 8.5927 per euro as
of 11:17 a.m. in  Stockholm . Swedish two-year yields fell one
basis point to 0.65 percent.  Too Optimistic  It last month predicted inflation won’t return to its
target until March 2014 as  growth  in the $500 billion economy
slows to 0.9 percent this year from 3.9 percent in 2011. The
bank estimates unemployment will rise to 7.9 percent, on
average, next year from 7.7 percent in 2012.  “As we do believe that the Riksbank still is a bit too
optimistic on the labor market, lowered inflation forecasts
should facilitate a stance for more policy easing,” said Anders Brunstedt, an economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB, in a note.
“We expect the Riksbank to move ahead with a repo rate cut in
December to 1 percent.”  Sweden sells about half of its output abroad, of which
about 70 percent goes to Europe.  Industrial orders  have fallen
for 12 consecutive months on an annual basis, sending
 manufacturing confidence  to a three-year low last month.
 Consumer confidence  has slid to the lowest since February amid
job cuts by companies such as truck maker  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Ericsson
AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest maker of mobile phone networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  