-- Sweden’s Housing Boom Stirs Danish Bust Deja Vu: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-13T15:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/sweden-s-housing-boom-stirs-danish-bust-deja-vu-nordic-credit.html
     Nov. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Danske Bank A/S, which is cutting
3,000 jobs after being dragged through housing bubbles in
Denmark and Ireland, is now bracing for a possible adjustment in
 Sweden ’s property market.  “We are concerned about the  house prices  in Sweden in
particular, which have not seen the correction as in other
economies,” Eivind Kolding, chief executive officer at
Denmark’s biggest bank, said in a Nov. 8 interview in  London .
“This is something that we have very much on the radar.”  Danske, which is based in Copenhagen, saw writedowns swell
more than 15-fold since Denmark’s housing market peaked in 2007.
The boom-to-bust cycle  spawned a recession , leaving more than a
dozen banks insolvent. Danish house prices, which have plunged
25 percent since their peak, still have further to fall, the
government-backed Economic Council said Nov. 1. In neighboring
Sweden, house prices have continued their ascent since the
National Housing Credit Guarantee Board in August said a bubble
had formed.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has sought to rein in
the nation’s banks by imposing stricter  capital requirements 
than those set elsewhere. Borg has also warned that lenders
including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  will need to apply tougher risk weights
on mortgages to reflect a more realistic loss probability.  If It Bursts  Borg signaled last week he wants  Sweden’s banks  to raise
their capital buffers even further, arguing “the capital
requirements that we have today are based on far too low risk
weights,” in remarks delivered following a Nov. 9 parliamentary
hearing.  Credit default swaps on Nordea have risen 6 percent to 90
basis points since a low on Oct. 18, according to data available
on Bloomberg. Similar contracts on senior debt issued by Danske
eased 8 percent to 151.3 basis points in the same period.  Without curbs, banks will continue to compete for market
share, even if doing so fans imbalances, Kolding said.  “If we jointly all agree that, now, we will not loan out
more, then we could adjust the bubble,” he said. “But we are
in a  competitive environment . I don’t think it’s our
responsibility to prevent bubbles. But it is our responsibility
to make sure that, if a bubble bursts, it doesn’t impact the
bank too much.”  Norway’s housing market may also be at risk, though the
oil-backed economy is probably in a better position to sustain
price increases, he said.  ‘Serious Consequences’  Sweden’s krona lost as much as 0.4 percent against the euro
today and traded 0.3 percent lower at 8.6149 as of 4:04 p.m.
local time. The krona fell as much as 0.6 percent against the
dollar, before trading 0.4 percent lower at 6.7824.  Swedish bank lending to households rose 50 percent to 2.65
trillion kronor ($392 billion) in 2011 from 2006, driven by an
86 percent increase in mortgage lending to 2.12 trillion kronor,
according to  Statistics Sweden .  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves , who also chairs the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , has voiced concerns about
credit-driven imbalances in Sweden’s housing market. Failure to
stem private indebtedness “could have very serious
consequences,” and lead to a repeat of Sweden’s 1990s financial
crisis, he said in an opinion piece in  Svenska Dagbladet  last
month.  More Gains  Swedish house prices are climbing even as economic growth
slows. Prices rose 2 percent in the third quarter from the three
months through June, Statistics Sweden said this month. Swedish
gross domestic product will expand 1.1 percent this year after
growing 3.9 percent in 2011, the European Commission said Nov.
7. Danish output will grow 0.6 percent in 2012, from 0.8 percent
in 2011, according to the commission.  The number of Swedish households expecting real estate
prices to continue rising grew this month, according to a survey
published yesterday by Stockholm-based bank SEB AB. Forty-two
percent of households interviewed said they were betting house
prices will go up, compared with 38 percent in October. Twenty-
seven percent saw declines, down from 28 percent last month, SEB
said.  The central bank left its repo rate at 1.25 percent last
month after cutting it by a quarter point in September. The
bank, which says its forecasts assume  household debt  levels
won’t rise, predicts the repo rate will average 1.3 percent in
the fourth quarter next year, and 1.9 percent a year later.  The yield on Denmark’s 3 percent note due November 2021
eased two basis points to 1.098 percent as of 10:05 a.m. in
Copenhagen, or about 24 basis points less than similar-maturity
German bunds. Sweden’s benchmark 10-year note yielded 1.391
percent.  World Record  Swedish household debt has swelled to 170 percent of
disposable incomes from 90 percent in the mid-1990s, the central
bank estimates. Danske’s impairments in Sweden rose almost
seven-fold in the first nine months to 315 million kroner ($54
million), the bank said Oct. 30.  Denmark still holds the world record for household
indebtedness, at 322 percent of disposable incomes in 2010,
Standard & Poor’s estimates.  Shareholders have rewarded Danske for its strategy of cuts
this year. Kolding, who took over as CEO from  Peter Straarup  in
February, has promised to trim the company in an effort to boost
returns on equity and resume shareholder payouts.   Danske shares  have gained 29 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent increase in Nordea’s stock. The 38-member
Bloomberg index of European financial companies rose 15 percent
in the period.  Higher Fees  Danske is raising prices and curbing lending growth to help
boost capital and pad itself against losses. The bank last month
reported a 1.31 billion-krone net profit in the third quarter,
compared with a loss of 384 million kroner a year earlier.  Danske, which has targeted a core Tier 1 capital ratio of
at least 13 percent by the end of next year, will keep risk-
weighted  assets  “fairly flat,” Kolding said.  “We will not reduce, but will keep, our risk-weighted
assets at the level that they are,” he said. “Fortunately, you
could say, it happens in an environment where there is not a lot
of growth so that should mean that our market shares should be
kept more or less intact.”  Danske, which may pay out  dividends  next year after
shelving payouts since the crisis began in 2007, plans to raise
prices throughout the Nordic region to better reflect the bank’s
risks, Kolding said.  “We have done a lot of price increases in  Denmark ,” he
said. “We see quite some potential in some of our other
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  