-- U.K. Stocks Rise Amid Spanish Bailout Speculation
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-13T17:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/u-k-stocks-rise-as-ftse-100-erases-earlier-decline.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for the first
time in five days, erasing losses in the final hour of trading,
as Spanish bonds climbed amid speculation the country’s
government will ask for a bailout.  ITV Plc (ITV)  paced advancing shares, surging 9 percent, after
the commercial broadcaster accelerated its cost-saving program.
 Vodafone (VOD)  Group Plc lost 2.5 percent after reporting service
revenue that missed analyst estimates.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  fell 2.8
percent as U.K. regulators probed allegations of price fixing in
the wholesale natural-gas market.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index gained 18.98 points, or 0.3 percent, to
5,786.25 at the close in  London . The gauge earlier fell as much
as 1 percent as euro-area finance ministers and the
 International Monetary Fund  disagreed on how  Greece  will repay
its debt. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also added 0.3
percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rallied 0.7 percent.  “Rumor of an imminent of Spanish bailout, which is a
little flaky, did give the euro some relief against the dollar
and got all the European markets off their sessions lows,”
Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX Capital in London,
said by phone. “In a world of continued uncertainty, rumors in
the market can do a lot of work.”  European stocks rebounded as  yields  on benchmark 10-year
Spanish bonds dropped four basis points to 5.85 percent, erasing
an earlier advance to the highest level in six weeks. Equities
extended gains after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said a plan to combine Greek aid payments into a single package
is being considered.  Greek Aid  Stocks initially retreated after euro-area finance
ministers at meeting in Brussels delayed until Nov. 20 a
decision on how to cover additional Greek needs of as much as
32.6 billion euros ($41 billion). The gathering also left
unclear whether the International Monetary Fund will continue to
contribute funds.  ITV climbed 9 percent to 94.6 pence after the U.K.’s
biggest commercial broadcaster said it will deliver 30 million
pounds of cost savings this year, 10 million more than its
original target. The company reported a 4 percent increase in
nine-month revenue to 1.57 billion pounds and said profit from
ITV Studios will exceed 100 million pounds.  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  soared 18 percent to 221 pence,
a record high. The British broadband provider spun off from
Carphone Warehouse Group Plc reported a 6.2 percent increase in
first-half earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to 155 million pounds.  In Dublin, Bank of Ireland Plc rose 1.1 percent to 9.4 euro
cents after the nation’s largest lender by assets said it’s
ready to exit a state guarantee set up for Ireland’s banks four
years ago. The lender also said it expects loan losses to
decrease further.  Vodafone Sinks  Vodafone sank 2.5 percent to 162.5 pence, the biggest drop
since Sept. 4, after the world’s second-largest mobile-phone
company reported a 1.4 percent decrease in service sales in the
second quarter, the first decline in 10 quarters.  Analysts had projected a 0.7 percent contraction, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The company also reported a first-half
net loss of 1.98 billion pounds after taking a 5.9 billion-pound
writedown in Spain and Italy.  Centrica, the biggest supplier of gas and electricity to
U.K. households, dropped 2.8 percent to 310.8 pence and  SSE Plc (SSE) ,
the second-largest, fell 0.9 percent to 1,383 pence amid
allegations of manipulation in the wholesale natural-gas market.  Gas Probe  The U.K. government today said it’s prepared to clamp down
on the market should the price-fixing allegations prove true.
The Financial Services Authority said yesterday in a statement
that it was investigating claims made last month by price-
reporting company ICIS Heren that “unusual trading activity”
may have affected  gas prices .  Centrica said its traders are “prohibited from providing
price information to price reporting agencies” and it has
“very robust governance and compliance policies, which regulate
its market participation and behavior.”  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  slid 3.2 percent to 1,770 pence after
the mining company raised the estimated cost of its Minas-Rio
iron-ore project in  Brazil  for at least a fifth time to $8
billion. That compared to an earlier forecast of $5.8 billion.  De La Rue Plc (DLAR)  tumbled 5.5 percent to 1,006 pence, the
largest drop since January 2011. The world’s biggest printer of
banknotes said orders that had been planned for production in
the fiscal second half have been delayed.  Mondi Plc, the largest maker of office paper and industrial
bags in  Europe , fell 2.4 percent to 640 pence as two people
familiar with the transaction said Barclays Plc sold 19.3
million shares on behalf of a client at 634 pence apiece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  