-- U.K. House-Price Gauge Shows Best Result in Two Years, RICS Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/u-k-house-price-gauge-shows-best-result-in-two-years-rics-says.html
A  U.K. house-price gauge  showed the
best result in more than two years last month as demand from
buyers increased at its fastest pace since 2009, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The index rose to minus 7 from minus 14 in September,
London-based RICS said in an e-mailed report today, citing a
monthly poll of property surveyors. A result below zero means
more of them saw values drop than increase last month. A measure
of enquiries from new buyers rose to 18 from 5, the fastest pace
of gains since December 2009.  The report signals stabilization in the housing market
after a quarter when the economy escaped from a recession. The
 Bank of England  will release new forecasts for growth and
inflation tomorrow after last week halting its 375 billion-pound
($595 billion) stimulus plan.  “The number of potential buyers going out and viewing
property saw a welcome boost last month,” RICS spokesman Ian Perry said in the statement. “Overall activity is still very
low in most parts of the country” and “access to affordable
mortgage finance is still very difficult for many first-time
buyers.”  A gauge of three-month price expectations rose to minus 3
from minus 9, the report showed. A gauge of newly agreed sales
rose to 20, the highest since December 2009, from 0.  London  and southeast  England  were the only two regions to
record positive price balances, though only 28 percent of
respondents reported rising prices in the capital, compared with
60 percent in March.  Other house-price reports have suggested a mixed picture of
the  property market . Acadametrics Ltd. said last week that  house
prices  rose for the first time in five months in October, while
a report by Halifax on Nov. 6 showed that home values fell for a
fourth month in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  