-- U.K. Inflation Quickens More Than Forecast on Tuition Fees
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-13T10:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/u-k-inflation-quickens-more-than-forecast-on-tuition-fees-1-.html
U.K. inflation  accelerated more than
economists forecast in October as higher university tuition fees
pushed consumer-price growth away from the Bank of England’s
target.  Consumer prices rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
fastest since May, compared with a near three-year low of 2.2
percent in September, the Office for National Statistics said in
London today. Inflation was forecast to quicken to 2.4 percent,
based on the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The figures come on the eve of the Bank of England’s
quarterly Inflation Report, which may incorporate Governor
Mervyn King’s view that annual price gains could remain above
the central bank’s 2 percent target “well into next year.” The
report, which presents new projections, will also signal how the
bank balances the outlook for inflation against the risk of a
relapse in growth after policy makers halted expansion of their
bond-purchase program last week.  The impact from tuition fees “is dramatically bigger than
it should have been,” said Alan Clarke, an economist at
Scotiabank Europe Plc in  London . “Inflation is probably going
to be above target all of next year and there’s a chance it may
go above 3 percent. That’s unfortunate for consumers, and it
makes it harder for the Bank of England to deliver more
stimulus.”  The pound extended its gain against the dollar after the
report. It was trading at $1.5886 as of 10:07 a.m. in London, up
0.1 percent on the day.  University Fees  The increase in tuition fees added 0.32 percentage point to
inflation last month, according to the statistics office.
Lawmakers voted in December 2010 to allow universities to triple
fees to up to 9,000 pounds ($14,300) a year, starting with this
year’s new student intake, as part of the government’s plan to
reduce the  budget deficit .  Food and transport costs also pushed up the annual rate in
October. Increases in gas and electricity prices announced by
some of the country’s biggest utilities over the past few weeks
weren’t reflected in the data, the statistics office said.  The U.K. Treasury said in a statement in London the
inflation data were “disappointing” and that steps already
taken including freezing fuel duty and taking low earners out of
tax will ease the pressure on household budgets.  Core inflation , which excludes alcohol, food, tobacco and
energy prices, accelerated to 2.6 percent in October from 2.1
percent in September, according to today’s report. That’s the
fastest since January.  Economic Outlook  Retail-price inflation , a measure used in wage
negotiations, quickened to 3.2 percent from 2.6 percent. The
retail-price index excluding mortgage-interest payments climbed
3.1 percent.  While Britain’s  economy  exited a recession in the  third
quarter , the recovery remains threatened by the continued crisis
in the euro area, the U.K.’s biggest trading partner, and
cooling global growth. Manufacturing data last week showed
output barely grew in September, indicating the economy’s
rebound lost some momentum at the end of the third quarter.
Separate services and factory surveys signaled cooling activity
in October.  Bank of England policy makers said on Nov. 8 that they
don’t plan to buy any more bonds beyond the 375 billion pounds
already purchased, concluding a third round of  quantitative
easing . The next day, the bank said that it will transfer income
from gilts it holds under that program to the Treasury in a move
that King equates to an easing of monetary conditions.  Factory-Gate Prices  King may be asked at the Inflation Report press conference
tomorrow how that transfer influenced the decision of policy
makers the previous day.  The statistics office also said today that  factory gate
prices  rose 0.1 percent in October from September, matching the
median forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey. From a
year earlier, output prices were up 2.5 percent.  Input prices increased 0.4 percent in October on the month
and 0.1 percent on the year. Fuel was the biggest contributor to
the monthly increase.  In a separate release, the ONS said  house prices  rose 1.7
percent in September from a year earlier, down from 1.9 percent
in August. Home values “continue to remain relatively stable
across most of the U.K., although prices in London are
increasing,” it said. In the capital, prices jumped an annual
5.2 percent in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  