-- Budget Deficit Widens as Fiscal Cliff Looms
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-11-14T13:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/u-s-budget-deficit-widens-as-fiscal-cliff-debt-ceiling-loom.html
(Corrects  John Boehner ’s title in 13th paragraph of story
published Nov. 13.)  The U.S. government’s  budget deficit 
widened in October, the first month of the new fiscal year, as
President  Barack Obama  and Congress seek an agreement to lower
future gaps and avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  The deficit expanded 22 percent to $120 billion from a
$98.5 billion  shortfall  in October 2011, the Treasury Department
said today in Washington. The gap exceeded the $113 billion
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “The October miss from forecast was small relative to
annual figures and the uncertainty with the fiscal cliff
debate,” said Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics
LLC in Boulder, Colorado. Outlays for defense were more than
expected in October, which could be due to a “spend before the
cliff effect,” he said.  Obama has invited leaders in Congress for talks on a deal
to reduce budget deficits that would avert the $607 billion in
automatic  spending cuts  and tax increases slated to take effect
Jan. 1. The  Congressional Budget Office  has forecast that the
fiscal cliff would push the economy into a recession next year.  The wider October deficit was due to a shift in payment
dates in the same month in 2011, which led to lower outlays in
the year-ago period, the Treasury said. Lower corporate taxes
also contributed to the expanded deficit last month.  “We still have fiscal policy run amok,”  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York,
said before the report was released. “We need to implement the
fiscal policy that lowers the growth trajectory of outlays and
raises the growth trajectory of revenues.”  Automatic Reduction  The automatic reduction in spending including defense,
paired with increases in tax rates including those on income,
 capital gains  and dividends, would probably boost the
 unemployment rate  to 9.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013,
the nonpartisan  CBO  projected.  “By the end of this year I think at best they can agree to
put things off for six months,”  Martin Feldstein , a professor
of economics at  Harvard University , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television on Nov. 8. “There isn’t enough time, but
there is time to put something in place that’s better than the
fiscal cliff.”  Today’s report showed revenue increased 13 percent in
October to $184.3 billion, compared with $163.1 billion in the
same month a year earlier. Spending jumped 16.4 percent to
$304.3 billion from $261.5 billion, the Treasury said.  Individual income tax receipts in October rose to $102
billion from $86.7 billion in the same period last year.
Corporate income tax receipts fell to $1.62 billion from $2.47
billion.  Budget Gap  Estimates of the October budget gap in the Bloomberg  survey 
of 29 economists ranged from $129 billion to $110 billion.  Absent the automatic spending cuts and most of the tax
increases currently set to take effect next year, the deficit
would grow to $1.04 trillion in fiscal year 2013, the fifth
consecutive year of budget gaps exceeding $1 trillion, according
to the  CBO . The budget deficit was $1.09 trillion in fiscal
2012, the fourth-largest since World War II.  Obama, who plans to reduce the shortfalls by increasing
taxes for top earners, is holding meetings with labor and
business leaders in the White House this week. The talks are
intended to shore up the support for his plan before Nov. 16
discussions with Republican House Speaker John Boehner, Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , Democrat House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  Obama Election  While Obama said Nov. 6 elections showed voters back his
proposal, Boehner cited public support for the re-elected House
Republican majority and said that tax rates must not go up. Both
sides have left room for a compromise that would curtail tax
breaks to pay for preserving current rates.  The deficits add to national debt, which will most likely
hit the $16.4 trillion limit at the end of December, with
extraordinary measures enabling the U.S. to meet its obligations
“until early in 2013,” the Treasury Department  said  on Oct.
31.  “There’s a question of whether the debt ceiling is going
to be wrapped up into the fiscal cliff discussions or not,”
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before today’s Treasury release.
“If it’s not, then we’re going to have to have a whole another
round of negotiations very early next year to get the debt limit
increased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  