-- U.S. Preterm Birth Rate Declines to Lowest in Decade
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/u-s-preterm-birth-rate-declines-to-lowest-in-decade.html
Preterm births, the largest cause of
death for newborns in the U.S., declined to the lowest level in
a decade as part of a campaign to reduce the number of early
deliveries, a report showed.  The number of U.S. babies born before the 37th complete
week of pregnancy fell to 11.7 percent in 2011 after peaking at
12.8 percent in 2006, the fifth straight year of declining
numbers, the  March of Dimes  said today in its Birth Report Card.  The nonprofit advocacy group,  Department of Health  and
Human Services and American Congress of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists in February announced “Strong Start,” building
on a 2003 effort to encourage women and doctors to continue
pregnancies to a full term before inducing labor or scheduling a
cesarean section. Babies born at  39 weeks  are less likely to
have hearing and vision issues and have more time to gain
weight, according to the March of Dimes. Those born prematurely
cost the U.S. $26 billion in excess health spending a year, said
Jennifer Howse, the group’s president.  “The U.S. is definitely on the right road now but we still
have a ways to go,” Howse said in a Nov. 12 telephone
interview. “The U.S. got a grade of ‘C’ on the March of Dimes’s
report card, which is average, and that’s not good enough for
the U.S. considering the high quality of health care and the
level of financial investment we’ve made in health care in our
country.”  By 2020, the March of Dimes hopes the U.S. has lowered its
early birth rate to 9.6 percent, she said.  Anti-Smoking Programs  To help achieve the goal, more states also need to
implement smoking cessation programs because about 23 percent of
women of childbearing age smoke, Howse said. More women of
childbearing age need health insurance so their pregnancy can be
monitored and doctors need to use  progesterone  more often to
prevent women from having early labor, she said.  In the report card, the  White Plains , New York-based March
of Dimes graded states by comparing their rate of preterm birth
with the 2020 goal of 9.6 percent. In total, 45 states,
 Washington , D.C., and  Puerto Rico  improved their numbers in 2011
from 2009.  The group found that seven states and Washington lowered
the percentage of women of childbearing age who were uninsured.
Forty-three states, Washington and Puerto Rico reduced the
number of babies born from 34 weeks to 36 weeks of  pregnancy 
when many women and doctors schedule C-sections and inductions
that aren’t medically necessary, according to the report.  State Grades  Vermont , Oregon,  New Hampshire  and  Maine  received ‘A’s on
the report and had preterm birth rates of 9.6 percent or less,
while  Alabama ,  Louisiana ,  Mississippi  and Puerto Rico rated ‘F’s
with preterm birth rates of 14.9 percent and higher.  Fifteen million babies are born early globally and more
than 1 million die each year, according to the March of Dimes. A
premature baby has medical costs that are 12 times higher than a
baby born full term, Howse said.  In a  report released in May , the U.S. ranked 131 of 184
countries in preterm birth, putting the country at the same
level as Turkey, Somalia and  Thailand , she said.  Still, Howse said, “the U.S. is one of four nations in the
world where rates of preterm birth are dropping. You do have to
look underneath that ranking.”  “Yes, it’s discouraging,” Howse said. “Yes, we need to
do better, but we are on the right road,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  