-- U.K. Probes Gas Price Fixing as Ministers Vow Action
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-11-13T15:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/uk-regulators-probing-price-fixing-in-natural-gas-market.html
The U.K. government said it’s
prepared to legislate to clamp down on wholesale natural-gas
trading should price-fixing allegations prove true.  The Financial Services Authority, or FSA, is investigating
claims last month by the price-reporting company ICIS Heren that
“unusual trading activity” may have affected gas prices,
according to a statement yesterday. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
said he’s asked regulators whether they need more authority.  “If we find we need more powers for the regulator, we will
act,” Davey said today in Parliament in  London . “Depending on
what the investigations find out, there are powers to take on
individuals and companies that have committed wrongdoing.”  The probe raises questions about how market prices are
determined and whether the biggest utilities, which are involved
in setting prices, may also profit by manipulating them. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government has been pressing
electricity and gas suppliers to rein in costs after  Centrica
Plc (CNA)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  raised customer prices.  “I don’t think it’s possible to exaggerate how serious
this would be if this turns out to be true,” Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  said today in an interview on  Sky News . “At
this time of year gas is one of people’s biggest bills. If
there’s evidence that there was price-fixing in the market,
people would be enraged.”  Wider Concerns  The investigation broadens the efforts of British financial
regulators to curtail market abuses. The gas-market allegations
follow the recent Libor-rigging scandal, which led to a record
290 million-pound ($461 million) fine for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for
manipulating the benchmark  interest rate . Several other banks
have also faced accusations of colluding to set Libor.  “If the allegations are true, then there do seem to be
some connections,” Greg Clark, a junior Treasury minister, said
today on BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “It’s very important
we get to the bottom of whether the allegations are true, but if
they are then action needs to be taken very quickly.”  Martin Wheatley, a managing director at the FSA
commissioned to investigate the Libor abuse, had raised concerns
it may spread to energy markets. He has begun work with
international regulators to ensure the “same grip that’s been
taken on Libor can happen to any other indicators,” Clark said.  New Powers  Energy Secretary Davey said he wrote to regulator Ofgem,
the FSA and the Office of Fair Trading to ask whether they need
more powers to oversee the energy markets. Any recommendations
could be included in draft energy legislation due to start its
path through Parliament next month.  “The country will expect us to take firm action if these
things are proved true, and we will,” Davey said. “This
evidence may be used in criminal or civil proceedings. We
encourage any individuals or companies to bring forward any
evidence they have.”  ICIS, a unit of  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , said it identified a
“series of deals done below the prevailing market trend” on
Sept. 28 and hasn’t yet determined a cause. ICIS is the smallest
of three independent price-reporting companies that monitor
energy markets. The others are Argus Media Ltd. and Platts, a
unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)   Backroom Deals  The opposition  Labour Party  urged the government to act.  “Customers are getting a raw deal,” said  Caroline Flint ,
the Labour member of Parliament who speaks on energy. “These
companies have been allowed to run their businesses in such a
complicated way that it’s almost impossible to know what the
true cost of energy is. Most energy is bought and sold through
secret backroom deals.”  Flint’s comments follow a  Guardian  report yesterday that a
former trader who worked as an ICIS reporter gathering prices
raised concerns after spotting irregularities. It said some of
the six biggest utilities were among those attempting to alter
 gas prices  and that the production of key market benchmarks by
one price-reporting company makes them unreliable and vulnerable
to conflicts of interest between reporters and traders.  “The allegations are likely to spark fresh criticism of
the lack of competition among the Big Six utilities in the
U.K.,” Roderick Bruce, an industry analyst at IHS Energy, wrote
in a note to clients. “The most scrutiny is likely to fall on
price-reporting agencies, whose unregulated role in energy
price-setting is again being questioned.”  The price of  next-day gas  in the U.K. has risen 24 percent
this year amid seasonal gains in demand and supply disruptions
from  Norway .  Utility Response  U.K. utilities said they comply with regulations.  “Centrica has very robust governance and compliance
policies, which regulate its market participation and
behavior,” Britain’s biggest energy supplier said today in a
statement. “Centrica’s traders are prohibited from providing
price information to price-reporting agencies.”  SSE, Britain’s second-largest energy supplier, said it’s
“entirely confident that our energy portfolio management team
operate in a fair and legitimate way.” SSE raised consumer gas
prices by 9 percent from August. Centrica said last month it
would increase them about 6 percent starting Nov. 16.  EDF Energy, a unit of  Electricite de France SA , said “EDF
Energy does not participate in loss-leading trading activity and
considers it to be against existing market regulation,”
according to a statement. “We make information likely to impact
market-price formation publicly available on our website,” in
compliance with European Union regulations.  EON, RWE  Georg Oppermann, a spokesman for  EON AG (EOAN) , said “if there
was such behavior it is illegal in our view. However, we are
confident our traders behaved correctly.”  RWE AG (RWE)  said it supports the probe, and that the company
wasn’t involved in “any of the trades which we understand are
under investigation.”  Ofgem said in a statement it “received information
relating to trading in the gas market and is looking into the
issue.” The FSA also confirmed it received information and will
analyze it, while the  Serious Fraud Office  said it would
consider whether to investigate the allegations.  “If these revelations stand up to analysis by the FSA and
Ofgem, then this is corruption on a massive scale,” said
Caroline Lucas, a lawmaker from the  Green Party . “It’s about
time we had full transparency and accountability in the energy
market. For far too long, the big energy companies have called
the shots on government policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  