-- Humana Says Trade Groups Plan Ad Campaign Against Insurer Tax
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-11-13T16:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/humana-says-trade-groups-plan-ad-campaign-against-insurer-tax.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest
provider of Medicare health plans, said business groups plan an
advertising campaign to get lawmakers to ease new taxes in
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Stop the HIT , a Washington-based coalition of trade groups,
will start the effort during the lame-duck congressional session
this year, Heidi Margulis, Humana’s senior vice president for
public affairs, told analysts during an investor conference
today. Changes to the taxes will be “on the table” as part of
talks to cut the U.S. budget deficit, she said.  The campaign’s goal is to change the taxes that the 2010
Affordable Care Act imposes on insurance companies and employers
who provide the highest level of coverage. The law puts about
$84 billion in new taxes and fees on the insurance industry,
meant to finance an expansion of coverage to 32 million people,
according to a Bloomberg Industries analysis in September.
Carriers say those costs will force them to raise premiums or
cut benefits.  “I’ve been involved in politics for years and disruption
is a really bad word,” Margulis told analysts during the
meeting in Louisville,  Kentucky , where Humana is based. “I
think you’ll hear more on the airwaves during this period of
time, the lame duck, about the impact of the premium tax.”  Margulis said the advertising would be led by business
groups like Stop the HIT as insurers “are not the best
purveyors of that message, perhaps.”  Tax Structure  Because of the way the tax is structured, it will fall
hardest on elderly Medicare patients and small-business plans,
said Bruce D. Broussard, Humana’s president, at the conference.
The industry will push for a cut, delay or other changes, said
Broussard, who’s due to take over as chief executive officer in
January.  “Fairness of the tax is an issue,” he said. “It was done
in haste and some details need to be corrected,” he said.  Molly Cullen, a spokeswoman for Stop the HIT, didn’t
immediately return telephone and e-mail messages seeking
comment. On its website, the group describes itself as “a
diverse group of trade and business associations” that includes
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and National Association of
Manufacturers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  