-- Mumias Sugar of Kenya Retreats to One-Week Low: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-11-13T11:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/mumias-sugar-of-kenya-retreats-to-one-week-low-nairobi-mover.html
Mumias Sugar Co., (MSUG)  Kenya’s biggest
miller of the sweetener, fell to its lowest level in a week as
international prices of the commodity declined.  Shares in Kenya’s only publicly trader sugar company
slipped for a second day, falling as much as 7 percent to 5.35
shillings and trading 4.4 percent lower at 5.50 shillings by
1:30 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. White sugar fell as much as
0.7 percent to $511.80 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe, the American
futures exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When the international prices start coming down the main
threat to Mumias is that other companies in the Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa starting diverting sugar to
 Kenya  where they can get better prices,” Wycliffe Masinde, an
analyst at Nairobi-based Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Ltd., said
in a phone interview today. “The margins of Kenyan millers tend
to be under pressure because our production costs are higher.”  Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy, has four state-owned
sugar factories, Nzoia, Sony, Muhori and Chemilil, in addition
to four privately run millers including Kibos & Allied Sugar
Co., Butali Sugar Co., Soin Sugar Co and West Kenya Sugar Co.,
according to the  Kenya Sugar Board .  The regulator has in recent months been encouraging farmers
to take loans to boost their output from the state-run
Agricultural Finance Corp. because it is cheaper,  Rosemary Mkok ,
chief executive officer of the board said in a phone interview
today.  “Around April or May we disbursed 500 million shillings
($5.84 million) to Agricultural Finance Corp. to lend to
farmers,” Mkok said.  This is a disadvantage to millers because farmers will not
be restricted to selling their cane to a specific miller but
will go to the one offering the highest price, Masinde said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  