-- UniCredit Swings to Quarterly Profit, Beating Estimates
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-11-13T17:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/unicredit-swings-to-quarterly-profit-after-year-ago-writedowns.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
reported third-quarter profit that beat all analysts’ estimates
after a record loss a year earlier on writedowns. The shares
surged the most in two months.  Net income  was 335 million euros ($425 million) compared
with a net loss of 10.6 billion euros in the third quarter of
last year, when the Milan-based lender booked goodwill
impairments of 8.7 billion euros. Profit was more than triple
the 99 million-euro  average estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is cutting jobs,
reducing costs and reorganizing the bank to increase profit as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and Italy’s third recession in a
decade weigh on earnings. The lender has targeted 1.5 billion
euros in savings by 2015, focused on western Europe, as it seeks
to increase profit to 6.5 billion euros.  “We see meaningful positive impacts with lower costs
supporting net profit and a significant drop in risk-weighted
assets strengthening our  capital ratios ,” Ghizzoni said in a
statement. “Our revenues remain resilient in spite of a
continued difficult economic environment.”  The  shares  surged as much as 4.9 percent, the biggest gain
on an intraday basis since Sept. 7. They climbed 4.4 percent to
3.522 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan, giving the company
a market value of 20.4 billion euros.  Job Cuts  UniCredit will cut 2,600 positions in Italy by 2015 that
may lead to 100 million euros in savings, the CEO said. The bank
reached an agreement on job cuts with labor unions a few weeks
ago, he said.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, also rose
in Milan after reporting a jump in third-quarter operating
profit and higher capital levels. Operating earnings rose 45
percent to 2.28 billion euros. Net income declined 21 percent to
414 million euros, in line with the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  UniCredit, Intesa and  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
were the three best performers in the 38-member  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index , which advanced 1.5 percent.  At UniCredit, trading profit totaled 449 million euros,
compared with a loss of 229 million euros a year earlier,
boosting operating profit 30 percent to about 2.4 billion euros.
The results include a 39.5 million-euro gain from a buyback of
asset-backed securities completed at the end of September, 75
million euros from the sale of a stake in Alliance Boots and 76
million euros from the sale of 3.4 percent in the Moscow stock
exchange.  Eastern Europe  “Gross operating income increased above expectations
thanks to much higher trading income, higher commissions and
lower costs,” Annamaria Benassi, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Milan, wrote in a report to clients. “Unexpected
extraordinary income,” helped the results, she said.  UniCredit’s units in eastern Europe increased their third-
quarter net operating profit by 5 percent to 664 million euros,
driven by Russia and  Turkey  and more than offsetting a net
operating loss in western Europe, according to the bank’s
earnings presentation. UniCredit is eastern Europe’s biggest
lender.  Loan-loss provisions decreased to 1.81 billion euros in the
third quarter from 1.84 billion euros a year earlier, while
operating costs declined 3.7 percent to 3.7 billion euros from
the year-ago period. The core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial health, increased to 10.7 percent on Sept. 30 from
10.4 percent at the end of June.  The lender, which requested 26 billion euros in the
 European Central Bank ’s two longer-term refinancing operations,
has completed its 31 billion-euro funding needs for 2012,
Ghizzoni said. Deposits increased 1 percent from the previous
three months.  UniCredit hasn’t taken a decision on dividend distribution,
he said, adding that the core tier 1 ratio incorporates an
annual dividend of 9.6 cents per share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  