-- Turmoil Dims Obama’s Goals for Mideast Peace Negotiations
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/turmoil-dims-obama-s-goals-for-mideast-peace-negotiations.html
President  Barack Obama  now confronts
a changing Islamic world that’s far more tumultuous than the one
he faced when he took office for his first term.  The U.S.-backed revolutions sweeping the Middle East and
North Africa are ending decades of authoritarian rule,
introducing new leaders in a region crucial to the world economy
and turning some countries more toward Islam.  As a result, it will be a challenge for Obama and his
second-term team to make headway toward reviving Arab-Israeli
peace talks, reducing terrorists’ capabilities and ending the
Syrian civil war before it destabilizes neighbors Lebanon and
Jordan and strengthens Islamic extremists.  “The U.S. isn’t marginalized completely, but these powers
are exercising more influence and less regard for American
interests than at any time in the recent past,” Aaron  David Miller , a senior fellow at the Wilson Center, a Washington
policy group, said in a telephone interview.  The region’s new Islamist regimes and the U.S. “are still
in an exploratory phase, each trying to figure out how to
approach the other,” said Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst
at Durham University in the U.K.  Whether they succeed matters. While U.S oil and natural gas
production is rising, the Mideast and North Africa, with their
vast oil and natural gas reserves and strategic location, remain
vital to U.S. national security and to the global economy.
Tensions with Iran drove U.S. crude oil prices to a high for
this year of $110.55 a barrel March 1 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Yesterday, oil for December delivery dropped 50 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to settle at $85.57 a barrel on the New York
market.  Egypt’s Importance  In Egypt, the  Suez Canal  is a channel for oil shipments
from the Persian Gulf to Europe and gives the U.S. Navy a route
from its Mediterranean bases to the Persian Gulf. Perhaps even
more important, Egypt, the fifth-largest recipient of U.S. aid
in the past year at $1.6 billion, has a peace treaty with  Israel 
that the U.S. considers vital to the security of its closest
Mideast ally.  Whether nations such as Egypt, as well as  Libya , Syria,
Iraq, Tunisia and Yemen are turning away from America -- and
posing a greater threat to Israel -- was an issue in this year’s
U.S. presidential campaign. The debate was electrified by the
September 11 attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi,
Libya.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  registered her
dismay in her initial reaction to the Benghazi attack that
killed the American ambassador to Libya and three other
Americans. “How could this happen in a country we helped
liberate in a city we helped save from destruction?” she asked
in remarks on Sept. 12 “This question reflects just how
complicated and at times how confounding the world can be.”  Conflicting Tugs  Few places are more confounding today than the region that
stretches from Tunisia to the Persian Gulf. As they emerge from
centuries of Ottoman, colonial and authoritarian rule, the
countries are torn by the conflicting tugs of past and future,
stability and freedom, and democracy and religion. Underlying
everything are old ethnic, tribal, sectarian and religious
rivalries.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, who rose to power from
the nation’s once-banned  Muslim Brotherhood , opened his remarks
to the annual  United Nations General Assembly  in New York in
September by saying: “I salute you in the name of Islam.” He
underscored his country’s “involvement in Arab, Islamic and
African issues” and its intent “to regain its standing among
nations and assume an effective role in global issues.”  Turkey’s Claim  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, another
Islamist, has signaled that he’d like to restore his nation’s
influence in a modern Middle East that European powers carved
out of the  Ottoman Empire  after World War I.  Republicans such as Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  say that
U.S. influence in the region has waned in the months since
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was overthrown in
January 2011 and that the Obama administration abandoned allies
such as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and Yemeni President
Ali Abdullah Saleh. Obama and other administration officials
have said the authoritarians’ days were numbered, and that
standing with them would have undermined both America’s values
and its interests.  Analysts such as the Soufan Group highlight the changing
political environment in the region.  “The confluence of the Arab Spring revolts, the ongoing
Syrian crisis, and the widening schism between Iran and its
Sunni neighbors -- all occurring while Turkey continues to grow
economically and politically -- suggests that future economic
and foreign policy initiatives in the  Middle East  will be
determined more by regional quasi-alliances than by Washington,
Moscow or Brussels,” the New York-based political intelligence
firm said in an Oct. 5 paper.  Cairo Speech  In Obama’s much-cited June 2009 speech in Cairo, he
encouraged the democratic opposition in Egypt and beyond by
calling for a “new beginning” between the U.S. and Muslim
world based on shared “common principles -– principles of
justice and progress; tolerance and the dignity of all human
beings.” As a pro-democracy movement gathered strength, the
U.S. used its influence with the Egyptian military to pull its
support from Mubarak, who was ousted in February 2011.  Yet in Syria, the administration has acted more tentatively
against President Bashar al-Assad. In Bahrain, home to the U.S.
Navy’s 5th Fleet, American criticism of the government
crackdowns against pro-democracy protesters, many of them
members of the Shiite Muslim majority seeking greater rights in
the Sunni-led nation, has been muted at best.  ‘Anti-American Sentiment’  Obama will have a tougher job exercising leadership in a
region where the U.S. no longer can look to autocratic proxies
such as Mubarak for help. Rather, newly elected leaders such as
Mursi and Yemeni President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi are paying
greater heed to domestic opinion.  That dynamic “becomes awkward for the U.S.,” said Jeffrey
Martini, an analyst at the RAND Corp., a policy group based in
Santa Monica, California. “There’s a lot of anti-American
sentiment, and newly elected regimes in the region feel like
they can hide behind that,” he said in a telephone interview.
“I think that’s one of the factors in declining U.S.
influence.”  As Egypt turns to other potential patrons such as  Saudi
Arabia  or China, which Mursi already has visited twice, the need
for the U.S. and its aid becomes less urgent. Egypt now “looks
to the U.S. as to how they can grease the wheels vis-a-vis
loans” from the  International Monetary Fund  or help from the
Gulf States, Martini said in a telephone interview.  Social Media  While American influence may be waning as the importance of
domestic public opinion grows -- fueled in part by the expanding
reach of social-media networks such as Facebook, Twitter and
YouTube -- it isn’t clear whether Egypt or Turkey can become
regional leaders.  Mursi has moved to reassert Egypt’s leadership by convening
a group on the violence in Syria that includes Iran, Turkey and
Saudi Arabia. He may gain regional and domestic support by
backing the Muslim Brotherhood in Syria, a major opposition
group in the conflict, said Michele Dunne, director of the
Middle East center at the Atlantic Council, a Washington policy
group.  Mursi was a member of the Brotherhood in Egypt until he
left the party, which had promised not to field a presidential
candidate, to run for office. Another motivation for Mursi,
Dunne said, is the domestic appeal that an elevated role for
Egypt carries.  Egyptian Influence  “This is popular inside of Egypt, as well,” Dunne said of
Mursi’s move to lead such a Syria grouping. “One of the
grievances against Mubarak was that he let Egypt’s regional
influence slip away,” she said.  Dennis Ross , who was a Mideast negotiator under President
 Bill Clinton , argues that Mursi’s ability to make a case for
Egypt’s regional leadership will depend on how well he can meet
his country’s “profound economic needs and provide the public a
clear path toward progress and economic possibility.”  Mursi may be overreaching, Martini of RAND and others
caution. Martini said that unlike Turkey, Saudi Arabia or Iran,
Egypt has neither a self-sustaining  economy  nor real military
power or natural resources. Egypt’s GDP is less than half of
Saudi Arabia’s and one-third the size of Turkey’s.  Mursi’s attempt to establish Egypt as a regional leader
might be his path to greater economic stability, said  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy group.  Nasser’s Egypt  Alterman points to Egypt’s past under President Gamal Abdel Nasser, an Arab nationalist who in the 1905s and 1960s leveraged
the country’s position as a regional heavyweight to ensure it
had patrons and a degree of economic security.  “I see again an effort to make Egypt a more influential
regional player as a way to attract support from a wide range of
countries that will be used to help Egypt get out of its very
difficult economic straits,” Alterman said in a telephone
interview.  Turkey’s Erdogan has positioned his country as a regional
leader, in part by embracing the Palestinian cause. At the Oct.
2 congress of his ruling party, Erdogan opened with a fragment
of a poem and went on to deliver a speech that one news website,
 Taraf.com , declared a “Turkish-Islamic Manifesto.”  The former leader of Libya’s National Transitional Council,
Mustafa Abdel Jalil, called Erdogan and the Turks “the leaders
of the Islamic world,” according to Today’s Zaman, a Turkish
news website. Khaled Meshaal, the exiled leader of the
Palestinian group Hamas, which rules Gaza and is considered a
terrorist group by the U.S. and Israel, told the Turkish leader,
“You are a leader in the Muslim world, as well,” the  BBC 
reported Oct. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  