-- US Airways Said to Detail Merger Plan to AMR Creditors
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-14T21:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/us-airways-said-to-detail-merger-plan-to-amr-creditors.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , pressing to
take over AMR Corp.’s American Airlines in bankruptcy, made its
case for a merger to the company’s unsecured creditors
committee, three people familiar with the matter said.  The panel’s session yesterday with US Airways will be
followed by a meeting today with representatives of American,
which seeks to exit court protection as a stand-alone carrier,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. The meetings are in New York.  American Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton has advocated
waiting to evaluate merger options after leaving Chapter 11,
while US Airways CEO Doug Parker has championed a merger since
shortly after AMR’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing. The creditors
committee has a say in important decisions as AMR restructures.  “From the creditors committee perspective, whatever the
two parties are proposing has to be finalized at some point, and
the sooner the better,” said Bob Mann, president of aviation
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New York.  American reached an accord with the nine-member panel in
May to study strategic alternatives against which the carrier’s
stand-alone plan would be vetted. The committee represents some
of those owed money by AMR and is charged with maximizing the
amount of debt recovered. The members include American’s three
largest unions as well as bondholder representatives.  Regular Meeting  “American is participating this week at the committee’s
regularly scheduled in-person monthly meeting, at which various
business matters, including the strategic alternatives process,
will be discussed,” Jack Butler, an attorney for the creditors
committee, said in a statement. He declined to comment on
yesterday’s meeting.  Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways, declined to comment about the talks, as did  Andy Backover , an American spokesman.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in New York gave his
approval on Nov. 8 to American’s request for an extension until
Jan. 28 of the airline’s exclusive right to file a
reorganization plan. That has kept US Airways from making a
formal merger offer in court.  “Maybe we are not going to have to wait until the end of
the first quarter to find out what the plan is here,” said Fred Lowrance, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee . He said the discussions suggest that creditors “want
to feel comfortable that they have all the information to make a
comparison.”  Bonds Rally  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose 6 percent to 71 cents on the dollar, the
highest this year, at 12:27 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The notes traded at 17.75 cents after
AMR’s bankruptcy filing.  US Airways fell 4.6 percent to $12.01, joining a slump in
airline shares as oil prices jumped following Israeli airstrikes
that killed a Hamas military leader. The stock has more than
doubled this year on speculation that a merger would succeed.  A combination of US Airways, the fifth-biggest U.S.
airline, and No. 3 American would create the world’s largest
carrier by passenger traffic, surpassing  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   American has been working to reach a new contract with its
pilots union, the last holdout among the carrier’s major work
groups, to ensure predictable costs at a restructured airline.
It secured an agreement in principle with the  Allied Pilots
Association  on Nov. 9. The union’s board will decide on Nov. 16
whether to send that deal to members for a vote.  Labor Agreements  The airline won money-saving agreements with other major
work groups in recent months, after US Airways reached
conditional accords in April with unions for American pilots,
flight attendants, mechanics and baggage handlers.  “They’ve been inviting themselves to that party for a long
time,” Mann said of US Airways. “To get the doorman to part
the velvet ropes and let them in is a bit of a victory.
Ultimately it will come down to economics, but you have to get
an audience before you can talk economics.”  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  