-- German Fashion Store Owner Says Raided in UBS Tax Probe
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-11-13T15:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/luxury-fashion-store-owner-among-ubs-clients-raided-in-tax-case.html
Albert Eickhoff, the owner of a
luxury fashion retailer in Dusseldorf, is among scores of  UBS AG (UBSN) 
clients targeted in a German tax-evasion probe that led to
nationwide raids.  Eickhoff, 76, said he’s among the suspects in the probe by
prosecutors in Bochum,  Germany . Investigators said yesterday
they raided the homes and offices of about 100 UBS clients to
look into allegations they may have hid money in Swiss bank
accounts to evade German taxes.  “They came to me and looked around in my house for about
half an hour and later also in my office,” Eickhoff said in an
interview today. “They didn’t confiscate anything.”  German authorities have bought compact discs with account
data for people who put money in Swiss or Liechtenstein banks,
leading to probes of thousands of potential German tax cheats.
Former Deutsche Post AG Chief Executive Officer Klaus Zumwinkel
in January 2009 received a two-year suspended sentence and was
ordered to pay a 1 million-euro ($1.27 million) penalty for  tax
evasion .  The North-Rhine Westphalia finance ministry said last week
more than 7,100 citizens in the German state have reported
themselves as tax evaders since 2010. German authorities have
spent 9 million euros to buy disks with bank-account data,
leading to more than 3 billion euros in additional tax payments
nationwide, the ministry  said  in September.  Tax Accord  Eickhoff said he asked UBS in June to close his accounts
and have the outstanding tax paid. The bank didn’t do so, he
said, because it thought it advisable to wait until a planned
tax accord between German and  Switzerland  that would regulate
how to handle the cases takes effect.  The planned  tax treaty  is threatened by a veto of the upper
house of Germany’s parliament, which is dominated by members who
are in opposition to  Angela Merkel ’s ruling coalition. Wrangling
over the treaty has centered on provisions for taxing assets
previously hidden by Germans in Swiss bank accounts, which the
opposition says are too lenient.  An official at Zurich-based UBS said the bank can’t comment
on potential or existing client relationships.  Eickhoff, the founder of the  Eickhoff Koenigsallee 
department store in Dusseldorf, discovered Gianni Versace in
1976 and organized the designer’s first fashion show. He was
also the first German retailer to import clothes from  Giorgio Armani  and  Roberto Cavalli . His business was founded in 1961 and
has annual sales of about 25 million euros, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
6218 or  kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 