-- Vale Said to Hire BTG, BofA for $1 Billion Logistics Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-13T19:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/vale-said-to-hire-btg-bofa-for-1-billion-logistics-sale.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, hired Banco BTG Pactual SA and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch to sell a stake in its logistics unit for
about $1 billion, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the matter.  The VLI business, or Valor da Logistica Integrada SA, has
attracted interest from foreign investors who are considering
buying a stake, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private. The person
declined to name the potential investors.  Vale is trimming investments and selling assets as the Rio
de Janeiro-based company works with “more conservative
premises” about its business prospects, Chief Financial Officer
Luciano Siani said Oct. 25 on an earnings conference call. The
company suspended projects, announced asset sales of about $1.2
billion and cut output of premium pellet products this year as
weaker demand in China and  Europe , its two biggest markets,
triggered a decline in metal and  mineral  prices.  A Vale press official in Rio said the company declined to
comment on a possible stake sale for the unit, as did an
official at Sao Paulo-based BTG. Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman
for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, also
declined to comment.  Vale controls port, maritime and railroad assets to support
its mining activities in countries including Brazil, Argentina,
 Mozambique , Indonesia and Oman, according to the company’s
 website . The firm also provides freight-transportation services
and operates passenger trains on the Vitoria-Minas and Carajas
railroads.  Share Price  Shares of Vale  declined  0.8 percent to 36.30 reais at the
close in  Sao Paulo  trading. The stock  lost  4 percent this year,
underperforming the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index, which
 rose  1.3 percent in the same period.  Vale, the world’s third-largest mining company, agreed to
sell 10 vessels for $600 million and lease them back from South
Korea’s Polaris Shipping Co. as part of a strategy of
“improving capital allocation and further strengthening of the
balance sheet,” it  said  on Aug. 31. The announcement followed
the sale this year of a thermal-coal  project  in Colombia for
$407 million, ferromanganese alloy operations in Europe for $160
million and a kaolin mineral business in Brazil for $30.1
million.  The company has also received and is analyzing offers from
firms interested in acquiring oil and gas assets, Siani told
reporters last month. Vale, which hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS)  as advisers on that transaction, still hasn’t
made a decision on the sale, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  