-- Venezuela Said to Consider New Currency Policy
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-11-13T23:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/venezuela-said-to-consider-new-currency-policy.html
Venezuela  is considering revamping a
central bank system used to control the foreign-exchange rate
after the bolivar fell to a record low in black-market trading,
said a government official with direct knowledge of the matter.  The central bank is selling fewer dollars on the Sitme
system at a rate of 5.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar to limit its
losses as the Venezuelan currency is trading above 13 in the
unregulated market, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because no final decision has been made. The person
declined to provide additional details other than saying
scrapping the Sitme was a possibility.  Declining trading volumes in the Sitme are fueling
speculation that President Hugo Chavez will devalue the  bolivar
after winning re-election, said  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of
Caracas-based financial consultancy Ecoanalitica. Only $18.8
million was sold on the Sitme yesterday, the lowest amount since
December 31, 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have information that the central bank is worried
about the future of the Sitme and the rise of the dollar on the
black market,” Oliveros said today in a telephone interview.
“For now, the finance ministry and central bank have
not been able to agree on a solution.”  Sitme volumes have declined during the past weeks, with the
7-day moving average at $31.3 million, the lowest level since
August 2011, Bank of America analyst Francisco Rodriguez wrote
in a Nov. 8 note to clients.  Spending Surge  Chavez, who won last month’s election by more than 11
percentage points after increasing spending by 20.5 percent in
real terms in the first nine months of the year, will need to
devalue the currency in the first quarter of 2013 to boost oil
revenue and help close a fiscal deficit, Rodriguez said.  Press officials at both the central bank and the Finance
Ministry in Caracas declined to comment on the country’s
exchange policies today.  The local currency has weakened 36 percent this year to
13.65 per dollar on the unregulated market after trading about 8
bolivars per dollar for the past two years, according to the
blog  Lechuga Verde , or Green Lettuce, which cites traders.
Venezuelans turn to the black market when they can’t get access
the Sitme or the so-called Cadivi system that sells dollars at
4.3 bolivars for priority imports.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  