-- Vivendi Buys Time With Cost Cuts as Strategy Calls Loom
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-14T08:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/vivendi-raises-full-year-forecast-after-profit-beats-estimates.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  said earnings will fall
less than it expected this year, with cost cuts and video-game
demand buying time for Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou as he heads
into a sixth month of weighing options for a strategy change.  While reviewing alternatives, Vivendi has adjusted to a
slowing economy since Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy ’s ouster at the end of June. That helped contain the drop
in third-quarter earnings and allowed Paris-based Vivendi to
boost its prediction for full-year profit, adjusted for one-time
gains and losses, to about 2.7 billion euros ($3.4 billion) from
more than 2.5 billion euros.  The earnings performance is taking some pressure off
Fourtou, 73, as he looks at everything from divestments to a
revamp of group structure to boost a stock that has lost half
its value in the past five years. Sales and profit jumped at
video-game unit  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , while cost cuts at
French phone unit SFR began to take hold.  “First we’ll define a strategy, then we can think about
possible asset sales,” Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron
said yesterday on a conference call. “We’re in the phase of
validating and specifying our strategy and making sure the board
and management are moving together.”  Vivendi shares rose as much as 5 percent in Paris, the
biggest intraday advance since June 28. The stock was up 4.4
percent at 15.66 euros as of 9:28 a.m. and has rebounded from a
nine-year low of 12 euros on April 19.  Stabilizing Market  The owner of record company Universal Music Group and phone
operators in France, Morocco and  Brazil  reported a 2.9 percent
drop in adjusted third-quarter profit to 665 million euros,
beating the 598 million-euro average analyst  projection  compiled
by Bloomberg. For the full-year, analysts’ predicted adjusted
profit of 2.47 billion euros, compared with 2.95 billion euros
the company reported last year.  Earnings at SFR, which accounts for about 38 percent of
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, will drop less
than the company had forecast.  “The French telecommunications market is stabilizing and
our cost-cutting is starting to make up for the falling prices
on the market,” Capron said.  SFR has revamped its phone packages and worked on getting
leaner to fight  Iliad SA (ILD) , which came into the market in January
with discounted offers. Vivendi in March forecast a profit slump
through 2013 because of more intense competition in the French
telecommunications market.  Games including “Diablo III” and “World of Warcraft:
Mists of Pandaria” helped Activision boost sales 26 percent and
Ebita 54 percent.  French Billionaire  Fourtou’s pledge to overhaul Vivendi came as French
billionaire Vincent Bollore, who owns advertising agency  Havas
SA (HAV) , acquired a 5 percent stake to become one of the company’s
top shareholders. Fourtou has invited Bollore to join Vivendi’s
supervisory board.  As part of its strategic review, Vivendi has hired
Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG to study options for its
Brazilian phone unit GVT, while  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA)  are advising on a possible sale of a stake in  Maroc Telecom
SA (IAM) , people familiar with the matter have said. Fourtou has also
attempted to find a buyer for Activision, according to people
familiar with the situation.  Decisions on asset sales are likely to affect Vivendi’s
cash flow, debt and dividend policy. Standard & Poor’s last
month reaffirmed Vivendi’s credit rating, saying it expects
management to keep a lid on debt as it reviews its asset
portfolio. Vivendi, which said it would pay dividend amounting
to 45 percent to 55 percent of adjusted net income, aims to
reduce its net debt to less than 14 billion euros by the end of
the year, from 15 billion as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  