-- Vodafone Misses Estimates, Takes $9.4 Billion Writedown
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-13T17:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/vodafone-quarterly-sales-miss-estimates-on-italy-spain.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  reported service
revenue that missed estimates and a 5.9 billion pound ($9.4
billion) writedown in  Spain  and  Italy  that sank the world’s
second-largest mobile-phone company into a first-half net loss.  Service sales fell 1.4 percent in the second quarter ended
Sept. 30 excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency
fluctuations, Newbury, England-based Vodafone said today. That’s
the first decline in 10 quarters and double analysts’ projection
for 0.7 percent contraction compiled by Bloomberg. The first-
half  net loss  was 1.98 billion pounds, after a 6.68 billion-
pound profit a year earlier.  As  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis led consumers and
businesses to reduce spending, Vodafone Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao  is increasingly relying on the carrier’s U.S.
venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  for cash and growth.
 Verizon Wireless , 45 percent owned by Vodafone, said yesterday
it will distribute an $8.5 billion dividend to its owners.  “The situation in southern Europe is entirely macro-
driven,” said Will Draper, a London-based analyst at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank. “Verizon is performing more strongly
that any of their European businesses, and it’s becoming an
increasingly important part of the group.”  ‘British Weather’  Vodafone, whose revenue trails  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , fell 2.5
percent to close at 162.5 pence in London. The shares has
declined 9.2 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent drop
by the 23-member  Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services
Index. (BETELES)   The first-half net loss was Vodafone’s first since Colao, a
former McKinsey & Co. partner, became CEO in 2008.  “The macro environment is not expected to show
improvements,” Colao told analysts. “For the short term, I put
this under the British weather.”  Vodafone said today it will start a 1.5 billion-pound
share-repurchase program after receiving the Verizon dividend.  Full-year operating profit will be in the upper half of the
estimated range of 11.1 billion pounds to 11.9 billion pounds,
Vodafone said. Free  cash flow  will be in the lower half of the
previously indicated range of 5.3 billion pounds to 5.8 billion
pounds. Scrapping a full-year forecast for revenue growth,
Vodafone said it plans to cut operating expenses in Europe by
300 million pounds in fiscal 2014.  Peers Decline  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the former German phone monopoly, last
week reported a 0.1 percent decline in third-quarter revenue and
took a 7.4 billion-euro ($9.4 billion) writedown on its T-Mobile
USA unit after a deal to merge it with  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS)  Telefonica SA, Spain’s biggest telecommunications company,
said sales for the same period dropped 1.6 percent.  Vodafone’s organic service revenue in southern Europe
slumped 9.8 percent to 4.98 billion pounds in the six months
through September, led by Spain, Portugal and Italy. Spain
accounted for 3.2 billion pounds of the 5.9 billion-pound
writedown, with Italy taking up the remainder.  “This was a decision to not try to use the crystal ball,
but say ‘Let’s say this thing doesn’t improve in the second
term.’” Colao said on a conference call. “So we do whatever we
think is prudent. It is not something we enjoy but it reflects
the situation.”  Network Sharing  The European Commission last week cut its 2013 growth
forecast for the 17-country euro region to 0.1 percent from a
May prediction of 1 percent growth as the debt crisis ravages
southern Europe.  “Southern Europe won’t get much worse it will just take
time to repair them,” Colao said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “Northern Europe is more resilient, and its been
weathering the crisis in a better way.”  Colao, 51, has been building up Vodafone’s business outside
Europe with deals like last month’s acquisition of New Zealand’s
TelstraClear Ltd., and consolidating assets in Europe, such as a
network-sharing deal with  Telefonica (TEF)  in the U.K., to save money.  First-half adjusted earnings per share climbed 1.4 percent
to 7.86 pence from a year earlier, beating the 7.8 pence average
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Outside of Europe, Vodafone’s units have reported better
growth. Verizon Wireless added 1.54 million contract customers
last quarter, beating analysts’ estimates and raking in average
monthly smartphone bills of $145.42 as users paid more for data
services, Verizon Communications said last month.  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , Vodafone’s African business, rose 5
percent to its highest level since the company’s May 2009
listing in Johannesburg yesterday after earnings per share
jumped 22 percent. The company is selling more services to
customers outside of  South Africa , where it’s the largest
provider of mobile-phone services.  In India, where Vodafone faces a potential $2.2 billion tax
bill stemming from its 2007 acquisition of  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) , the U.K. company has decided against making a tax
provision, Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford told analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  