-- Warren Harding’s Fatal Quest for Normalcy
-- B y   A l a s d a i r   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-11-13T16:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/warren-harding-s-fatal-quest-for-normalcy.html
“ Ohio  again is the big political
state,” the Cincinnati Post said. “It may be pivotal as well as
political. It may decide the election.”  It was June 1920, and the newspaper had good reason to
boast. A few days earlier, the Republican convention in  Chicago 
had nominated Ohio Senator Warren G. Harding as its candidate
for president. And the Democratic convention in San Francisco
was about to make its own bid for Ohio’s 24 electoral votes by
choosing the state’s governor, James M. Cox, as its flag bearer.  Both parties were attentive to what Ohioans wanted -- and
what they wanted, above all, was an end to the sense of unending
crisis.  Four years earlier, President  Woodrow Wilson  had won Ohio
on the promise to keep the U.S. out of European entanglements.
Within 14 months of his second inauguration, however, there were
a million Americans fighting overseas. The treaty concluding the
war produced peace in  Europe  but political strife in the U.S.,
as the two parties bickered over its ratification. Wilson had
been immobilized by a stroke during his failed campaign to swing
public opinion behind the treaty.  ‘Disrupted Conditions’  It wasn’t just the war. The economy was also a mess. Price
levels doubled between 1916 and 1920 and there were shortages of
key goods. American cities were seized by major strikes and
anarchist bombings.  Added to this was the engorgement of the federal
government. In real terms, federal expenditure was about five
times higher in 1920 than it had been in 1913, while the federal
civilian payroll was more than 50 percent bigger. And it all had
to be paid for. The number of Americans filing income-tax
returns jumped to more than 7 million in 1920 from fewer than
400,000 in 1914.  Republicans said that the Democrats had lost touch with the
common man. “The disrupted social, economic and industrial
conditions of this country seemingly held no interest for Mr.
Wilson,” complained Ohio Representative A.R. Johnson. When
Wilson went to  France  to negotiate the peace treaty at
Versailles, Johnson said, “he left all thought of his own land
and its people behind.”  Republicans didn’t pretend that Harding was a great
intellect. He was “not a flaming torch in ability of genius,”
one newspaper conceded. But he presented Ohioans with a simple
and alluring offer: an end to chaos and a return to “normalcy.”
(“Harding has sprung a new one on us,” the Cleveland Plain
Dealer said. “’Normality’ might have done just as well.”)  There would be an end to the “saturnalia of extravagance”
in  Washington , Harding promised voters in Marion, Ohio, in
August 1920. There would also be an end to war taxes,
“experiments with business,” and political commitments overseas.
There would be a return to the simpler and happier times that
the country enjoyed before the war.  The pitch worked. Harding won 60 percent of the vote in
Ohio and in the country at large in November 1920. It was a
“victory so overwhelming as to break all records,” said the
Canton Repository. Americans waited for normalcy to settle on
the country once again.  It never happened. Circumstances had changed too radically
for the new administrative apparatus of central government to be
fully dismantled. The military establishment shrank from its
wartime peak but never returned to its pre-war scale. The number
of people paying income tax declined, but in the mid-1920s it
was still 10 times higher than in 1916.  Harding even signed legislation, the Budget and Accounting
Act of 1921, which had the effect of consolidating the
presidential power about which he had once complained.  Growing Entanglements  The American economy was evolving, along with its place in
the international order, and this meant that the administration
couldn’t avoid entanglements at home or abroad. The White House
was deeply engaged in resolving deadly strikes within the coal
and railroad industries in 1921 and 1922 and at the same time
hosted major negotiations among the great powers to control the
naval arms race. Harding also shocked his isolationist friends
in early 1923 by proposing that the U.S. become a member of the
World Court established a few months earlier by the League of
Nations.  Harding found himself managing a complex portfolio with a
barebones staff. It was grueling work, made even harder by
corruption scandals involving friends from Ohio whom Harding had
appointed to important federal posts. Few people doubted that
the burdens of office had caused Wilson’s crippling stroke --
but then, Wilson had been a wartime president. Normalcy was
supposed to be less demanding.  Harding realized that it wasn’t. He told a friend in May
1923 that the presidency was “a man-killing job.” Ten weeks
later, Harding fell ill while traveling by train from  Seattle  to
 San Francisco . He died within a few days. His physician thought
it might have been the result of eating tainted crab meat.
Others speculated that it was a heart attack. The Seattle Argus
viewed it more simply: “President Harding was worked to death.”  (Alasdair Roberts is the Jerome L. Rappaport Professor of
Law and Public Policy at Suffolk University Law School. His
latest book is “America’s First Great Depression: Economic
Crisis and Political Disorder After the Panic of 1837.”)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post:
Alasdair Roberts at  alasdair.roberts@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  