-- Davey Johnson, Bob Melvin Honored as Baseball’s Managers of Year
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/washington-s-johnson-wins-mlb-s-national-league-manager-of-year.html
Davey Johnson  of the Washington
Nationals and  Bob Melvin  of the Oakland Athletics, who led
smaller-payroll teams to Major League Baseball division titles
this season, were honored as 2012 managers of the year.  Melvin, 51, guided the Athletics back from a big deficit to
win the AL West division on the final day of the regular season.
The A’s, with a $55 million opening-day payroll that ranked
next-to-last among baseball’s 30 teams, according to USA Today,
trailed the Texas Rangers by 13 games on June 30.  Johnson, 69, led the Nationals to MLB’s best record and
gave Washington its first postseason baseball in 79 years while
making the controversial decision to shut down top pitcher
 Stephen Strasburg  in early September. The Nats ranked 20th in
baseball with an $81 million payroll.  “That was a good stepping stone, but there’s more to
come,” said Johnson, who will retire after next season. “It
was a fun year for me and I look forward, with another year of
experience, that it’s going to set us up to be even stronger and
better.”  Johnson and Melvin now have won in both leagues. Johnson
previously captured the AL award in 1997 with the Baltimore
Orioles and Melvin won his NL managerial honor in 2007 with the
Arizona Diamondbacks.  Only four other men have won manager of the year honors in
both leagues --  Bobby Cox ,  Tony La Russa ,  Jim Leyland  and  Lou Piniella .  “I get a little uncomfortable with individual accolades,”
Melvin said on a conference call, “but the one thing I did
think about ahead of time if I did win it was doing it in both
leagues.”  Moneyball Team  Melvin led an Oakland roster put together by General
Manager Billy Beane, whose philosophy of evaluating players was
the topic of the book “Moneyball” by  Michael Lewis , a
Bloomberg columnist.  The Athletics’ payroll was less than a third of the $198
million of the  New York Yankees , the highest in baseball.
Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  finished fifth in AL voting.  Oakland entered September four games behind Texas and
finished the regular season by winning its last six, including
coming back from a 5-1 deficit in the season finale against the
Rangers for a 12-5 victory and the division title.  The A’s lost three games to two in the best-of-five AL
Division Series against the Detroit Tigers.  “I was a bit surprised,” Melvin said of his award. “This
was a year that not much was expected of us.”  Johnson won the NL award with 131 points in balloting by
the Baseball Writers’ Association of America, taking 23 first-
place votes in 32 ballots. Cincinnati Reds manager  Dusty Baker 
was second with five first-place votes and 77 points, while
Bruce Bochy of the  World Series  champion  San Francisco  Giants
was third with four first-place votes and 61 points.  Close Race  Balloting was much closer in the American League. Melvin
had 16 first-place votes and 12 second-place selections for 116
points, while Buck Showalter of the Orioles had 12 firsts and 16
seconds for 108 points. Robin Ventura was third with 12 points.
Points were awarded on a 5-3-1 basis.  Johnson led the  New York Mets  to their last World Series
title, in 1986. The former major league infielder, who managed
the Mets from 1984-90, also had stints with the  Cincinnati Reds 
and Los Angeles Dodgers.  The Nats won their first division title since 1994, when
they were located in Montreal as the Expos.  The Nationals’ 2012 record, 98-64, was the best in the
franchise’s 44-year history. They blew a ninth-inning lead in
Game 5 and lost three games to two in the NL Division Series to
the St. Louis Cardinals.  Strasburg Shutdown  Strasburg, 24, who had 2010 elbow surgery, went 15-6 with a
3.16 earned run average before being protectively benched after
159 1/3 innings, a decision that hung over the team ever since
Johnson announced the plan during spring training.  Nationals outfielder Bryce Harper, the youngest non-pitcher
to make the All-Star Game, was named the NL Rookie of the Year
two days ago. Today, Washington’s Gio Gonzalez will be among the
finalists for the NL Cy Young Award as both leagues’ top
pitchers are announced.  Johnson said he’s already looking forward to next season.
The Nationals said on Nov. 10 that Johnson will retire at the
end of the 2013 season to become a team consultant.  “I still feel we have a higher ceiling, that we can do
better, and I’m looking forward to that challenge,” he told
reporters on a conference call. “Guys really didn’t overachieve,
they played up to their potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  