-- Washington Post Hires Boston Globe Editor to Run Newsroom
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-13T21:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/washington-post-replaces-executive-editor-brauchli-with-baron.html
The  Washington Post (WPO)  named the Boston
Globe’s Marty Baron as its next executive editor, replacing
Marcus Brauchli, who will take a vice president job at the
Post’s parent company.  Baron, who served as editor of the Boston Globe for more
than 11 years, will take the new position on Jan. 2, the Post
said today in a statement. Baron had previously worked at the
 New York Times (NYT) , Los Angeles Times and Miami Herald.  “Marty is the right person to carry on the legacy of Ben Bradlee and Len Downie and Marcus Brauchli,” said Washington
Post Publisher Katharine Weymouth, citing Baron’s predecessors
in the job. “He has a phenomenal record of producing the
highest quality journalism that’s essential to the Post.”  The paper won four Pulitzer Prizes and increased Web
traffic under Brauchli, though the Post lost print circulation
and advertising revenue -- part of a broader industry slump.
Weekday circulation at the paper fell 8.9 percent to 462,228
over a six-month period ended Sept. 30, while the Sunday edition
dropped 20 percent to 674,751, according to the  Audit Bureau of
Circulations .  Brauchli and Weymouth had clashed in recent months over
budgetary concerns, said a person with knowledge of the
situation. Weymouth wanted to make larger newsroom cuts in an
effort to narrow losses at the paper, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the talks were private.  ‘Natural Tension’  Weymouth declined to comment on any specific discussions
with Brauchli. “There’s a natural tension between any publisher
and editor, but Marcus has been a tremendous partner,” she said
in an interview.  Brauchli didn’t respond to requests for comment.  In his new role, Brauchli will work with Chief Executive
Officer Don Graham to study new-media opportunities at
Washington Post Co., a company that includes print media,
television and online-education businesses.  Shares of the company  have declined 10 percent this year,
compared with a 9.3 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The stock was little changed today, closing at $338 in
New York.  Baron, meanwhile, plans to spend his first few weeks in the
job talking to newsroom employees to see where he can help
expand and improve coverage.  “I need to spend time with staff taking the measure of
what has been done and of what can be done,” Baron said in an
interview. “The entire newspaper industry, of course, is under
pressure.”  Baron said he’s optimistic about the Post’s financial
prospects, especially because of its role covering politics in
the U.S. capital.  “The Post does really ambitious journalism and great
investigations,” he said. “That’s important to readers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  