-- Women Migraine Sufferers Accumulate Brain Lesions
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-11-13T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/women-migraine-sufferers-accumulate-brain-lesions.html
Women who have migraines are more
likely to accumulate brain lesions than those who don’t suffer
from the debilitating headaches, according to a Dutch study that
suggests more research is needed to determine what they mean.  While it’s not clear what causes the damage, seen in the
connective fibers of the brain or white matter, the good news is
that they don’t seem to result in long-term harm to the brain,
researchers said in the study published today in the  Journal of
the American Medical Association .  In the nine-year study, magnetic resonance imaging showed
that 77 percent of women with migraines had an increase in spots
in their brain’s white matter, compared with 60 percent of women
who didn’t have migraines. The findings also showed that the
lesions don’t affect cognitive function and the number,
frequency and severity of the headaches don’t affect the number
of spots that appear over time.  “The data make it less plausible that migraine attacks
cause the lesions,” said study author Mark  Kruit , a neurologist
in the Department of Radiology at Leiden University Medical
Center in the Netherlands, in a Nov. 12 e-mail. “The importance
of the lesions is probably low because we did not find a clear
effect on cognitive abilities. People should not be scared that
migraine attacks cause brain changes.”  About 15 percent of the general population suffers from
migraines, the authors wrote. The results also suggest
preventing the headaches probably won’t result in fewer lesions
because there was no association between the number of migraines
a woman had and an increase in spots over time, Kruit said.  “Preventive migraine therapy should therefore not be
started based on our results,” he said.  Different Causes  The lesions are only visible on MRI scans, he said. They
may have many different causes and probably can’t be healed.  Researchers in the study looked at whether men and women
with  migraines  have an increased incidence of spots or brain
lesions nine years after having an initial  MRI , whether the
headache frequency increased the number of lesions and whether
the damage was associated with a decline in memory and thinking.
The research was a follow-up to a 2000 study.  The study found that 112 out of the 145 women in the
migraine group and 33 of the 55 women in the control group had
an increase in the number of spots on the brain nine years after
they received their first MRI. There was no similar association
in men.  No Changes  The lesions weren’t associated with changes in thinking or
memory, they found. Based on the results,  Deborah Friedman , who
wrote an accompanying editorial, said migraine sufferers
shouldn’t panic.  “These little lesions do show up on the MRI scans not
infrequently,” said Friedman, a professor of neurology,
neurotherapeutics and ophthalmology at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center in  Dallas , in a Nov. 11 telephone
interview. “Based on this study, we don’t think they’re
anything to worry about.”  More studies though are needed to look at the possible
relationship between the lesions in female migraine sufferers
and stroke, Kruit said. Previous  research  has shown a higher
risk of stroke and heart attack for middle-aged women who have
migraine headaches preceded by visual warning symptoms called
auras. A September 2008 study in the journal Neurology by
researchers in Austria and  Italy  found that the headache
sufferers may have a higher risk of developing deadly blood
clots.  Friedman said doctors should treat risk factors for stroke
like smoking, high blood pressure, obesity and lack of exercise
as a preventive measure. Those factors are more likely to
contribute to a heart attack or stroke than migraine, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  