-- Xerox CEO Sees Services Expanding to Two-Thirds of Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-11-13T21:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/xerox-expands-share-buyback-profit-forecast-falls-short.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the printer and copier
pioneer, predicted its services business will expand to two-
thirds of revenue in 2017 from about half this year, helping
mitigate waning demand for paper documents.  “We’ll be able to have a low-growth business shifting to a
high-growth business as we get more of our revenue from
services,” Chief Executive Officer Ursula Burns told investors
at the company’s annual conference today. “On balance, we’re
making progress, not fast enough. I’m not patient.”  The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company is moving to
services like automating payments for governments or processing
claims for insurers as more consumers choose to view documents
on mobile devices instead of printing them. Xerox today
increased its buyback plan by $1 billion, raised its dividend
and provided a 2013 profit forecast range with a median that
matched predictions.  The shares gained 1.4 percent to $6.42 at the close in New
York. Xerox’s  shares have  dropped 19 percent this year as
customers in slowing economies held back on spending. That
compares with a 9.3 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The company expects to allocate at least $400 million in
cash for share repurchase next year, adding to the $900 million
to $1.1 billion in stock buybacks planned for this year,
according to a statement. Xerox boosted its dividend by 35
percent to 5.75 cents a quarter.  Restructuring expenses to improve profit in the services
unit will amount to $100 million, or 5 cents a share, this
quarter, Xerox said. Earnings excluding some items will  total  28
cents to 30 cents a share. Analysts had predicted 32 cents, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Some of the
estimates didn’t factor in the restructuring, which Xerox
announced in late October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  