-- Xstrata’s Criticism of Lonmin Is ‘Opportunistic,’ Chairman Says
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-11-13T15:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/xstrata-s-criticism-of-lonmin-is-opportunistic-chairman-says.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s criticism of  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s management is “opportunistic” and its proposal to back a
rights offer in exchange for executive control
“unconscionable,” Lonmin Chairman Roger Phillimore said.  The management team has done a “remarkable” job in the
past three months, Phillimore said today in a phone interview.
Xstrata, which owns about 25 percent of Lonmin, said Nov. 9 the
platinum producer has longstanding operational problems and
doesn’t have the management to ensure a sustainable future.  The sniping follows a six-week strike at Lonmin that cut
its share price by 18 percent and prompted the company to plan a
$817 million share sale to buoy finances. The Johannesburg-based
metal producer has rejected two Xstrata proposals to bolster its
balance sheet in the past two months, saying they’d effectively
transfer control to Xstrata without an appropriate premium.  Lonmin appointed Head of Finance Simon Scott as acting
chief executive officer in August after announcing that CEO Ian Farmer was hospitalized with a serious illness.  “The board recognizes it has to make permanent
appointments and that’s a process that has started,” Phillimore
said. “The outside world needs to know who this company is
being run by, and how it is being run.”  Xstrata is considering a revised offer for Lonmin, two
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The Zug,
Switzerland-based company, led by  Mick Davis , is sounding out
other shareholders on the performance of management and may
participate in the share sale on the condition that Lonmin
agrees to replace senior management, the people said.  “We have attempted to engage Lonmin’s board and
management team on various occasions over the past two years on
how to restore profitability and create a more sustainable
business,” Xstrata said today in an e-mailed statement. “That
is in no way opportunism.”  Lonmin’s relationship with Xstrata is “perhaps a little
less warm than it was,” Phillimore said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  