-- THY-Lufthansa in Early Talks With No Sale Planned, Turkey Says
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-11-13T14:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/thy-lufthansa-in-early-talks-with-no-sale-planned-turkey-says.html
Turkish Airlines  is at the earliest
stages of discussions about closer ties to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
and the sale of stock held by the government isn’t currently on
the agenda, Turkish Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said today.  “There is work to increase cooperation and advance the
dialogue, especially in some commercial areas,” Simsek told
reporters. “But it’s too early to say anything apart from that.”  The state doesn’t intend to reduce its 49 percent stake in
the carrier “at the moment,” the minister said at a ceremony in
Istanbul to mark the addition of a 200th plane.  Unicredit Bank
AG (UCG)  and  Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi AS (TSKB)  were asked to put
together a plan on a possible sale, three people with knowledge
of the matter said last week.  Turkish Airlines, (THYAO)  as Turk Hava Yollari is known, aims to
boost its fleet to 350 planes by 2020, Chairman Hamdi Topcu said
at the event, tapping an air-travel sector that’s growing three
times faster than the national economy and is forecast to be
worth $15 billion in revenue this year, according to Simsek.  The government is working on a plan to boost capacity at
Istanbul’s Ataturk airport by turning an adjoining military site
into a terminal, Simsek said, adding that the 98 aircraft bays
there aren’t sufficient.  Aeroports de Paris  has a controlling
stake in TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS, the hub’s operator.  Lufthansa may seek deeper ties to Turkish Airlines to
thwart competition from Gulf rivals and match European peers
that already have Mideast partnerships. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  suggested bringing the Star alliance partners closer when
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  visited  Germany  Oct.
31, according to state-owned Anatolia news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  