-- Yuan Gains to 19-Year High, Testing Top Band, on Growth Optimism
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-13T08:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/yuan-gains-to-19-year-high-testing-top-band-on-growth-optimism.html
China ’s  yuan  climbed to a 19-year
high, reaching the top end of its permitted trading range for a
seventh straight day, on bets growth in the world’s second-
largest economy will regain momentum.  Economic growth will keep rebounding slightly in the rest
of this year,  Shanghai  Securities News reported today, citing
Fan Jianping, chief economist at the State Information Center.
China’s new Politburo Standing Committee, which rules the party
and hence the country, will meet the media on Nov. 15, a day
after the congress ends. China equity funds recorded a ninth
straight week of inflows in the week ended Nov. 7, EPFR Global
data shows.  “Capital returns to China as over-pessimism on the economy
has been dismissed by recent data,” said Tommy Ong, a Hong
Kong-based senior vice president of treasury and markets at DBS
Bank ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. “There’s also an expectation that the
government will focus on growth instead of stability when the
congress ends.”  The yuan rose 0.04 percent to close at 6.2265 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It touched 6.2262 earlier, the strongest level since the
government unified the official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. The currency also traded at the maximum 1 percent
premium to the People’s Bank of China’s  reference rate , which
was raised by 0.05 percent to the highest level since May 9 at
6.2891 per dollar today.  Offshore Market  Non-resident Hong Kong customers deposited over 800 million
yuan ($128 million) in accounts opened in the city as of the end
of September, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said yesterday.
The city allowed non-residents to purchase yuan at offshore
rates in August.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.07
percent to 6.2193 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 6.2170 earlier, a record high. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.06 percent to 6.3310, a
1.7 percent discount to the onshore spot rate. One-month implied
volatility for the yuan, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, was steady at 1.6 percent.  Zhou Xiaochuan , governor of the People’s Bank of China,
said direct trading of the yuan against the Australian dollar
was a “natural outcome” given the scale of the economic
relationship between the two countries, the Australian Financial
Review reported today.  “We need to have direct trading between the two
currencies,” AFR cited Zhou as saying at a Beijing press
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  