-- Hyundai Hysco Is Best of 152 Steelmakers: Riskless Return
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-11-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/hyundai-hysco-is-best-of-152-steelmakers-riskless-return.html
Hyundai Hysco Co. (010520) , a steelmaking
unit of the Hyundai Motor Group, provided the best risk-adjusted
return among peers over the past five years, boosted by its
position at the heart of the business grouping that controls
 South Korea ’s biggest carmaker.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows Hyundai Hysco
produced a return of 5.6 percent when adjusted for volatility in
the five years through Nov. 9, the most among 152 global steel
companies with sales of at least $1 billion. Hysco had the
highest total return, at 298 percent, and a volatility that was
14 percent below the industry average.  Hysco benefited from the  success  of Hyundai Motor Co.’s
Elantra and Sonata sedans that helped the automaker double
market share in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest car market,
from 2004 to 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Ulsan-
based company is  both  a buyer from and a supplier to the Hyundai
chaebol, leaving it relatively insulated from short-term swings
in raw material markets on the one hand and new car sales on the
other.  “Hyundai Hysco has a strong captive buyer,” Im Jeong Jae,
a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $31 billion, said by
telephone on Oct. 23. “Hysco was able to secure stable growth
and margins, which helped it perform better than other
steelmakers.”  Profit Growth  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  of  South Africa  was No.2 in the group
with a risk-adjusted gain of 4.4 percent and South Korea’s  Seah
Steel Corp. (003030)  ranked third with a risk-adjusted return of 3.5
percent. ArcelorMittal, the largest steelmaker, had a negative
return over the past five years and ranked 101st.  Hysco also beat shares of Hyundai Motor over the period,
which produced a risk-adjusted return of 5.1 percent.  Consolidated  net income  at Hyundai Motor rose almost
fivefold from 2007 through 2011 as it expanded sales in  North
America  and  China , the largest auto market. During the same
period, Hysco’s consolidated  earnings  soared more than 13-fold.
By contrast, profit at ArcelorMittal fell by more than half and
 U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  turned to a loss.  Hysco gets 67 percent of the hot-rolled coil steel it uses
as a raw material from affiliate  Hyundai Steel Co. (004020) , according to
Tong Yang Securities Inc. In turn, Hysco supplies about 53
percent of the group’s car sheet, according to BNP Paribas SA
estimates, helping keep its trading volatility at 53.2, compared
with the average of 61.7 for the 152 steel companies.  Very Rare  “Globally, it is very rare to see a car group with a
vertical supply chain that spans from raw-material steel to end-
product cars,” Park Byung Chil, a steel analyst with Seoul-
based IBK Securities Co., said by phone on Oct. 29.  Hysco is  controlled  by Hyundai Motor, which has a 29
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Group
Chairman  Chung Mong Koo , the automaker and affiliate  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  own a combined 55 percent of the steelmaker. Hysco’s chief
Shin Sung Jae is Chung’s third son-in-law.  The Hyundai Motor Group is South Korea’s second-biggest
chaebol, a term that describes the family-run, interlinked
business groupings that led the nation’s industrialization after
the  Korean War . The auto-making group was split off from the
main  Hyundai Group  in 2000. Hyundai Group, which includes
Hyundai Elevator Co., is led by Chairman Hyun Jeong Eun,
billionaire Chung’s sister-in-law. Chung is the second son of
the late Hyundai founder Chung Ju Yung.  ‘Top Priority’  “The Hyundai Motor Group’s top priority is cars,” said
Shinhan BNP’s Im. “For years, they’ve been trying to
internalize the steel business since it is the most important
raw material. Well positioned in a sweet spot in the drive,
Hysco is the biggest beneficiary.”  Hysco’s position in the middle of the chaebol’s supply
chain also helped it beat Hyundai Steel, which produced a risk-
adjusted return of less than 0.1 percent over the past five
years. Hysco’s estimated  sales growth  of 6.7 percent for the
current year compares with contractions at Hyundai Steel and
 ArcelorMittal. (MT)   Hysco’s margins, which have contributed to below-average
trading volatility, were helped by an oversupply of  the hot-
rolled coil  it buys from Hyundai Steel and undersupply of the
 cold-rolled sheets  it provides to Hyundai Motor to make car
bodies, according to Kim Gyung Jung, an analyst at Eugene
Investment & Securities Co. Hyundai Steel added two mills in
2010 of 8 million tons, increasing supplies to Hysco.  “As long as Hyundai and Kia produce cars as planned, the
operating margin of Hysco will not be volatile,” said Cho Kang Un, a steel analyst with Shinyoung Securities Co.  ‘Captive Buyer’  Hysco’s profit and  operating margins  have grown steadily
from 2007 through 2011. The operating margin more than doubled
to 5.3 percent, higher than the industry median of 4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The profit margin
increased more than six-fold to 3.6 percent, better than the 1.9
percent median of the 152 steelmakers.  “Both Hysco and Hyundai Steel have the captive buyer, but
Hysco was able to generate more stable profit,” said IBK’s
Park. “Hyundai Steel is more vulnerable and has more exposure
to global raw-material and steel markets as it produces products
from upstream hot-rolled coils to construction steel.”  The reliance on its carmaker affiliates, while helping
Hysco enjoy below-average volatility, also makes the company
vulnerable should sales of Hyundais and Kias slow, said
Shinyoung’s Cho. The two carmakers face lawsuits in the U.S.
after they admitted to overstating the fuel efficiency of some
models.  China Sales  “Hyundai and Kia Motors are not expected to slow down, but
if they do, the risk to Hysco is lower prices for their
products, which will erode margins,” Cho said. Overstating the
mileage on some models “is definitely a critical issue to
 Hyundai Motor (005380)  Group.”  So far, there’s no sign of a slowdown. Hyundai Motor
started production this year at its third plant in China, its
top market, and Kia’s third China factory is scheduled to come
on stream in 2014. Hyundai’s Brazil plant is set for full
operation next year and its factory in  Turkey  is being doubled
in size.  The carmakers in September reported record sales in China.
The nation’s  passenger vehicle market  may grow 11 percent this
year, the China Association of Automotive Manufacturers
estimates.  Hyundai Motor’s auto sales in China more than tripled to
740,000 cars from 2007 through 2011, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  ‘Growth Momentum’  To keep pace with the carmakers’ expansion, Hysco plans to
open a 1.5 million-ton mill next year, which will give the
company “growth momentum”, said Kim Jung Wook, a steel analyst
with Hana Daetoo Securities Co., who has a  buy  rating and a
price-estimate of 63,000 won for the stock.  Hyundai Hysco closed yesterday unchanged at 41,750 won,
leaving its gain for the year at 19 percent compared with a 3.5
percent advance in the local benchmark Kospi index.  “While the outlook for the global  steel industry  is still
very gloomy even for next year, Hysco’s earnings will grow
steadily through at least 2014,” Hana’s Kim said. “Its
earnings are good now and will continue to be.  The stock ,
therefore, has more room to go up.”  Hysco’s market share of car sheets for the group’s overseas
plants may reach 50 percent and its total share, including the
group’s domestic factories, to 63 percent by 2015, according to
BNP Paribas analyst Jongik Kwon.  “ Hysco’s earnings are less volatile due to stable roll
margin expectation and huge captive demand from the group,”
BNP’s Kwon said in a Sept. 14 report. “ Hysco will continue to
trade at a premium to other Korean steel companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in  New York  at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  