-- Zimbabwe Diamond Embargo Costs $30 Million, Mpofu Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-11-13T16:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/zimbabwe-diamond-embargo-costs-30-million-mpofu-says-1-.html
A trade embargo on diamonds from
 Zimbabwe ’s Marange fields has cost the southern African nation
about $30 million, Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said.  The U.S., the European Union,  Australia  and  New Zealand 
don’t allow individuals or companies to trade with designated
members of President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front party, or businesses associated with the
party. Western nations cite human-rights abuses, including the
killing of gem diggers at Marange, as the reason for targeted
sanctions.  “We estimate that to date $30 million has been confiscated
by agencies in transit to Zimbabwe and I know this is a concern
to all of us,” Mpofu said in an interview in the northwestern
resort town of Victoria Falls, near the border with Zambia. “It
doesn’t show any concern about livelihood of Zimbabweans.”  Critics of Zimbabwe’s human-rights record, including
Ontario-based Partnership Africa  Canada , argue that Zanu-PF has
looted about $2 billion from the Marange fields, partly to fund
the nation’s military, which is seen as loyal to Zanu-PF.  “Conservative estimates place the theft of Marange goods
at almost $2 billion since 2008” and the funds are going to
enrich members of Mugabe’s ruling circle and gem dealers,
Partnership Africa Canada, a member of the Kimberley Process,
the world regulatory body on the diamond trade, said in a  report 
released yesterday.  Proof Needed  Zimbabwean Defense Minister Emmerson Mnangagwa denies the
allegation, saying in an interview yesterday that critics should
prove it.  Anjin, a Chinese mining company that’s the biggest
extractor of stones at Marange, is closely aligned to Zimbabwe
Defence Industries, a state-owned weapons procurer controlled by
the military, Partnership Africa Canada said in its report.  “ZDI trades diamonds and other commodities primarily
through two companies” based in the capital, Harare, it said.  “They trade approximately $50 million diamonds on average
a month,” Partnership Africa Canada said.  Calls to ZDI’s Harare offices weren’t answered when
 Bloomberg News  sought comment today.  Still, diamond companies in  Europe  and the  Middle East  are
keen to trade stones from Marange, traders said at a two-day
diamond conference in Victoria Falls that ends today.  Exclusion’s Effects  “We’re convinced that the resulting de facto exclusion of
imports from certain areas negatively affects the ongoing social
and economic development of Zimbabwe,” Stephane Fischler,
president of the Antwerp World Diamond Center said today. “Your
diamonds are not fully exposed to the international market, and
as such failing to guarantee you the best price and optimal
return.”  The U.S. would lift targeted sanctions against people and
businesses allied to Zanu-PF when Zimbabwe honored its own laws,
Mark Gonzales, a spokesman for the U.S. embassy in Harare, said
at a conference in Victoria Falls.  “The ball lies with the government of Zimbabwe to honor
its laws and honor the role of its institutions as defined by
its people and when that happens then sanctions can be gone,”
Gonzales said.  Zimbabwe is able to produce 8 percent to 10 percent of the
world’s rough diamonds since its eastern Marange fields were
discovered, Chaim Even-Zohar, chairman of industry consultant
Tacy Ltd., told the conference yesterday. While Zimbabwe
complies with  Kimberley Process  laws, “insurance companies are
afraid of OFAC,” forcing it to sell gems a quarter below market
value.  OFAC, the Office of Foreign Asset Control, is a U.S.
Treasury department arm that monitors and controls trade with
nations under U.S. sanctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  