-- Zynga CFO David Wehner Departs for Facebook as Stock Tumbles
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-13/zynga-promotes-vranesh-to-cfo-as-wehner-exits-for-facebook-post.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the largest maker of
games played on social networks, said Chief Financial Officer
David Wehner is departing to take a senior finance job at
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  He’ll be succeeded by Mark Vranesh.  Chief Mobile Officer David Ko was named chief operations
officer, while Barry Cottle was appointed chief revenue officer
and Steven Chiang became president of games, San Francisco-based
Zynga said yesterday in a statement.  Wehner’s departure less than a year after the company’s
initial public offering -- and following the exits of at least
eight other senior managers since August -- weakens confidence
in Zynga’s turnaround efforts. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  has embarked on a restructuring aimed at cutting costs
and boosting revenue from games on mobile devices.  “When executives start voting with their feet, it sends a
more powerful message than anything the company can say,” said
 Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  Dallas ,
who has a neutral rating on the stock. “It seems more and more
that the company is going to have continued issues.”  Zynga reiterated the financial forecast it gave last month,
when it said 2012 bookings, a predictor of sales, will be $1.09
billion to $1.1 billion. It also said full-year per-share
profit, excluding some costs, will be 2 cents to 3 cents, not
including the effect of share repurchases.  Wehner will become Facebook’s vice president of corporate
finance and business planning, Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for
the  Menlo Park , California-based social network, said in a
statement yesterday.  Keeping Talent  Pincus is struggling to retain some top deputies as a
plummeting stock price -- it has declined 79 percent since the
December IPO -- erodes the value of equity-based compensation.
Jeff Karp, Zynga’s former marketing chief, resigned in
September, following the departures of former COO John Schappert
and former chief creative officer Mike Verdu.  The company is cutting 5 percent of staff, shutting offices
and ending more than a dozen titles, Pincus told employees in a
memo last month.  Vranesh previously served as Zynga’s CFO before he became
chief accounting officer in 2010.  The latest changes elevate  Ko , a former Yahoo! Inc.
executive who joined the game maker in 2010 and oversaw the
creation of more than 25 titles for mobile devices. He now
oversees all strategy, planning and operations at Zynga,
according to the company’s website.  Zynga was little changed at $2.11 at yesterday’s close in
 New York , prior to the announcement of management changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  