-- Maersk CEO Says Balancing Supply of Ships to Demand Is Years Off
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-11-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/maersk-ceo-says-balancing-supply-of-ships-to-demand-is-years-off.html
  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s largest container line, said the shipping industry
must learn to live with excess capacity.  Given the current order book for container vessels,
achieving equilibrium between supply and demand “is not an
immediate thing,” Chief Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said in an interview. Industry estimates point to a
balance being reached in 2015 or 2016, with Copenhagen-based
Maersk on the “slightly more pessimistic side,” he said.  Maersk Line -- which controls almost 16 percent of
worldwide container capacity -- and its competitors are battling
oversupply after a boom in ship purchases coincided with the
financial crisis, triggering the worst slump in carriage fees
since containerization became global in the 1970s. The company
yesterday posted an 11 percent gain in third-quarter profit
after cost cuts helped counter a decline in rates.  “The industry will live with overcapacity for a long, long
time,” Andersen said. “We have, in terms of our own situation,
come to accept that we have to make money, irrespective.”  As of Sept. 30 the global container fleet stood at almost
17.2 million standard containers, or TEUs, an increase of 6
percent versus a year earlier, according to Maersk. Some 56
vessels were added in the third quarter, 41 were scrapped and 91
new ships were ordered, while 2.6 percent of the total fleet
stood idle, down from 3.4 percent a year earlier, it said.  Jumbo Vessels  Maersk took delivery of three of the world’s largest
Triple-E container ships in the third quarter, with reduced fuel
burn and a capacity of 18,000 standard containers, and will
receive another two before the end of the year.  In order not to increase overall supply, Maersk offers only
14,000 to 15,000 TEUs of available capacity on the  Asia  to
 Europe  routes where the craft are deployed, Andersen said.  “Our purpose is not to use the Triple-E vessels to take
market share or start price wars or anything like that,” the
CEO said. “For us, it’s a matter of reducing our costs. We will
keep our market share and, depending on how the market grows,
that will mean we will give back more or less tonnage to charter
partners or scrap more or less of our own vessels.”  Maersk is assuming annual market expansion of 5 percent,
and plans to enlarge its own fleet at the same pace, he said.  The world’s top carriers, including Maersk and CMA CGM SA
of  France , have been seeking to push up freight charges after
fees between Asia and Europe fell to an 18-month low in June.
The Danish company has announced four increases in five months.  Alliance  Even with a proposed multi-carrier pooling alliance of
Maersk, CMA CGM and Mediterranean Shipping Co., a spate of
mergers and mothballing of older ships, companies are finding it
tough to return the industry to balance amid subdued demand.  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, which tracks
freight rates for goods leaving the world’s busiest port and
bound for destinations in Europe and  North America , stood at
$1,090.16 on Nov. 8. That compares with this year’s low of
$881.74, reached on Oct. 18, and a Jan. 18 high of $1,245.84.  Maersk Line  last raised carriage fees on Nov. 1 and is
determined to force through the new price, Andersen said, adding
that he is “happy with the outcome” so far.  “With the profitability we have in the industry, everybody
realizes higher rates are fair,” the CEO said.“I believe
customers understand they cannot have a supplier base that is
constantly unprofitable. We will definitely work very hard to
make sure rates stick, as we need the money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  