-- Ahold Drops as Company Loses Market Share in Netherlands
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-11-14T08:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ahold-to-redistribute-additional-1-billion-euros-to-shareholders.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH)  shares fell the most
in more than a year after the biggest Dutch retailer said it has
been losing market share in the Netherlands and a plan to
redistribute cash to shareholders fell short of some analysts’
expectations.  The company has been “slightly” losing market share in
the Netherlands, where it operates Albert Heijn grocery stores,
Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  told journalists on a
conference call today. The CEO expects  consumer spending  to
remain under pressure in the current quarter and doesn’t see any
improvement in the trading environment in the short term.  “The numbers were a bit light in the Netherlands,” said
 Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING in Amsterdam. “What is
worrying to us is that the weak consumer sentiment is moving to
a lower basket size in the Netherlands and that’s impacting
market share.”  Ahold shares dropped as much as 4.3 percent in Amsterdam.
The grocer has revamped its cheapest product offerings in a bid
to lure more customers from rivals like Aldi shops. Still,
consumers bought fewer items on each visit, Ahold said today,
leading to a 0.2 percent decrease in identical sales in the
third quarter, falling short of the 1 percent jump analysts had
anticipated.  Underlying operating income fell 14 percent to 248 million
euros at constant exchange rates in the third quarter, mostly
due to restructuring, Ahold said. That missed the 311 million-euro average  estimate  of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares fell as much as 59 cents to 13.14 euros and
traded at 13.17 euros at 9:21 a.m. in Amsterdam. That was the
biggest intraday decline since August, 2012.  Repayment Transaction  Ahold expects to complete the 1 billion-euro ($1.35
billion) repayment transaction, which will be followed by a
reverse stock split, in the first quarter of 2014, the Zaandam-based company said in a statement today.  Ahold said it has carried out about 30 percent of a 2
billion-euro  buyback  that’s due to be completed by the end of
next year, returning cash after selling a stake in Swedish
retailer ICA. JPMorgan Chase & Co. had said the retailer may
return an additional 2 billion euros to shareholders by the end
of 2014, with 1.5 billion euros of that announced today, while
Bank of America Corp. had said the retailer could return as much
as an additional 1.5 billion euros, though the figure would
probably be closer to 1 billion euros.  “The capital repayment is at the low end of what we were
expecting,” said  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities
in Amsterdam. “The balance sheet is very solid and when you
tell the market that you’re going to do something about  capital
structure , everyone starts fantasizing and having high
expectations and 1 billion is at the low end.”  The retailer will request shareholder approval for the
repayment and stock split at the annual general meeting in
January.  U.S. Operations  In the U.S., where Ahold operates Stop & Shop stores,
identical sales missed estimates, rising 0.6 percent, excluding
gasoline, compared with the median prediction of 0.8 percent.
Underlying operating margin dropped to 4 percent of sales from
4.1 percent a year earlier, missing a median estimate of 4.1
percent. Ahold now has 89 pick-up points for it online business
in the U.S. and 15 in the Netherlands, it said today.  “The U.S. wasn’t a big miss but the company is still
probably losing a bit of its competitiveness in the U.S.,” SNS
Securities’ Withagen said. “Any initiative to repair that would
be welcome by me.”  Slovakia Sale  Ahold said in a separate statement that it agreed to sell
its Slovakian business to Condorum. Ahold Slovakia operates 24
stores and had net sales of 159 million euros in 2012. The
transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  