-- AIB Says Loan Woes Ease as Moody’s Sees Ireland at Bottom
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-11-14T12:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/aib-says-loan-woes-ease-as-moody-s-sees-ireland-at-bottom.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s
largest state-owned lender, reported overdue home-loan growth
eased “significantly” in the third quarter as Moody’s
Investors Service said Ireland’s housing market may have hit
bottom.  “There are signs of stabilization in the quality of the
bank’s loan portfolios, with the pace of new impairments slowing
significantly year-on-year,” the Dublin-based lender said in a
statement today, without providing numbers. By value, Allied
Irish’s level of owner-occupied residential mortgages at least
90 days overdue rose to 16.4 percent the end of June from 14.9
percent in December, it said in August.  After seven years, Ireland’s housing recession “is finally
showing signs of bottoming out,” Moody’s said today, adding
that this will limit the level of losses Irish banks face on
residential mortgages.  Allied Irish  said its bad-loan losses
“are trending lower in line with expectations,” after
declining 16 percent to 744 million euros ($1 billion) from a
year earlier.  Allied Irish, 99.8 percent state-owned after an almost 21
billion-euro bailout, said it was in “advanced” talks with the
European Union on its restructuring plan.  Margin Widens  The lender’s net interest margin, the difference between
the rate at which it borrowers and lends to customers, widened
to more than 1.4 percent in the third quarter, excluding
government guarantee costs. The margin expanded to 1.28 percent
in the first half from 1.20 percent in the previous six months
as the bank and Irish competitors cut deposit rates and raised
lending costs, it  said  on Aug. 1.  “We welcome confirmation that discussions with the
European Commission in relation to the approval of the AIB
restructuring plan are at an advanced stage,” said Philip O’Sullivan, an economist with Investec Plc in Dublin. “The
resolution of this will bring certainty to the group and allow
management to focus on how to best meet the needs of a re-emerging Irish economy.”  Moody’s said that overdue loan rates in Irish residential
mortgage-backed securities is flattening out as the economy
stabilizes. Dublin home prices rose 3.9 percent in September,
the biggest increase in at least eight years, according to the
 Central Statistics Office . Prices in the Irish capital are still
51 percent off their 2007 peak.  ‘Unsustainable Debt’  “Despite these developments, however, there are a
substantial number of Irish borrowers with unsustainable debt
levels,” said Moody’s. “High losses from these borrowers are
inevitable either through repossession or more likely for the
majority of cases debt forgiveness.”  Separately,  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  said today its Irish unit will set
aside as much as 775 million euros of loan-loss provisions in
the fourth quarter in anticipation of the  European Central
Bank ’s review next year of banks’ asset quality.  KBC said it may reclassify as impaired about 2 billion
euros of Irish home loans where borrowers’ terms were eased,
following recent European Banking Authority guidance on non-performing loans. Loan losses at KBC Ireland, where John Reynolds is stepping down as chief executive officer “to pursue
other opportunities,” are forecast to decline in the next two
years before the lender returns to profit in 2016, its Brussels-based parent said in a statement.  “Whether there is any read-across to the domestic banks is
unclear as Irish central bank guidelines, issued in May and
which prompted  Bank of Ireland Plc  to top up provisions by 100
million euros in the first half, appear to be broadly consistent
with EBA definitions,”  Emer Lang , an analyst with Davy,
Ireland’s largest securities firm, said in a note to clients.  KBC said non-performing loans made up 25.9 percent of its
Irish 15.5 billion-euro loan book at the end of September,
little changed from three months earlier, according to a
 presentation  the bank did for analysts, posted on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  