-- Air Force Sex Assault Officer Cleared of Groping Charge
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-11-14T16:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/air-force-sex-assault-officer-cleared-of-groping-charge.html
A U.S.  Air Force  officer who headed
the service’s sex assault prevention office when he was charged
with groping a woman was cleared of a misdemeanor assault charge
in connection with the incident.  A seven-member Arlington County,  Virginia , jury yesterday
found Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski, 42, not guilty
following a trial that stretched over two days.  Krusinski’s arrest May 5 came two days before a Defense
Department report showed a 35 percent increase in cases of
unwanted sexual contact in the military, stoking anger in
Congress and the Obama administration over how the armed forces
deal with sexual assault and related issues.  Krusinski’s attorney, Barry Coburn, praised the verdict,
saying the jury was “extremely diligent.”  Commonwealth’s Attorney Theo Stamos said he was
disappointed in the panel’s decision. Krusinski, however, may
yet face military proceedings in the matter.  “Now that the civilian trial is complete, we will
separately assess the facts and evidence in the case and
determine if there are applicable disciplinary or administrative
actions that are appropriate,” Lieutenant Colonel Laurel
Tingley, an Air Force spokeswoman, said in a statement today.  Charged  Krusinski was charged after he allegedly approached a woman
“and grabbed her breasts and buttocks,” according to a county
police statement. The incident occurred at 12:35 a.m. and
Krusinski was drunk at the time, police said.  A 23-year-old woman testified in the trial that Krusinski
grabbed her buttocks in a parking lot outside a bar near the
Pentagon and that she responded by punching him, according to
the  Associated Press .  There were conflicting accounts of which body parts
Krusinski touched and how many times the woman hit him and in
what manner, the wire service reported.  “Certainly there was complexity here,” Coburn said.  Krusinski had been branch chief for the sexual-assault
prevention and response office since February. He was removed
from the job pending an investigation of the parking-lot
incident, the Air Force said at the time of his arrest. He has
been free on bail since.  The case is Virginia v. Krusinski, GC13002001-00, Arlington
County General District Court (Arlington, Virginia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  