-- Air Berlin Scraps Earnings Forecast on Difficult Winter
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-14T12:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/air-berlin-scraps-earnings-forecast-on-difficult-winter.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  scrapped targets for
profit and debt as efficiency measures by  Europe ’s third-biggest
discount carrier fail to offset weaker demand that the company
predicts will continue into 2014.  Earnings before interest and taxes will “almost reach”
analysts’ predictions this year, the Berlin-based airline said
in a statement late yesterday, scaling back from an earlier
forecast that the company will break even. Analysts are
estimating a loss on that basis of 42.3 million euros ($57
million), according to the average of five  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Net debt will total about 650 million euros by year-end, versus a prior target of 500 million euros.  “Despite the third quarter having gone well, we have been
unable to meet our earnings targets” because of “market
conditions and special external factors,” Chief Executive
Officer Wolfgang Prock-Schauer said in the statement. “Given
the weak demand and the unabated intense competitive
environment, even further price erosion is apparent for the
current winter half-year” that began at the end of October.  Germany ’s economy lost momentum in the third quarter and
 France ’s unexpectedly contracted as the euro region’s recovery
flags. Air Berlin is halfway through a program to improve
operating profit by 400 million euros that includes trimming
fleet and workforce and dropping unprofitable routes. Parts of
the effort were nullified after a hot German summer discouraged
travel.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s largest discount carrier,
trimmed its  earnings goal  twice in as many months.  Stock Falls  Air Berlin  fell  as much as 2.3 percent to 1.73 euros, the
steepest intraday decline since Oct. 28, and was trading down
2 percent at 1:05 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has gained about
13 percent this year, the third-worst performance on the six-company BI EU Airlines Index, which has gained 34 percent.  The number of passengers carried in the third quarter fell
5.6 percent, even with increased code sharing of flights with
minority shareholder Etihad Airways PJSC and partners in the
Oneworld alliance, Air Berlin said. Revenue declined 3.5 percent
to 1.35 billion euros.  Ebit rose 14 percent to 115.6 million euros as operating
expenses  dropped  5.2 percent because of lower airport charges
and fuel costs, it said.  Air Berlin sold seven of the 25 aircraft it owned to
 China ’s Minsheng Commercial Aviation Ltd. after the end of the
quarter. The total number of sales may amount to 10 to 15
aircraft by the end of the year, Chief Financial Officer Ulf Huettmeyer said today on a conference call.  Air Berlin will cut capacity by 3 percent in the fourth
quarter, mainly on short-haul routes, and trim the number of
city pairs connected to about 400 from 440. The company still
expects to generate an operating profit next year, when it now
expects to meet the net debt target of 500 million euros, Prock-Schauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  