-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Rise Most in 5 Weeks on Yellen Comments
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-14T02:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/taiwan-dollar-forwards-rise-most-in-5-weeks-on-yellen-comments.html
Taiwan’s dollar forwards climbed the
most in five weeks after Federal Reserve chief nominee  Janet
Yellen  signaled the U.S. economic recovery needs the support of
an accommodative monetary policy.  The  U.S. dollar  touched a one-week low against the euro
yesterday after Yellen said in testimony prepared for her Senate
nomination hearing today that the  U.S. economy  and labor market
are performing “far short of their potential.” Taiwan’s
government will lower this year’s growth forecast from 2.31
percent as weak exports in October affected private investment
and consumption,  Apple Daily  reported yesterday, citing
statistics bureau minister Shih Su-mei.  “Yellen’s comments were neutral rather than hawkish, so
the U.S. dollar fell,” said Andrew Tsai, an economist at KGI
Securities in Taipei. “But as Taiwan’s economic data has missed
estimates recently, there’s still little support for fund
inflows.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards on Taiwan’s currency
advanced 0.2 percent to NT$29.511 per greenback as of 10:36 a.m.
in Taipei, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest jump since Oct. 11. The contracts touched a two-month
low yesterday as speculation that the Fed may cut its stimulus
spurred outflows from local equities.  In the  spot market , Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.3
percent to NT$29.550 against the greenback following a six-day
losing streak, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. It lost 0.2
percent in the last 18 minutes of trading yesterday amid
suspected central bank intervention. The monetary authority has
sold the currency in the run-up to the close on most days since
March 2012, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, decreased nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.33 percent.  The yield on the 1.25 percent bonds due October 2018 fell
one basis point to 1.126 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.388
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  