-- Hamburg Port Container Growth Increases on Baltic Sea Traffic
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-14T11:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/hamburg-port-container-growth-increases-on-baltic-sea-traffic.html
Hamburg,  Europe ’s third-biggest
port, reported container volume growth of 3.6 percent in the
first nine months of the year on a strong increase in feeder
traffic with Baltic Sea ports.  Throughput rose to 7 million 20-foot equivalent units, or
TEUs, while transshipment -- the transfer of containers from
deep-sea ships from  Asia  to smaller feeder vessels destined
mostly for the Baltics -- advanced 10 percent to 2.9 million
TEU, Port of Hamburg Marketing said.  “Similar to the first half of the year, Hamburg grew above
the average trend in North Europe,” Axel Mattern, board member
of the Port of Hamburg Marketing, told reporters in Hamburg.  Average container throughput at the ports of the North
Range, which also includes Europe’s biggest harbor Rotterdam as
well as Antwerp and Bremerhaven, grew by only 1 percent in the
first three quarters of the year, Port of Hamburg said. Total
throughput, which also includes bulk and mixed cargo, in the
region rose 0.7 percent, while Hamburg reported a 6 percent
increase to 103.9 million metric tons.  Port of Hamburg Marketing said it now expects 138.5 million
metric tons in total throughput in the full year, an increase of
almost 6 percent compared to last year. It previously forecast
136 million metric tonnes. The port also predicted a 4 percent
increase in container volume to 9.3 million TEU, compared with a
previous expectation of 9.1 million TEU.  Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG, the handler of about three
in four containers at Hamburg’s port, yesterday posted a 16
percent drop in nine-month profit as modernization of a terminal
drove up costs.  It also faced additional costs for personnel and equipment
as the dredging project to deepen and widen the navigation
passage of the Elbe connecting the port and the  North Sea  has
been delayed by a lawsuit, it said.  Hamburg Economy Minister Frank Horch said on Nov. 8 that he
doesn’t expect  Germany ’s Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig
to issue a ruling on the dredging dispute this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  