-- Amgen and Sanofi Drugs Can Reach U.S. Without Long Studies
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-14T22:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/amgen-and-sanofi-pcsk9-drugs-can-reach-u-s-without-long-studies.html
U.S. regulators won’t require  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ,  Sanofi (SAN) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and other companies developing the
next class of cardiovascular medicines to prove the therapies
prevent heart attacks and death before they’re approved.  The drugs, known as PCSK9 inhibitors, will only have to
meet the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ’s existing standards
for clearance, including whether they cut cholesterol and reduce
 blood pressure  or inflammation, said Eric Colman, a deputy
director in the drug evaluation and research branch.  The issue was raised after cholesterol care guidelines
released this week said people should only take statins to
reduce their levels, since other drugs hadn’t specifically been
proven to reduce cardiac complications. While the new drugs,
which work differently from statins, cut cholesterol in studies,
they haven’t completed broader trials that would prove they help
people avoid heart attacks or death.  “There is a race to the finish line to get these out the
door,” said  Ira Loss , an analyst at Washington Analysis that
tracks the FDA.  Analysts have said the PCSK9 inhibitors, which block a
protein that prevents liver cells from processing LDL and
clearing it from the body, will generate $2 billion in 2018.
Broad-scale trials to prove medical outcomes can involve more
than 20,000 patients, cost as much as $500 million and add years
on to the development process.  Shares Increase  Shares of PCSK9 developers rose. Tarrytown, New York-based
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) , which is developing its medicine
with French drugmaker Sanofi,  jumped  4.2 percent to $288.83 at
the close in New York. Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,
California, gained 1.7 percent to $115.41. Pfizer, based in New
York, rose less than 1 percent to $32.  An FDA approval decision “will be based on the compound’s
effects on the entire lipoprotein lipid panel, particularly LDL-cholesterol, its effects on other markers of potential
cardiovascular risk,” such as blood pressure, as well as any
problems with toxicity, Colman said in an interview.  The new cholesterol guidelines from the American College of
Cardiology and the  American Heart Association  were released Nov.
12. They recommend only statin drugs such as Pfizer’s Lipitor
and AstraZeneca Plc’s Crestor since studies involving more than
190,000 patients conclusively prove their benefit. Rivals that
work differently, including Merck’s Zetia and Vytorin, haven’t
been shown to reduce the risk of heart complications and aren’t
backed for routine use.  Statin Alternative  The PCSK9 inhibitors are monoclonal antibodies, proteins
grown in living cells that are injected into the body to target
an enzyme produced by the PCSK9 gene. They were developed to
help people who can’t tolerate statins, or who don’t get their
cholesterol under control with older medicines, a group that
encompasses about 12 million people in the U.S.  Roche Holding AG , Merck & Co.,  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY) 
and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  all have PCSK9 inhibitors in their product
pipelines.  Heart disease remains the leading cause of death worldwide,
killing more than 600,000 Americans every year, according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. High levels of
bad LDL cholesterol, which can form into fatty plaque, raises
the risk that the arteries will clog and cause a heart attack.  For now, the FDA says it’s sticking with the traditional
approach to approving cholesterol medications. The results of a
trial with Merck & Co.’s Vytorin, called Improve-It, has the
potential to change the equation if the drug’s cholesterol
lowering ability fails to translate into longer life and fewer
heart attacks, said Colman, the FDA’s deputy director of the
division of metabolism and endocrinology products.  “Looking ahead, the results of the ongoing trial Improve-It will provide important insight into the incremental effect on
risk for major adverse cardiovascular events of adding a non-statin, LDL-cholesterol lowering drug to subjects receiving
background statin therapy,” Colman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Michelle Fay Cortez} in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  