-- Annual Doctor Visits Will Increase Cholesterol Drug Use
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/annual-doctor-visits-will-increase-cholesterol-drug-use.html
Millions of Americans going for an
annual checkup in 2014 will come away from the doctor’s office
with a new prescription to lower their cholesterol, a move
cardiologists say will avert heart attacks and strokes.  New guidelines released by the  American Heart Association 
and the  American College of Cardiology  will expand the use of
statin drugs to almost 1 in 3 Americans from 16 percent
currently. Everyone older than 40 with diabetes and those
diagnosed with heart disease should be on a statin, regardless
of their cholesterol count, the recommendations say.  As many as 15 million Americans will be told to start
taking statins, a class of medicines including  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Crestor and generic drugs that can cost as little as 10 cents a
day. Others may be weaned off treatments that work differently,
such as  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Zetia, that were prescribed to get them to
the now abandoned targets for lower cholesterol. The guidelines
also will ask more from patients, including an extra effort to
improve their lifestyles.  “This does represent a sea change,” said Rob Schwartz, a
cardiologist at the Minneapolis Heart Institute who treats
patients and conducts research. “There is no longer a focus on
single numbers as far as your goal. That’s a two-edged sword
because it’s easy to understand. The problem is that life isn’t
that simple.”  Jennifer Decamps, an emergency room nurse at Deaconess
Hospital in Evansville,  Indiana , said she has taken a statin
for six of the last 10 years. As a nurse and a Type 1 diabetic,
the 39-year-old Decamps is well aware of her risk. She said the
“guidelines change is frustrating,” because she’s not sure how
they will affect her.  Puzzling Changes  “I know the importance of the cholesterol numbers and what
the drugs can do,” she said. “I don’t know for me personally
whether the recommendation matters or changes treatment.”  The guidelines recommend a move away from treating patients
to a preset goal, optimally under 100 milligrams per deciliter
for bad cholesterol, known as LDL, and less than 70 mg/dl for
those with heart disease. Now it’s advised that patients stay on
statins no matter what their levels.  The biggest challenge will be educating doctors and
patients about the changes, said  Dave Dixon , a clinical lipid
specialist at Virginia Commonwealth University’s School of
Pharmacy in Richmond. Patients like numbers and goals to shoot
for, and many doctors believe the lower the LDL, the better.
It’s not clear how people will respond to the changes, he said.  Advice Rebuffed  The National Lipid Association has already  rejected  the
guidelines, saying their focus on rigorous studies that excluded
other types of evidence was insufficient to address gaps in
patient care. The group said there wasn’t evidence to support
the decision to eliminate treatment targets.  Primary care physicians may be slow to embrace the new
guidelines, Dixon said. Patients, meanwhile, should take a list
of questions to their next visit to find out exactly what their
risk is and what their prescriptions are supposed to do.  “I do have some concern from the standpoint that it’s such
a drastic change,” Dixon said. “If there is a split amongst
the medical community, I’m not sure that’s the best thing for
our patients. They are going to get mixed messages.”  Patients on multiple medications should ask about the goals
of treatment, particularly now that it isn’t to get cholesterol
to a pre-determined level, he said. Some patients may have their
medications reduced. That is already happening for some people,
after a study found adding  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ’s Niaspan to a statin
failed to help patients and may have raised the risk of stroke.  VA Experience  The changes are under way at the nation’s Veterans Affairs
hospitals, which last year conducted a review and altered their
approach. The VA system recognized cost and patient benefits,
said John Rumsfeld, the national director for cardiology at the
 U.S. Veterans Health Administration  in Denver.  “When the VA got rid of this performance measure and moved
to a statin-based treatment, we found that fewer patients were
being overtreated with unproven medications,” Rumsfeld said.
“This cuts costs for the health-care system because it reduces
both repeat blood tests and extra medication prescriptions.”  The VA doctors were initially surprised and a bit resistant
to the change, Rumsfeld said. The approach was embraced after
the rational and the simplified methods were explained, he said.
Doctors are already asking patients about their risk of heart
attack and stroke, diabetes, high blood pressure and smoking.
Using that information to determine whether someone needs
cholesterol treatment wasn’t a burden, he said.  ‘Simplified Approach’  “Ultimately, it’s a simplified approach,” Rumsfeld said.
“We get patients started on the treatment, and then we don’t
make the treatment and its monitoring a burden.”  Many people don’t realize the new guidelines still have
targets for the degree of cholesterol reduction that doctors are
shooting to hit. Intensive statin therapy for high-risk patients
should lower cholesterol by at least 50 percent, while moderate
therapy should cut it by 35 percent to 50 percent, Dixon said.  Only Crestor and high doses of atorvastatin, the generic
name for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, can generate a 50 percent or
greater reduction, he said. For patients who can’t tolerate high
doses or don’t benefit enough, doctors should get creative, he
said. This is the only group where non-statin therapies, like
Merck’s Zetia and Vytorin, are considered for care.  Half of all heart attacks happen in people with normal
cholesterol, said Schwartz, of the Minneapolis Heart Institute.
While cholesterol is a good marker of risk, it doesn’t identify
everyone. Conversely, many people with elevated cholesterol
levels based on the old guidelines will never have any heart
trouble or a stroke, he said.  Also, patients will be reminded that a large part of their
risk is under their own control, with weight loss, smoking
cessation and exercise playing key roles.  “Prevention of heart disease is more than a number,”
Schwartz said. “The numbers still matter, but it’s a lifestyle.
It’s a necessary move away from just numbers to look at the
whole patient. People like to be able to take the magic bullet,
but it’s just not that simple.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  