-- Applied Materials Forecasts Sales, Profit In Line With Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/applied-materials-forecasts-profit-sales-in-line-with-estimates.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest
supplier of semiconductor-manufacturing equipment, forecast
fiscal first-quarter sales and profit that were in line with
estimates amid rising machinery orders from contract chipmakers.  Revenue in the current period will climb 3 percent to 10
percent from the prior quarter, the company said yesterday in a
statement, indicating a range of $2.05 billion to $2.19 billion.
Profit before certain costs will be 20 cents to 24 cents a
share. On average, analysts projected sales of $2.19 billion and
profit of 23 cents, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Applied Materials is benefiting from an increase in demand
from companies such as  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) 
that build semiconductors for other chipmakers, as they upgrade
plants for new production processes. While chip-equipment orders
-- an indication of future sales -- are growing, bookings
slipped in the company’s display division, which makes machinery
used to produce flat-panel screens.  “Display is trending weaker, but semiconductor is trending
fine,” said Edwin Mok, an analyst at Needham & Co. in San
Francisco. He has a hold rating on the stock. “Orders came a
little bit weaker, but it was mostly display” that held them
back, he said.  Applied Materials shares were  little changed  in extended
trading. They had fallen less than 1 percent to $17.56 at
yesterday’s close in New York. The stock has gained 53 percent
this year.  Display Revenue  Net income  in the fourth quarter, which ended on Oct. 27,
was $183 million, or 15 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$515 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, the company said.
Excluding some costs, profit was 19 cents. Revenue climbed 21
percent to $1.99 billion, the first year-over-year increase
since 2011. On average, analysts had predicted profit of 18
cents of sales of $1.97 billion.  Silicon systems group orders in the fourth quarter were
$1.39 billion, a gain of 16 percent from the preceding period,
the Santa Clara, California-based company said. Display orders
slumped 55 percent from the third quarter to $114 million.  “TV unit growth is less than what we hoped it would be,”
Chief Executive Officer Gary Dickerson said in a telephone
interview. “But we think 2014 will be a good year for the
display business.”  Larger screens in smartphones, bigger televisions and the
introduction of curved displays will drive demand for screen
machinery, Dickerson said. Industrywide spending on equipment
for chip plants will grow 10 percent to 20 percent in 2014, he
said.  Tokyo Electron  In September, Applied Materials said it would acquire rival
Tokyo Electron Ltd. for $9.39 billion in stock. That follows its
acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. in
2011.  The consolidation among chip-equipment makers mirrors the
increasing concentration of their customer bases. Intel Corp.,
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing and Samsung Electronics Co.
now buy more than 60 percent of chipmaking machines ordered by
the industry, according to Patrick Ho, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in  Dallas .  Applied Materials is also the world’s largest maker of
equipment used to manufacture liquid crystal displays, and it
supplies machinery used to produce solar panels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  