-- Apple, Baidu, Karmaloop, WikiLeaks: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-14T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/apple-baidu-karmaloop-wikileaks-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is asking a federal jury
to award $379.7 million in a retrial over how much  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  owes for infringing mobile device patents.  Harold McElhinny, Apple’s lead attorney, asked jurors to
relive the excitement of the 2007 introduction of the iPhone as
he urged them to consider how much damage was done in the
copying of features by the company’s Suwon, South Korea-based
rival.  Samsung made $3.5 billion by selling 10.7 million products
in the U.S. that infringe Apple patents, he said in his opening
statement yesterday in federal court in San Jose,  California .  “At the end of this case, you will decide how much of that
$3.5 billion Samsung should rightfully return to Apple,”
McElhinny told the jury of six women and two men.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is aiming to recoup
part of the $410.5 million in damages that a judge cut from a
$1.05 billion jury award in August 2012 against Samsung. U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh ruled the verdict was flawed because
jurors miscalculated the period that the infringement occurred
for some of the 28 Samsung devices on trial.  While the 13 Samsung products at issue in the retrial are
no longer sold by Samsung, a second patent case between the
world’s two top smartphone makers, also before Koh, is set for
trial in March. The stakes are higher in that case because it
covers technology in newer smartphones, including Apple’s iPhone
5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  Koh instructed jurors yesterday that the previous nine-member jury found Samsung infringed five valid Apple patents and
that their “sole job” in the retrial is to determine the
damages Samsung must pay for infringement.  Bill Price , a lawyer for Samsung, asked the jury in his
opening statement to award Apple $52 million, which he called
“not a trivial sum.”  He encouraged jurors to keep an “open mind” because it’s
“kind of hard to not start leaning one way or another.”  “You’re going to find that Apple is simply asking for more
money than it’s entitled to,” he said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Crocs Accused of Infringing Patent for Child’s Sock-Topped Shoe  Crocs Inc., maker of the foam-resin clogs, was sued for
patent infringement by Celebrity International Inc.  Crocs, based in Niwot,  Colorado , is accused of infringing
patent 8,371,043. The patent, issued Feb. 12 to Celebrity
International of  New York , covers footwear that combines sock
and shoe and provides traction and foot protection for children
who are learning to walk.  In the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in New
York, Celebrity claims that the alleged infringement is
“willful and deliberate” and that it has lost profit as a
result of the Colorado company’s actions.  It asked the court for an order for the seizure and
destruction of all infringing products and a ban on further
infringement, in addition to awards of money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  Celebrity requested that the damages be increased to punish
Crocs for its actions.  Crocs didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is Celebrity International Inc., v.  Crocs Inc. (CROX) ,
1:13-cv-08054, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Tencent, Sohu Accuse Baidu of Infringing Video Copyrights  Chinese online-video providers  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  said the owner of China’s largest search engine,
 Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , infringed copyrights by providing access to pirated
content.  Some material on Baidu’s video search, Baidu Yingyin, Baidu
Video App and Baidu TV Stick is available without authorization,
companies including Tencent, Sohu and  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  said
yesterday in a joint statement.  Chinese online video companies spend billions of  yuan 
annually on content as they compete in a market that consultant
IResearch estimates may generate 16.2 billion yuan ($2.7
billion) in advertising revenue next year. Pressure to comply
with  intellectual property  rules has increased for the publicly
traded companies.  “The video industry now has walked to the crossroads,”
Charles Zhang, chairman and chief executive officer of Sohu,
said in an e-mailed statement. “If we let such industry
malpractices continue, it would be a devastating blow.”  Baidu values copyright protection and has blocked links to
more than 5.8 million videos since June, Kaiser Kuo, a Beijing-based spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Youku Tudou sued Baidu in Beijing and Shanghai, Jean Shao,
a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. Sohu also sued
Baidu, Jiang Xin, a spokeswoman for Sohu, said by text message
without elaborating.  Baidu agreed in July 2011 with  Universal Music Group ,
Warner Music Group Corp. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  to pay owners of
copyrighted material available on a social-music platform. Later
that year, it was removed from the U.S. list of “notorious
markets” known for sustaining piracy and counterfeiting of
intellectual property.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Karmaloop, Dr. Denim Sued for Infringing Premium Lounge Mark  Karmaloop Inc. of Boston and  Dr. Denim Inc.  of
Philadelphia, both retailers of men’s clothing, were sued for
trademark infringement by Brooklyn, New York’s  House of Premium
Lounge LLC .  In a suit filed yesterday in federal court in New York, the
Brooklyn company accused the retailers of using the “Premium
Lounge” marks on men’s outerwear without authorization.  Amazon.com Inc., Boylston Trading Co. and American Stitch
LLC are also named as defendants, as is the former owner of the
“Premium Lounge” trademark.  Premium Lounge LLC said an investigation it conducted found
the defendants were selling items that it was purported to have
made or sold. The company said such unauthorized use of its
marks is willful and “amounts to a fraud upon the public.”  The company asked the court to bar further unauthorized use
of its marks. It’s also seeking money damages, including profit
defendants realized from the alleged infringement. Premium
Lounge asked for additional damages to punish the defendants for
their actions, as well as attorney fees and litigation costs.  Neither Karmaloop nor Dr. Denim responded immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is House of Premium Lounge v. American Stitch LLC,
13-cv-08051, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Studio Movie Grill Unit Sued for Using ‘Eat, Drink, Movies’  Studio Movie Grill Concepts I Ltd.’s  Charlotte , North
Carolina, unit was sued for trademark infringement by a
competitor based in Asheville, North Carolina, for using the
slogan “Eat, Drink, Movies.”  Cinebarre LLC claimed in a suit filed Nov. 8 in federal
court in Charlotte that the slogan infringes its “Eat. Drink.
Watch Movies.” trademark.  Cinebarre said in its filing that its theaters offer a
variety of freshly prepared food and eating surfaces in front of
their seats so patrons can eat and drink while watching movies.  The company said that Dallas-based Studio Movie Grill’s
business model is based on Cinebarre’s and that the company is
infringing through the use of “Eat, Drink, Movies” for
advertising, marketing and identifying its theaters.  The public is confused by similar phrases, causing
Cinebarre “damages, embarrassment and injury to reputation,”
the company said.  Cinebarre asked the court to halt Studio Movie Grill’s use
of the phrase, and for money damages, litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Studio Movie Grill didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the suit.  The case is Cinebarre LLC v. Movie Grill Concepts XV LLC,
13-cv-00618, U.S. District Court, Western District of North
Carolina (Charlotte).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade-Related Intellectual Property  WikiLeaks Says Pacific Trade Draft Would Hurt Consumers  Provisions of a trade accord being negotiated by Pacific-region nations would “trample over individual rights,”
according to WikiLeaks, which released what it said is a draft
of the document.  WikiLeaks, based in Melbourne, Australia, said the 94-page
document is the intellectual property rights chapter of the
Trans-Pacific Partnership being drafted by 12 nations including
the U.S. and Japan.  Speaking at an event yesterday,  Michael Froman , the U.S.
Trade Representative, cautioned against drawing conclusions from
the WikiLeaks document.  “The agreement does not yet exist,” he said at a
conference in Washington sponsored by The Atlantic.  Froman’s office didn’t respond to a question about the
authenticity of the document other than to issue a statement
yesterday saying negotiations are still under way.  “We are working with Congress, stakeholders and our TPP
negotiating partners to reach an outcome that promotes high-paying jobs in innovative American industries,” according to
the statement, which cited a need for balanced copyright
protections and access to medicine.  Public Citizen , a Washington-based consumer group that is a
partner of WikiLeaks in the release, said in a statement that
the document shows the U.S. is “demanding terms that would
limit Internet freedom and access to lifesaving medicines
throughout the Asia-Pacific region.”  The U.S. has said it trying to pursue a “21st century”
trade accord that would set a high standard for issues including
intellectual property rights and protections for businesses that
compete with government-owned companies. Froman has said the
nations negotiating the pact are aiming for an agreement by the
end of the year.  In addition to Japan and the U.S., the other nations
negotiating the TPP are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile,
Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru, Singapore and Vietnam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  