-- Stocks Gain on China as Yen, Dollar Fall With Treasuries
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-15T21:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/asian-futures-signal-stock-rally-on-yellen-after-yen-drop.html
Stocks rose, led by  emerging
markets , as China unveiled details of its economic policy
changes and investors speculated the Federal Reserve will
continue stimulus. The yen and dollar slid against most peers
while oil capped its longest streak of weekly losses since 1998.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.4 percent at 4:30
p.m. in New York, its best gain in almost two months, as the
iShares China Large-Cap ETF climbed 4.4 percent for its biggest
rally since July. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4
percent to 1,798.18, closing at a record for a third straight
day. The 10-year Treasury yield rose, paring its weekly decline.
 Japan ’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 100.25 per dollar, the
weakest level in two months. Oil ended little changed at $93.84
a barrel, capping a sixth weekly decline.  China  laid out economic reforms to sustain the nation’s
expansion, saying it will allow more private investment in the
state sector and pledging to loosen its one-child policy. Janet Yellen, the nominee for chairman of the Fed, signaled during her
Senate confirmation hearing yesterday that she’ll maintain
record monetary stimulus until the economy is stronger.  “Many things are coming together that are making people
feel more optimistic about China,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation at ING Investment Management
which oversees $190 billion, said by phone. “There were a lot
of concerns about China’s ability to sustain growth over the
next 10 or 15 years.”  Emerging Markets  The emerging-markets index rose for a second day after
sliding for 10 straight sessions, its longest losing streak
since 2006. The iShares exchange-traded fund  tracking  Chinese
companies climbed 4.4 percent to $38.44, a one-month high.  China is seeking to balance finding new sources of growth
with sustaining the Communist Party’s grip on power as President
Xi Jinping faces challenges from debt to demographics. Couples
may have two children if either parent is an only child,
according to the Communist Party policy decision published today
by the official Xinhua News Agency. The document, covering 60
measures, fleshes out a communique issued Nov. 12 after a four-day party conclave in Beijing.  Samsung Electronics Co. helped led gains in the emerging-markets measure, driving  technology shares  up 1.4 percent as a
group. The world’s largest maker of handsets plans to release a
Galaxy smartphone next year with a three-sided display that
wraps around the edges, two people familiar with the plans said
yesterday. The stock rose 2.7 percent in  Seoul , the most since
August. Benchmark indexes in  India , South Korea,  Chile  and
Argentina also jumped more than 1 percent and  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
jumped 2.3 percent, the most in almost two months.  The S&P 500 extended its all-time high. The index has
surged 26 percent this year, heading for its biggest annual gain
in a decade. It climbed 1.6 percent in the past five days,
capping a sixth straight weekly gain for its longest rally since
February.  Exxon Mobil  Exxon Mobil Corp. increased 2.2 percent after Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. reported a stake in the oil company valued at
about $3.7 billion, the largest new holding since  Warren
Buffett ’s company added International Business Machines Corp. in
2011. FedEx Corp. climbed 1.6 percent after billionaire
investors  George Soros  and John Paulson took positions. Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac jumped more than 6 percent as  Bill Ackman ’s
hedge fund disclosed stakes in the government-backed mortgage
insurers. Interpublic Group of Cos. fell 1.9 percent as WPP Plc
said it’s not planning a takeover.  Economic Data  Factory production in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
October, indicating the partial government shutdown did little
to halt the pickup in manufacturing at the start of the fourth
quarter. The 0.3 percent advance at factories followed a 0.1
percent gain the prior month and exceeded the 0.2 percent median
projection in a Bloomberg survey, figures from the Federal
Reserve showed. Total industrial production fell 0.1 percent as
output at mines and utilities declined. Another report from the
New York Fed showed manufacturing unexpectedly contracted this
month.  Yellen said during her hearing that it’s important that
policy makers do not remove support for the U.S. economy too
soon given the limited range of tools available to the Fed,
which has to promote a “very strong recovery.”  The Federal Open Market Committee probably will wait to
taper its bond buying to $70 billion at its March 18-19 meeting
from the current pace of $85 billion a month, according to the
median estimate of 32 economists in a Bloomberg survey Nov. 8.  European Shares  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has gained 15 percent this year
and reached a five-year high on Nov. 11.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  advanced 2.8
percent today after the Paris-based company said it will spin
off its French phone carrier SFR by July 2014 and posted third-quarter adjusted profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Royal
Boskalis Westminster NV rose 1.3 percent after the world’s
largest dredging company  increased  its 2013 profit forecast.  Safran SA (SAF)  slipped 3.9 percent after the French government,
its biggest  shareholder , sold a 4.7 percent stake in the
manufacturer. Julius Baer Group Ltd., Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager, dropped 1.6 percent after saying gross
margins dropped at the end of October.  Japan’s currency weakened 0.5 percent to 135.27 per euro,
the weakest this month, as it declined against all 16 major
peers. The U.S. currency fell versus 13 of 16 most-traded
counterparts, losing 0.3 percent to $1.3495 per euro.  Currencies  The yen slumped 1.7 percent versus the dollar this week and
was the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
was down 0.4 percent on the week and the euro gained 0.7
percent, according to the indexes.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose 1.5 basis points to 2.71
percent, paring their decline this week to four basis points.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. had their senior holding
company ratings lowered one level by Moody’s Investors Service,
which decided the U.S. government would be less likely to help
them repay creditors in a crisis.  The yield on Morgan Stanley’s 4.1 percent subordinated
notes due in May 2023 fell eight basis points to 4.56 percent,
while the yield on JPMorgan’s 3.375 percent subordinated notes
due May 2023 slipped seven basis points to 4.25 percent.  Yields on downgraded bonds typically rise after a rating
reduction to account for the perceived deterioration of the
issuer’s creditworthiness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  