-- Asian Stocks Rise on Optimism Yellen Will Keep Stimulus
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-11-14T10:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/asian-stocks-rise-on-optimism-yellen-will-keep-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index gaining the most in two weeks, on speculation
the next head of the  Federal Reserve  will maintain U.S. stimulus
and as a falling yen boosted Japanese shares.  Sony Corp., a Japanese electronics maker that gets 68
percent of revenue abroad, added 2.3 percent. Shandong Weigao
Group Medical Polymer Co., a maker of medical products, jumped a
record 30 percent in Hong Kong after third-quarter sales beat
analysts’ estimates. Tencent Holdings Ltd.,  Asia ’s largest
Internet company, gained 4.6 percent in Hong Kong after revenue
increased from online games.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 0.7 percent to 139.57
as of 7:44 p.m. in Tokyo, its biggest rally since Oct. 30. All
10 industry groups on the gauge rose.  Janet Yellen , nominated to
be the next Fed chairman, said the  U.S. economy  needs to improve
before cutting stimulus. Japanese shares extended gains after
Finance Minister Taro Aso said the nation must retain the option
to intervene in currency markets.  “Yellen’s comments are making a big impact because they
signal the continuation of stimulus, which is good news for
global shares,” said Takuya Takahashi, a senior strategist at
Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage.
“Aso’s remarks are helping Japanese equities further. I don’t
think what he said is that powerful to lift shares, but it added
to the favorable environment. Investors have to jump on the
train that already took off.”  Currency Comments  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average soared 2.1 percent to the
highest close since May 22. Fast Retailing Co., a clothing
retailer with an about 9 percent weighting on the equity gauge,
advanced 5.2 percent to 34,250 yen. The broader  Topix index 
added 1.2 percent.  As with other nations, it’s necessary for Japan to be able
to intervene in  currency markets  if necessary, Aso said at a
parliamentary committee today in response to a question about
the government’s special foreign-exchange accounts law. The
country must set aside a proper amount of money to fund such
actions, he said. The yen lost 0.5 percent to 99.76 per dollar.  Sony gained 2.3 percent to 1,786 yen. Nissan Motor Co., a
Japanese carmaker that  generates  80 percent of its revenue
overseas, added 1.1 percent to 921 yen.  Japan’s gross domestic product rose an annualized 1.9
percent in the third quarter after growth slowed from a 3.8
percent pace the previous three months, the Cabinet Office
reported today in Tokyo. The median estimate of 27 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.7 percent increase.  South Korea’s Kospi index added 0.2 percent as the central
bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a sixth
month. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.7 percent, while
New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.2 percent.  Yellen Testimony  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.8 percent, and  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
gained 0.4 percent, while  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
advanced 0.8 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent today. The measure gained 0.8 percent to a record
yesterday as Macy’s Inc. led a rally among retailers and
investors speculated Yellen will continue the central bank’s
stimulus policy.  “A strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to
reduce its monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional
policy tools such as asset purchases,” Yellen said in prepared
testimony ahead of her nomination hearing. “I believe that
supporting the recovery today is the surest path to returning to
a more normal approach to monetary policy.”  Growth Strategy  The remarks show Yellen is committed to the central bank’s
strategy of attempting to boost growth and lower the nation’s
7.3 percent unemployment rate, more than four years after the
economy began to recover from the longest and deepest recession
since the Great Depression.  Shandong Weigao jumped 30 percent to HK$8.98 after
reporting that third-quarter revenue grew 26 percent from a year
earlier to 1.24 billion  yuan  ($204 million).  Tencent climbed 4.6 percent to HK$410.80 after sales surged
35 percent from online games played on desktop PCs and its
WeChat messaging app.  Among shares that fell, Hanwha Investment & Securities Co.
led brokerages lower in  Seoul  after the nation lifted a five-year ban on shorting of financial stocks. Hanwha slumped 6
percent to 3,375 won. Daewoo Securities Co., the country’s
second-largest brokerage by market value, lost 5.2 percent to
9,020 won.  The Asia-Pacific gauge  traded  at 13.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with 16.1 for the S&P 500 and 15 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  