-- Australia’s Senate Rejects Raising Debt Ceiling to A$500 Billion
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-14T03:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/australia-faces-debt-ceiling-stand-off-as-hockey-warns-of-cuts.html
Australia ’s upper house Senate
proposed capping the nation’s debt ceiling at A$400 billion
($374 billion), frustrating government efforts to increase it to
half a trillion dollars.  The Liberal-National coalition government says the current
A$300 billion limit will be breached next month, and today
sought Senate approval for an increase to A$500 billion. The
opposition  Labor party  and the Greens amended the bill and sent
it back to the lower house, where the government says it will
reject it.  “If Labor prevents an increase in the debt limit, there is
no choice but to have massive cuts to government expenditure,”
Treasurer  Joe Hockey  said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp.
interview earlier today. “The government is running on borrowed
money.”  Signs of a slowdown are emerging in the 12th-largest
economy, with the  Reserve Bank  of Australia last week
forecasting below-trend growth and rising unemployment in 2014
as resource investment drops and the currency strengthens. While
the coalition and Labor are likely to avert a U.S.-style
government shutdown before a Dec. 12 deadline, the dispute
highlights the government’s precarious budget position, Nomura
Holdings Inc. interest-rate strategist Martin Whetton said.  U.S. Comparisons  “It’s not a good look for Australia,” said Sydney-based
Whetton. “We’ve seen with the U.S. example how disruptive these
sorts of political disputes over debt can be. The bigger picture
is that budget revenue expectations are poor for the government
over the next four years because of high spending and an economy
growing sub-trend.”  The  bond market  signaled no concern about the debate.
Benchmark 10-year Australian yields dropped eight basis points
to 4.19 percent at 2:05 p.m. in Sydney, heading for their
biggest decline since Oct. 23.  Labor says the proposed 67 percent rise in the debt ceiling
is unnecessary and is designed to avoid pushing a further
increase through parliament around 2016, when the next election
is due.  “We see the treasurer of Australia threatening to shut
down the government because he can’t get his way,” Shadow
Treasurer Chris Bowen told reporters in Canberra today. “This
government was elected to reduce the debt. That’s what they told
the Australian people they’d do.”  Labor has also indicated it will seek to block Prime
Minister  Tony Abbott ’s attempt to repeal a carbon-price
mechanism and mining profits tax before Christmas.  Senate Gridlock  While the coalition has a majority in the  lower house , it
doesn’t control the Senate. The balance of power there is
currently held by the Greens, which have also said they will
oppose the increase to A$500 billion. The makeup of the upper
house will change July 1 when Senators elected in the Sept. 7
ballot take their seats.  Treasury said in its pre-election outlook released Aug. 13
that the federal deficit will widen to A$30.1 billion for the
fiscal year ending June 30, and the budget is no longer
projected to return to balance in 2015-16. The coalition will
release updated projections before Christmas.  The 67 percent increase in the ceiling is needed to provide
certainty to investors, Hockey said today. Foreigners held 69
percent of Australia’s outstanding debt in the second quarter,
down from a record 76 percent a year earlier, government data
show. Australia’s 10-year government bond yield rose 36 basis
points this quarter to 4.17 percent and touched 4.3 percent
yesterday, the most since March 2012.  Debt Limit  “If I want to offer stability and certainty and
predictability to the budget position and to the financial
markets about the Australian debt position, I get us a debt
limit that we never want to reach,” Hockey said. “You’ve got
longer-dated debt. You’ve got refinancing debt. As  interest
rates  rise the cost of us financing our debt increases.”  Australia needs to raise the ceiling to A$500 billion to
create A$40 billion to A$60 billion of “room,” implying A$440
billion to A$460 billion of debt at its peak in 2016, according
to Nomura’s Whetton.  “Markets will shrug this off in Australia as they
understand that a debt deal of A$400 billion at least will be
reached and that will cover a decent period of time,” Whetton
said. “The end game is a political one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  