-- Bachelet Bids for Chile Presidency With Call for Free Education
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-11-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/bachelet-bids-for-chile-presidency-with-call-for-free-education.html
Former President  Michelle Bachelet 
has based her  campaign  to recapture  Chile ’s top office on a
program of free education for all and higher corporate taxes.
Her main opponent calls that model a throwback to the era of the
 Berlin Wall .  Voters were trending in Bachelet’s direction ahead of the
Nov. 17 election, according to a  poll  by Santiago-based CEP that
found she was backed by 47 percent of those surveyed compared
with 14 percent for  Evelyn Matthei, candidate for the ruling
alliance. The poll interviewed 1,437 people between Sept. 13 and
Oct. 14 and had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Thirty years of almost uninterrupted  growth  since former
dictator  Augusto Pinochet  sold off state companies, slashed
corporate taxes and curtailed workers’ rights has left Chile the
 wealthiest country  in Latin America. Yet President Sebastian
Pinera’s four years in power were marked by protests over the
quality and cost of education in a country with the highest
 income inequality  in the 34-nation Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “The biggest challenge Chilean society faces is
education,” said Bachelet in her manifesto released on Oct. 27,
which called for raising the corporate tax rate to 25 percent --
higher than the U.K. -- setting up a state-owned pension fund
and expanding union rights. “Inequality and segregation still
remain in alarming levels.”  East Germany  Matthei said Oct. 30 that the vote is a choice between
economic models: one epitomized by the free-market policies of
today’s reunified  Germany , and another by the statism of former
East Germany, where Bachelet was exiled during part of the
Pinochet regime.  “Bachelet’s program is irresponsible in the sense that it
promises much more than it can deliver,” Felipe Morande, the
head of Matthei’s campaign, said on Oct. 27.  A candidate must have more than 50 percent of the votes to
win the presidency outright on Nov. 17; if no one does so, there
will be a runoff between the top two finishers on Dec. 15. None
of the other seven candidates in the election polled more than
10 percent in the CEP survey.  Both Matthei and Bachelet are daughters of air force
officials. While Matthei’s father rose through the ranks after
the 1973 coup that brought Pinochet to power to help lead the
military junta, Bachelet’s father was imprisoned and tortured to
death by the regime, according to a report by the state forensic
medical service.  Congress Majority  Voters will also elect all of Chile’s 120 deputies in the
lower house of parliament on Nov. 17 and 20 of 38 senators.
Bachelet’s alliance currently has 57 deputies and 20 senators.  Bachelet will need a majority in both chambers to ensure
the success of her tax overhaul, including the increase in the
corporate  tax rate  from 20 percent. Higher levies will help
finance $15.1 billion in extra spending over the course of the
next government, according to Bachelet’s manifesto.  The changes will bring Chile more into line with its
counterparts in Latin American, where  Colombia  has a corporate
tax rate of 25 percent, and Peru and  Mexico  have 30 percent.
Five years ago, Chile had a tax rate of 17 percent, half
Colombia’s 33 percent.  “There is no doubt that it will affect investment, growth
and employment negatively,” said Finance Minister Felipe
Larrain on Oct. 30, referring to Bachelet’s tax plans.  Pinochet’s tax changes in 1984 cut the corporate tax rate
to as low as zero. The system, which included incentives to
reinvest earnings, helped double the investment rate to 24.5
percent of GDP in 1988 from 11.9 percent in 1983, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Highest Income  Since 1983, Chile has averaged economic growth of 5.2
percent a year, raising income per capita to about $19,100, the
highest in  South America , according to the IMF.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months through
October, the  slowest inflation  among major economies in the
region. Chile’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point in the past 12
months to 90 basis points, the cheapest in  Latin America .  Bachelet, who ran Chile from March 2006 to March 2010,
denies she will put Chile’s economic success in jeopardy. During
her presidency, dollar-denominated bonds returned 32 percent,
three times more than under the current administration and more
than the 27 percent gain on similar Latin American bonds during
her tenure, according to Bank of America Corp. She ran the
biggest budget surpluses of any Chilean president in history.  No Lenin  “Bachelet is not a reincarnation of Lenin,” Sebastian
Brown, an economist at Barclays Plc in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The institutional framework will remain
intact.”  Bachelet has identified better access to education as the
priority for her government, pledging to make all levels of
schooling free to boost social mobility and improve
productivity.  Chile has the most socially segregated schooling system in
the OECD, with few of the poor entering the top performing
schools, according to research released by the organization on
Sept. 13, 2011. More than 85 percent of higher education is
financed by students and their families, the OECD said.  Chile’s Gini index, a measure of the  income gap  in which
zero represents perfect equality and 1 complete inequality, is
0.501, compared with 0.38 in the U.S. and 0.466 in Mexico,
according to the OECD  Full Employment  “Michelle Bachelet’s tax reform is pro education, savings,
investment and small companies and won’t affect growth,” her
spokesman Alvaro Elizalde, said by phone on Nov. 11. “To the
contrary, it will generate conditions to increase
competitiveness in the Chilean economy.”  With the country already near full employment after the
jobless rate fell to a 30-year low of 5.7 percent this year,
Chile needs to tap the talents of people from outside the ruling
elite, said Ricardo Ffrench-Davis, an economist at Universidad
de Chile in Santiago.  “This is just a new phase in the Chilean economy in which
productive development of the middle and low sectors weighs
more, but the fundamental base of the model will not change,”
Ffrench-Davis said. “Warning about tremendous disasters is a
very deceiving and misinformed publicity.”  Still, Bachelet’s first term in office may be marked by
slower growth. Policy makers reduced their growth forecast for
this year on Sept. 4 to between 4 percent and 4.5 percent from 4
percent to 5 percent, citing weaker external conditions and a
slowdown in the first half of the year.  Slowing Down  A drop in copper prices and higher global borrowing costs
could lead the economy to grow less than 4 percent in 2014,
according to former central bank presidents Vittorio Corbo and
Jose De Gregorio.  Bachelet’s manifesto will be implemented gradually, will be
fully financed and won’t threaten Chile’s growth or its fiscal
track record, Elizalde said.  “Saying that the reform will affect growth is an argument
that has been used historically to scare the population, but
Bachelet was already president and she has always acted with
seriousness and responsibility,” Elizalde said. “Bachelet is
characterized by her great fiscal prudence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  