-- Baht Gains Most in Three Weeks on Yellen Remarks; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-14T02:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/baht-gains-most-in-three-weeks-on-yellen-remarks-bonds-advance.html
Thailand’s baht rose the most in
three weeks and bonds gained after Janet Yellen, nominated to be
the next Federal Reserve chief, said the U.S. economy must
improve before stimulus that’s boosted  emerging markets  is cut.  Asian currencies climbed after Yellen said in testimony
prepared for today’s appearance before the Senate Banking
Committee that America’s economy and job market are performing
“far short of their potential.” Foreigners pulled a net $1.6
billion from local bonds and equities this month through
yesterday amid speculation Fed will start tapering its stimulus
in December, and on concern that anti-government protests in
Thailand sparked by a proposed amnesty bill will hurt growth.  “The dollar is weaker after Yellen’s remarks yesterday as
perhaps fewer people see a December tapering, though there’s no
concrete view yet,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a currency trader
at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “The political situation in  Thailand  has
been  impacting foreign flows via stocks and bonds, but it’s not
a big issue at this moment.”  The baht rose 0.4 percent, the most since Oct. 25, to 31.48
per dollar as of 9:29 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.99 percent.  ‘Orderly’ Markets  Capital flows and financial-market moves have been
“orderly,” Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said yesterday, adding the central bank doesn’t see the need to
intervene. The number of protesters at three locations in
Bangkok has declined as of Nov. 12 after the Senate voted to
reject the government’s amnesty bill, Police Chief Adul
Sangsingkeo told reporters yesterday.  The yield on the 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due June
2023 declined three basis points to 4.02 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  ING Groep NV raised its year-end forecast for Thailand’s
10-year yield to 4.4 percent from 3.9 percent, tracking an
increase in U.S. Treasury yields, Tim Condon, Singapore-based
head of Asia research, wrote in a research note today. The
comparable U.S. rate has climbed 16 basis points this month to
2.72 percent, while the Thai yield has increased eight basis
points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  