-- Bank of Korea Holds Rate for Sixth Month to Support Growth
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-11-14T01:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-for-sixth-month-to-support-growth.html
The  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged for a sixth straight month, as 14-year-low inflation provides room to support growth against risks from
currency volatility.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the  seven-day
repurchase rate  at 2.5 percent after a cut in May, the central
bank said in a statement in Seoul today. All 16 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted the outcome.  With speculation rising about an eventual tapering of
monetary stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve, policy makers in
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy are grappling with higher
volatility in foreign capital flows and the won. Finance
minister Hyun Oh Seok said this month the authorities will act
against “herd behavior” in the market as sharp moves in the
won can affect the economy.  “The won moves are pretty unpredictable, rising and then
falling, so the BOK will take a wait-and-see stance,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in
Seoul. “The central bank may feel more confident about the
economic outlook but will only begin to consider raising the
rate late next year when inflation becomes a concern.”  The won climbed 0.5 percent to 1,066.84 per dollar as of
10:16 a.m. today in Seoul, rising after Fed chief nominee  Janet Yellen  calmed emerging-market outflow concerns, saying the U.S.
economy and labor market need to improve before stimulus can be
eased. The Kospi stock index rose 0.4 percent.  Capital Flows  Foreign investors turned net sellers after two months of
buying, unloading $476 million of South Korean stocks and $737
million in bonds this month as of Nov. 12, official data show.  Inflation eased to 0.7 percent in October, staying below
the central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent
since May 2012 and under a five-year average of 2.7 percent.  The economy grew  1.1 percent  in the third quarter from the
preceding three months on domestic demand, matching an increase
in April-through-June. The central bank last month cut its 2014
growth forecast to 3.8 percent from 4 percent.  Exports, worth about half  South Korea ’s gross domestic
product, increased 7.3 percent in October from a year earlier,
beating analyst estimates.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  posted record
third-quarter earnings on surging prices for memory chips and
sales of cheaper Galaxy smartphones in  emerging markets .  Employment, Growth  President Park Geun Hye introduced a 17.3 trillion won ($16
billion) extra budget in May, the same month the BOK delivered a
surprise rate cut, seeking to revive an economy that grew 2
percent in 2012, the least in three years.  The BOK will increase its benchmark interest rate to 2.75
percent in the fourth quarter of next year, according to the
median forecast in a survey of 21 economists by Bloomberg News.  The BOK should hold its key rate low for a “considerable”
period and focus more on boosting employment and growth, said
former Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun, who was named by
experts surveyed by the  Korea  Economic Daily as a possible
candidate to succeed Kim whose term expires in March.  Korea Institute of Finance President Yun Chang Hyun, also
tipped in the survey to be in the running to lead the central
bank, urged the BOK in an interview to expand its mandate to
include employment and growth on top of price and financial
stability.  Economists forecast the Fed will begin tapering its asset
purchases at its March 18-19 meeting March, paring the monthly
pace of bond buying to $70 billion from the current pace of $85
billion, according to the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  