-- Bank of Canada Model Shows Mixed Signals on Housing
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-11-14T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/bank-of-canada-model-shows-mixed-signals-on-housing.html
Canada’s  housing market  is giving
mixed signals on strains that could contribute to a crash,
according to a model created by researchers at the country’s
central bank.  Two of three housing market indicators are suggesting there
have been imbalances from 2010 through June this year, according
to a  paper  published today by four researchers at the Bank of
Canada’s financial stability department.  “The variation among different indicators highlights the
need to apply judgment in interpreting the signals,” the
authors wrote in the central bank’s Review publication.  Governor Stephen Poloz has said there are signs of a
“constructive evolution” of imbalances in household finances,
and that the record ratio of  consumer debt  to disposable income
is likely to stabilize. The bank said last month that the
possibility of a “disorderly unwinding” of consumer finances
is a key risk to the country’s economy.  The central bank researchers said their tracking showed
imbalances in the ratio of  home prices  to income and in the
deviation of an index of housing prices from its usual trend,
according to the paper. There was no imbalance in the annual
growth of  house prices  averaged over five years.  Another measure of the total amount of credit relative to
the size of the economy also suggests an imbalance.  In a separate paper, Deputy Governor  John Murray  said that
the bank’s policy  interest rate  doesn’t need to be at a
“neutral” level when the economy is around full output and
inflation is at the 2 percent target. There are often economic
“headwinds and tailwinds” that can take inflation away from
the bank’s target and policy makers need to “lean against”
those forces, Murray said in the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  