-- Baturina Can’t Sue in U.K. Over Moroccan Land Deal, Judge Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-14T16:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/baturina-can-t-sue-in-u-k-over-moroccan-land-deal-judge-says.html
Elena Baturina, one of  Russia ’s
wealthiest women, can’t sue a former business partner in the
U.K. over a Moroccan property deal, according to a  London  judge
who said the dispute should be heard in her home country.  “The links with Russia are overwhelming,” said Judge Paul
Walker, even though he accepted that she was anxious about
returning after being criticized by state media. Her husband
Yury Luzhkov was fired as Moscow mayor in 2010.  Baturina, who lives in London and made a fortune of more
than $1 billion in plastics and real estate, sued Alexander Chistyakov, saying the Russian businessman owes her about 98
million euros because he misled her over a Moroccan development.  “I accept that if she returns there is an increased risk
of media interest, which she would find unwelcome,” Judge
Walker said in a written decision today. “That, however, is
something which must be borne with a degree of stoicism by those
who, like Ms. Baturina, have a high public profile.”  Michelle Duncan, a lawyer for Baturina, and the law firm
representing Chistyakov didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  Baturina’s husband was fired during a political spat with
then-President Dmitry Medvedev. She now own hotels around
Europe, including the Morrison in Dublin.  In December 2011, Baturina sold ZAO Inteco, one of Russia’s
largest development companies, to a partnership that included
Russian developer and Binbank President Mikail Shishkhanov, and
a business unit of OAO Sberbank. Inteco’s offices had been
raided earlier that year by Moscow police investigating
corruption accusations.  The case is Elena Baturina v. Alexander Chistyakov, High
Court of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial Court,
13-96.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  