-- Berkowitz Seeks to Acquire Insurers From Fannie, Freddie
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-11-14T20:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/berkowitz-offers-52-billion-plan-for-freddie-fannie-insurers.html
Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
the mutual-fund firm run by  Bruce Berkowitz , proposed buying two
businesses that insure mortgage-backed securities from Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac  to salvage a bet on the two government-backed companies.  The businesses would be acquired in exchange for about
$34.6 billion in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock that
Fairholme and investors including Paulson & Co. and Perry
Capital LLC bought in a wager that the U.S. government would
keep the mortgage companies alive. Fairholme’s proposal would
raise at least $17.3 billion in additional funds from preferred
holders and through a rights offering, Fairholme said yesterday
in a statement.  The proposal by Berkowitz, who is locked in a legal battle
with the government over his investment in the two agencies,
would more than double the value of preferred shares in Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac that Fairholme, billionaire  John Paulson  and
other investors own. The plan is a long-shot attempt to head off
a bipartisan bill being prepared by U.S. senators that would
transform the $9.4 trillion mortgage-finance system and probably
wipe out the value of preferred shares, according to Isaac Boltansky, policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading
LLC.  “This plan will not gain traction,” Boltansky said in a
telephone interview. “It doesn’t in any way address the
underlying political and practical issues” in the debate.  Senate Bill  The government seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac after the
mortgage-finance companies were pushed to the brink of
bankruptcy by investments in bad loans. The two took $187.5
billion in taxpayer aid before reporting record profit this year
as the housing market rebounded.  Any decisions about their ownership would have to be
approved by the Obama administration, which has called for the
two companies to be wound down and replaced. The Senate bill,
introduced in June by Tennessee Republican  Bob Corker  and
Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner , would liquidate Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac within five years.  If the bill or a similar measure becomes law, preferred
shares would “probably be wiped down to zero,” said  Jaret Seiberg , an analyst in  Washington  for Guggenheim Securities LLC.  Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , declined to comment, as did Adam Hodge of the
Treasury Department.  Berkowitz’s Plan  Fairholme is the single largest investor in the preferred
shares, which are trading at less than 40 cents on the dollar,
Paul Scarpetta, a spokesman for Fairholme at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., said in a phone interview. The firm holds $3.5 billion to
$4 billion of the preferred shares at par value, Berkowitz said.  Fannie Mae’s 8.25 percent preferred shares, which have a
par value of $25, rose 6.3 percent to $9.84 at 2:25 p.m. today
in  New York . That’s the highest since 2008, when  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac were seized by the government.  Berkowitz’s plan would convert those shares into common
equity in the target companies at 100 cents on the dollar. It
would need the support of other investors in Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac.  “A significant number” of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
preferred shareholders indicated an agreement in principle,
Scarpetta said. The investor group would buy “the two entities
but not the existing books of business.”  ‘We’re Ready’  “Housing finance is most critical to the American dream
and the government wants private capital to invest,” Berkowitz
said today in an interview on CNBC. “We and other owners, we
want to invest, so we’re ready.”  Spokesmen for Claren Road Asset Management LLC, Perry
Capital LLC and Paulson, owners of the preferred shares,
declined to comment or didn’t return telephone messages and e-mails seeking comment.  One of Berkowitz’s most successful investments since the
financial crisis was in the bailed-out insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  Fairholme owns more than 86 million
shares in AIG, making it the largest shareholder in the New
York-based firm.  “Berkowitz is an incredibly smart guy who worked closely
with AIG,” said Boltansky at Compass Point. “These guys think
they can do the same thing with Freddie and Fannie. But Freddie
and Fannie are dirty words in Washington. They are difficult and
complicated beasts.”  Guaranteeing Mortgages  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac package mortgages into
securities for which they guarantee 100 percent payment of
principal and interest. The Senate bill would replace them with
a new government reinsurer. It would require private financiers
to hold equity capital and take at least 10 percent of the first
losses on mortgage securities. The government would step in with
more aid during a financial catastrophe.  Seiberg said Berkowitz’s proposal would have to incorporate
a key element of the pending Senate bill for it to have any
chance of being approved.  “Neither Democrats nor Republicans are prepared to go back
to a system that relies on an implicit government guarantee,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Berkowitz and other preferred shareholders are already
fighting the  U.S. Treasury  with a lawsuit over the distribution
of dividends from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Treasury
amended its agreement with the agencies in August 2012,
depriving other shareholders of a potential share of profits,
according to the lawsuit.  Shares Surge  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will have returned a combined
$185.2 billion to the U.S. Treasury by the end of the year,
which counts as a dividend on the government’s stake in the
companies and not as a repayment of the taxpayer aid. Under the
current arrangement with the U.S. government, the companies must
send all of their quarterly profits above a $3 billion net worth
cap to the Treasury.  Preferred shareholders receive preferential treatment over
common shareholders when a company distributes dividends or is
liquidated. The shares carry a par value that is used to
calculate dividend payments and indicates the amount of assets
each preferred share is entitled to in the case of liquidation,
according to fund research firm Morningstar Inc.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac common and preferred shares
surged this year as profits spurred speculation the companies
would repay the government and be released from conservatorship.
Guggenheim’s Seiberg said investors were at odds with federal
officials in seeing value in the shares.  Fairholme Fund  Berkowitz, 55, was named Morningstar’s domestic stock
manager of the decade in 2010. He has bet on insurers and
financial-services companies with  78 percent  of his fund’s stock
holdings in such shares as of Aug. 31, according to Morningstar.  After a 2011 slump that spurred investor redemptions,
Berkowitz rebounded in 2012 and his $8.3 billion  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX) 
has surged 31 percent this year to beat 97 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fairholme, based in Miami, was founded by Berkowitz in 1997
and had $10.5 billion under management as of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  