-- Berlin’s Tacheles Landmark Ruins for Sale for $269 Million
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-14T16:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/berlin-s-abandoned-tacheles-landmark-for-sale-for-269-million.html
German real estate investor Anno
August Jagdfeld plans to sell Berlin’s Tacheles building, a
former department store that was occupied by squatters until
last year, according to a sales prospectus obtained by
Bloomberg.  Jagdfeld, whose fund-management company owns the landmark
Adlon Kempinski Hotel at the  Brandenburg Gate , is seeking 200
million euros ($269 million) for the vacant building and the
22,180 square-meter (238,700 square feet) of land that surrounds
it, according to the prospectus.  Jagdfeld would use the proceeds to pay off debt to  HSH
Nordbank  AG, which financed his 1998 acquisition of the property
and put it into administration in 2008, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. They asked not to be named because
the sale is private.  Christian Ploeger, a spokesman for Jagdfeld, declined to
comment on a possible sale. A spokesman at HSH Nordbank declined
to comment.  The sale would help speed up the gentrification of Berlin’s
central Mitte district, where luxury boutiques and modern
condominiums have replaced rundown squats and abandoned land. A
former post office building on the same street is due to be
converted into apartments.  Graffiti, Posters  With its facade covered in graffiti, posters and soot,
Tacheles stands out on a street lined with renovated prewar
buildings and new developments. Tacheles, situated in what used
to be communist East Berlin, was taken over by artists in 1990,
when  Germany  was reunified. The building had been slated for
demolition.  During the squat, Tacheles had become an attraction for
tourists who came to see sculptures made of scrap metal and
other art works. The last remaining squatters were evicted last
year.  Homes prices in Mitte, Berlin’s most expensive district,
have gained 11 percent in the past three years, according to
data compiled by online broker Immobilien Scout 24.  Jagdfeld has invested in other German landmarks. He owned
the Grand Hotel Heiligendamm on the  Baltic Sea  that was used for
a Group of Eight summit in 2007 before it became insolvent in
2012. Jagdfeld owns the Quartier 206 shopping mall on Berlin’s
Friedrichstrasse that’s been put into administration by Credit
Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  