-- Bernanke Says Transparency Makes Fed Policy More Effective
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-11-14T01:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/bernanke-says-transparency-makes-fed-policy-more-effective.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said monetary policy transparency makes the Fed more
effective and “democratically legitimate.”  “Increasing the Fed’s transparency, openness, and
accountability has been one of my top priorities as chairman,”
Bernanke said today at the central bank in  Washington . He didn’t
elaborate on the outlook for monetary policy.  “The complex challenges we face as a nation are best
addressed in an environment of informed public discourse, which
is only possible when policy decisions are made in as
transparent a way as possible,” Bernanke said to teachers at a
town-hall meeting. “A more open Fed, in my view, is both a more
effective and more democratically legitimate institution.”  Bernanke said the Fed is falling short on its dual mandate
to ensure price stability and full employment, with unemployment
at 7.3 percent and inflation below its 2 percent target.  “We’re missing on both of them,” Bernanke said in
response to a teacher’s question. “We need a stronger, more
rapidly moving economy.”  Still, the Fed’s credibility on inflation is “very
strong,” and the “labor market will get stronger,” he said.  Bernanke, 59, has sought to boost the transparency of the
Fed since taking office in 2006 by explaining the central bank’s
actions directly to the public, releasing more information on
deliberations and giving regular press conferences after policy
decisions. His last planned press conference as chairman is on
Dec. 18 after a two-day meeting. His term expires Jan. 31.  Bernanke is a former Princeton University economics
professor whose wife, Anna, is a teacher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  