-- Big Banks’ Use of Bailouts Show Need for New Rules, Senators Say
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/big-banks-use-of-bailouts-show-need-for-new-rules-senators-say.html
Big banks’ disproportionate reliance
on U.S. aid after the credit crisis reinforces the need for
additional steps to ensure the end of too big to fail, Senators
Sherrod Brown and David Vitter said.  Brown and Vitter, co-sponsors of a plan to impose a 15
percent capital requirement on the biggest lenders, commented
after the release yesterday of a Government Accountability
Office study that showed such firms made greater use of bailout
programs introduced after markets collapsed in 2008.  The GAO  findings  represent the first of two reports
responding to a request by Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and Vitter,
a Louisiana Republican, to put a dollar figure on the benefit
derived from U.S. aid by the largest bank holding companies.
The number sought by the lawmakers, who say the big banks have
grown by $2 trillion since the crisis, will be included in a
second report next year, the GAO said.  “If big banks want to continue risky practices, they
should do so with their own equity on the line,” Brown said in
a statement. The GAO’s work “underscores the need to pass our
legislation to ensure that these types of bailouts will not
happen in the future by imposing sensible capital
requirements.”  Larger bank holding companies, which rely on short-term
funding markets, made greater use of aid programs during the
crisis than did smaller banks mainly funded by deposits, the GAO
said. Aid use measured as the percentage of total assets
supported by programs was higher for banks with more than $50
billion in assets, according to the report.  Dodd-Frank Act  The Dodd-Frank Act calls for banks to write plans for how
they could safely be dismantled in bankruptcy, and empowers the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to wind down lenders while
imposing losses on shareholders and creditors. It also withdrew
options used by the Federal Reserve to aid banks in the crisis.  The GAO urged that the Fed finish policies clarifying that
it can no longer bail out out individual firms and can only use
emergency powers to provide broad-based liquidity to the system,
with Treasury secretary approval.  The report included a response from Fed General Counsel
 Scott Alvarez  agreeing to the recommendation and pointing out
the agency has said it may be done by the end of the year.  Brown and Vitter want to go beyond Dodd-Frank and impose
the 15 percent capital requirement on banks with more than $500
billion in assets, a group that currently includes at least six
lenders:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in New York, as well as
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  and San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Janet Yellen  Janet Yellen, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to be
Federal Reserve chairman, said in a Senate confirmation hearing
yesterday that “most studies point to some subsidy that may
reflect too big to fail,” adding that it’s possible other
factors contribute to big banks’ getting lower borrowing costs.  “Addressing too big to fail has to be among the most
important goals of the post-crisis period,” Yellen told Brown
at the Senate Banking Committee hearing. “It creates moral
hazard; it erodes market discipline.”  When considering the impact of the bailouts, people
“should not lose sight” of the fact that government
intervention worked, Frank Keating, president and chief
executive officer of the American Bankers Association, said in a
statement yesterday.  “It’s important to recognize that much has changed since
the crisis,” Keating said, citing tougher capital rules and
liquidity levels. “Markets have reacted, imposing higher
funding costs on institutions perceived to pose higher risk. And
banks of all sizes continue to be instrumental in helping
businesses in our economy grow and create jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  