-- BNY Mellon Raised Madoff’s Credit by $225 Million in 2006
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-14T20:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/bny-mellon-raised-madoff-s-credit-by-225-million-in-2006.html
A  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  vice
president told a jury she helped boost  Bernard Madoff ’s credit
line by $225 million in 2006, based on data provided by a former
Madoff executive accused of aiding his $17 billion fraud.  Daniel Bonventre, one of five ex-Madoff employees on trial
in  Manhattan , won an increase in the investment firm’s secured
credit line to $300 million from $75 million to pay for what he
said was a boost in trading activity, Monika Arora, who works in
BNY Mellon’s securities industry banking division, testified
today in federal court in Manhattan.  Bonventre had requested a new limit of $500 million, an
increase the bank deemed “quite large” before settling on
$300 million as a more “realistic” figure, Arora said. “If we
needed to revisit it, it would be easier to do it from that
point on,” she said.  The five former colleagues are accused of helping Madoff
hide his fraud from customers and regulators for years, and
getting rich in the process. It’s the first criminal trial
stemming from the scheme, which prosecutors say started in the
early 1970s and imploded at the peak of the financial crisis.  BNY Mellon , which isn’t accused in the criminal case, has
faced civil lawsuits by funds that lost money in the fraud and
accuse the New York-based bank of negligence. The lawsuits
include claims the bank funneled billions of dollars into the
 Ponzi scheme  while reaping millions of dollars in fees.  Bank Loans  Prosecutors claim Madoff and his co-conspirators tapped
banks for loans and credit increases as the Ponzi scheme became
unsustainable.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to
comment on today’s testimony. The bank has denied wrongdoing
related to the fraud.  Arora, who has worked at BNY Mellon since 2004, said she
proposed the credit increase based on financial statements and
other documentation provided by Bonventre and one of his
employees, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz.  The data, now known to be false, showed Madoff’s firm had
assets of $977 million at the time, according to documents
displayed on flat-screen monitors for jurors. Financial
statements given to the bank were affirmed by Madoff’s external
accountant for more than 20 years, David Friehling, the papers
showed, increasing their perceived validity, Arora said.  Madoff, who was arrested in December 2008, pleaded guilty
to fraud and is serving a 150-year sentence. Cotellessa-Pitz and
Friehling also pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing based
on their cooperation in the case.  Never Audited  Friehling testified yesterday that he never conducted an
audit of Madoff’s company as required by accounting rules.  Arora recalled a meeting at the offices of Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, where Madoff and his sons Mark
and Andrew were present, along with Bonventre. BNY Mellon had
arranged the meeting with a consultant on a new trading strategy
that Madoff was interested in pursuing, though he ended up never
using it, Arora said.  The increased credit limit was needed to finance what
Bonventre said was a boost in proprietary trading by Madoff’s
firm, Arora said. Madoff had already started hiring additional
staff for the trading and had begun tapping its earlier
$75 million  credit line  at a faster rate than usual, she said.  ‘Larger Volumes’  “The team will be doing the same proprietary trading that
is currently taking place, but in larger volumes,” Arora wrote
in a March 31, 2006, proposal to BNY Mellon’s credit department.
“The new team is expected to increase business significantly.”  Arora said she later heard from colleagues at BNY Mellon
that Madoff’s firm wasn’t drawing on the credit line as
expected, depriving the bank of anticipated fees. When she asked
Bonventre about the development, he cited market conditions and
said the plan had changed, she said.  Bonventre, who oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary
trading operations of Madoff’s company, pleaded not guilty and
has denied involvement in the fraud, saying he was duped like
thousands of others.  The other defendants in the case, all accused of helping
make fake documents for decades, are Annette Bongiorno, who ran
the investment advisory business at the center of the fraud;
Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts, and computer
programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara. All five have
pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  