-- BOE’s Fisher Says Pound Level Inconsistent With Trade Gap Size
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-14T08:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/boe-s-fisher-says-pound-level-inconsistent-with-trade-gap-size.html
Bank of England Markets Director
 Paul Fisher  said the U.K.’s trade deficit is inconsistent with a
stronger pound  exchange rate .  “We are still, as a nation, running a large deficit in
terms of our external trade,” Fisher said in an interview on
BBC Radio Five Live today. “That’s not consistent with a
stronger exchange rate. A stronger exchange rate in the long run
makes us all better off. In the short run, a stronger exchange
rate discourages exports.”  While BOE Governor Mark Carney said yesterday that “the
recovery has finally taken hold” and the central bank raised
its forecast for economic growth, Britain’s  trade gap  widened to
the most in more than a year in the third quarter. The total
deficit increased to 9.72 billion pounds ($15.6 billion) as
exports fell 3.5 percent.  The pound is “a bit stronger now than it was earlier in
the year” said Fisher, the former head of the bank’s foreign-exchange division. Positive economic data has helped the
currency strengthen, he said.  The pound was little changed $1.6048 at 8:05 a.m. in  London 
after climbing 1 percent yesterday, the biggest increase since
Oct. 17. The U.K. currency has strengthened 3.4 percent in the
the past three months, the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  In a separate interview on BBC Radio Four, Fisher said that
while the pace of the recovery was a welcome surprise, the  Bank
of England  wants to stimulate the economy until all slack is
used up.  Fisher Surprised  “We have been predicting and hoping for the economy to
recover in this way for quite some time and then it suddenly
comes through in a rush,” he said. “That switch from a very
flat outlook to one where we’re growing at around, if not
slightly faster than, trend is a little bit of a surprise.”  Fisher spoke the day after Carney presented new forecasts
signaling that officials may consider raising interest rates
sooner than they previously anticipated as the U.K. economy
recovers “robustly” and inflation slows.  The jobless rate is more likely than not to reach the 7
percent threshold, when the BOE might start thinking about
increasing borrowing costs from a record-low 0.5 percent, in the
third quarter of 2015, the central bank said in its quarterly
Inflation Report. It previously didn’t see that happening until
the second quarter of 2016.  “Eventually, if we get inflation on target at 2 percent
and economic growth at, say, 2 1/2, you might expect  interest
rates  to be in the 4- to 5-percent range, that would be more
normal,” Fisher told BBC Radio Five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  