-- BOE’s Miles Says Rates Too Blunt for Housing Risks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-11-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/boe-s-miles-says-interest-rate-is-last-defense-on-housing-risks.html
Bank of England policy maker David Miles said interest rates are not the best weapon against a
buildup of risks in the housing market and should only be used
when other tools have been exhausted.  “Monetary policy can be retained as a ‘last line of
defense’ against risks to financial stability,” Miles said in
 Dallas  yesterday. “Policy instruments more precisely targeted
at the housing market can be helpful in dealing with situations
where the level of interest rates that might be best suited to
the wider economic situation is not the same as the rate that
might be needed to stabilize the housing market.”  Britain’s strengthening property market, in part supported
by government stimulus, has stoked concerns that a bubble is
forming. While the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee has said it
will keep its  key interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent
until unemployment falls to 7 percent, its pledge is conditional
on financial stability not being threatened.  Miles, speaking at a conference hosted by the Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas, said the problem with using monetary
policy to stabilize the housing market would be “acute” if
property was overheating while the wider economy wasn’t and
inflation was low.  “Variations in interest rates that central banks can
control are rather a blunt instrument,” he said. “Indeed the
impact on assets other than houses, and the effects on borrowing
and spending unrelated to housing, may well be far greater than
the impact on housing.”  Stability Tools  Among the tools that officials may use are tougher
underwriting standards, varying capital requirements on mortgage
lending, and limiting loan-to-value ratios, Miles said.  He also proposed a plan to reduce the level of borrowing by
homebuyers, saying that greater use of outside equity may help
counteract some problems created by excess leverage.  “The fact that houses are bought with large amounts of
outside debt is one reason why housing market outcomes over the
past ten years have been so volatile,” Miles said.  Without commenting on the impact of the U.K. government’s
Help to Buy plan on house prices, Miles said it was an example
of an equity program that has “proved popular” compared with
previous efforts, which had a “patchy success rate.”  Help to Buy, designed to help Britons get on the property
ladder, has been criticized for potentially overheating the
market. The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said this
week its  house-price index  rose to an 11-year high.  If homebuyers relied less on debt, this would probably
reduce individual household risk and aggregate housing market
volatility, as well as decrease dependency on macro-prudential
and monetary tools to limit busts and booms, Miles said.  While one way to increase the use of equity in home
purchases is to set limits on loan-to-value ratios, that would
push back the point in their lives at which individuals could
hope to become homeowners, Miles says. Instead, outside equity
funding, including equity loans, could be used, allowing
investors to share the risk and rewards of ownership, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  