-- Boeing’s Largest Union Rejects Swapping Pensions for 777X
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2013-11-14T06:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/boeing-s-largest-union-rejects-freezing-pensions-for-777x-work.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s largest union balked at
a company proposal to freeze pensions in exchange for rights to
build the new 777 in  Washington , casting doubt over the future
of manufacturing at the planemaker’s Seattle hub.  Machinists union members voted 67 percent against a
contract extension that included pension and health care benefit
cuts, the union said in an e-mailed statement. Boeing was
disappointed with the outcome and will open up production of its
largest twin-engine jet to competitive bidding by other regions,
Ray Conner, president and chief executive officer of Boeing’s
commercial airplanes unit, said in a statement.  “Should this program end up outside of Everett, we expect
that the Boeing footprint in the Puget Sound region would shrink
dramatically over the next ten years,”  Douglas Harned , a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst, wrote in a research note.
  The results put the union at odds with state lawmakers, who
sped through $8.7 billion in tax breaks to help land 777X
production at Boeing’s plant in Everett, Washington. Boeing’s
demands for concessions that would have saved billions of
dollars and backed by threats to move production out of state,
sparked backlash among Machinists union members including “Vote
No” rallies and accusations of blackmail.  While labor leaders were mindful that more than 20,000 jobs
may hang in the balance with the 777X, they weren’t willing to
sacrifice retirement pay to ensure the region’s continued role
as the company’s commercial manufacturing base.  ‘Something Sacred’  “We preserved something sacred by rejecting the Boeing
proposal,”  Tom Wroblewski , president of District 751, which
represents about 32,000 Boeing workers, in a statement. “We’ve
held on to our pensions and that’s big. At a time when financial
planners are talking about a ‘retirement crisis’ in America, we
have preserved a tool that will help our members retire with
more comfort and dignity.”  Despite the union rebuke and company threats to consider
other locations, there’s “a very good chance that Boeing sees
the virtues of compromise here and goes back to the negotiating
table,”  Richard Aboulafia , aerospace analyst with Teal Group, a
Fairfax, Virginia-based consulting firm, said in a phone
interview before results were announced. “I would hope the
economics of the 777X program aren’t so brittle as to depend
upon this particular contract.”  Boeing needs to lower costs in a cutthroat environment to
remain competitive with Airbus SAS, its rival based in Toulouse,
 France , Conner wrote in a Nov. 8 letter to employees.  ‘Designing our Future’  “When times are good, it’s easy to forget that continued
success is not guaranteed,” Conner said. “We want to be
proactive in designing our future.”  The terms of the eight-year contract extension would save
Boeing about $2 billion, boosting earnings by about $2 a share
annually, according to an estimate by Ken Herbert, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Group Inc.  Keeping assembly of the 777X model in Washington would be
“highly positive for Boeing” from a logistical standpoint and
take advantage of the experienced workforce building the current
777 at a factory in Everett outside  Seattle , Harned said. He
rates Boeing a buy, as does Herbert.  Retaining 777X work in the Seattle area would spur job
growth as Boeing builds more than 1.5 million square feet
(139,000 square meters) of facilities to house final assembly of
the jet and production of a carbon-fiber wing borrowed from the
787 Dreamliner, the Machinists’ union said in a Nov. 5 message
to members.  Blackmail  About 20,000 Boeing employees currently work either
directly or indirectly on the 777 jet, Boeing’s largest twin-engine aircraft. The company’s hourly workers earn an average of
about $85,000 a year, Chaz Bickers, a Boeing spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  Still, Boeing’s tactics engendered ill-will among some
union members. A website urging District 751 members to reject
the proposal likened the company’s take-it-or-leave-it rhetoric
to “blackmail.”  “It’s a slap in the face,” said Mark Schnell, 52, a
machinist on the 787 line who joined the aircraft maker in 1988.
“If they get rid of the pension in this contract, the union is
eliminated. That’s what the union is here for, for the pension
and for the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  