-- Gangster ‘Whitey’ Bulger Receives Two Life Sentences
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-14T18:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/boston-gangster-whitey-bulger-receives-two-life-sentences.html
James “Whitey” Bulger, the former
fugitive who ran a criminal gang in South  Boston  from the 1970s
to the early 1990s, received two life sentences plus five years
after being convicted in a racketeering and murder conspiracy.  Bulger, 84, who wore a prison-issued orange jumpsuit,
showed no expression and didn’t speak as he was sentenced today
in federal court in Boston.  “The scope, the callousness, the depravity of your crimes
is almost unfathomable,” U.S. District Judge Denise Casper said
to Bulger in a 20-minute speech before she sentenced him. “Your
crimes in my estimation are made all the more heinous because
they were all about money. It takes no business acumen to take
money from people at the end of a gun.”  Casper also ordered restitution of $19.5 million to victims
and their families.  Today’s sentencing may be the last public appearance for
Bulger, who was captured in 2011 in  Santa Monica ,  California ,
after hiding from authorities for 16 years and sharing a space
on the FBI’s most-wanted list alongside  Osama bin Laden .  The Myth  “The myth, the legend of James Bulger is finally over,”
 Massachusetts  U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz said outside the
courthouse today after the sentencing. “James Bulger deserves
nothing less than to spend the rest of his life in jail for the
harm, the pain, the suffering he has caused to so many.”  J.W. Carney Jr. and Hank Brennan, lawyers for Bulger, said
they will the appeal because of what they said were limits
placed on their defense at trial by the judge.  Bulger, who didn’t testify during his 10-week trial,
declined one last chance to speak his mind yesterday during a
hearing that is often used by defendants to seek forgiveness
from their victims. About 15 family members of victims read
statements yesterday.  “I think Jim Bulger is pleased he held to his principles
and didn’t participate in the sentencing,” Carney said.  On Aug. 12, jurors found Bulger guilty on 31 counts of
racketeering and involvement in 11 killings, though he was
cleared in the deaths of seven other people.  Defense Team  At the trial, the judge had barred Bulger’s defense team
from telling the jury about his claim that he struck an immunity
deal with the U.S. Justice Department years ago that protected
him from prosecution in exchange for protecting the life of a
prosecutor.  Before the trial, the U.S. argued the deal was a fantasy,
and that no government official can confer what amounts to a
“license to kill.”  Bulger’s lawyers argued he was being blamed for killings
carried out by the government’s star witnesses. His lawyer said
the testimony of Bulger’s ex-associates can’t be trusted because
they cut deals with prosecutors to avoid lengthy prison terms or
death sentences.  Prosecutors said Bulger was an informant for the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation during most of the time he was leading
his Irish-American organized-crime gang and that at least three
agents were corrupted by his schemes.  Bigger Target  The trial raised questions about the extent to which
federal agents wrongfully protected Bulger from local and state
authorities for years before he disappeared, letting him kill
and steal in exchange for tips about a bigger FBI target, the
Patriarca Family organized crime group.  Outside the courthouse today, Vincent Lisi, special agent
in charge of the FBI in Boston, said the Bulger case has shaken
the public’s trust in the local FBI.  “I realize the actions of a small percentage of  law
enforcement  many years ago caused some people to lose faith and
confidence,” he said. “We will continue to move forward. And
our job now is to regain the faith and confidence of those
people.”  Bulger was charged with 48 racketeering violations, one of
which included allegations he was involved in 19 murders. The
claims included extortion and possession of machine guns and
other firearms used in crimes.  Bulger went into hiding in 1994, tipped off about impending
charges. The warning came from his longtime FBI handler, Special
Agent John Connolly, who’s now serving 50 years in prison for
crimes linked to Bulger, including murder.  Sowed Seeds  The FBI, which offered $2 million for information leading
to his arrest, described him as one of its most notorious
fugitives, known for infiltrating the FBI.  The judge told Bulger today in court that “you have over
time and in certain quarters become a face of the city. That is
regrettable. You and others may be deluded into believing you
represent this city. But you sir, you do not represent this
city.”  Of the 19 murders in the case, Bulger was convicted of 11
and acquitted of seven. The jury made no finding on the murder
of Debra Davis, who was the girlfriend of Stephen Flemmi, a
former Bulger associate who testified Bulger strangled Davis
because she learned they were informants for the FBI. Flemmi
said he removed her teeth and wrapped her body in a tarp for
burial in a secret grave.  The first family member to speak at yesterday’s hearing,
Sean McGonagle, whose father was killed in 1974, started by
addressing the court with: “Families, court, Satan.”  Domestic Terrorist  “You’re a domestic terrorist, fueled by greed and a
sickening ego,” McGonagle said to Bulger. “You thought you
could play both sides against the other” and “when you had to
choose a side, you did what most cowards do, you ran.”  Tom Donahue, whose father was a bystander murdered by
Bulger during a mob hit on another man in 1981, said after the
sentencing that he believed Bulger should have received a death
sentence. He said he opposes state cases pending against Bulger
in Oklahoma and  Florida  that could give him the death penalty
because he said doesn’t want Bulger to have the opportunity to
travel.  “You just want to stick him in a cell and let him rot,”
Donahue said. “Shut that damn door. The next time I want to
hear anything about him, it’s he’s dead.”  Bulger’s girlfriend,  Catherine Greig , who had gone into
hiding with him, was also arrested when Bulger was captured. In
March 2012, she pleaded guilty to conspiracy to harbor a
fugitive and was sentenced to eight years in a federal prison.  Attorneys for Bulger had claimed that the mob boss offered
to plead guilty to all the charges and save the expense of a
trial if the government offered leniency to Greig but
prosecutors declined the offer. Ortiz said she couldn’t comment
on the attorneys’ claims.  Bulger’s court-appointed lawyers have submitted bills
totaling more than $2 million for their work leading up to the
trial, according to court records.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston at   jlawrence62@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  