-- Bouygues Stock Rises as Spending Reductions Boost Profit
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-11-14T10:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/bouygues-stock-rises-as-spending-reductions-boost-profit.html
Bouygues SA (EN) , the French building and
telecommunications company, rose the most in 2 1/2 months after
spending reductions at the mobile-phone and broadcasting
divisions helped profit beat analyst estimates.  Bouygues  jumped  as much as 8.1 percent to 30.025 euros, the
steepest intraday gain since Aug. 28, and was trading up 6.8
percent at 10:45 a.m. in Paris. The stock has gained 32 percent
this year, valuing the company at 9.47 billion euros ($12.7
billion).  “This set of third-quarter figures is supportive of a
gradual recovery in Bouygues’s credit profile,” Nicolas Hue de la Colombe, an analyst at  Credit Agricole  in Paris, said in a
research report. He recommends buying Bouygues’s bonds, in
particular  debt  maturing in 2022 and 2023.  Bouygues, which controls  France ’s third-largest mobile-phone operator and TF1, the country’s biggest television
network, has reduced its workforce while cutting prices to
respond to  Iliad SA (ILD) , which started a discount wireless service
in January 2012. Bouygues Telecom also started talks in July
with SFR, France’s second-largest phone operator, to share part
of their mobile networks.  Third-quarter current operating profit, which excludes some
one-time gains or costs, rose 13 percent from a year earlier to
542 million euros, the Paris-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Earnings exceeded the 465 million-euro average of
four analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net income jumped
26 percent to 360 million euros.  ‘Good’ Performance  “The construction businesses demonstrated a good
commercial performance, while TF1 and Bouygues Telecom
strengthened their offerings in a highly competitive
environment,” the company said. “The adaptation plans
delivered the expected results and the group’s profitability
continued to improve.”  Last year “should mark the low point” in profitability,
the company reiterated, adding that margins should continue to
improve in the fourth quarter.  Spending reductions at the telecommunications unit totaled
455 million euros from the end of 2011 through the third quarter
of this year, including 116 million euros in the three months
ended Sept. 30, thanks to lower marketing and operating costs,
Bouygues said. “Good execution” of construction projects also
contributed to earnings growth.  The company stuck to a goal to stabilize Bouygues Telecom’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
at about 900 million euros in 2013.  Third-quarter  sales  were unchanged as falling revenue at
Bouygues Telecom and Television Francaise 1 offset rising
construction and real estate billings. The company reiterated
that full-year revenue may remain unchanged or fall as much as
1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  