-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop as Economic Activity Falls
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-11-14T20:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/brazil-swap-rates-drop-as-economic-activity-falls-real-climbs.html
Brazil ’s swap rates declined for a
third straight day as a gauge of the economy unexpectedly
contracted in September, adding to speculation that central
bankers will limit borrowing cost increases.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.80 percent at the
close in Sao Paulo. The real rose from a two-month low, climbing
0.9 percent to 2.3143 per dollar as policy makers extended the
maturity on swaps intended to support the currency and after
 Janet Yellen , the nominee for Federal Reserve chairman, said she
will ensure monetary stimulus isn’t removed too soon.  Brazil’s economic activity, a proxy for gross domestic
product, contracted 0.01 percent in September from a month
earlier, the central bank reported today. The median forecast of
37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 0.19 percent growth.
Brazil has raised the  target lending rate  to 9.50 percent from a
record low 7.25 percent this year, the most among 49 nations
tracked by Bloomberg, to slow inflation.  “It was a bad result that shows the economy is weaker than
expected,” Flavio Combat, an economist at Concordia Corretora
in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Perhaps slowing
economic activity will not allow for a strong tightening in
monetary policy.”  The central bank extended the maturity on $988 million of
foreign-exchange swaps in a third consecutive day of rollover
auctions. The bank sold $497 million of swaps earlier today as
part of its $60 billion intervention to bolster the currency and
curb import price increases.  Budget Deficit  The real has pared its gain since the program was announced
Aug. 22 to 5.2 percent on concern the government  budget deficit 
will lead to a credit rating cut. The central bank reported two
weeks ago that the September shortfall swelled to the biggest in
almost four years.  Standard & Poor’s  may reduce Brazil’s BBB credit rating if
fiscal accounts worsen, Regina Nunes, a managing director at the
company, said in an interview last week. S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service lowered their outlooks this year on Brazil’s
rating, which both companies put at two levels above junk.  The real extended its gains as Yellen’s testimony before a
Senate committee supported speculation that emerging-market
assets will continue to benefit as U.S. rates stay low.  “It’s Yellen, Yellen, Yellen,” Hideaki Iha, a currency
trader at Fair Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview. “She never put into doubt the frothy policy the Fed
is practicing, and the real shot up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  