-- Brazil Economic Activity Unexpectedly Contracts in September
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-11-14T12:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/brazil-economic-activity-unexpectedly-contracts-in-september.html
Brazil ’s economic  activity index  in
September surprised analysts by contracting, adding to signs
that President Dilma Rousseff’s efforts to spur growth are
failing.  The seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, fell 0.01 percent in September from
the previous month after rising a revised 0.09 percent in
August, the central bank said today in a report posted on its
website. Analysts expected a 0.19 percent gain, according to the
median estimate of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The index posted a 3.33 percent increase from the year
before, lower than the 3.6 percent median estimate from 34
economists.  Rousseff’s administration has been struggling to revive
economic growth, as higher public spending, tax breaks and
subsidized credit to consumers and companies are being offset by
the world’s largest interest rate increase. Above-target
inflation has also eroded investor confidence in the economy.  The number today “confirms expectations that GDP growth in
the third quarter was close to zero or even negative,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America Investimentos, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “Actually, it shouldn’t surprise anybody,
we’ve been getting used to slow growth for some time.”  Swap rate contracts maturing in January 2015, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 10.81 percent at 9:54 a.m. Brasilia time.  The world’s second-largest emerging economy is forecast to
grow 2.5 percent this year and 2.11 percent in 2014, the latest
weekly central bank survey of economists shows. That would be
the fourth consecutive year of growth below the average in Latin
America, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank has boosted its benchmark  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate by
225 basis points since April, to 9.5 percent, as inflation in
October was 5.84 percent. The bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  