-- Burberry Sees Less Beauty Profit as Marketing Spending Rises
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-11-14T12:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/burberry-group-first-half-revenue-jumps-as-online-sales-rise.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, said earnings at its nascent beauty
business will be less than half its original forecast this
fiscal year as it steps up marketing spending.  The division, which Burberry has controlled directly since
April, will earn about 10 million pounds ($16 million), the
London-based trenchcoat maker said today in a statement, down
from an earlier projection of about 25 million pounds. Burberry
also reported little-changed first-half earnings and revenue
that topped 1 billion pounds for the first time.  Switching the beauty unit to direct control from a
licensing agreement has more than doubled the group’s marketing
spending, according to Burberry, which plans to introduce a new
women’s fragrance in February. The company said it expects a
“halo” effect from investment in beauty that will boost sales
across the group, while forecasting that operating profit
 margins  will probably show a “modest increase” this year.  “Expectations on beauty profits are coming back down to
earth -- after a very punchy year one guidance,” said  Luca Solca , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London . This is
unlikely to change in the near future as “a lack of scale and
the need to invest will likely weigh on the bottom line.”  Burberry  rose  as much as 3.5 percent in London trading and
was up 1.6 percent at 1,485 pence at 11:44 a.m. in London.  The company last month named Christopher Bailey to succeed
Angela Ahrendts as chief executive officer when she leaves for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in mid-2014. Bailey’s appointment comes as the luxury
industry is polarizing, meaning he must decide whether to move
Burberry upscale to challenge brands like Prada and  Louis
Vuitton , or target a wider audience with less expensive goods,
according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Reduced Contribution  “There will be no radical change in strategy,” Bailey
told investors in a webcast today. Existing senior executives
will take on additional responsibilities’’ to “enable
Christopher to lead the business into the next phase of
growth,” Burberry said in the statement.  The company will seek to offset the reduced profit
contribution from beauty with “other areas of the business,”
Allegra Perry, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald , said in a note.  Burberry doesn’t expect analysts’  estimates  for full-year
profit to move significantly from a range of 455 million pounds
to 509 million pounds, it said last month. The average is about
472 million pounds, the company said at the time.  Adjusted pretax profit for the six months ended Sept. 30
was 173.9 million pounds compared with 173.4 million pounds a
year earlier, the company said, less than a month after
forecasting that the earnings would be around last year’s level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  