-- Cameron Urges Calm Immigration Language in Bid to Reassure India
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cameron-urges-calm-immigration-language-in-bid-to-reassure-india.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
called for calm language in discussion of immigration as he
sought to reassure Indians they will be granted visas to study
in Britain.  Speaking as he flew to India yesterday, Cameron reiterated
his 2010 election commitment to cut immigration to the “tens of
thousands” by 2015 and criticized the previous Labour
government’s policy, saying it had got the balance of action and
rhetoric wrong.  “What’s required with immigration is consistent and tough
and robust action but measured, sensible and calm language,”
Cameron told reporters traveling with him to New Delhi.
“Sometimes under the last government we had the language but
not the action.”  Immigration has been growing as a political issue in the
U.K. in recent months, amid concerns about the number of
Bulgarians and Romanians who may enter the country next year
when European Union restrictions are loosened. Cameron’s
government has been caught between efforts to crack down on
people misusing the visa system and moves to streamline the
process for legitimate business people and students.  Cameron will tell Indian students that there’s no cap to
the number that can go to the U.K., as long as they have signed
up for legitimate courses and are not traveling to Britain to
work. He will also assure Indians that plans to ask people to
pay a bond before entering the U.K. on a visa have been
abandoned.  ‘No Limit’  “On the issue of students, we’ve got to have a strong
message to take to  India  and other countries -- there’s no limit
on the numbers that can come to study at British universities,”
Cameron said.  The relationships built up through studying in the U.K.
will boost investment in both directions and ties between the
two countries in the future, Cameron said.  “I firmly believe that strengthening our education ties is
a win-win for both of us, because I know that if you study at a
British university and work for a while in Britain, when you do
come back to India you’ll want to trade with Britain, you’ll
want to invest in Britain, you’ll want to do business with
Britain,” Cameron said in an interview with the Times of India
newspaper published today. “Britain is open for business and we
want to attract tourists, students, and businessmen.”  The prime minister said that nine out of 10 Indian
applicants for visas were accepted, in what is Britain’s largest
visa operation, with 12 centers processing 430,000 applications.  “Our challenge is getting that message through and
countering the myth that somehow we’ve closed our borders to
Indians,” Cameron said. “That’s simply not the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  New Delhi  at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  