-- Cameron Confronts Sri Lanka President Over Human Rights
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-15T16:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cameron-joins-prince-in-sri-lanka-amid-war-crimes-dispute.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
confronted Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa over alleged
 human-rights  abuses against his country’s Tamil minority after
visiting their homeland in the north.  Cameron, who’s in Sri Lanka for a Commonwealth summit, met
the president today after flying to the north, where the  United
Nations  estimates 40,000 civilians were killed during the final
months of the 26-year civil war that ended in 2009. He’s the
first world leader to visit the region since Sri Lanka became
independent from Britain in 1948.  Cameron went to a refugee camp on the outskirts of the city
of Jaffna for Tamils displaced by the war, as well as newspaper
offices and a library that was ransacked and set on fire by a
mob from the Sinhalese majority in 1981. A UN report found
credible allegations of  war crimes  and crimes against humanity
by the Sri Lankan government in the last days of the conflict
against the separatist  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam , charges
the government has denied.  Rajapaksa’s government “still has a chance” to take
action over human rights that will satisfy the international
community, Cameron told reporters. “What’s needed is generosity
and magnanimity from the Sri Lankan government to bring the
country together. And I think coming here, listening to these
people, hearing these arguments, helps to draw attention to
their plight.”  ‘Very Lively’  Cameron met Rajapaksa today after his return to the
capital,  Colombo , and told reporters at a dinner after the
meeting that the discussions had been “very lively,” adding
that “it’s good to have these frank meetings.”  Rajapaksa said yesterday that killings by Tamil separatists
before 2009 were ignored by the international community and he
retaliated to stop them, the  BBC  reported, citing comments at a
news conference. He said he had some questions of his own for
Cameron, the BBC said, while his information minister accused
the British premier of acting like a colonialist.  At the offices of the Utahayan newspaper, Cameron was shown
bullet holes in the walls and a printing press that was burned
in the early hours of April 13. During his visit to the refugee
camp, residents said their lands had been seized by the military
and they could not return.  Northern Ireland  Cameron made the case to Rajapaksa for press freedom and
returning the refugees to their homes, the premier’s office said
after the meeting, which lasted for about an hour. He spoke of
the U.K.’s experiences in  Northern Ireland  to illustrate the
possibilities of constructive reconciliation.  “There are some images that are incredibly powerful,” the
premier said in Jaffna. “Going to the headquarters of a Tamil
newspaper here in northern  Sri Lanka  and seeing pictures of
journalists, shot and killed, on the walls and hearing stories
of journalists who have disappeared long after the war has ended
-- that will stay with me.”  “Our families are a bit scared to send us to work, but we
like this field and we are working for the truth,” Tharumangan
Tinesh, a 36-year-old reporter, said while sitting under posters
of bloodied corpses of murdered journalists. “We hope that
after Mr. Cameron’s visit there will be less harassment.”  Jaffna Protests  Cameron was greeted by protesters, including 200 women
outside the library holding pictures of disappeared relatives
they wanted to give him. The women broke through a security
cordon and ran toward the departing cars, some being thrown to
the ground by security forces as they reached Cameron’s vehicle.
There were also counter-demonstrations by people holding printed
signs opposing his visit.  “We hope Mr. Cameron will talk on our behalf and help us
get resettled,” said Sutharshen Uthayaswriyan, 30, deputy
leader of the village council at the camp. “We don’t want to be
refugees, we want our children to live in their own houses and
our own lands.”  Cameron quoted British war leader  Winston Churchill ’s line
“in victory -- magnanimity” as he urged Rajapaksa to win the
peace, his office said.  Cameron was under pressure from opposition lawmakers in the
U.K. to boycott the summit to protest Rajapaksa’s human-rights
record, as three other leaders of Commonwealth countries have
done.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Colombo, Sri Lanka, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  