-- Cameron Flies to Sri Lanka Demanding Probe of War Crimes
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cameron-flies-to-sri-lanka-demanding-probe-of-war-crimes.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
flies to  Sri Lanka  today and into an argument with the country’s
president,  Mahinda Rajapaksa , over human rights and the
treatment of the Tamil minority.  Cameron will visit the north of the island, where the
 United Nations  estimates 40,000 civilians were killed by
Rajapaksa’s forces in 2009 at the end of the island’s 26-year
civil war. The Sri Lankans say the British leader is acting like
a colonialist lecturing them on how to behave.  “There are legitimate accusations of war crimes that need
to be properly investigated,” Cameron, who recently watched a
 Channel 4 television  film about the assault, said during a visit
to Kolkata, India, on his way to Sri Lanka. “The images in that
film are completely chilling. It’s an appalling set of
allegations that have been backed up by the work of the UN
special rapporteur who has had them verified.”  Cameron, who is headed to the Commonwealth summit, was
under pressure from opposition lawmakers to boycott the event to
protest Rajapaksa’s record. A UN report found credible
allegations of  war crimes  and crimes against humanity carried
out by the Sri Lankan government in the last days of the war
against the separatist  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ,
allegations the government has denied.  Sri Lankan troops repeatedly shelled the area in which
330,000 civilians were trapped and used heavy artillery to
attack hospitals and UN and Red Cross posts, the UN report said.
Survivors were summarily executed, raped and tortured, according
to the report, commissioned by the UN secretary general.  Rajapaska’s Retort  Rajapaksa responded today that the killings by Tamil
separatists before 2009 were ignored by the international
community and he retaliated to stop them, the  BBC  reported,
citing a press conference. He said he had some questions of his
own for Cameron, while his information minister remonstrated.  “We are two sovereign governments, this is 2013, and we
should have these sorts of frank conversations,” Cameron said.
“It’s in Sri Lanka’s own interests to sort these issues out.
They had this appalling, bloody, painful civil war that came to
an end. They have an opportunity to build a successful, peaceful
prosperous nation. Part of my message to President Rajapaksa is
he should be seizing the opportunity to win the peace.”  Cameron is due to travel to Jaffna in the north tomorrow,
the first world leader to do so since Sri Lanka became
independent from Britain in 1948. He’ll meet people affected by
the war and to talk with Tamil leaders before meeting Rajapaska.  Miliband’s Call  Ed Miliband , the leader of the U.K.’s opposition  Labour
Party , who called on Cameron to boycott the summit, joined non-governmental organizations in saying the prime minister should
attempt to block Rajapaksa becoming head of the Commonwealth for
the next two years, usually the automatic reward for hosting the
meeting.  Canada’s  Stephen Harper  and Navinchandra Ramgoolam of
Mauritius will join India’s  Manmohan Singh  in not traveling to
Sri Lanka for the meeting of the 53-nation body, a decision
Cameron said he respects while saying that it would have been
more effective if Sri Lanka’s critics had presented a united
front.  “You can’t make the arguments unless you’re there,”
Cameron said. “I totally accept it would be better if everyone
took the same view but that’s not the world we live in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Kolkata at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  