-- Cameron Says Poor, Minorities Must Raise Aspirations
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cameron-says-poor-minorities-must-raise-aspirations.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
working-class people and those from ethnic minorities need to
raise their aspirations if there is to be improved social
mobility in Britain.  Responding to comments by former Prime Minister John Major
that it’s “truly shocking” that Britain’s elites are still
dominated by privately educated people from affluent middle-class families, Cameron said much more work needs to be done.  “It’s not good enough just to make changes and sit back,
you’ve got to get out there and try and attract talented people,
whether it’s into top levels of industry, media or politics,”
Cameron told reporters on a plane to  India  yesterday. “You’ve
got to get out there and find people and win them over and get
them to raise aspirations and get them to think they can get all
the way to the top.”  Cameron, who was educated at Eton College, Britain’s most
prestigious private school, and Oxford University, where he was
a member of the elitist Bullingdon drinking club, has been
criticized by opposition parties for being out of touch with
ordinary people and appointing too many millionaires to his
cabinet.  Major, the last Tory premier before Cameron and who left
school at 16, was cited by the Daily Telegraph newspaper last
week as telling Conservative activists that “the upper echelons
of power in 2013 are held overwhelmingly by the privately
educated or the affluent middle class.”  Black Lawmakers  Cameron said he agreed with the thrust of Major’s comments
and cited his recruitment of black and Asian lawmakers to his
party in the House of Commons as an example of his determination
to see change.  In “Parliament, the army, the judiciary, the media, it’s
not as diverse, there’s not as much social mobility as there
needs to be and that’s something I’ve tried to change,” Cameron
said. “I want to see a Britain where no matter where you come
from, what God you worship, the color of your skin, the
community you belong to, you can get to the top.”  He defended the make-up of his cabinet, saying he recruited
people on the basis of their ability to do the job and pointed
out that he was limited in only being able to appoint lawmakers
to senior positions in his government.  Cameron cited support for child care and reforms to
education under his government as being designed to help people
from poor backgrounds to achieve their potential.  “I agree with  John Major  that we need a far more socially
mobile country,” he said. “We are making some progress but
it’s not fast enough and we need to go further and faster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  New Delhi  at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  