-- Canadian Currency Reaches 10-Week Low Amid Bets Gains Too Strong
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-14T22:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/canada-s-dollar-at-almost-two-month-low-on-bets-gains-too-strong.html
Canada ’s dollar touched the weakest
level since September amid wagers it rose too much, too fast
yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman-nominee  Janet Yellen 
said more U.S. economic growth is needed before stimulus is cut.  The currency pared losses after commodities rose and  crude
oil , Canada’s biggest export, erased a drop. The loonie, as the
Canadian dollar is called, gained yesterday after Yellen’s
prepared testimony for a Senate hearing voiced support for
maintaining Fed bond purchases that have fueled global risk
appetite. She testified today.  “There’s sort of a feeling of inevitability that the
Canadian dollar is going to trade lower,” said Mark Frey, chief
market strategist at Cambridge Mercantile Group, a global
foreign exchange and payments company, said by phone from
Victoria, British Columbia. “Yesterday, when we traced down to
the C$1.0440 mark, yeah, we got lots of corporate buyers of U.S.
dollars in because, we thought, this is a short-term reprieve.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0464 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It sank as much as 0.7 percent, the
most since Oct. 23, to C$1.0526, the weakest level since Sept.
4, after gaining 0.4 percent yesterday. Earlier it touched
C$1.0440. One loonie buys 95.57 U.S. cents.  ‘Challenging Outlook’  The Canadian dollar has declined 2 percent this year
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Aussie dollar has
tumbled 8 percent, while the greenback has gained 4 percent.  “The underlying trend in dollar-Canada is still higher; I
think people want to get long U.S. dollars and sell the Canadian
dollar,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. Long positions are
bets that a currency, here the greenback, will strengthen.
“Fundamentally, it’s still a challenging outlook for the
Canadian economy: low inflation, slow growth.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond rose for a
second day, pushing the  yield  down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.55 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent
security due in June 2023 added 21 cents to C$91.16.  Yellen, currently vice chairman of the Fed, told the Senate
Banking Committee she’s committed to promoting a strong recovery
of an economy that’s operating well below potential.  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  “It’s important not to remove support, especially when the
recovery is fragile and the tools available to monetary policy,
should the economy falter, are limited given that short-term
interest rates are at zero,” Yellen said at the hearing.  The Fed buys $85 billion a month in bonds to cap borrowing
costs and spur economic growth, a strategy that tends to debase
the greenback while bolstering appetite for higher-yielding
assets. Policy makers have held the benchmark  interest rate  at
virtually zero since 2008.  Stronger-than-forecast growth in October payrolls and
third-quarter gross domestic product added to speculation that a
slowing in the pace of the purchases may begin soon.  “When the Yellen speech was released, everyone was looking
for a dovish approach, and that’s what came out in the end, and
it was a kind of buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact reaction,” said
Darcy Browne, managing director of currencies at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, by telephone from Toronto. “The
market’s mind is that they want a stronger U.S. dollar, and they
want to achieve it.”  Crude Oil  Crude oil for December delivery was little changed at
$93.93 a barrel in  New York  after dropping 1.5 percent earlier
to $92.51, the lowest level since June 4. Standard & Poor’s  GSCI
Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw materials increased 0.5 percent.  The loonie remained weaker after data showed Canada’s new-home price index was at zero in September following a 0.1
percent gain in August. It was the first time the index  failed
to rise  since March 2011.  The nation’s merchandise  trade deficit  narrowed to C$435
million ($414 million) after a revised shortfall of C$1.09
billion in August,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a C$1 billion deficit,
based on the median of 19 forecasts.  The Canadian economy will grow 1.6 percent this year and
2.3 percent in 2014, according to the Bank of Canada’s
projections in its October Monetary Policy report.  The  consumer price index  will remain below-target until the
end of 2015, two quarters longer than forecast in July, the
central bank predicted. Consumer-price  inflation  has remained
near the bottom of the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target band for the past 17 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  