-- Canada Heavy Oil Gains as BP Refinery Said to Ramp Up New Coker
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-11-14T20:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/canada-heavy-oil-gains-as-bp-refinery-said-to-ramp-up-new-coker.html
Canada heavy oil strengthened for a
third day on the  spot market  as  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting,  Indiana ,
refinery began the startup of a new coker that will allow it to
start processing heavy oil-sands crude.  The 420,000-barrel-a-day Whiting plant brought online a new
delayed coker, according to a person familiar with operations at
the plant. Combined with a crude unit that started in June, the
equipment will allow Whiting to process as much as 85 percent
Canadian heavy crude, up from about 20 percent, the company’s
website shows. The refinery is scheduled to ramp-up heavy oil
consumption over a three-month period, the company said in an
Oct. 29 presentation.  Western Canadian Select, a heavy blending including oil-sands bitumen, strengthened by $1.50 a barrel to a $33 discount
to U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude for December delivery,
according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. January
deliveries also strengthened by $1.50 a barrel to a $29
discount.  “BP Whiting will be starting to take heavier crude
slates,” Matt Portillo, an an analyst at Tudor, Pickering, Holt
& Co., said in a phone interview from Houston. “It will suck up
WCS and put more Syncrude on the market. We believe Bakken’s
discount will become structurally wider over time.”  The refinery’s shift to heavy crude didn’t have an
immediate effect on light oil spot prices. Bakken crude was
unchanged at a $13.50 discount to WTI as of 1:50 p.m. New York
time, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and Syncrude was 25 cents
stronger at a $13.25 discount, according to Net Energy.  Refinery Fires  WCS prices have regained most of the ground lost over the
last three weeks after two other refineries reported fires that
damaged their heavy-crude processing units.  Prices reached a $42 discount to WTI after Citgo Petroleum
Corp. reported a blaze at its 170,500-barrel-a-day Lemont,
 Illinois , plant Oct. 23, and a fire at Federated Co-operatives
Ltd.’s  Regina, Saskatchewan, refinery on Nov. 1 affected its
heavy crude processing.  “Relative to BP Whiting, Lemont is a smaller refinery. BP
Whiting has been slated to start producing heavy oil by
December, so that’s having an impact,” David Bouckhout, senior
commodity strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank said in a phone
interview from Calgary.  Bouckhout also said that WCS prices may be gaining support
as sellers put more into storage for sale in future months,
decreasing the supply available for sale.  WCS swaps show a narrower discount for forward months.
February WCS was valued at at $27.88 below WTI, compared with a
$30.64 discount for January futures, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  