-- Carbon Permit Market May Lose Cost Benefit by 2030, Poeyry Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-14T16:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/carbon-permit-market-may-lose-cost-benefit-by-2030-poeyry-says.html
Emissions markets are the cheapest
way for Europe’s utilities to cut greenhouse-gas output until
2030, when investment in technologies such as  carbon-capture  is
expected to inflate costs, energy adviser Poeyry Oyj said.  Electricity users may pay 75.40 euros ($101) a megawatt
hour on average through 2030 under a scenario where emission-reduction costs are set by the market, the Vantaa, Finland-based
firm said in a  report  on its website. That’s 2.1 percent less
than a system where governments match the expense of renewable
technologies, according to Poeyry, whose customers include the
European Commission and the U.K.  The most cost-effective scenario “allows the carbon price
to do the heavy lifting from 2020 to 2030,” Simon Bradbury,
principal consultant at Poeyry, said yesterday by phone from
Oxford,  England . After then, costs may have to jump to encourage
development of currently immature technologies such as carbon
capture and storage and offshore windfarms.  European Union lawmakers are considering whether to extend
targets on renewables, carbon dioxide and  energy efficiency  to
2030 from 2020. The European Commission wants to consult on new
climate and energy policies by the middle of January, EU Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said Oct. 31.  Under the EU’s cap-and-trade system, allowances are
auctioned or allocated for free to power plants and factories
that must surrender the permits to cover discharges or pay
fines. Bradbury’s analysis assumes nations use the carbon permit
revenue to cut power-consumer costs.  Carbon Bank  In the markets scenario, the price paid by consumers surges
to 102 euros a megawatt-hour in 2035, compared with 89 euros
under a national support payment model, according to Poeyry. By
2050, costs under the market path fall back to 91 euros a
megawatt-hour, below the 93-euro level for the support scenario.  Lawmakers should consider committing to a “clear carbon
pricing framework” through 2030, which may include new
institutions including an independent carbon bank and systems to
adjust the supply of allowances, Bradbury said.  Benchmark EU carbon permits fell 0.6 percent today to 4.62
euros a ton on ICE Futures  Europe  in  London  at 4:16 p.m. The
contracts have plunged 73 percent in the past five years due to
a surplus of allowances exacerbated by the economic slowdown.  Where possible, there should be “international agreements
and consumer acceptance of the cost implications of pursuing
decarbonization,” Bradbury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  