-- Carfinco Trades at Record on U.S. Loans Growth: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-11-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/carfinco-trades-at-record-on-u-s-loans-growth-corporate-canada.html
Carfinco Financial Group Inc. (CFN) , the
Canadian car lender trading close to a record high, plans to
increase its U.S. loan portfolio by 20 percent next year by
targeting high-risk borrowers who have filed for bankruptcy or
missed credit payments.  Carfinco this month bid for Western Funding Inc. in  Las
Vegas  and added Wakefield, Massachusetts-based Persian
Acceptance Corp. in September to boost its U.S. loans for
consumers with bad credit ratings.  “We believe that making the bid on Western gives us a
tremendous platform for potential growth in the  United States ,”
Chief Executive Officer Tracy Graf said in a Nov. 8 telephone
interview from  Edmonton ,  Alberta , where the company is based.  Carfinco is tapping into the growing North American  car
loans  market for consumers who can’t borrow from traditional
banks. The company charges interest rates that are higher than
standard car loans to reflect the higher risk.  Such car buyers account for more than 27 percent of loans
for new vehicles in the U.S., the highest proportion since
Experian Automotive started tracking the data in 2007. That
compares with 25 percent last year and 18 percent in 2009, as
lenders pulled back during the recession.  Carfinco, founded in 1997 as a lender for auto-body shops,
will have a total of about $80 million in U.S. loans if it is
the successful bidder for Western Funding, the auto lender that
filed for  bankruptcy protection , Graf said. The company plans to
expand its U.S. loan programs, which should boost so-called
finance receivables by as much as 20 percent in 2014, he said.  Credit History  “The market definitely grew coming out of 2008, 2009 in
terms of the amount of people that damaged their credit
history,” Graf, 50, said. “There are more people utilizing our
service.”  Finance receivables, the outstanding loans owed to
Carfinco, rose 4.3 percent to C$195 million ($186.39 million)
at the end of the second quarter, from $187.1 million in the
first quarter of 2013 and a 20 percent increase from a year
earlier, company documents show.  Carfinco rose 15 percent in the 12 months through yesterday
 compared  with a 10 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite index. Carfinco fell 0.5 percent yesterday to C$11.23,
close to a record C$11.68, reached in January.  U.S. Growth  Carfinco agreed to buy Persian Acceptance for $9.5 million
in cash and stock, according to a Sept. 4 statement. Persian has
362 dealerships who source auto finance contracts in  Vermont ,
 New Hampshire ,  Massachusetts ,  Connecticut  and  Maine .  Western Funding has a license to operate in 30 states,
including a significant portfolio in Texas and  Florida , Graf
said. Western Funding started Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings
on Sept. 4, Carfinco said in a statement. Western Funding could
not be reached for comment when contacted Nov. 13.  Carfinco may double its loan portfolio within three years
by tapping into the larger U.S. market, Frederik Westra,
director of research at Industrial Alliance Securities, said in
an Oct. 29 telephone interview from  Montreal .  “It’s a market where they’re going to be able to grow
quite nicely,” Westra said.  Western Funding could be a significant contributor to
Carfinco earnings in 2015 and beyond if the acquisition is
successful, he said. The deal will not be complete until the
companies reach a stock purchase agreement, a sale process for
competing bids is held, and the court signs off on the plan,
Carfinco said Nov. 1.  Missed Payments  Fifty-eight percent of Carfinco’s 22,000 Canadian customers
have filed for bankruptcy or missed recent car or credit-card
payments, and 36 percent don’t have a credit score, Graf said.
The average customer is 36, has worked for four years, and takes
a C$12,000 loan with a 30 percent interest rate to buy a five-year-old vehicle, Graf said.  Typically car loans at a bank range from 4 percent to 6
percent, with some dealers offering zero interest deals, Tod
Chisholm, director of national sales and marketing at Scotia
Dealer Advantage, a unit of Bank of Nova Scotia.  Carfinco takes extra precautions with its high-risk
borrowers. The company installs a Global Positioning System
start-interrupter device so it can prevent a vehicle from
starting if the customer doesn’t make loan payments. A GPS
tracking system locates the vehicle if it needs to be
repossessed and sold.  Carfinco’s return on equity of 41 percent is the highest of
its 15 North American peers, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  `Superior ROE'  Auto sales are strong and low- interest rates  are helping to
spur large-ticket purchases, Patrick Ruiz, an analyst with M
 Capital Partners  in Toronto, said in a Oct. 28 telephone
interview. Car sales in  Canada  have risen 3.5 percent this year
as of the end of October, according to Carlos Gomes, an
economist at Scotiabank.  Four analysts, including Ruiz, recommend buying the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They return superior ROEs, strong margins, and they play
in a space that makes other people nervous in terms of their
high-interest car loans,” Ruiz said. ROE, or return on equity,
is a measure of profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  