-- CGI Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates Helped by Logica Purchase
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-14T11:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cgi-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-helped-by-logica-purchase.html
CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) ,  Canada ’s biggest
technology company, reported quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, helped by integration of its Logica
acquisition.  Excluding one-time items, fiscal fourth-quarter earnings
were 67 Canadian cents (63.8 cents) a share, the Montreal-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts had estimated 61
cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue climbed to C$2.46 billion from C$1.61 billion a year
earlier.  Shares of CGI have more than doubled since 2009 as Chief
Executive Officer Michael Roach made acquisitions, including the
1.7 billion-pound ($2.7 billion) purchase of Logica Plc that
lifted the information services company’s profitability.  “After a full year, the Logica merger and successful
execution of our integration program has, and will continue to
yield significant benefits,” Roach said in today’s statement.
“Our focus remains on realizing incremental revenue and cost
synergies that will drive additional earnings accretion in
fiscal 2014 and beyond.”  CGI has come under scrutiny recently for its role in
building software for the U.S. government’s Obamacare website.
Snags on the site that are a key part of  Barack Obama ’s 2010
Affordable Care Act prompted a slide in the shares last month
and threatened to dent CGI’s reputation.  Scott Penner, a TD Securities Inc. analyst in Toronto, has
estimated the Obamacare contract is valued at about C$290
million, or less than 3 percent of CGI’s annual sales of about
C$10 billion.  The shares yesterday rose 1.4 percent to C$37.62 in Toronto
for a seventh day of gains in the past eight trading sessions.
The stock has climbed 64 percent this year.  CGI, which made more than 20 acquisitions in the last
decade to challenge companies such as  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  was created in 1976 by billionaire Serge Godin.
It now has about 69,000 employees and is the world’s fifth-largest information technology services company, according to
Jefferies LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  