-- Charter Unveils Digital Service in Bid to Regain TV Subscribers
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-11-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/charter-unveils-digital-service-in-bid-to-regain-tv-subscribers.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , looking
to shrug off an industrywide decline in cable-TV subscribers, is
introducing a digital version of its service under a new brand.  The company will start selling the digital-TV and broadband
service in the first quarter of 2014, calling it Charter
Spectrum, with the idea that it could increase video customers
-- or at least keep the ones it already has. The cable industry
suffered a 3.3 percent drop in video customers last quarter,
hurt by competition from phone companies and satellite providers
such as DirecTV, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In rolling out a digital service under a new name, Charter
is following in the footsteps of Comcast Corp.’s Xfinity and
Cablevision System Corp.’s Optimum. Until now, Charter’s
customers have mostly received analog-based channels -- an
outdated technology that competitors have abandoned in favor of
digital interfaces and more high-definition channels.  “It’s hard to overstate just how weak Charter’s video
product had gotten,” said  Craig Moffett , founder of research
firm MoffettNathanson LLC. “Now, for the first time, they will
be broadly marketing a video product that can stand toe-to-toe
with DirecTV’s.”  Charter’s new digital service will give customers twice as
many high-definition options -- more than 200 channels, up from
from an average of 100 channels. It also includes faster
broadband speeds of more than 45 megabits per second, the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based company said.  All Digital  “This isn’t really just a new product set we’re selling --
it’s a new brand,” Chief Marketing Officer  Jon Hargis  said in
an interview. “It’s a big operational task to go all digital.”  The move also will help Chief Executive Officer Tom Rutledge tout Charter as a more attractive merger partner,
Moffett said. Billionaire  John Malone , who acquired a 27 percent
stake in Charter in May, has been has been exploring ways of
combining the company with Time Warner Cable Inc., people
familiar with the matter have said.  Time Warner Cable lost more than 300,000 video customers
last quarter from the previous three months, the worst
performance among U.S. pay-TV companies. That may increase
pressure to do a deal, Moffett said. Charter, meanwhile, shed
about 27,000 video subscribers in the period.  Malone’s overtures to Time Warner Cable are part of a
broader push for consolidation in cable. Pay-TV companies are
shelling out more to carry programming from the major cable and
broadcast networks, and Malone has said that bulking up would
help them extract better terms.  Slow Start  Ironically, Charter’s weaker starting position gives it an
advantage over other cable companies, Moffett said. A much-improved product makes it more likely to start adding video
subscribers again, even if its technology is playing catch-up,
he said. Charter also has less competition in its regional
markets than other cable companies.  Charter is the fourth-largest cable provider in the U.S.,
with 4.3 million video customers. The company currently only
sells to 34 percent of the  12.8 million  households wired for its
service. In addition, the move to digital channels lets the
company operate more cheaply since it can manage transactions
remotely, without the need to send technicians to individual
homes, according to Moffett.  About 60 percent of the company’s customers shifted over to
a revised pricing plan adopted in July, and they will get the
upgraded service at no additional cost, Hargis said.  IPad App  Last week, Charter unveiled live viewing applications for
Apple Inc.’s iPad and iPhone, letting customers watch 100
channels on the devices. It’s also a feature most other major
cable providers already have. About 37 of the 100 channels on
Charter are viewable outside the home, including ESPN,  HBO ,
Showtime and NBC. A version for Google Inc.’s Android operating
system will be available before the end of the year.  By the first quarter of 2014, digital service will be
available to about a third of the households wired by Charter.
The remaining two-thirds will get digital capability through the
following nine months, according to Hargis.  Despite all the advantages of the newer technology, the
company will probably have to educate its customers on why they
should upgrade, he said.  “Customers are looking for a clear winner in this debate
over who can deliver the best value,” Hargis said. “My job as
a marketer is to just make sure the customers understand that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  