-- Chelsea Plans $40 Million Bid for Imbula, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-14T06:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/chelsea-plans-40-million-bid-for-imbula-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Chelsea Wants Imbula  Chelsea is planning a 25 million-pound ($40 million) bid
for Marseille defensive midfielder Giannelli Imbula, the  Daily
Express reported .  The 21-year-old Imbula, who was dropped from France’s
under-21 squad this week for making inappropriate comments to a
member of staff, has been watched several times by Chelsea
scouts, the newspaper added.  Winger Wanted  Arsenal, Chelsea,  Manchester United  and Tottenham Hotspur
are interested in Ukraine winger Yevhen Konoplyanka and will
have him watched in the two-match World Cup playoff against
France, the  Daily Star reported .  Borussia Dortmund ,  Bayer Leverkusen  and Paris Saint-Germain
are also keen on the 24-year-old, for whom Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk
received a 10 million-pound bid from an unnamed Premier League
club in the offseason, the Star added.  Dempsey Return  U.S. national team captain  Clint Dempsey  is set to make a
return to a Premier League club on loan from Seattle Sounders in
January, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Tottenham has first refusal on the midfielder, who can join
another team for two months during Major League Soccer’s
offseason, the newspaper said. Fulham,  Aston Villa  and Everton
are also interested in Dempsey, the Mirror said.  Penalty Replays  West Bromwich Albion has written to the Premier League
urging the introduction of video technology to prevent a repeat
of the penalty kick controversy that denied it victory at
Chelsea last weekend, the  Daily Mail reported .  West Brom contacted the league and the referees’ body to
ask if the time is right to allow match officials to review
their awarding of spot kicks, and wants the issue to be debated
at a Premier League shareholders’ meeting, the Mail added.  The Baggies’ grievances concern what they consider to be
poor penalty decisions in their games against Southampton,
Arsenal,  Stoke City  and Chelsea, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  