-- Chertoff Says U.S. Disengaging Won’t Ease Cybersecurity Risks
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 2013-11-14T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/chertoff-says-u-s-disengaging-won-t-ease-cybersecurity-risks.html
Michael Chertoff, who was Homeland
Security secretary under President George W. Bush, provides his
outlook for the cybersecurity industry in the Nov. 18 issue of
Bloomberg Businessweek. Chertoff, the chairman and cofounder of
the Chertoff Group in  Washington , a global risk adviser, is one
of the featured speakers at Bloomberg LP’s inaugural “ The Year
Ahead: 2014 ” conference on Nov. 20-21 in  Chicago .  Question: What big threats are we facing?  Chertoff: Cyber. We have seen malicious tools found in our
critical infrastructure. For example, there have been
announcements about finding these tools in our natural gas
pipeline. Where does it come from? Activist groups, potentially
from countries or sympathizers of countries like North Korea or
 Iran . The second issue is a very dangerous situation in the
Middle East. There is a possibility that the violence in  Syria 
and  Iraq  is going to embroil the region.  Question: What is the right course of action?  Chertoff: I wish we could press the rewind button and go
back a few years. We had left Iraq in a relatively stable
situation, but then we left. And that opened the door to a
resurgence in violence.  Had we a year ago gotten more engaged in supporting
relatively moderate opposition leaders in Syria, we might see a
pathway to a resolution. Those opportunities have passed.
Another strategy is to disengage, and that seems to be where we
are headed. The problem is that we leave a vacuum. We need to
develop a strategy for sensible engagement.  Question: What about  defense spending ?  Chertoff: It looks increasingly like we’re going to have
sequesters next year. But the way in which it is done across-the-board means you can’t be strategic about how you do the
cutting. If you were going to be strategic about where we need
to invest, obviously cyber, the ability to collect intelligence
globally and to analyze and operationalize, remains very
important. I want to make sure we’re continuing to invest in our
navy and our air force, as well as our special operations and
intelligence capabilities. I fear that the current budget
constraint comes with the politics that make it impossible ever
to close unnecessary military bases or perhaps cut back on
military pay increases.  Question: How much of cybersecurity is handled by the
private sector?  Chertoff: A lot. The government does have some unique
capabilities in the cyber area. The government’s ability to
collect intelligence is a way of being able to warn our critical
infrastructure about threats. This is a case where the
government can’t protect all the critical infrastructure itself.  Question: Could the Edward Snowden controversy impede the
government?  Chertoff: It’s a real nuisance in terms of getting things
done. The things that are now being released, and people are
hyperventilating about, are leading to confusion or
misunderstanding or sometimes deliberate distortion. It’s
distracting us from being able to protect ourselves.  Question: What do you see as the most disruptive force for
the industry?  Chertoff: The budget uncertainty and lack of planning. Even
some of the administrative things that have to happen to
continue contracts or keep people working get disrupted by the
government shutdown. If every three months there is a threat of
a train wreck and everybody has to put their pencils down,
nobody is doing the planning. It’s a waste of money.  Question: Do you see the Department of Homeland Security
remaining in its present form?  Chertoff: The basic outline of how the department proceeds
is likely to be the same in the foreseeable future. I think it
will be more investment in and emphasis on cybersecurity,
because DHS ought to manage cybersecurity, obviously with the
support of the Department of Defense and NSA [National Security
Agency]. We have to be careful not to assume that because we’ve
successfully prevented major attacks that the threat has gone
away. We have deterred adversaries and terrorists because they
think there’s a high risk of failure. So instead they go to
Nairobi, and they kill people in shopping malls.  The next generation of terrorists -- because it’s hard to
do a large-scale attack -- will focus on cyber-attacks, which
you know they can carry out without being physically present, or
on trying to recruit people in the U.S. to do Nairobi-style
attacks. We have seen some examples of that: the Boston
Marathon. They haven’t been carried out with a lot of skill so
the impact has been bad, but it hasn’t been catastrophic. You’ll
see continued emphasis on training and helping localities.
That’s tough in a difficult budget environment, but important.  Question: What will we be talking about in 2014?  Chertoff: The topic we don’t discuss a lot, and I hope we
don’t wind up discussing it next year, is the possibility of a
biologic attack. In 2001, with the anthrax attack, he killed
people, but it was relatively limited. If he had chosen to put
the anthrax in a  New York  subway, that would have been a much
more catastrophic event. Unfortunately, there are people who do
have that ability. That’s an area where we have underinvested.
There are things we could do that are relatively simple.  Question: What are they?  Chertoff: If someone weaponizes a biological agent, it’s
very hard to keep it out of the country, because you could carry
it in a vial. The good news is in many of the things we worry
about, we have countermeasures. The problem is we stockpile
them. The time it would take to distribute them is too long, and
we would miss the window of opportunity to counteract these
weapons by injecting people and giving them the pills.  The solution, as we said some years ago, was to
predistribute them -- if not to individual families, at least to
every schoolhouse, firehouse, city hall in the country. That has
not been done, because bureaucratically -- I believe it’s the
FDA [Food and Drug Administration] -- believes that you
shouldn’t dispense them unless people see a doctor first. By the
time they see the doctor, they’re going to be dead. So this is a
case where a business-as-usual approach to regulation is at war
with common sense.  Question: Since you’re immersed in this day in and day out,
has it made you more nervous?  Chertoff: It doesn’t weigh on me personally, but I get
frustrated when I think that the areas where we’ve made
progress, we run the risk of backsliding. Anybody who believes
it’s time to move on to another topic is not living in the real
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Brady in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  