-- China Increases Typhoon Aid to $1.64 Million, Global Times Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-14T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/china-increases-typhoon-aid-to-1-64-million-global-times-says.html
China  will donate 10 million  yuan 
($1.64 million) in relief materials to help the Philippines
recover from Typhoon Haiyan, the state-run Global Times
newspaper said, after the government earlier offered $100,000.  The relief goods will include blankets and tents, the
Global Times reported today, citing comments by Foreign Ministry
spokesman Qin Gang. He said the goods would help thousands of
people, according to the newspaper.  The announcement of new aid comes after state-run media
including the Global Times criticized the government’s decision
to donate so little money and said leaders shouldn’t allow
strained relations with the Philippines to interfere with
 disaster relief . The two countries are locked in a dispute over
territory in the  South China Sea .  The initial donation of $100,000 from China, the world’s
second-largest economy, compares with an offer of $20 million
from the U.S. and $10 million from Japan, the world’s first and
third-largest economies. The U.S. diverted an  aircraft carrier 
to assist with relief  efforts, while Japan is also sending
1,000 Self-Defense Force troops. The Chinese Red Cross also
donated $100,000.  “China, as a responsible power, should participate in
relief operations to assist a disaster-stricken neighboring
country, no matter whether it’s friendly or not,” the Global
Times said in a Nov. 12 editorial. “China’s international image
is of vital importance to its interests.”  Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines on Nov. 8 and has
killed at least 2,357 people, according to the Philippine
government. The storm wiped out much of the southern city of
Tacloban, from where survivors have sought to flee and resorted
to looting amid a growing humanitarian crisis.  Speaking at a briefing on Nov. 12, Qin told reporters that
China had expressed sympathy to the  Philippines  and was also a
victim of the storm. Haiyan killed seven people in southern
China, Xinhua reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  