-- China Faults Japan, Europe on Pollution at UN Talks
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/china-faults-japan-europe-on-pollution-cuts-at-un-warming-talks.html
China singled out  Japan  and the
European Union for failing to take more dramatic action against
carbon pollution, signaling a rift at United Nations talks for a
global treaty limiting fossil fuel emissions.  Su Wei, who is China’s lead climate negotiator at the UN
talks in Warsaw today, said reports that Japan will scale back
its ambitions to cut greenhouse gases are deeply concerning. He
said the 28-nation EU is on target to surpass its goal and ought
to be pledging more action.  “I don’t have any words to describe my dismay at that
announcement forthcoming,” Su told reporters in Warsaw
yesterday, speaking of the Japanese announcement. On Europe, he
said, “There’s no ambition at all. They talk about ratcheting
up ambition, but rather they would have to ratchet up to
ambition from zero ambition.”  The comments indicate the depth of distrust developing
nations including  China  have toward industrialized nations at
the talks. The richer countries promised in 1997 to scale back
the emissions blamed for damaging the Earth’s atmosphere by 5.2
percent from 1990 levels by 2012. While preliminary data
indicate they’ve mostly met those goals, they haven’t yet
detailed steps beyond 2020 to scale back heat-trapping gases.  Japan on Friday is likely to announce it will aim to reduce
greenhouse gases by 3.8 percent from 2005 levels by 2020,
according to the environmental group WWF. That reduction would
equate to a 3.1 percent increase since 1990, WWF said in a
statement released in Warsaw. It estimates that Japan’s
greenhouse gas emissions in 2005 were 7 percent higher than in
1990. Japanese delegates in Warsaw couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  ‘Devastating’  “This move by Japan could have a devastating impact on the
tone of discussion here in Warsaw,” said Naoyuki Yamagishi,
WWF’s leader on climate and energy issues in Japan. “It could
further accelerate the race to the bottom among other developed
countries. The world needs decisive and immediate actions to
raise ambition, not to lower ambition.”  Japan is at the heart of the talks because until a few
years ago it was the second biggest economy behind the U.S. and
because it hosted negotiations in Kyoto in 1997 that resulted in
the only treaty limiting emissions.  China has surpassed the U.S. and Japan as the world’s
biggest emitter of greenhouse gases since Kyoto, which didn’t
include curbs on developing nations. In Warsaw, envoys from
about 190 nations are putting in place the first building blocks
of a treaty that would come into force in 2020 requiring all
nations including China to limit fossil fuel emissions.  Japan’s Decision  Su, the Chinese delegate, also said he’s heard of the
Japanese plan to scale back its ambitions. Japan closed almost
all of its nuclear reactors following the earthquake and tsunami
in March 2011, boosting its reliance on liquefied natural gas
and coal for generating power.  “That’s not only a backward movement from the Kyoto
Protocol, but also a startling backward movement from the
commitments of the convention,” Su said, referring to a 1992
treaty setting out the framework for global climate talks. “It
must honor its international obligations to take actions to
reduce their emissions.”  The 1992 treaty enshrined the notion that richer nations
should move first in limiting emissions and help poorer
countries pay for alternatives to fossil fuels. The U.S. was
among 195 nations to ratify that treaty.  Europe’s Promises  On Europe, Su noted that the bloc had promised to cut
greenhouse gases 20 percent by 2020 and that it already has
achieved an 18 percent reduction. EU officials have offered to
increase that commitment to 30 percent if other nations also
make similar reductions.  “Certainly they are going to over-achieve their target by
2020 because the target is so low,” Su said.  The EU said China’s remark diminishes the scale of change
the bloc brought about in reducing emissions since 1990, and
also overlooks the fact that recent reductions were due to an
economic recession. Europe has been at the forefront of the
global effort to scale back emissions and has established the
biggest market for carbon offsets that are meant to prod
industry into reducing pollutants.  “The comment fails to recognize the action we’ve taken,”
Juergen Lefevere, deputy delegation chief for the European
Commission, said today in an interview. “We’ve set a target,
worked very hard to get there and now they’re saying you’re
almost there, it can’t have been a very tough target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  