-- China’s Stocks Rise After Valuations Drop to Lowest Since August
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-14T08:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-signaling-shares-to-retreat.html
China’s stocks  rose, led by health-care and consumer-related companies, after the benchmark index’s
valuations plunged to the lowest level since August.  Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co. led gains for
health-care companies, surging 6.2 percent for a 17 percent
advance this week. Sichuan Changhong Electric Co. jumped 7
percent.  Anhui Huilong Agricultural Means of Production Co. 
surged 4.1 percent after the Xinhua News Agency said Anhui
province plans to allow farmers to sell their land.  Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000)  paced losses for financial shares.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent to 2,100.51 at the
close. The index trades at 8.3 times projected profit for the
next 12 months, the lowest since Aug. 23, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 1.8 percent yesterday, the
most in seven weeks, after a top-level Communist Party meeting
disappointed investors looking for details on policy shifts.  “Investors had excessively high expectations but there
were no detailed measures about reform measures after the
meeting,” said  Wang Zheng , the Shanghai-based chief investment
officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co., which oversees $120
million. “Some of the declines reflected investors’
disappointment and the market is poised for a rebound.”  The CSI 300 Index rose 0.7 percent to 2,304.50. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.1 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index added 0.6 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 28 percent
lower than the 30-day average today, while 10-day volatility
rose to a one-week high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has dropped 14 percent from this year’s
high set on Feb. 6 amid concern economic growth will slow in the
fourth quarter.  Land Reform  A gauge of health-care stocks in the CSI 300 jumped 1.7
percent today. Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical gained 6.2 percent
to 18.53  yuan . Sichuan Kelun Pharmaceutical Co. added 2.7
percent to 42.76 yuan.  Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. surged 31 percent
in Hong Kong trading after reporting third-quarter profit gained
28 percent and spurring analysts including Credit Suisse Group
AG to recommend buying the shares.  A sub-index of consumer-discretionary shares rose 2.1
percent, the second-biggest gain among the 10 industry groups.
Sichuan Changhong jumped 7 percent to 3.04 yuan.  Hisense
Electric Co. (600060) , China’s biggest manufacturer of flat-panel
televisions, added 1.3 percent to 11.60 yuan.  Tighter Liquidity  Anhui province plans to allow farmers to buy and sell land
previously specified for  home construction  under a trial program
in 20 counties, Xinhua  reported  yesterday. Ownership
certificates will be issued by the end of 2015 for collectively
owned rural land for use in construction, agriculture and other
purposes, Xinhua said, citing guidelines issued by the local
government. Anhui Huilong jumped 4.1 percent to 10.99 yuan,
extending yesterday’s 7.2 percent gain.  The meeting of  China ’s top decision makers ended with a
promise to allow the market to play a decisive role in the
allocation of resources. Topics seen as crucial to reform,
ranging from financial market liberalization to strengthening
farmers’ land rights and allowing rural migrants to settle in
cities, were touched on only briefly.  The National Development and Reform Commission will issue
key reform plans at a proper time, according to a statement
posted on the commission’s website, which cited chairman Xu Shaoshi as saying yesterday. The State Council said it will
continue pushing forward resource pricing reform and improving
the air pollution situation, Xinhua reported, citing the central
government’s website yesterday.  A measure tracking financial stocks slid 0.3 percent, the
only loss among the 10 industry groups. Pudong Bank fell 1.6
percent to 9.49 yuan.  Industrial Bank Co. (601166) , part-owned by a unit
of HSBC Holdings Plc, lost 2.5 percent to 10.64 yuan.  China’s stocks will be held back in the short term as
investors weigh the strength of the economy and liquidity
concerns intensify, Citic Securities Co., the nation’s biggest
listed brokerage, said in a report today. The seven-day
repurchase rate, a gauge of funding availability, climbed 26
basis points to 4 percent, the most since Oct. 30.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  