-- China Should Break Up China Railway Corp., NDRC Researcher Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-14T05:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/china-should-break-up-china-railway-corp-ndrc-researcher-says.html
China  should split up the state-owned monopoly that owns and operates the nation’s railways to
improve efficiency, a researcher at the country’s top economic
planning agency said.  The government should let more state-owned companies such
as Shenhua Group and private investors play a bigger role in the
rail industry to compete with China Railway Corp., Li Kun,
deputy director of the National Development and Reform
Commission’s transportation research institute, said in an
interview by telephone today.  “The direction of China Railway’s future reform should be
in breaking up its dominance in providing rail services,” Li
said. Li said this view was his personal opinion, and he isn’t
speaking on behalf of the planning agency.  China this week pledged to make markets “decisive” in
allocating resources, while stopping short of detailed policy
shifts, after a gathering of Communist Party leaders. China
Railway Corp. took over the nation’s railway networks in March
after the government dismantled the Ministry of Railways to
battle graft and bureaucracy.  Reform of the railway system wasn’t mentioned in the
 communique , which was published by the official Xinhua News
Agency. The document also said the state will remain
“dominant” in the economy.  While a breakup of the rail system is needed, it’s unlikely
to happen in the short term, Li said. The focus now should be on
streamlining China Railway Corp.’s management of the network, Li
said, reiterating that this is his personal opinion.  China’s Ministry of Railways had more than 2 million
employees and 2.8 trillion  yuan  ($460 billion) of debt, equal to
the size of  Denmark ’s economy, as of the end of 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  