-- China Banks Pay Most for State Funds in Six Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-14T09:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/china-banks-pay-most-for-state-funds-in-six-months-swaps-rise.html
Chinese lenders paid the highest
rate of interest since June to borrow government funds today,
reflecting tighter monetary conditions in the world’s second-largest economy.  The People’s Bank of China auctioned 30 billion  yuan  ($4.9
billion) of three-month treasury deposits on behalf of the
Ministry of Finance at 6 percent, according to a statement on
its website.  Interest-rate swaps  and money-market rates also
advanced as the central bank refrained from adding funds via
reverse-repurchase agreements.  “People are surprised the PBOC refrained from conducting
reverse repos today, and the treasury deposit auction result
came higher than expected,” said Li Liuyang, chief financial
market analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (China) Ltd. in
 Shanghai . “All these indicate liquidity is tight.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, climbed 55 basis points, or
0.55 percentage point, to 4.29 percent in Shanghai, according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It reached 4.50 percent earlier, the highest level since
Nov. 1.  The cost of one-year  swaps , the fixed payment needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose for the first
time in three days, increasing seven basis points to 4.43
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It touched 4.44
percent on Nov. 11, the highest since June.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 climbed two basis points to 4.52 percent, according to data
from the Interbank Funding Center. That was the highest for a
 benchmark  10-year sovereign note since August 2008, according to
ChinaBond data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  