-- Cisco Sales Miss Casts Shadow Over CEO’s Turnaround Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-11-14T21:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cisco-sales-miss-casts-shadow-over-ceo-s-turnaround-plan.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s shares fell 11
percent after the company forecast its  first  quarterly sales
decline in four years, adding to evidence that Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers ’s turnaround plan is sputtering.  The stock of the world’s largest maker of computer-networking equipment dropped to $21.37 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest percentage decline since February 2011. Cisco
yesterday said revenue in the current quarter, which ends in
January, will  decline  8 percent to 10 percent from a year
earlier, while analysts were predicting on average 4 percent
growth, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Cisco is facing slower spending by phone companies and
large corporations, as well as economic weakness in  Europe ,  Asia 
and emerging economies. Chambers, 64, who became CEO in 1995,
began a revamp in 2011 by cutting staff, eliminating low-margin
businesses and pushing sales of switches, routers and more
software to boost speeds and efficiency. The CEO has reduced
headcount by 12,300 and acquired 59 companies for $10.9 billion,
seeking to leave his successor a healthy company when retires.  “Chambers is probably doing the right things, but it
doesn’t change the fact that he’s facing some pretty big
challenges.” said  Mark McKechnie , an analyst at Evercore
Partners LLC who has the equivalent of a hold rating on the
stock. “Cisco’s in a tough position.”  The sales forecast indicates revenue of $10.9 billion to
$11.1 billion, compared with analysts’ average projection for
$12.6 billion. Profit excluding some items will be 45 cents to
47 cents a share in the fiscal second quarter, executives said
on a conference call yesterday. That compares with analysts’
average projection for profit of 52 cents.  Slow Turnaround  Cisco’s board also authorized $15 billion in additional
stock buybacks.  “Based on what we saw in the month of October and
continuing into November and how pervasive it was, we’re not
expecting things to turn around quickly” in  emerging markets ,
Cisco Chief Financial Officer Frank Calderoni said in an
interview. The  San Jose , California-based company probably won’t
show revenue growth until the quarter that ends in August 2014,
he said.  First-quarter revenue was $12.1 billion, Cisco said in a
statement yesterday, missing analysts’ average projection for
sales of $12.3 billion. Net income for the first quarter, which
ended Oct. 26, fell to $2 billion, or 37 cents a share, from
$2.09 billion, or 39 cents, a year earlier.  Competitive Challenge  Cisco is facing declining demand for low-end networking
equipment and cutting prices to bolster sales of switches and
routers, seeking to fend off challenges from Huawei Technologies
Co.,  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and  Alcatel-Lucent SA. (ALU)  At the same
time, Cisco is aiming to generate sales of its own technology
featuring advanced tools, competing with  Palo Alto Networks
Inc. (PANW) , Arista Networks Inc. and other rivals.  While the equipment maker decided to limit exposure to low-margin products, it also needs to regain lost share in the
market for lower-end routers, Calderoni said.  New products, such as a high-end switch called the Nexus
9000 designed for data-center operators and a new high-end core
router used by phone companies to move traffic between countries
and regions, will be crucial to determining whether Cisco can
keep up with rivals, according to Ray Mota, founder of market-research firm ACG Research in Gilbert,  Arizona .  “Juniper had fantastic growth with service providers last
quarter,” Mota said. “If Cisco didn’t, it’s not just a
macroeconomic problem.”  Difficult Quarter  Gross margin in the first quarter was 63 percent for the
period, compared with analysts’ prediction for 61.9 percent. The
company had  forecast  61 percent to 62 percent.  “This is not the quarter that’s going to light a fire
under the stock,” said  Keith Goddard , president of Capital
Advisors Inc. in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , which owns 405,000 Cisco
shares. “We’ll hold the stock, but it’s a low-quality
quarter.”  Cisco is also facing challenges from Asian hardware
manufacturers that are building basic routers and switches for
companies such as Facebook Inc. and Google Inc., which use
software to boost the performance of their networks.  Chambers says that most customers will continue to need
well-tested systems that combine its hardware and software to
keep up with skyrocketing traffic as billions of tablets,
smartphones and other devices come onto the network.  Keeping Course  Cisco executives reiterated their guidance that the company
can grow 5 percent to 7 percent over the long term and said
they’re sticking to the current strategy.  “We’re continuing down the path we’ve been on for the past
few years,” Calderoni said on the call. “What we see in the
short term doesn’t mean that long-term plan has to change.”  Chambers in August said Cisco would eliminate 4,000
positions, or 5 percent of the workforce. Including those cuts,
Cisco will have eliminated 12,300 jobs in the past two years as
it exits consumer businesses while focusing on corporate
software and technology services.  “He’s not going down without a fight,” McKechnie said of
Chambers. “I have a lot of respect for him wanting to stay in
the turret to see them through this. I’d rather see Chambers
stay on board, rather than put the company through a management
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  