-- Citadel Reports Holding in Loeb’s Reinsurer After IPO
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-11-14T21:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/citadel-reports-holding-in-loeb-s-third-point-re-after-ipo.html
Ken Griffin ’s Citadel LLC and
Cambiar Investors LLC are among asset managers that reported
 holdings  in billionaire  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point Reinsurance
Ltd. after the company’s initial public offering.  Citadel owned 2.12 million shares of the Bermuda-based
reinsurer valued at $30.7 million as of Sept. 30, according to a
regulatory filing today. Cambiar had 2.39 million shares at the
end of the third quarter, a separate filing showed.  Loeb helped found Third Point Re about two years ago and
took the company public in August, raising $317 million. The
business relies on his hedge fund to oversee a portfolio with
$1.1 billion in assets. Profit climbed 18 percent to  $46.6
million (TPRE)  in the third quarter as the underwriting loss narrowed
and investment income rose.  “TPRE’s first quarter as a public company surpassed our
expectations, driven by strong  investment performance ,
highlighting the potential upside of its investment strategy,”
Keefe Bruyette & Woods analysts led by  Meyer Shields  wrote in a
Nov. 12 report, referring to the company by its stock ticker.  Third Point Re slipped 2 percent to $15.03 at 4:03 p.m. in
New York today. The company has advanced 20 percent from its
offering price.  The reinsurer could post an underwriting profit as soon as
the second half of 2014, Chief Executive Officer John Berger
said on a conference call this week. He said there are
opportunities to shoulder risks for companies selling
residential policies, workers’ compensation coverage and
mortgage insurance.  Pine Brook  Affiliates of private-equity firms Kelso & Co. and Pine
Brook Road Partners LLC hold the largest Third Point Re stakes,
according to a regulatory filing in August. Loeb controlled
about 8.2 percent of the company.  Griffin, 45, traded convertible bonds as a sophomore at
Harvard University and founded Chicago-based Citadel, which
oversees about $17 billion.  Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for the
hedge-fund firm, had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  