-- Commodities Revenue at Top 10 Banks Seen Dropping 14% This Year
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-11-14T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/commodities-revenue-at-top-10-banks-seen-dropping-14-this-year.html
Commodities revenue at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and the other companies making up the
10 largest investment banks will fall 14 percent this year,
according to analytics company Coalition Ltd.  Revenue will drop to $4.7 billion from $5.5 billion in
2012, Coalition said today in a report. In 2013’s first nine
months, commodities revenue at the banks slid 18 percent from a
year earlier to $4 billion, the report showed.  “Poor performance in investor products and power and gas
continued into the third quarter,” Coalition said. “Oil
revenues were in line with the first half and metals remained
stable. Inventory financing activities were more robust.”  Declining revenue and regulatory scrutiny have banks
including New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S.
lender by assets, considering withdrawals from some raw-materials trading. U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether banks
should be allowed to own physical commodities businesses.  JPMorgan generated the most first-half revenue from
commodities among the 10 banks, followed by Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley, Coalition said in September. JPMorgan plans to
exit owning and trading physical commodities, and Morgan Stanley
held talks last year with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund on
selling a stake in its raw-materials division.  Commodities revenue at the top 10 banks slid 20 percent to
$2.7 billion in the first half, Coalition said Aug. 21.  Coalition is a unit of Mumbai-based  Crisil Ltd. (CRISIL) , whose main
 stockholder  is credit-rating company Standard & Poor’s, part of
McGraw Hill Financial Inc., Coalition’s website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  