-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Improves for First Time in Seven Weeks
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-14T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-improves-for-first-time-in-seven-weeks.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
increased for the first time in seven weeks, undoing some of the
damage caused by fiscal infighting among federal lawmakers.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to a five-week
high of minus 33.9 in the period ended Nov. 10 from minus 37.9.
Uneasiness resulting from the partial government shutdown, which
ended in the middle of October, had knocked the confidence
measure down to its lowest level in more than a year.  Buoyant stocks, cheaper fuel and hiring gains that beat
expectations are providing relief to households heading into
holiday-shopping season. At the same time, the ongoing budget
debate in  Washington  and the troubled launch of online health-insurance exchanges are threatening to reverse last week’s
pickup in confidence.  “The possibility of a policy shock due to the problems
associated with the launch of Obamacare outweigh the one-week
rally in sentiment,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Right now, the holiday-shopping
outlook does not look particularly promising.”  Another report today showed more Americans than projected
filed jobless claims last week. Applications for  unemployment
benefits  decreased by 2,000 to 339,000 in the week ended Nov. 9,
the Labor Department said in Washington. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey called for a decrease to 330,000 claims.  Stocks were little changed after benchmark indexes rose to
records yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased
less than 0.1 percent to 1,782.75 at 9:34 a.m. in New York.  Long-Term Average  The Bloomberg comfort index is 17.6 points below its long-term average in weekly surveys since late 1985. Still, the
index’s rebound last week was the largest since April.  All three components of the Bloomberg comfort measure
showed an improvement last week.  The gauge of  personal finances  climbed to zero from minus
4.9, the biggest gain in more than a year, as rising equities
propped up household balance sheets. The index of Americans’
current  views on the economy  advanced to minus 62.5 from minus
66.7.  More Americans said that now is a good time to make
purchases, according to today’s figures. The Bloomberg  buying-climate  measure increased to minus 39.2 from minus 42 a week
earlier.  Gasoline Prices  Falling prices at the pump have cushioned budgets, making
it easier for low-income households in particular to spend on
other items.  The average cost of a gallon of regular-grade gas dropped
to $3.18 on Nov. 11, the lowest since February 2011, according
to data from AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group. Since the
end of August, fuel prices have fallen about 40 cents a gallon.  Last week’s payroll report by the Labor Department showed
employers added 204,000 workers in October, compared with a
median estimate of 120,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The unexpected progress in hiring may influence Federal Reserve
policy makers as they decide when to begin tapering stimulus.  Further recovery in the job market, coupled with income and
wage growth, would help accelerate spending in the weeks leading
up to the holidays, a crucial time for retailers such as the
Cincinnati-based Macy’s Inc.  Macy’s Inc.  The second-largest U.S. department-store company yesterday
reported fiscal third-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as better local selections boosted sales, signaling
stronger demand headed into the holidays. Revenue was
particularly strong in October, and the company is “entering
the fourth quarter with confidence,” Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Lundgren  said in a statement. That marks a rebound from
the second quarter, when sales unexpectedly fell.  Political disagreement in Washington, related to budget
negotiations and the rollout of Obamacare, risks souring moods.
A congressional panel has yet to reach a funding agreement,
before its self-imposed Dec. 13 deadline, that would prevent
another shutdown from happening early next year.  Data yesterday showed about 106,000 people signed up for
private health insurance through Obamacare last month, and
396,261 for Medicaid plans, putting the government well behind
its enrollment goals. In addition, hundreds of thousands of
individual policies have faced cancellation since the Affordable
Care Act took effect, leading Obama to offer a public apology
and potentially curbing Americans’ optimism.  Income Groups  Today’s comfort data figures showed men, young people,
Southerners and Democrats reported the largest increases in
confidence last week. The gauge among those making less than
$50,000 a year jumped 6.8 points compared with the previous
week, while the highest-earning group was little changed.  The reading for Democrats strengthened to minus 20.8, the
highest since August, from minus 28.9. At the same time,
sentiment among Republicans fell for a third straight week to
reach minus 34.9, the weakest since May.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the  U.S. economy ,
personal finances and buying climate. The margin of error for
the headline figure is 3 percentage points.  The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  NI ECO
NI US
NI USECO
NI COS
NI ECOSTAT
NI FRX
NI RET
NI LABOR
NI CONS
NI BCOMF
NI NORTHAM
NI WEBCHART  Index news:
COMFCOMF <Index> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  