-- Copper Falls to Three-Month Low on China, Europe Outlook
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-14T18:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/copper-swings-between-advances-declines-on-europe-data-yellen.html
Copper futures rallied from a three-month low after Federal Reserve Chairman nominee Janet Yellen
backed U.S. stimulus measures until the economy improves.  In testimony during her nomination hearing before the
Senate Banking Committee today, Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman,
said she is committed to promoting a strong economic recovery
and will ensure monetary stimulus isn’t removed too soon. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of equities rose as much as 0.5
percent to a record.  “Metals got a bit of a bit of a boost from Yellen’s
comments,” Brian Booth, a senior market strategist at Long Leaf
Trading Group in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “She
maintains the Fed’s stance that there’s there’s still a lot of
work to do on the economy, and that they’ll probably continue to
go to their bag of tricks until it improves.”  Copper futures for delivery in March rose less than 0.1
percent to settle at $3.172 a pound at 1:18 p.m. on the Comex in
New York. Earlier, the price touched $3.1535, the lowest for a
most-active contract since Aug. 7, amid concern that demand from
 China  and Europe will slow.  The Fed will delay the first cut to its bond buying program
until March, according to the median estimate of 32 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey Nov. 8.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained 0.2 percent to $6,992 a metric ton ($3.17 a
pound). The price has declined 12 percent this year.  Inventories monitored by the LME extended a slump to the
lowest since February. Copper available for delivery in Asian
warehouses dropped to the lowest in more than four years.  Yesterday, the Comex price tumbled 2.2 percent, the most in
15 weeks, after output rose to a monthly record in China.  Today, aluminum, lead and nickel fell in London, while tin
advanced. Zinc was unchanged  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  