-- Countries Face Debt-Cost Surge When Rates Rise: McKinsey
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/countries-face-debt-cost-surge-when-rates-rise-mckinsey.html
Governments could incur a 20 percent
increase in what they pay to service debts if central banks
boost  interest rates  back to 2007 levels, according to a study
by McKinsey & Co.  Seeking to assess the winners and losers from the recent
era of low rates and quantitative easing, the consultancy’s
research division estimated governments in the U.S., U.K. and
euro area benefited by $1.6 trillion from central bank policy in
recent years. That could be thrown into reverse when monetary
support is withdrawn, with the U.S. government facing $75
billion extra annually in debt-interest payments if the  Federal
Reserve  restores pre-crisis policy, it said.  “Understanding at a micro level how unconventional
monetary policies impact different players in the economy sheds
light on the risks ahead,” said Richard Dobbs, director of the
McKinsey Global Institute in London.  The study comes as global central banks pledge to keep
interest rates low until recovery is assured. The Fed is
signaling it won’t raise rates even if it begins tapering its
monthly asset purchases, while the  European Central Bank  last
week cut its benchmark to a record low 0.25 percent. The  Bank of
Japan  is chasing a 2 percent inflation target and the  Bank of
England  repeated yesterday it won’t consider lifting rates until
unemployment falls to 7 percent.  Debt Costs  Governments have benefited from low rates and the injection
of almost $5 trillion of liquidity since the financial crisis
broke out in 2007, McKinsey said. The gains amounted to just
over $1 trillion for the U.S., $365 billion for the euro area
and $170 billion for the U.K., due to cheaper debt costs and the
handover of profits on asset purchases from central banks to
state coffers.  Non-financial companies in the three regions also have made
out, to the tune of $710 billion, as their borrowing costs fell,
according to the report. That though hasn’t led to an increase
in  capital spending , as company executives have viewed the lower
interest rates as temporary, Dobbs said.  Households lost $630 billion in net interest income, with
older people holding interest-bearing assets suffering the most,
according to the report.  European banks lost interest income of $230 billion, while
U.S. rivals experienced a $150 billion increase as the interest
paid on deposits declined more than that received on loans. With
bonds the asset of choice for central banks to buy, the value of
sovereign and corporate bonds in the U.S., U.K. and 17-nation
euro area jumped $16 trillion between 2007 and 2012, McKinsey
said.  As interest rates rise, companies will need to use capital
more efficiently and bond investors could face write-offs on the
value of their holdings, the report shows.  McKinsey found little evidence that low interest rates
boosted equities. While share prices did react in the short run
to announcements of central bank moves, there was no lasting
impact as investors refocused on trends in corporate profits,
according to Dobbs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  