-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; Thomson Reuters Sells 3-Part Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-14T22:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-thomson-reuters-planning-debt-sale.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
was little changed as  Janet Yellen , the nominee for chairman of
the  Federal Reserve , said she will maintain stimulus until the
economy improves.  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  sold $1.5 billion in
debt.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps measure that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.3 basis
point to 71.7 basis points as of 5:17 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Yellen, in testimony at her nomination hearing today, said
she is committed to promoting a strong economic recovery and
will ensure that monetary stimulus isn’t removed too soon.
Traders are evaluating when the U.S. central bank may start to
reduce its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases that have
bolstered credit markets.  “The CDX is marginally tighter as the markets celebrate
Yellen’s pro-stimulus comments,”  Michael Kraft , a senior  money
manager  at Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management in New York, wrote
in an e-mail.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Fragile Recovery  “I consider it imperative that we do what we can to
promote a very strong recovery,” Yellen said in response to a
question during her testimony today to the Senate Banking
Committee in  Washington .  “It’s important not to remove support, especially when the
recovery is fragile and the tools available to monetary policy,
should the economy falter, are limited given that short-term
 interest rates  are at zero,” she said.  Thomson Reuters , a provider of news and information
services, issued $550 million of 1.3 percent notes due 2017
yielding 90 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
$600 million of 4.3 percent, 10-year bonds at a spread of 170
basis points to benchmarks and $350 million of 5.65 percent, 30-year debentures at 195 basis points, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Proceeds will be used to redeem the company’s $800 million
of 5.7 percent, senior unsecured notes due October 2014, the
company said in a statement today.  Thomson Reuters competes with Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP in selling financial data and news services.  State Street  Custody bank State Street Corp. may issue $1 billion of 10-year notes as soon as today, according to a person with
knowledge of that offering. The debt is expected to be rated A1
by Moody’s, said the person, who asked not to be identified,
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 2.6 basis points to 351.3 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries decreased 1.6 basis points to 130.2
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 0.7 basis point to 554.2.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  