-- Croatia Raises Budget Gap Outlook as Cost-Cutting Budget Looms
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-11-14T11:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/croatia-raises-budget-gap-outlook-as-cost-cutting-budget-looms.html
Croatia’s budget deficit will widen
past the European Union’s ceiling this year and next as slow
growth and rising borrowing costs hamper efforts by the bloc’s
newest member to consolidate its public finances.  The government raised its 2013 budget deficit outlook to
5.5 percent of gross domestic product, higher than a September
forecast of 3.5 percent, according to a Finance Ministry
document posted on the  government’s website . It confirmed its
2014 fiscal shortfall at an earlier estimated 5.5 percent in the
report, which the cabinet discussed before presenting the 2014
budget to parliament.  Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s government is leading the
Adriatic state into belt-tightening also pursued by other Balkan
states after prolonged recessions across the region undercut
exports, eroded budget revenue, raised social spending and
pushed borrowing costs higher. With unemployment approaching a
fifth of the working-age population, Croatia confirmed a growth
estimates of 0.2 percent this year and 1.3 percent for 2014.  “Without economic growth we cannot resolve this fiscal
situation, as there is no room for further cuts,” Finance
Minister Slavko Linic told the cabinet in Zagreb.  The European Commission said in September the Adriatic
state’s economy would contract 0.7 percent this year and grow
0.5 percent in 2014.  Excessive Deficit  The widening fiscal shortfall will probably trigger the
EU’s excessive deficit procedure, a monitoring system for budget
offenders, which applies to economies where the gap exceeds 3
percent, EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner Ollie Rehn said on
Nov. 5.  The European Commission said yesterday it opened an “in-depth review” of Croatia for its economic imbalances, saying
there’s a “need to understand the nature and potential risks
related to the external position, trade performance and
competitiveness, as well as internal development.”  The government plans to cut costs in  farm subsidies  and
will reduce health spending next year. It also wants to raise
22.5 billion kuna ($4 billion) by the end of 2014 with a highway
concession, raise the value-added tax on tourism to 13 percent
to bring in 600 million kuna a year and increase levies on gas
and tobacco, officials said in September.  Debt refinancing and high borrowing costs may push Zagreb
toward seeking assistance from the  International Monetary Fund ,
Linic said in a Nov. 6 interview to local news magazine Globus.  ‘Risky’ Debt  Croatia needs to borrow 44 billion kuna next year to
refinance debt and service the budget gap, Linic told Globus,
adding that the country is facing “enormous and very risky”
debt levels. Premier Milanovic yesterday told parliament that
seeking IMF aid is “not an option for  Croatia  right now.”  Public debt will reach 62 percent of annual output by 2014,
according to the Finance Ministry document.  Croatia, which is rated at below-investment grade by the
three major credit rating companies, last tapped international
markets in March, selling $1.5 billion of 10-year bonds at 5.625
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Jasmina Kuzmanovic} in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  