-- Croatia Doesn’t Need IMF Deal in 2014, Linic Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y
-- 2013-11-15T15:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/croatia-doesn-t-need-imf-deal-in-2014-linic-says.html
Croatia  plans to go through next
year without aid from the  International Monetary Fund , Finance
Minister Slavko Linic said, backtracking from comments he made
last week.  Linic, 64, in an interview yesterday said he was “more
optimistic” after the government approved its 2014 spending
plan, while raising its 2013 budget-deficit estimate to 5.5
percent of economic output from 3.5 percent. He also ruled out
buying back a 49.1 percent stake in oil refiner  INA Industrija
Nafte dd  from Hungary’s Mol Nyrt., citing budget restraints.  The government of the European Union’s newest member is
pushing for belt-tightening to control growing public debt and
rising borrowing costs after five years without economic growth.
Linic on Nov. 6 warned that next year’s borrowing needs are
“enormous and very risky” at current rates.  “A need for assistance from the IMF or European Commission
could come up if we aren’t able to service our obligations,”
Linic said yesterday in the Croatian capital, Zagreb. “But
obviously, this will not happen in 2014.”  The European Union today recommended an Excessive Deficit
Procedure for Croatia, a monitoring system for budget offenders,
saying the country’s  budget deficit  “is projected to stay well
above the 3 percent reference” through 2015.  The yield on Croatia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing in
April 2023 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
6.07 percent by 4:45 p.m. in Zagreb. The rate reached a two-month high of 6.19 percent two days ago, having jumped from 5.88
percent on Nov. 7 after Linic warned on the “risky” level of
debt.  Debt, Growth  The budget draft estimates state debt rising to 62 percent
of gross domestic product by 2015. Croatia needs to borrow 44
billion kuna ($7.8 billion) next year to refinance debt and
service a budget gap of 16 billion kuna, Linic told Zagreb-based
magazine Globus last week, when he warned of the possible need
for IMF assistance.  Like former Yugoslav partners Serbia and  Slovenia , Croatia
is cutting public spending and raising taxes to avoid a bailout.
Its $63 billion economy is hobbled by rising interest payments,
state-company debt and an  unemployment rate  approaching 20
percent.  The government targets keeping the 2014 budget deficit at
this year’s level. That’s achievable because of the government’s
“conservative growth projection” of 1.3 percent in 2014, Linic
said. It expects 0.2 percent growth this year. The European
Commission estimates a 0.5 percent expansion in 2014.  “Croatia should solve problems through economic growth,
not seeking assistance” and the government will satisfy about
half of its 2014 financing needs abroad, Linic said, without
giving further details.  ‘Own Measures’  The cabinet aims to raise cash through a planned 22.5
billion-kuna highway concession, a value-added tax increase on
the Adriatic state’s tourism industry and higher tariffs on gas
and tobacco, officials said in September. The government also
plans to cut  farm subsidies  and health spending.  “More cuts in the public sector would be risky,” Linic
said. “This government believes that it can control the budget
deficit with its own measures and we plan to gradually reduce
the deficit by 2016.”  Following Mol’s announcement that it was preparing for  the
sale of its stake in refiner INA, Croatia’s government called on
the Hungarian  oil company  yesterday to clarify its intentions
“without delay.”  INA Stake  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said last month
Croatia should consider buying back Mol’s part of the company to
settle a dispute that includes the investigation of the contract
that gave Mol management control in 2009.  Former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is currently
serving a 10-year prison sentence in connection with the probe.
Linic and the premier both have rejected buying back the stake,
saying there are scant public resources to do so.  “Croatia will not buy back Mol’s INA stake,” Linic said.
“Croatia can’t afford to buy anything in private sector.”  Mol gained 0.55 percent to 14,440 forint at 10:24 a.m. in
Budapest, extending yesterday’s gains and paring its drop this
year to 18 percent.  Hungary ’s benchmark BUX index has risen 3.9
percent so far in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  