-- Cyfrowy Plans to Buy Polkomtel in $1.7 Billion Share Deal
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-11-14T12:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cyfrowy-plans-to-buy-polkomtel-in-1-7-billion-share-deal.html
Cyfrowy Polsat SA, the Polish media
group controlled by billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, agreed to
buy mobile-phone company Polkomtel in a 5.15 billion-zloty ($1.7
billion) all-share transaction.  Cyfrowy will issue 243.9 million shares at 21.12 zloty each
to acquire an 84 percent stake in Solorz-Zak’s Metelem Holding
Company Ltd., which is the sole owner of Warsaw-based Polkomtel,
Cyfrowy said in a statement today. It may offer a further 47.3
million shares to the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development if the London-based lender, which owns the remaining
16 percent of Metelem, decides to participate in the deal.  Carriers across  Europe  are expanding to offer packages of
TV, Internet and phone services, a strategy that increases
customer loyalty and monthly bills. Vodafone Group Plc bought
German cable provider Kabel Deutschland Holding AG this year for
7.5 billion euros ($10.1 billion) and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  agreed
to acquire GTS Central Europe for 546 million euros to expand
fixed networks in Poland, the  Czech Republic  and  Romania .  “Improving Polkomtel’s financing structure and planned
synergies seem the main reasons behind the deal, while the
situation on the domestic phone market has worsened since
Solorz-Zak took over Polkomtel,” Przemyslaw Sawala-Uryasz, an
analyst at UniCredit SpA, said by phone from Warsaw today.  ‘Gigantic’ Savings  Cyfrowy  shares  slumped 8.2 percent to 20.53 zloty at 1:16
p.m. in Warsaw, trimming this year’s advance to 25 percent and
valuing the company at 7.15 billion zloty. Yields on Cyfrowy
2018 euro-denominated bonds jumped to a four-month high of 5.449
percent, while yields on Polkomtel’s 2020 Eurobonds declined to
a record low of 7.295 percent today.  Cyfrowy sees operating savings from the merger at 3.5
billion zloty while financial savings will reach 500 million
zloty through 2019, according to its statement. Combined net
debt of Cyfrowy and Metelem is 12 billion zloty, or 3.1 times
their joint earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, it said. The company plans to lower the ratio to
below 2.5 by the end of 2016.  “The deal will increase Cyfrowy’s debt, but the promise of
gigantic synergies is encouraging,” Sawala-Uryasz said.  The purchase of Polkomtel, which Solorz-Zak took over in
2011 for 18.1 billion zloty in the biggest leveraged buyout in
 Poland , will create the country’s largest media and phone
company, whose nine-month sales were 9.7 billion zloty. Cyfrowy
competes with Warsaw-based TVN SA and Vivendi SA’s pay-TV unit.  High Speed  The transaction comes at the time when Poland is preparing
to auction high-speed mobile Internet frequencies. Operators
across the globe are rushing to build faster networks based on
Long Term Evolution, or LTE, technology that will enable
consumers to shop online and stream videos faster and
communicate better.  Poland is seeking at least 1.6 billion zloty from the
auction, while Austria raised 2 billion euros and the Czech
Republic plans to get at least 8.72 billion koruna ($432
million).  Polkomtel, which already offers LTE-based Internet covering
62 percent of Poland’s 38.5 million population, is facing
competition from  France ’s  Orange SA (ORA)  and Deutsche Telekom AG,
which have yet to start the services.  Cyfrowy plans to complete the Polkomtel acquisition,
refinance its own debt and repay Polkomtel’s pay-in-kind notes
in the second quarter of next year, according to a presentation
on its website. The company then will seek to refinance other
Polkomtel debt by 2016.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  