-- Cyprus’s Economic Slump Shows Milder Decline in Third Quarter
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-11-14T12:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/cyprus-s-economic-slump-shows-milder-decline-in-third-quarter.html
Cyprus’s economy contracted at the
slowest pace so far this year in the third quarter as the
country adapted to the closure of its second-largest lender and
the introduction of the euro area’s first  capital controls .  Gross domestic product declined 0.8 percent from the second
quarter, when it fell 1.8 percent, the Cyprus Statistical
Service said today in a  statement  on its  website . That’s the
ninth consecutive quarterly contraction. The economy shrank 5.7
percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from the same quarter in
2012. That compared with a 5.8 percent yearly fall in the second
quarter.  “A milder fall was expected and is good news,” said Fiona Mullen, director of Nicosia-based Sapienta Economics. “But this
could just be a pause for breath before a steeper decline as
banks are under heavy pressure to pursue non-performing loans
and some big household names are heavily indebted.”  Cyprus secured a 10 billion-euro ($13.4 billion) loan
accord in March to avoid a financial collapse. In return, it
pledged to tighten its budget, force losses on bank deposits of
more than 100,000 euros at the country’s two largest lenders and
impose capital controls. Under the agreement,  Bank of Cyprus ,
the country’s largest bank, absorbed the second-largest lender,
Cyprus Popular Bank.  Troika Forecasts  The so-called troika of the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  revised its
macroeconomic forecasts for Cyprus on Nov. 7, with GDP expected
to contract 7.7 percent this year and 4.8 percent in 2014,
before gradually recovering in 2015. That compared with initial
bailout forecasts for output to shrink 8.7 percent this year and
3.9 percent next year.  The situation in the country remains difficult with falling
disposable income and rising unemployment, IMF Mission Chief for
Cyprus Delia Velculescu said. Construction and manufacturing
were particularly hit by the downturn in the third quarter, the
statistics service said today.  Building permits issued, an indication of future building
activity, fell 25 percent in the January-August period while
unemployment in October rose nearly 30 percent on the year,
according to the service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  