-- Czech GDP Unexpectedly Shrinks Again Before Intervention
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-11-14T10:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/czech-gdp-unexpectedly-shrinks-again-before-intervention.html
The Czech economy unexpectedly
shrank in the third quarter, underpinning central bank concerns
about deflation that prompted policy makers to start the first
currency interventions in 11 years last week.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.5 percent from the previous
quarter after growing 0.6 percent in the April-June period,
according to an initial estimate published today by the
Statistics Office. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
14 analysts was for a 0.5 percent advance.  GDP (CZGDPSAY)  fell 1.6 percent
from a year earlier.  The $196 billion  economy  is struggling to gain traction
after a record-long recession worsened by three years of
austerity. The central bank, fearing deflation that could curb
growth further, began koruna sales to stop consumers from
deferring purchases and improve exporters’ competitiveness.  “In retrospect, such a weak GDP reading justifies a weaker
koruna,”  Michal Brozka , chief analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in
 Prague , said by e-mail. “If it wasn’t for the intervention, the
currency would probably weaken today. But the data bring a lot
of questions and it will be interesting to see the breakdown.”  The koruna was little changed at 27.067 per euro at 9:51
a.m. in Prague, holding near the central bank’s desired rate,
which it set when starting currency interventions Nov. 7.  Detailed economic data scheduled for publication Dec. 4 may
show a better reading, according to Radomir Jac, chief analyst
at Generali PPF Asset Management AS.  Data Mismatch  “The Czech GDP contraction doesn’t correspond to signals
that have been coming from business and  consumer confidence 
surveys and also from hard data including industrial output,
orders or retail sales,” he said by e-mail. “I wouldn’t be
surprised if this very negative preliminary GDP data is later
revised.”  Before the koruna sales commenced, statistics-office data
showed  industrial output  rose 7.1 percent in September, beating
analyst forecasts. Accelerating exports helped widen the trade
 surplus  to 35.1 billion koruna ($1.7 billion), the largest this
year, from 19.2 billion koruna in August.  As the economy contracted for six consecutive quarters
through March, the central bank responded with three interest-rate cuts that brought the  benchmark  to what it calls a
“technical zero” of 0.05 percent.  ‘Very Poor’  Exhausting the room for traditional monetary easing, policy
makers decided to weaken the koruna and Governor Miroslav Singer
said the bank may keep it “near” 27 per euro for at least a
year and a half. The interventions will add about 1 percentage
point to GDP growth next year, the bank estimates.  The Czech economy is lagging behind other ex-communist
 European Union members , with  Hungary ’s GDP showing stronger-than-expected 0.8 percent growth from the previous quarter and
 Poland (POGDQOQ)  expanding 0.6 percent, according to data published today.  The “very poor” GDP reading shows “the deep slump the
Czech economy is in, massively lagging its peers in the region,
held back by domestic political uncertainty and a lack of
investment and borrowing,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based emerging-markets economist at Nomura International Plc.,
said in a note to clients. “It will reinforce the deflationary
fears of the central bank and hence the intervention will be
seen by them as justified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  