-- Dangdang Advances as NetEase Retreats: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-11-14T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/dangdang-advances-as-netease-retreats-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in  New York 
rose, with  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  advancing on prospects
it will benefit from the Singles Festival shopping event.
 NetEase Inc. (NTES) , a web game operator, retreated after reporting
lower-than-estimated profit.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. gained 0.7 percent to 102.5 yesterday.
Dangdang climbed to a three-week high, while LightInTheBox
Holding Co. rallied the most since July.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of
 China ’s most-popular Internet search engine, advanced after its
valuation dropped to a two-month low. NetEase sank the most this
month and  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG)  tumbled 11 percent.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, posted record sales of 35 billion yuan ($5.7 billion)
during a shopping festival on Nov. 11, it said on its Twitter
Inc. account. Dangdang reported a quarterly loss that was
smaller than analysts’ projections and LightInTheBox, which
sells lifestyle goods to overseas markets, may report sales of
$70 million, Bloomberg data show, compared with $68 million to
$70 million earlier forecast by the company.  “Almost every e-commerce company benefited from the Nov.
11 shopping sales promotions,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR
Investment Strategy LLC, said by phone from  San Francisco .
“Some of Dangdang’s third-quarter numbers beat people’s
expectations.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.9 percent to $36.83
in New York, snapping a two-day slump. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.5 percent to extend a record as comments from
 Janet Yellen  signaled she will continue the  Federal Reserve ’s
stimulus efforts.  Dangdang, China’s biggest online book seller, advanced 4.1
percent to $9.38, the highest close since Oct. 25. Beijing-based
Dangdang reported a net loss of 6 cents per ADR for the three
months ended in September, which was smaller than six analysts’
average projection of 8 cents. Gross margin increased to 18
percent from 15 percent a year earlier, according to the
company’s statement yesterday.  Alibaba’s sales during the Chinese Singles’ Day shopping
Festival on Nov. 11 broke last year’s record of 19.1 billion
 yuan , the company said a day after.  LightInTheBox jumped 12 percent to $10.41, the biggest gain
since July 17. The Beijing-based company is  scheduled to  release
third-quarter financial results Nov. 19.  NetEase’s Decline  Baidu added 3.9 percent to $158.99 in the biggest advance
in three weeks. The American depositary receipts  traded  at 23
times estimated earnings last week, the lowest multiple in two
months.  ADRs of NetEase, China’s second-biggest online game
operator, retreated 4.4 percent to $66.35, dropping the most
since Oct. 28.  The company said third-quarter net income rose to $171.3
million, below the average estimate of seven analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG cut the stock’s rating to hold
from buy yesterday and lowered its price estimate to $66 from
$73.  “NetEase’s disappointing results were due to its lower-than-expected sales of several major titles,” Nick Ning, a
Shanghai-based analyst at 86Research Ltd., said by phone.
“Games entering mature stage is a problem for everyone, and the
key to grow in the next few years lies in their ability to
launch new successful games on desktop and mobile.”  YY Sinks  Ning recommends investors buy NetEase after shares fall to
“low $60s,” citing the outlook for their 2014 financial year.  YY Inc. (YY) , owner of a social entertainment website, proposed
to issue as much as $250 million in convertible notes due in
2018 in a statement yesterday.  ADRs of the Guangzhou-based company sank 2.4 percent to
$52.68, falling the first time this week.  Xinyuan Real Estate Co. plunged 11 percent to $5.63, the
biggest retreat in eight months. The Beijing-based property
developer said Chief Financial Officer Kevin Wei resigned due to
“personal reasons” in a statement yesterday. Xinyuan appointed
Helen Zhang, its financial controller, as interim CFO.  ADRs of Phoenix New Media, a TV and Internet news outlet,
tumbled to $9.09, sliding the most in two weeks.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  advanced
1.1 percent to 10,391.13, rising for the first time in three
days, while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.6 percent to
2,100.51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  