-- Delta, United Unlikely to Get AMR Slots, Official Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-11-14T21:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/delta-united-unlikely-to-get-amr-slots-u-s-official-says-1-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  are unlikely to win U.S. approval to
get the take-off and landing rights that  American Airlines  gave
up to settle a lawsuit over its merger with  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , a Justice Department lawyer said.  Renata Hesse, a senior official in the department’s
antitrust division, reiterated today that the proposed
settlement, which will allow  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American to merge with
US Airways, is designed to introduce competition at key airports
by low-cost carriers.  “We’re not going to stop people from trying,” Hesse told
reporters at a conference in Washington. “But it’s hard for me
to see how Delta and United would qualify -- would meet that
description.”  The merged airline must give up 104 flight slots at Reagan
National Airport in Washington and 34 at New York’s LaGuardia
Airport, along with smaller divestitures at five other airports,
under the proposed settlement reached with the  Justice
Department  Nov. 12. The agreement must be approved by a federal
judge.  The accord positions the airlines to complete their
combination in December and bring Fort Worth, Texas-based
American out of bankruptcy protection.  ‘All Airlines’  Delta said in a statement yesterday that the U.S. should
consider “all airlines” in the process of divesting slots. The
Atlanta-based carrier said it wants the chance to bid for slots
and facilities at Reagan and Dallas Love Field.  Delta said it believed that the Justice Department “should
not predetermine what communities will receive service with
Reagan National slots or Love Field gates, and that it shouldn’t
exclude any airline from the opportunity to bid for them.”  Hesse’s comments echoed remarks that Bill Baer, the head of
the antitrust division, made the day the settlement was
announced. When asked whether Delta and United are eligible to
acquire slots, he called low-cost carriers “a key part of the
solution.”  Baer testified at a Senate hearing today that the Justice
Department will talk to any carrier that can convince the
department that it will compete aggressively with the divested
slots and gates.  “We have some concerns about whether the legacy carriers
are really going to offer that competitive dynamic,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  