-- Democrats Silent After Kerry Pleads for Time on Iran
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-11-14T00:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/democrats-silent-after-kerry-pleads-for-time-on-iran.html
Senate Democratic leaders withheld
comment today on the Obama administration’s request to delay new
sanctions against Iran, as some Republicans said they’re
determined to increase economic pressure aimed at curbing the
Islamic Republic’s nuclear program.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and other top Democrats
declined to answer questions about their plans after a closed-door meeting where Vice President  Joe Biden  and Secretary of
State  John Kerry  argued that approving additional sanctions now
would jeopardize talks toward an agreement with Iran to limit
its nuclear development.  “No comment,” Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson  said, when asked how the briefing went. The South Dakota
Democrat said he hadn’t decided whether to move forward with a
new sanctions bill and had no deadline in mind.  Before the meeting, Kerry told reporters that any
congressional movement toward new sanctions could unnerve U.S.
allies and destroy chances of reaching an agreement with Iran.  “The risk is that if Congress were to unilaterally move to
raise sanctions, it could break faith with those negotiations
and actually stop them and break them apart,” Kerry said.
“What we’re asking everybody to do is calm down, look hard at
what can be achieved or what the realities are.”  Lawmakers from both parties in Congress and Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  have criticized negotiations in
Geneva last week toward a first-step agreement on limiting
Iran’s nuclear program that would ease some existing sanctions
without first ensuring an end to Iran’s  uranium enrichment .  The talks in Geneva broke up last weekend without an
initial agreement and are scheduled to resume Nov. 20. Iran is
negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the U.S., U.K.,
 France ,  Russia  and China -- plus Germany.  ‘Emotional Appeal’  Several Republican senators said they weren’t persuaded by
Kerry’s pitch today.  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, said the administration briefing
suffered from “a lack of specificity based on an emotional
appeal” to give negotiations more time. The briefing was at
best “incomplete,” said Corker, who said he was worried the
administration will grant waivers in coming weeks to lessen the
impact of current sanctions.  “I do think we ought to accelerate sanctions,” said
Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican who has been a leader
in advancing previous sanctions legislation.  “The pitch was very unconvincing,” Kirk said after the
briefing with Kerry.  More Briefings  The administration plans to hold more briefings with
lawmakers tomorrow as it tries to build a case for a pause in
new sanctions.  Supporters of a new sanctions bill haven’t settled on its
provisions or procedures for considering it. While a measure
could emerge from the Senate Banking Committee, another forum
may be debate over the annual defense authorization bill that
the Senate is scheduled to take up as soon as tomorrow.  “I’d be surprised if we do not have a debate on enhanced
Iran sanctions on the defense authorization bill,” Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said at
a news conference today.  McConnell, who said the Obama administration was promoting
a “bad deal,” said, “We ought to be actually ratcheting up
the sanctions against Iran.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Armed Services Committee, said today that sanctions don’t belong
on the defense bill crafted by his panel and that he backs the
administration’s request to hold off.  ‘Could Interfere’  “I support maintaining tight sanctions against Iran,”
Levin told reporters. “I don’t support increasing them at this
time, because I think it could interfere with the
negotiations.”  “If negotiations don’t succeed, or don’t succeed in a way
that is acceptable, we can always add additional sanctions at
that time,” Levin said.  Kerry said today that the U.S. has support from other
countries negotiating with Iran for a proposal to curb  Iran’s
nuclear program .  If Congress imposed new sanctions now, Kerry said, allies
“would think we’re dealing in bad faith and they would bolt.
Then the sanctions do fall apart.”  Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran specialist with the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in  Washington , said
“countries like China and Russia will start to opt out of
pressuring Iran” if they think the U.S. is piling on more
sanctions just when the group is close to a deal.  Regime Change  More penalties now, he said, would create the impression
that “Washington’s underlying goal is to change Iran’s regime,
rather than merely its nuclear policy.”  The U.S. and  Israel  say uranium enrichment in  Iran  and
construction of a reactor capable of producing plutonium would
help the Islamic Republic develop the capability to produce
nuclear weapons. The Persian Gulf nation says its nuclear
program is for civilian medical and energy uses.  Netanyahu has said Israel may have no choice but to launch
a preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities if negotiations
fail. He called on Nov. 10 for American Jews to “stand up now
and be counted” against a partial agreement with Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  