-- DNO Jumps to Record as Earnings Beat Estimates: Oslo Mover
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-11-14T14:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/dno-jumps-to-record-as-earnings-beat-estimates-oslo-mover.html
DNO International ASA (DNO) , the Norwegian
oil company focused on  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, rose to a record
in Oslo trading after third-quarter earnings beat estimates.  The shares surged as much as 5.5 percent to 19.9 kroner,
the highest since Bloomberg started compiling data. About 9.9
million shares had been traded as of 3 p.m., more than three
times the daily average over the past three months.  DNO’s profit reached 282 million kroner ($45.5 million) in
the third quarter, beating the 265 million-krone average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Production
climbed to a record 52,780 barrels of oil equivalent a day on a
working-interest basis. DNO reiterated a plan of increasing
capacity at its Tawke field in Kurdistan to 200,000 barrels of
oil a day, saying reserves at its main asset were on track to
reach 1 billion barrels.  “The report leaves a strong impression and confirms our
conviction of the upside potential in the share,” Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an analyst at Swedbank First Securities, said in an e-mail to clients. “The main reason for the strong earnings were
higher-than-expected revenue” and low output costs.  DNO’s sales were 810 million kroner, beating the 758
million-krone average estimate of nine analysts.  DNO was the first foreign company to drill for oil in Iraq
after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 and gets more than 70
percent of its production from the semi-autonomous Kurdistan
region in the country’s north.  It has been caught in a dispute between the region and the
central authorities in  Baghdad  over revenue sharing, contracts
and land, forcing it to sell oil on the local market at a
discount to international prices.  Kurdistan Exports  Oil exports from Kurdistan through a government-run
pipeline were halted in December over a payment disagreement.  DNO’s partner at Tawke,  Genel Energy Plc. (GENL) , said last month
the Kurdistan Regional Government has completed an export
pipeline to Turkey with a capacity of 300,000 barrels a day that
ties in to an existing link after a Baghdad-controlled metering
station, giving Kurds control of the flow. DNO has said earlier
it expects to have access to the pipeline.  “We are awaiting guidance from the Kurdistan Regional
Government with respect to the status of the pipeline,”
Executive Chairman Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani, said in a
presentation in Oslo today. “My expectation is that when those
arrangements are in place the Kurdistan operators with oil to
put into the pipeline will do so.”  The KRG also expects to build a direct export pipeline to
Ceyhan in  Turkey  within the next two years, adding to the
region’s export capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  