-- Damac IPO Will Value Homebuilder at as Much as $3.7 Billion
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-11-14T11:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/dubai-s-damac-to-price-stock-at-as-much-as-17-25-per-gdr-in-ipo.html
Damac Real Estate Development Ltd.
said its U.K. initial public offering will create a homebuilder
with a market value of as much as $3.7 billion.  Al Firdous Holding and Sahira Co., controlled by Damac
founder Hussain Sajwani, will offer depositary receipts in Damac
for $12.25 to $17.25 each, according to a statement today. The
sale of as much as 18.8 percent of the company will raise at
least $500 million and the market value will be a minimum of
about $2.7 billion, the statement showed.  The IPO will be the first by a Dubai-based developer since
the sheikhdom’s property market started to recover from one of
the world’s worst property crashes in 2008. Damac was valued by
analysts at $3.9 billion to $5.4 billion, three people briefed
on the process said on Nov. 4.  “The valuation range seems reasonable and the fundamentals
are attractive, especially on the lower end of the range,” said
Taher Safieddine, an analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC. The valuation
may have been reduced to attract buyers, he said.  Damac may offer an additional 15 percent in the IPO by
using a so-called over-allotment option.  Damac’s Projects  Damac started projects including Hollywood-themed apartment
towers and a Trump International golf course this year. Dubai’s
home prices soared at the fastest pace in world during the
second quarter, prompting the government to double property
transaction fees to rein in speculation.  Damac has assets valued at $2.3 billion and it generated a
first-half profit of $332 million, up from $212.1 million in all
of 2012, according to a Nov. 4 filing. Gross profit margins
averaged 44 percent in the three years through 2012 and 64
percent in the first half of this year, the filing said.  Citigroup Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are managing the sale.  “I’m disappointed that a company from the  United Arab
Emirates  chooses to have  London  for its main listing,” said
Sanyalaksna Manibhandu, senior analyst at NBAD Securities LLC.
“It doesn’t make sense to me.”  Dubai’s benchmark stock index surged 74 percent this year
while  Abu Dhabi ’s gained 44 percent. MSCI, whose equity indexes
are tracked by investors with about $7 trillion in assets, will
upgrade the gauges from frontier status in May following five
years of review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  