-- Lebanon’s Central Bank to Continue Intervening in Bond Market
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-11-14T09:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/lebanon-s-central-bank-to-continue-intervening-in-bond-market.html
Lebanon’s central bank will continue
intervening in the  bond market  after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the country’s rating earlier this month, Governor
Riad Salameh said today.  The central bank “will continue to maintain the stability
of  interest rates  through its continuous intervention in bond
markets,” Salameh said in a speech in Beirut. The rating
downgrade “hasn’t affected the financial markets negatively,”
he said.  S&P cut Lebanon’s rating to B-, six levels below investment
grade, from B on the impact of the Syrian civil war on the
country’s economy. Lebanon, which has had no government for the
past six months, has seen its debt-to-gross domestic product
rise to 140 percent from 135 percent, Salameh said today.  The warring in Syria, which has killed at least 100,000
people since 2011 according to estimates quoted by the  United
Nations , has slowed Lebanon’s economic growth as security
concerns battered tourism. The  World Bank  last month cut its
forecast for economic growth this year to 1.5 percent from 2.3
percent. The Syrian conflict had so far cost the country an
estimated $2.6 billion, the World Bank said.  Still, deposits into Lebanese banks are rising and may
climb 7 percent this year, Salameh said. Deposits by non-residents may reach $8 billion in 2013, or 20 percent of GDP,
Salameh said citing World Bank figures.  The central bank will offer lenders 1.2 trillion Lebanese
pounds ($796 million) at an interest rate of 1 percent, Salameh
said. The funds are intended to be used as credit to
“productive sectors” in the country, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  