-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for November (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2013-11-14T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-november-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s November monthly bulletin:  ﻿At its meeting on 7 November, the Governing Council took a
number of decisions on key ECB interest rates, forward guidance
and liquidity provision. First, based on its regular economic
and monetary analyses, the Governing Council decided to lower
the  interest rate  on the main refinancing operations of the
Eurosystem by 25 basis points to 0.25% and the rate on the
marginal lending facility by 25 basis points to 0.75%. The rate
on the deposit facility will remain unchanged at 0.00%. These
decisions are in line with the Governing Council’s forward
guidance of July 2013, given the latest indications of further
diminishing underlying price pressures in the euro area over the
medium term, starting from currently low annual inflation rates
of below 1%. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in
particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. At the same time,
inflation expectations for the euro area over the medium to long
term continue to be firmly anchored in line with the aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2%. Such a
constellation suggests that the euro area may experience a
prolonged period of low inflation, to be followed by a gradual
upward movement towards inflation rates below, but close to, 2%
later on. Accordingly, the monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary. It will thereby also
continue to assist the gradual economic recovery as reflected in
confidence indicators up to October.  Second, following the rate cut, the Governing Council reviewed
the forward guidance provided in July and confirmed that it
continues to expect the key ECB interest rates to remain at
present or lower levels for an extended period of time. This
expectation continues to be based on an overall subdued outlook
for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness of the economy and subdued monetary dynamics.  Third, the Governing Council continues to monitor closely money
market conditions and their potential impact on the monetary
policy stance. The Governing Council is ready to consider all
available instruments and, in this ﻿context, decided to continue
conducting the main refinancing operations (MROs) as fixed rate
tender procedures with full allotment for as long as necessary,
and at least until the end of the 6th maintenance period of 2015
on 7 July 2015. This procedure will also remain in use for the
Eurosystem’s special-term refinancing operations with a maturity
of one maintenance period, which will continue to be conducted
for as long as needed, and at least until the end of the second
quarter of 2015. The fixed rate in these special-term
refinancing operations will be the same as the MRO rate
prevailing at the time. Furthermore, the Governing Council
decided to conduct the three-month longer-term refinancing
operations (LTROs) to be allotted until the end of the second
quarter of 2015 as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment. The rates in these three-month operations will be
fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of the
respective LTRO. With regard to the economic analysis, real GDP
in the euro area rose by 0.3%, quarter on quarter, in the second
quarter of 2013, following six quarters of falling output.
Developments in survey-based confidence indicators up to October
are consistent with continued, albeit modest, growth in the
second half of the year. Looking ahead, output is expected to
continue to recover at a slow pace, in particular owing to a
gradual improvement in domestic demand supported by the
accommodative monetary policy stance. Euro area economic
activity should, in addition, benefit from a gradual
strengthening of demand for exports. Furthermore, the overall
improvements in financial markets seen since last year appear to
be gradually working their way through to the real economy, as
should the progress made in fiscal consolidation. In addition,
real incomes have benefited recently from generally lower energy
price inflation. This being said, unemployment in the euro area
remains high, and the necessary balance sheet adjustments in the
public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic
activity.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. Developments in global money and
financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have
the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. Other
downside risks include higher commodity prices, weaker
than ﻿expected domestic demand and export growth, and slow or
insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area
countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation decreased in October 2013 to 0.7%, from 1.1% in
September. This decline was stronger than expected and reflected,
in particular, lower food price inflation, a larger fall in
energy prices and some weakening in services price inflation. On
the basis of current futures prices for energy, annual inflation
rates are expected to remain at low levels in the coming months.
Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected to
remain subdued over the medium term. At the same time, inflation
expectations for the euro area over the medium to long term
continue to be firmly anchored in line with the aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2%. Such a
constellation suggests that the euro area may experience a
prolonged period of low inflation, to be followed by a gradual
upward movement towards inflation rates below but close to 2%
later on.  Taking into account the Governing Council’s decisions of 7
November, the risks to the outlook for price developments are
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks relate in
particular to higher commodity prices as well as stronger than
expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes,
and downside risks stem from weaker than expected economic
activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for September confirm the
subdued underlying growth of broad money (M3) and, in particular,
credit. Annual growth in M3 moderated to 2.1% in September, from
2.3% in August. Annual growth in M1 remained strong at 6.6%,
reflecting a preference for liquidity, although it was below the
peak of 8.7% observed in April. Net capital inflows into the
euro area continued to be the main factor supporting annual M3
growth, while the annual rate of change of loans to the private
sector remained weak. The annual growth rate of loans to
households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) stood at
0.3% in September, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year.
The annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations
(adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) was -2.7% in
September, compared with -2.9% in August. Overall, weak loan
dynamics for non-financial corporations continue to reflect
primarily ﻿their lagged relationship with the business cycle,
credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets. At the same time, the October
2013 bank lending survey tentatively signals a stabilisation in
credit conditions for firms and households, in the context of
still weak loan demand. Since the summer of 2012 substantial
progress has been made in improving the funding situation of
banks. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary
policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets
declines further and that the resilience of banks is
strengthened where needed. The ECB’s comprehensive assessment
before it adopts its supervisory role under the single
supervisory mechanism will further support this confidence-building process. It will enhance the quality of information
available on the condition of banks and result in the
identification and implementation of necessary corrective
actions. Further decisive steps to establish a banking union
will help to restore confidence in the financial system.  To sum up, taking into account the Governing Council’s decisions,
the economic analysis indicates that the euro area may
experience a prolonged period of low inflation, to be followed
by a gradual upward movement towards inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% later on. A cross-check with the signals from the
monetary analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, the euro area budget deficit is
projected to decline further from 3.1% of GDP in 2013 to 2.5% in
2014, according to the European Commission’s autumn 2013
economic forecast. At the same time, the euro area government
debt ratio is expected to rise from 95.5% of GDP in 2013 to
95.9% in 2014. In order to put high public debt ratios on a
downward path, governments should not unravel their efforts to
reduce deficits and sustain fiscal adjustment over the medium
term. The composition of fiscal consolidation should be geared
towards growth-friendly measures which have a medium-term
perspective and combine improving the quality and efficiency of
public services with minimising distortionary effects of
taxation. Governments must also decisively strengthen efforts to
implement the needed structural reforms in product and labour
markets.  ﻿Progress has been made in reducing current account deficits and
unit labour cost differentials, but substantial efforts still
need to be undertaken with a view to further improving
competitiveness, supporting rebalancing within the euro area and
creating more flexible and dynamic economies that in turn
generate sustainable economic growth and employment. This issue
of the Monthly Bulletin contains one article. The article
reviews developments in euro area potential output since the
start of the crisis and investigates the link between economic
slack and nominal developments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  