-- Ed Reed Rejoins Rex Ryan With Jets After Release by NFL’s Texans
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-14T17:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ed-reed-agrees-to-sign-with-new-york-jets-as-he-rejoins-rex-ryan.html
The  New York Jets  agreed on a
contract with five-time All-Pro safety Ed Reed, two days after
he was waived by the Houston Texans.  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  was Reed’s defensive coordinator with
the Baltimore Ravens from 2005 through 2008. Reed spent his
first 11 National Football League seasons in Baltimore, nine
times earning invitations to the Pro Bowl and helping the Ravens
win last season’s  Super Bowl .  Reed signed a three-year, $15 million contract with the
Texans in March, then had just 14 tackles in seven games before
being released. He missed Houston’s first two games while
recovering from offseason hip surgery and was demoted by interim
coach  Wade Phillips  last week.  Reed’s Nov. 12 release came two days after he said the
Texans were “outplayed” and “outcoached” in a 27-24 loss to
the Arizona Cardinals, the Houston Chronicle said. Reed cleared
waivers yesterday and is expected to join the Jets on the
practice field today, the team said on its  Twitter feed.   “He brings experience, the know-how, the expertise, how to
be a professional,” said former Pittsburgh Steelers running
back and ESPN analyst  Jerome Bettis . “More importantly, he
brings a ring and he can explain to those guys what it means to
be a champion. Rex Ryan knows the strengths and weaknesses of an
Ed Reed, so I think it’s a perfect situation.”  The Jets, who have a 5-4 record this season, visit the
Buffalo Bills this weekend.  New York’s defense has allowed the eighth-fewest yards in
the 32-team NFL this season, though only four teams have fewer
interceptions. Reed’s 61 interceptions rank  10th in NFL history 
and are the most among active players.  “He still has that mentality of a ball-hawker,” Bettis
said on ESPN. “Rex Ryan, understanding that, is going to put
him in situations where he can be successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  