-- Egypt Says Tension With U.S. a ‘Glitch’ in Storied Ties
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-11-14T13:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/egypt-says-tension-with-u-s-a-glitch-in-storied-ties.html
Egypt ’s outreach to other nations,
including  Russia , isn’t a consequence of fraying ties with the
U.S., nor is it meant to supplant relations with  Washington ,
Egypt’s deputy premier said.  Egypt has had “excellent” relationships with the West,
including the U.S., for decades and Cairo’s push to deepen ties
elsewhere shouldn’t be seen as a “zero-sum game,” Ziad Bahaa El-Din, who also serves as International Cooperation Minister,
said in an interview today.  After the ouster of President Mohamed Mursi in July,
Egypt’s government had to fend off criticism over a crackdown on
the Muslim Brotherhood and allied Islamists that left more than
1,000 dead and hundreds imprisoned. Mursi is standing trial on
charges of inciting violence that led to the killing of
protesters outside a presidential palace last year.  “There was a sense that the transition was grossly
misunderstood and misrepresented in the U.S.,” Bahaa El-Din
said in his office in Cairo. “It’s a glitch in a 30-year
relationship.”  Egypt’s new government has veered from friendships forged
with Qatar and  Turkey  under Mursi, and found new financial
backers in  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait ,
which have pledged more than $12 billion in aid.  Egyptian officials have said the funds from the three Gulf
nations are critical in pushing ahead with stimulus plans aimed
at reviving an economy limping along at its slowest pace in
about two decades.  No Urgency  The money has offered Egypt a cushion at a time when
foreign reserves are still about 50 percent below their end-December 2010 levels and after several bids to secure a loan
from the  International Monetary Fund  ended without an agreement.
Bahaa El-Din said there wasn’t “an immediate pressing urgency
to enter into an agreement” with the IMF.  Egypt also has begun reaching out to Russia, reflecting a
revival of a relationship born of the socialist fervor of the
late 1950s and 1960s under then-President Gamal Abdel Nasser.  Bahaa El-Din spoke on the same day that Russian Defense
Minister Sergei Shoigu and Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  were
in Cairo to meet their counterparts Abdelfatah al-Seesi and
Nabil Fahmy, the highest-level contact between the two countries
since the ouster of Mursi.  “We look forward to strong, stable and continuing
relations with Russia,” Fahmy said today.  ‘Temporary Measures’  The U.S., which had been providing about $1.5 billion
yearly in economic and military aid that came as a byproduct of
the Camp David peace deal, last month suspended some military
aid to Egypt, including $260 million in cash and deliveries of
F-16 fighter jets, helicopters and tanks, in an effort to prod
the North African country toward democracy.  “I look at the suspension or restrictions on aid and other
things certainly as temporary measures,” Bahaa El-Din said.  Russia is negotiating its biggest weapons deals with Egypt
since the  Cold War  as it seeks to capitalize on U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s decision to cut defense aid. Egypt is seeking as
much as $2 billion of Russian weaponry, including MiG-29 fighter
planes, air-defense systems and anti-tank missiles, said  Ruslan Pukhov , a member of the Russian Defense Ministry’s advisory
board.  Egypt is seeking financing from an unidentified Persian
Gulf country to buy the arms, Palestinian newspaper  Dunia al-Watan  reported Nov. 6, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter.  Mursi Protest  Egypt received Soviet military assistance during the 1973
Arab-Israeli war, and the Soviets financed infrastructure
projects such as the Aswan Dam to irrigate land and supply
electricity.  The ties had weakened after Nasser’s death in 1970, when
the Arab nationalist was succeeded by  Anwar Sadat , who set the
regional power on a pro-U.S. track that accelerated under  Hosni Mubarak . Popular protests toppled Mubarak in 2011 as the so-called Arab Spring swept the region.  Bahaa El-Din said Egypt is pushing ahead with a transition
to democracy -- a plan that sees the amending of the now-suspended constitution, a referendum on the new charter and then
parliamentary and presidential elections by early next year.  The process has been clouded by the unrest that’s so far
served to discourage foreign investors and tourists. Mursi’s
trial, which began Nov. 4, has sharpened the divide in the
nation, with the Islamist challenging the court’s legitimacy and
maintaining he’s still president.  The claims were repeated yesterday in a statement by Mursi
read by his lawyers, in which he said stability wouldn’t return
until the “coup” was reversed -- remarks which Bahaa El-Din
described as a “direct threat.”  “It’s a threat to continue to incite violence and it’s one
which will not be accepted by anybody around here, neither in
the government nor outside,” Bahaa El-Din said. Egyptians “are
extremely keen on returning to a state of normality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  