-- Egypt Poised to Buy French Wheat as Prices Discounted to Russia
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-11-14T11:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/egypt-poised-to-buy-french-wheat-as-prices-discounted-to-russia.html
Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat
buyer, may import French supplies in a tender today for the
first time in 11 months as prices trade at a discount to grain
from Russia and eastern Europe.  Spot-market prices for French wheat were about $277 a
metric ton yesterday, compared with Russian supplies at $287 a
ton and Romanian at $283 a ton, said Mike O’Dea, a risk
management consultant at INTL FCStone in Kansas City. Egypt’s
state-run buyer the  General Authority  for Supply Commodities has
only bought wheat from  Romania , Ukraine and Russia since the
2013-14 marketing year began July 1. GASC said it is seeking at
least 60,000 tons in a tender today for shipment Dec. 1-15.  “ Russia  and Romania have done their job and they have
nothing more to sell,” Christelle Tailhardat, a senior trader
at Nimes, France-based exporter Granit Negoce, said in an
interview yesterday in Geneva. “After that there is French
supply and nothing more.”  Milling wheat futures traded at 203.25 euros a ton
yesterday on NYSE Liffe in Paris, down 18 percent this year.
World production may be a record 696.4 million tons this season,
with harvests surging 33 percent from the prior year in a bloc
of former Soviet Union countries after crops recovered from dry
weather in 2012, International Grains Council data show.  French wheat is becoming more competitive as Romanian
supplies run low and Russia contends with quality issues after
excess rain during the harvest in September, said  Sterling Liddell , a senior vice president at Rabobank International.
 France  is the European Union’s largest wheat grower. Romania,
the biggest foreign supplier to GASC tenders this season, ranks
fifth in the 28-country bloc, according to an October report
from trader Alfred C. Toepfer International.  Bread Program  Egypt last bought French wheat in a tender on Dec. 1,
purchasing a 60,000-ton cargo from Bunge Ltd., data compiled by
Bloomberg show. GASC buys grain from international and domestic
suppliers for a subsidized bread program in the country, where
25 percent of the population lived below the poverty line in
2011, state figures show.  Egypt probably won’t buy U.S. supplies in the tender today
because North American grain handlers are focused on shipping
recently harvested corn and soybeans, FCStone’s O’Dea said by e-mail. U.S. prices also have been higher than competitors, with
the International Grains Council estimating hard, red winter
wheat at the  Gulf of Mexico  at $314 a ton on Nov. 12.  “We are clearly not even close to being able to work into
Egypt,” said Kelly Herrick, a merchandising consultant at
Advance Trading in Bloomington,  Illinois . “U.S. wheat has been
primarily headed to  Brazil , South American destinations and
 Mexico . There are just cheaper supplies of wheat available. We
have to compete not only against Black Sea wheat, but now French
wheat and German wheat has been more competitive.”  Soft Wheat  French soft wheat production may be 36.96 million tons this
year, up 3.8 percent from 2012, while exports may total 18.26
million tons, crops office FranceAgriMer said yesterday. That
compares with a Romanian harvest of about 7.65 million tons,
according to Toepfer. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
estimates Egypt’s wheat imports will be 9.5 million tons, 14
percent higher than the prior year.  “Egypt is going to need more cargoes before too long so
that increases the demand for wheat,” Rabobank’s Liddell said
in an interview yesterday before the latest tender was
announced. “France has the upper hand right now as an
exporter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  