-- Martinez Buys Telecom Argentina Control for $960 Million
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-14T23:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/telecom-italia-agrees-to-sell-argentina-unit-for-960-million.html
Mexican financier David Martinez
agreed to acquire a stake in Telecom Argentina SA in a $960
million deal, pitting him against the mobile-phone business of
 Carlos Slim  in South America’s second-biggest economy.  Fintech Group, Martinez’s investment firm, will pay $860
million for  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s 68 percent holding in the
company that controls Telecom Argentina, as well as a direct
minority stake, plus $100 million for agreements including some
technical services for the carrier, Telecom Italia said today.
Fintech confirmed the deal in a separate release.  The takeover expands Martinez’s bets beyond holdings such
as cable assets and Argentina’s sovereign debt as he seeks to
benefit from increasing Web and video use on mobile devices.
Telecom Argentina and the local unit of fellow Mexican
billionaire Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  each have about a third of
the nation’s wireless market, according to data earlier this
year from Signals Telecom Consulting.  Shares of Buenos Aires-based Telecom Argentina have more
than doubled this year as increasing demand for data services
boosted sales. The stock  rose  3.9 percent to 36.05 pesos at the
close of trading.  The transaction price values Telecom Argentina at 3.3 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
compared with a median of 3.5 times for its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Italian Turnaround  Telecom Italia, led by new Chief Executive Officer Marco Patuano, is slimming down as part of a turnaround bid. The
shares  fell  0.2 percent to 67.2 cents in Milan, valuing the
company at 12.3 billion euros ($16.6 billion). They have lost
1.6 percent this year after eight straight  annual declines .  Telecom Argentina  reported  a 22 percent gain in first-half
sales as more of the country’s about 42 million people used
mobile devices to access the Internet and send e-mail.  Argentina’s economy will expand 2.8 percent next year,
trailing the Latin America average of 3.1 percent, the
International Monetary Fund said in last month’s  Regional
Economic Update .  Brazil , South America’s largest economy, will
expand about 2.5 percent this year and next, IMF has projected.  Fintech has investments in Argentina’s sovereign debt as
well as in many restructured companies including a stake in the
country’s largest cable company, Cablevision SA. Founder
Martinez, a former priest, lives half of the year in  London  and
the other half in  Manhattan .  Banco Sabadell  He built his fortune by buying and helping to restructure
the debt of troubled countries and companies, including Telecom
Argentina, according to public filings.  Martinez has also invested beyond Argentina and Latin
America. In September, Fintech bought almost 5 percent of
Spanish lender Banco de Sabadell SA during a share sale.  “We see tremendous opportunities for growth in the
Argentine market and are committed to an important investment
program to take advantage of those opportunities,” Martinez
said in a statement.  Patuano, taking over from Franco Bernabe, who resigned last
month after clashing with top shareholder  Telefonica SA (TEF) , is
selling assets to revive Telecom Italia as sales shrink. This
month, the carrier sold 1.3 billion euros of mandatory
convertible bonds as part of a plan to raise about 4 billion
euros to pare debt. Its rating was cut to junk last month by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Net Debt  The company said the disposal’s effect on its net debt
won’t be material. Telecom Italia’s adjusted net debt was 28.2
billion euros at the end of September, and the company plans to
trim it to less than 27 billion euros by the end of 2013.  Argentina has been one of Telecom Italia’s three core
markets, along with Italy and Brazil, and accounted for about 13
percent of 2012 revenue.  Telefonica, which in September increased its indirect
holding in Telecom Italia, favors selling the Italian company’s
Brazilian unit,  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , people familiar with the
matter have said.  In an interview with Il Sole 24 Ore published today,
Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta said there is no plan for a full
merger with Telecom Italia, or between the two companies’
Brazilian divisions.  Among other assets on sale, Telecom Italia has said it
expects to reap more than 2 billion euros for its mobile-phone
towers and the TI Media Broadcasting unit.  Patuano said last week that the company had received a $1
billion offer for the Argentine unit, without naming the bidder.  Yesterday, Telecom Italia said its offices were inspected
by stock market regulator Consob and Italian financial police
seeking information about the convertible-bond sale and the
Argentina disposal.  Asati, a group of Telecom Italia small investors, said Nov.
11 that minority shareholders were discriminated against in the
sale of the convertible bonds. Asati also asked Consob for
clarification of the Argentina sale, saying the phone company
hadn’t provided enough details about the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  