-- Telecom Italia Cut to Junk by S&P After Moody’s Downgrade
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-15T08:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/telecom-italia-cut-to-junk-by-s-p-month-after-moody-s-downgrade.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  had its rating
cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s , which said Italy’s biggest
phone company is unlikely to reduce debt fast enough to offset
declining earnings.  The ranking was lowered by one step to BB+ from BBB-, with
a negative outlook, S&P said yesterday. Moody’s Investors
Service last month stripped Telecom Italia of its investment
grade after the resignation of Executive Chairman Franco Bernabe. The carrier, struggling for years to pare its debt
pile, reported adjusted net debt of $38 billion as of Sept. 30.  S&P’s vote of no confidence is a setback for new Chief
Executive Officer Marco Patuano, who last week unveiled plans to
raise 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) by selling assets and a
mandatory convertible bond. Yesterday Milan-based Telecom Italia
agreed to sell its Argentine business to Mexican financier David Martinez in a $960 million transaction.  “It will take time for the group’s revised strategic
guidelines to translate into significantly improved domestic
performances, and we still perceive uncertainties in the group’s
governance,” S&P said in its statement.  After the downgrades, Telecom Italia, whose biggest
shareholder is  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , is in the same league as
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA and carmaker  Fiat SpA. (F)   Other Italian companies that are rated junk include Fiat,
which lost its investment grade in 2009 and whose most recent
Ba3 rating by Moody’s is three levels into junk. Aerospace and
defense company Finmeccanica SpA was stripped of its investment
grade this year.  Forced Sellling?  Credit-default swaps on Telecom Italia rose to an 11-month
high of 399 basis points on Aug. 5 from 248 basis points in May.
They fell 5.9 percent to 299 basis points at 8:07 a.m. in
 London , Bloomberg data show.  The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreement and an increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  “As they exit investment-grade indices, bonds are likely
to fall further, in particular Yankee ones, given the lack of
familiarity in the U.S.,” said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income
investor who helps manage $1 billion at FM Capital Partners in
London. “That said, most investors are already pre-positioned
and most of the price action has taken place since S&P placed
the name on negative watch.”  The shares fell 0.2 percent to 67.1 cents in Milan, valuing
the company at 12.3 billion euros. They have lost 1.8 percent
this year after eight straight annual declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  