-- Telekom Austria Profit Falls on Tariffs, Sluggish Economy
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-11-14T15:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/telekom-austria-profit-falls-on-cheap-tariffs-sluggish-economy.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , one of the two
European network operators part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMX) , said third-quarter earnings fell as sluggish eastern
European economies added to intense domestic competition.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined to 357.9 million euros ($482 million) from
410.4 million euros a year earlier, the Vienna-based company
said in a statement today. The average analyst estimate was
357.7 million euros, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales fell 5.3 percent to 1.04 billion euros.  “Lower operating expenses could only partially dampen the
revenue pressure,” the company said in its  quarterly report .
Business in Austria, Bulgaria and  Croatia  was the biggest drag
on earnings, it said.  Telekom Austria faces a bill of 1.03 billion euros for
spectrum it acquired last month in the Alpine republic’s biggest
airwave sale. The company and local units of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  have to pay a total of 2 billion
euros, which is putting more pressure on them to reverse revenue
declines resulting from intensifying competition in the Austrian
market.  ‘Not Happy’  America Movil, which  owns  about 23 percent of Telekom
Austria, is “not happy” with the auction, the Mexican
comapny’s Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said in an
interview Austria’s  News  magazine reported today. Telekom
Austria’s tough financial situation is making a capital increase
“very likely,” Hajj said in the interview, adding that America
Movil would present itself as a “stable partner” in a possible
share sale, according to the magazine.  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service both cut
Telekom  Austria ’s credit rating by one level in October, saying
that spectrum costs were higher than expected.  Telekom Austria’s  shares  fell as much as 2.9 percent in
Vienna and traded at 6 euros, down 2.1 percent, at 2:48 p.m.
local time. The stock has risen 4.4 percent this year, fueled in
part by speculation that America Movil might increase its stake
in the former monopoly.  America Movil did not take a stake in Telekom Austria in
order to take over the company, Hajj said, according to News.
The future strongly depends on the Austrian government’s plans,
he said.  Austrian customers continued their migration to cheaper
packages with highly subsidized handsets in the third quarter,
Telekom Austria said. Average revenue per user in the company’s
domestic mobile business fell 14 percent to 16.30 euros.  Croatia Roaming  Growth in the company’s eastern European units has also
slowed in recent years as sluggish economies curbed demand for
mobile-phone services and regulation weighed on profit.  Lower termination rates, fees operators charge to carry
each other’s calls, hurt business in  Bulgaria , where Ebitda fell
19 percent compared to a year earlier, Telekom Austria said. In
Croatia, Ebitda fell 34 percent after roaming revenue declined
on the country’s accession to the European Union.  Telekom Austria reiterated a forecast for revenue to fall 5
percent to about 4.1 billion euros this year, the fifth straight
annual decline, as well as for a dividend payment for 5 cents a
share. Capital expenditure will be 650 million euros to 700
million euros, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  