-- Temasek’s Pavilion Pays $1.3 Billion for Tanzania Gas Share
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-11-14T10:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/temasek-s-pavilion-pays-1-3-billion-for-stake-in-tanzania-gas.html
Pavilion Energy Pte, the liquefied
natural gas unit of Singapore’s state-owned investment company,
will pay $1.3 billion for a 20 percent stake in three gas blocks
offshore Tanzania in East Africa.  Pavilion Energy, owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, entered an
agreement today with  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , which holds 40 percent of
the estimated 15 trillion cubic feet of gas in Tanzania Blocks
1, 3 and 4, the Singapore-based company said today in a
statement. The transaction is scheduled to be completed in the
first quarter of 2014.  The investment helps Pavilion Energy diversify its supply
of LNG to meet growing Asian demand just as Singapore vies to
become a gas-trading hub. East Africa has seen some of the
world’s largest gas discoveries over the last three years
including fields off Mozambique that were estimated to hold
enough gas to meet global demand for two years. The first
deliveries from Pavilion’s Tanzania blocks are scheduled to
start in 2020.  “It’s a fairly bold move by Pavilion to buy into Tanzania
gas as East Africa is virgin territory and the rules haven’t
been written,” said Tony Regan, a Singapore-based energy
consultant at Tri-Zen International Inc. “The governments of
Tanzania and  Mozambique  are still setting up legislation and the
domestic gas markets aren’t very big so the price of cargoes
produced and sold in East Africa will be quite attractive.”  Temasek set up Pavilion in April to supply LNG in Asia, the
company said at the time. Pavilion Gas, the unit that manages
operations and LNG distribution, started trading and plans to
complete its first delivery to Asia by February, Chief Executive
Seah Moon Ming said in a speech last month.  Tanzania ‘Potential’  “The natural gas developments in Tanzania hold tremendous
potential, not just for Pavilion Energy but for Singapore and
Asia,” Hassan Marican, chairman of Pavilion, said in a
statement.  Ophir  shares  rose as much as 20 percent in  London , the most
since March 2012, to 393.7 pence and traded at 390.9 pence at
9:57 a.m. local time.  Berkshire, England-based BG Group Plc owns the remaining
60% of the Tanzania 1, 3 and 4 gas blocks, according to the
company’s website.  Pavilion signed its first long-term deal in October with a
European supplier for 500,000 metric tons of LNG annually for 10
years starting in 2018. The contract is with “a major European
oil and gas multinational” for delivery to Singapore and the
region, said Seah, declining to identify the company.  More Capital  Pavilion Energy has increased its capital to $6.9 billion
from the initial $1 billion earlier this year, it said today.  The company will use various price indexes for contracts of
different durations, Seah said in a speech in September. Long-term LNG contracts, typically more than 10 years, are usually
settled on the basis of a formula with a fixed percentage linked
to Brent oil or the Japan Crude Cocktail price.  Singapore , Asia’s oil-trading center, also wants to be a
hub for LNG, supercooled gas shipped by tankers rather than
pipelines. It opened its first LNG terminal in May with an
initial annual capacity of 3.5 million tons, which is scheduled
to rise to 6 million tons by the end of the year. Gas supplied
84 percent of Singapore’s electricity in 2012, according to the
Energy Market Authority, the nation’s energy regulator.  Raising Capacity  A fourth tank is planned to raise capacity to 9 million
tons by 2016. That would allow Singapore to offer last-minute
deliveries, or spot cargoes, to buyers in Asia seeking an
alternative to long-term contracts.  Temasek’s total holdings jumped to a record S$215 billion
($173 billion) in the year ended March 31 as surging global
stock markets bolstered assets. Energy and resources companies
make up 6 percent of the investments, according to its annual
report released in July.  The state-owned company said in July that new opportunities
include industries such as energy, resources, life sciences,
consumer and technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  