-- Temasek Pares U.S. Stocks With Facebook, Monsanto Exits
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-11-15T01:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/temasek-pares-u-s-stocks-with-facebook-monsanto-exits.html
Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s
state-owned investment firm, exited  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Monsanto (MON)  Co.
and  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  in the third quarter as it
pared U.S. stock holdings.  Temasek, directly or through its units, sold 4.3 million A
shares of social-networking company Facebook, valued at $107
million in the second quarter ended June 30, according to a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Temasek sold 1.42 million shares of seed maker
Monsanto and 1.25 million shares of industrial gas producer Air
Products. The value of Temasek’s U.S.-listed stocks declined by
$329 million in the quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  investment company  exited its positions in the U.S.
companies as the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has
rallied 25 percent this year, extending records yesterday to
close at an all-time  high  of 1,790.62. BlackRock Inc.’s Laurence D. Fink, who oversees the world’s biggest money manager, said
Nov. 12 that stocks may decline as much as 15 percent because of
political risks in China, Japan, France and the U.S. Bridgewater
Associates LP’s  Ray Dalio  said the same day that equity returns
will slow to 4 percent annually in the next decade.  “We believe that Temasek’s divestment from many of its
U.S. holdings, particularly in the technology sector, during Q3
is indicative of a change of strategy in America,” Victoria Barbary, director at the London-based Institutional Investor’s
Sovereign Wealth Center, said in an e-mail. “Temasek opened an
office in New York earlier in the year and we expect that the
fund is looking to make some large direct investments in the
world’s largest economy, rather than using small stakes in
listed blue-chip companies.”  S&P Earnings  Temasek’s only new purchase in the quarter ended Sept. 30
was Chinese medical device manufacturer  Mindray Medical
International Ltd. (MR) , which is based in Shenzhen. The only company
in which it added shares was San Diego-based Qualcomm Inc.,
which makes digital wireless-communications equipment. Temasek
bought 401,170 Qualcomm shares to bring its total position to
6.1 million shares valued at $407 million.  Of the 460 S&P 500 members that have reported earnings this
season, 75 percent posted results that beat estimates, while 54
percent topped sales projections, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman nominee  Janet Yellen  said in
prepared remarks released Nov. 13 that the nation’s economy and
job market are performing “far short of their potential.”  Temasek also reduced its stake in Mosaic Co., a fertilizer
company in Plymouth,  Minnesota , by 185,000 shares, and in  Clean
Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , by 916,090 shares.  Holdings Surge  Tan Yong Meng, a Temasek spokesman, declined to comment on
the filing.  Temasek’s holdings jumped to a record S$215 billion ($172
billion) in the year ended March 31 as surging global stock
markets bolstered assets. Temasek is wholly owned by Singapore’s
Ministry of Finance and is the ninth-biggest state investment
company, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute
website.  Energy and resources companies make up 6 percent of its
investments, according to its annual report released in July.
The state-owned investor said in July that new investment
opportunities include industries such as energy, resources, life
sciences, consumer and technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  