-- Emerging Market Winners Diverging More From Losers: Currencies
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-11-14T06:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/emerging-market-winners-diverging-more-from-losers-currencies.html
Emerging-market currencies are
diverging by the most in two years as investors increasingly
focus on the strength of underlying economies in anticipation of
the Federal Reserve paring its unprecedented monetary stimulus.  The five best-performing developing currencies since June
have gained an average 4.4 percent, led by South Korea’s won and
Poland’s zloty, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with a 6.8 percent loss for the worst performers, such as
 India ’s rupee and  Indonesia ’s rupiah. The gap in performance
hasn’t been so wide since 2011.  Investors are favoring South Korea’s record current-account
surplus and Poland’s shrinking deficits as speculation increases
that the Fed will reduce as soon as December the $85 billion
it’s pumping into the economy each month with its bond
purchases. The policy had the effect of damping interest rates,
spurring investors to seek out those economies with the highest
bond yields as long as the Fed continued to print greenbacks.  “There’ll be differentiation across emerging markets,”
Claire Dissaux, the London-based managing director of global
economics and strategy at Millennium Global Investments, which
manages about $12 billion, said in a Nov. 12 interview via e-mail. “Fed tapering matters the most for leveraged  emerging
markets  with balance-of-payment weaknesses.”  Won Gains  The won has gained 6.6 percent since June 30 to 1,072.53
per dollar yesterday, after reaching 1,054.35 Oct. 24, the
strongest since August 2011. Its advance prompted South Korean
officials to warn they may act to counter the “herd behavior”
of currency speculators. The zloty climbed 6.7 percent and
touched a two-year high of 3.0183 per dollar Oct. 22.  At the other end of the market, the rupiah has tumbled 15
percent during the second half of this year, dropping to 11,675
yesterday, close to a 4 1/2-year low of 11,680 reached Sept. 30.
Argentina’s peso slipped 9.9 percent since June, while India’s
rupee fell 5.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors should sell the South African rand and Turkish
lira against the Mexican and Philippine pesos, Barclays Plc said
on Nov. 5. It recommended buying the zloty, Russian ruble and
Malaysian ringgit versus the dollar.  ‘Opposing Forces’  “Two opposing forces are shaping prospects for emerging
markets: Fed tapering expectations and the strength of the
global business cycle,” Guillermo Felices, a strategist at
Barclays in London, wrote in a report the next day. In the
foreign-exchange market, “the framework remains one of
differentiation,” he said.  A government report on Nov. 8 showing U.S. employers added
a more-than-forecast 204,000 workers in October is leading
investors to bet the Fed may start withdrawing stimulus sooner
than forecast. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last week
predicted the Fed would delay tapering until March.  The prospect of a withdrawal of Fed cash is driving up U.S.
government bond yields, with those on  10-year Treasuries (USGG10YR) 
reaching a three-week high of 2.79 percent on Nov. 12, up from
2.55 percent at the end of last month. The rate dropped
yesterday by the most in three weeks as Janet Yellen, who faces
a confirmation hearing today to lead the Fed, indicated it's
too early to rein in U.S. stimulus.  When Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first hinted at reining
in bond purchases in May, he took investors by surprise and sent
emerging-market foreign-exchange rates lower. An index of the 20
 most-traded  developing-nation currencies tumbled 3.7 percent
that month, the most in a year, with the won and rupiah falling
in tandem, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Two-Tier  Investors are now being more discriminating. The rand,
real, rupee, rupiah and lira will be the losers in this “two-tier” foreign-exchange market, while the zloty, won, Israeli
shekel and Mexican peso’s “robust external positions and strong
growth prospects” will make them winners, Morgan Stanley said
in an Oct. 31 report.  “We see the EM currency market as increasingly bifurcated,
with economies with significant external deficits, inflation and
concerns over potential growth struggling to attract capital
inflows,” James Lord, an emerging-market strategist at Morgan
Stanley in  London , said in the report.  While the performance of developing currencies will vary,
they’ll broadly depreciate against the dollar as exports become
less competitive, Viktor Szabo, a money manager in London at
Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $10 billion of
emerging-market assets, said by e-mail on Nov. 12.  Export Slowdown  Developing-nation exports will grow 3.5 percent this year,
the worst performance since an 8 percent contraction in 2009,
the International Monetary Fund in  Washington  estimates. The
emerging-market currencies index has fallen 3 percent from a
four-month high on Oct. 17 and is down 6.5 percent for the year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Foreign funds pulled $264 million from Indonesian stocks
this month through Nov. 12, exchange data show.  Global investors poured a record $7.1 billion into South
Korean equities in September and $4.7 billion in October,
attracted by a current-account surplus that the central bank
estimates will reach an all-time high of $63 billion this year.  Poland ’s recovering economy is luring investors to the
zloty.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, after expanding 0.4 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 16 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg before a government report due today.  An export-led recovery will also help narrow the eastern
European country’s  current-account  deficit this year to 1.9
percent of GDP, the lowest since 1995, economists in a separate
survey predict.  “If concerns about tighter liquidity increase, investors
will again avoid risky countries with external imbalances,”
Marcelo Assalin, who oversees $3 billion of local-currency
emerging-market debt for ING Groep NV in Atlanta, said in a Nov.
7 phone interview. “Surplus countries should outperform.
Investors will be looking for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  