-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Tata Steel Rallies on Earnings
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-14T21:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/emerging-stocks-halt-longest-slump-since-2006-on-yellen-comments.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in two months, snapping the longest slide since 2006, as
companies including Tata Steel Ltd. and Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA reported earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.2 percent to
991.77, halting a 10-day decline.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa drove gains
among major equity gauges in the Americas, while benchmark
measures from Turkey and Hungary climbed at least 2 percent. OAO
Mechel, Russia’s biggest producer of coal for steelmakers,
jumped 12 percent after tumbling 41 percent yesterday.
Indonesia’s rupiah rallied the most in almost three weeks after
data showed the nation’s current-account deficit narrowed.  Earnings in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index grew by an
average 13 percent for companies that reported quarterly
results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Janet Yellen ,
the nominee for chairman of the  Federal Reserve , said she’s
committed to promoting a strong economic recovery and will
ensure stimulus isn’t removed too soon. More Americans than
forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week.  “The view is Yellen is a dovish Fed member, and that we’re
not looking at any type of tightening anytime soon,”  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at Solaris Group LLC in
 New York , which manages over $1.5 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The jobless claims are another indication that bad
news is good news.”  Today’s advance trimmed this year’s slump in the measure
for developing nations to 6 percent. Energy, consumer
discretionary and health-care companies posted the biggest gains
among 10 industries, rising at least 1.5 percent. The broad
gauge trades at 10.4 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14.5 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 1.6 percent to $41.46. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
tumbled 8.9 percent to 21.  Brazil’s Ibovespa climbed the most in two months as
companies from steelmaker CSN to retailer  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) 
and B2W Cia. Digital gained after posting results that were
better than analysts estimated.  The Micex Index added 1.6 percent as Mechel jumped the most
since May 2010.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the nation’s biggest company,
climbed 2.5 percent after saying profit surged 30 percent. The
Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index rose 2.3 percent, led by
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest
lender, gained 3.4 percent as non-performing loans showed the
first quarterly drop in five years.  Tata Steel  Indian equities  rallied, snapping the longest losing streak
in three months, after the central bank predicted the current-account deficit will shrink from a record. Tata Steel climbed to
its highest level since February.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  jumped the
most in two weeks, helping an industry measure end its longest
losing stretch in two years.  Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.5 percent to 11,545 per
dollar as of 4:06 p.m. in Jakarta, the biggest advance since
Oct. 25, prices from local banks show.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  advanced after the benchmark index’s
valuations plunged to the lowest level since August. Sichuan
Changhong Electric Co. jumped 7 percent.  Anhui Huilong
Agricultural Means of Production Co.  surged 4.1 percent after
the Xinhua News Agency said Anhui province plans to allow
farmers to sell their land.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000) 
paced losses for financial shares.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 340 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  