-- EPA Said to Consider Changes to Advanced Biofuel Draft
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m ,   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-11-14T21:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/epa-said-to-consider-changes-to-advanced-biofuel-draft.html
Obama administration officials,
under pressure from advanced-biofuel producers, have told
industry representatives that they’re considering raising the
quota for their product next year above what was contained in an
August draft plan.  Officials from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
told them they plan to offer a range for the mandate that would
allow it to increase from the 2.21 billion gallons set in the
draft plan that was leaked, according to two people who
participated in the meetings and would only speak on the
condition of anonymity because the discussions were private. The
range could still leave the final quota below the 3.75 billion
gallons set by the 2007 legislation establishing the program.  Depending on the specifics, “that would be a huge change,
particularly for domestic biodiesel makers,” said Scott Irwin,
a professor at the  University of Illinois  and expert on
renewable fuels who has not seen the proposal. “In the longterm
it would not be seen as quite the negative signal as the leaked
document.”  Advanced biofuel, such as biodiesel and Brazilian ethanol,
is part of a larger program for renewable fuels that is anchored
by corn-based ethanol. Corn growers and the ethanol industry are
also pushing for an increase in the 13 billion-gallon quota
called for in the August plan, which is below the 14.4 billion
gallons in the law. The EPA has the ability to adjust the quotas
in response to market pressures.  Refiner Complaints  The EPA, responding to complaints from refiners and fossil-fuel oil producers, has proposed a reduction in the amount of
renewable fuels that refiners must blend into gasoline and
diesel next year, according to the August draft obtained by
Bloomberg on Oct. 10.  Refiners, fast-food restaurants, motorboat makers and
chicken farmers have all pushed the EPA to scale back the
ethanol mandate, saying it risks ruining engines by forcing more
ethanol to be blended into gasoline.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  has held 22 
meetings  with outside groups about the 2014 mandates, according
to Office of Management and Budget records. Seventeen have been
since the draft emerged -- 11 with renewable fuel makers such as
 DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG)  trying to fend off the reductions.
Those companies say they will begin to make fuels from corn
stalks and other waste products next year, which would qualify
them as advanced renewable fuels.  Next Generation  The industry officials said the EPA is listening to those
concerns and has pledged to preserve a market for what a dubbed
“next generation fuels.” In presenting a range, it would allow
outside groups to weigh-in over the next two months, and EPA to
make its final decision later.  Refiners, which have waged battle against the corn ethanol
mandate haven’t fought so hard against biodiesel, as it doesn’t
present the same constraints as ethanol. Escalating the required
amount of ethanol could force refiners to sell blends with more
than 10 percent of the corn-based fuel, a phenomenon known as
“hitting the  blend wall ,” according to the  American Petroleum
Institute .  Fuel with more than 10 percent ethanol can cause engine
materials to break down and damage emission-control systems,
according to the Washington-based group that represents
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  