-- Tesla Doesn’t Expect Model S Delays After Plant Accident
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-14T21:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/tesla-doesn-t-expect-model-s-delays-after-plant-accident.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker led by  Elon Musk , said it doesn’t expect production delays
of its Model S sedan after three workers were injured at its
only assembly plant.  The employees were injured yesterday by hot metal resulting
from “a failure in a low pressure aluminum casting press,” at
the Fremont,  California , factory, Tesla said previously. They
suffered moderate to serious burns, Fremont Fire Department
Captain Daniel Cardenas said in an e-mail yesterday. There was
no fire or explosion at the factory, he said.  “Obviously, our primary concern is the health and safety
of our employees,” Jeff Evanson, a company spokesman, said
today by telephone. “We do not expect any production delays.”  Production delays at Fremont would have made it more
difficult to achieve the company’s forecast for this quarter of
a profit “about consistent” with third-quarter levels. The
electric-car maker delivered 5,500 Model S cars last quarter and
last week said it plans to deliver “slightly under 6,000”
during the current quarter. It also has a full-year target of
21,500 cars. Tesla’s third-quarter earnings, excluding some
items, totaled 12 cents a share. The quarterly net loss was
$38.5 million.  Tesla, with the biggest share price gain among automakers
this year, has endured setbacks since closing at a record
$193.37 on Sept. 30. Those include three Model S fires as well
as the third-quarter deliveries, which were lower than some
analysts had estimated.  No Recall  The carmaker’s stock fell 0.8 percent to $137.60 at the
close in  New York . The shares of the  Palo Alto , California-based
company have advanced more than fourfold this year.  Chief Executive Officer Musk said this week at the DealBook
conference in New York that “there’s definitely not going to be
a recall” of the Model S.  U.S. regulators haven’t ordered a recall and  David Strickland , head of the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration , today declined to say when or if there would be
an investigation.  “There’s only two fires in the U.S.,” Strickland said in
a call with reporters. “We’re still in data-collection mode.”  Inspectors from California’s  Division of Occupational
Safety and Health  visited the Fremont plant to review the
accident, said Peter Melton, a spokesman for the agency, in a
phone interview yesterday. The workers had second-degree burns
and were sent to  Santa Clara Valley Medical Center  in  San Jose ,
California, for treatment, he said.  CEO’s Visit  Musk visited the injured Tesla employees yesterday,
according to a report on KNTV in San Jose.  “There does seem to be, I think honestly, a bit too much
attention paid to Tesla, good and bad,” Musk said in the
report.  Tesla is investigating a Nov. 6 fire involving a Model S
near Murfreesboro,  Tennessee , the third accident to result in a
blaze in about five weeks. The fire occurred after the car hit a
metal tow hitch that had fallen onto Interstate 24, the
Tennessee Highway Patrol said.  The factory where the industrial accident occurred is
located across  San Francisco Bay  from Tesla’s headquarters in
Palo Alto and is the sole production site for the Model S.  The company bought the 50-year-old plant in 2010, after it
had been a joint venture between  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and the
predecessor of General Motors Co. for a quarter century.  The deal that kept the only large auto plant on the U.S.
West Coast in operation was arranged by Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , who worked at it in the 1980s. Toyota also bought a
 stake  in Tesla following the factory sale.  The plant opened in the early 1960s in its first
incarnation as GM’s Fremont Assembly facility. It closed in 1982
before reopening in 1984, rechristened New United Motor
Manufacturing Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  