-- EU Lawyers: EBA Can't Bind Commission on Bank Resolution
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-11-14T21:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/eu-lawyers-eba-can-t-bind-commission-on-bank-resolution.html
The European Commission’s proposed
bank resolution system shouldn’t be bound by European Banking
Authority decisions, lawyers for the European Union’s 28 member
states said.  The legal opinion puts a dent in efforts by the U.K. and
 Sweden , which are both outside the  euro zone , to beef up the
EBA’s role in the Single Resolution Mechanism proposed by EU
financial-services chief  Michel Barnier . The SRM’s main task
will be to backstop the  European Central Bank ’s new role as
common supervisor for banks within the 17-nation currency bloc.  EU laws do allow the Brussels-based commission to be
subject to EBA decisions under certain conditions, the legal
service of the Council of the European Union said in a Nov. 13
opinion obtained by Bloomberg News. Yet the discretion required
to make bank-resolution decisions is very broad and therefore
outside the EBA’s remit, the lawyers said.  “Since the role of the commission in the context of the
Single Resolution Mechanism is to make policy choices entailing
a large margin of discretion, the EBA should not be in a
position to adopt legally binding decisions affecting the manner
in which the commission exercises those powers,” the lawyers
said.  EU treaties give precedence to institutions like the
commission over agencies like the EBA, to prevent the transfer
of major responsibilities, the lawyers said. They also said that
“there is nothing preventing the commission from being guided
by and taking into account the EBA guidelines and
recommendations when exercising certain duties of a resolution
authority.”  Central Fund  EU finance ministers are meeting in Brussels tomorrow to
hash out how to handle failing banks. Barnier’s proposal has met
stiff opposition from  Germany , which opposes giving decision-making powers to the commission as well as the immediate
creation of a central fund to handle bank resolution costs.  The EBA was created by the EU in 2011 as part of the bloc’s
response to the financial crisis. The London-based authority is
responsible for coordinating the work of national regulators and
has legally binding powers to settle disputes between them. The
EU is now planning to extend EBA’s mission to include agencies
tasked with handling failing banks, in line with proposals
Barnier made last year.  As the Single Resolution Mechanism takes shape, Sweden and
the U.K. have pressed for changes they say are needed to
preserve a level playing field among EU member states. In a Nov.
4 discussion paper obtained by  Bloomberg News , they requested a
number of amendments to the resolution proposals aimed at
applying EBA rules consistently inside and outside of the euro
zone.  Lawyers for the 28 nations have considered a variety of
legal issues surrounding the resolution mechanism. In a previous
legal opinion, they said the proposal needs additional
safeguards to protect national budgets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  