-- EU Politicians Reach Agreement on Solvency II Rules
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-11-14T09:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/eu-politicians-reach-agreement-on-solvency-ii-rules.html
European politicians reached an
agreement that may pave the way for new rules designed to make
 insurance companies  safer.  The deal among the European Commission, European Parliament
and Council of the European Union in Brussels yesterday may
allow the final adoption of Solvency II by the EU Council and
the European Parliament, the Lithuanian Presidency, representing
the EU Council, said in a statement on its  website  today.  The agreement “will reduce taxpayer exposure to risks of
the insurance sector by establishing EU-wide requirements for
this industry on similar lines to those for banks,” the EU
Parliament said in a statement today.  Insurers are  Europe ’s biggest institutional investors with
8.4 trillion euros ($11.3 trillion) under management. They are
lagging behind banks in adopting a framework to help them
withstand losses in any repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.
 Aegon NV (AGN) , the owner of U.S. insurance firm Transamerica Corp.,
and reinsurance company  Swiss Re (SREN)  were among firms that received
financial support after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the U.S. bailout of American International Group Inc.  “We welcome the decision in Brussels very much and
continue with our preparations for getting our internal model
approved,” Immo Querner, chief financial officer of  Talanx AG (TLX) ,
 Germany ’s third-largest insurer, said in a call with journalists
today. “We will now take a close look at the details of last
night’s agreement.”  Regulations Delayed  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way insurers
allocate capital against risk, was scheduled to come into force
last year. Its introduction was delayed several times over
issues such as calculating capital needed for liabilities for
products with long-term guarantees such as annuities and
investments such as  government bonds . Insurers and regulators
plan to implement the rules on Jan. 1, 2016 with a transitional
period, should an agreement be reached in time.  “Good news for EU insurers -- deal just reached in
trilogue between European Parliament and council on Omnibus,”
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, said via
 Twitter .  Last year, speculation increased that the regulations would
be sidelined by some EU countries as they prepared to introduce
some of the rules piecemeal.  Basel III  Policy makers intend Solvency II to be for Europe’s
insurers what the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
global capital rules are for the continent’s banks -- a common
set of rules applied across the EU. They will replace
regulations  developed in the 1970s  that had been superseded by a
patchwork of national laws. Current Solvency I rules concentrate
mainly on insurance risks, while Solvency II also takes account
of investment risks.  Like Basel III, the levels of capital reserves required
under Solvency II can either be determined by the regulator’s
standard model or a firm’s internal model, which must be
approved by the regulator. Almost all of the biggest EU-based
insurers have opted for internal models.  “Years of intensive lobbying have paid off for the
insurance companies of the largest  member states ,” Sven Giegold, economic and financial spokesman of the Greens and a
member of the European Parliament, said in statement on his
 website . “The deal between Council and the majority of the
European Parliament ignores the advice of European Systemic Risk
Board, academics heard by the Parliament and of Eiopa,” the
European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  