-- EU Push For Savings-Tax Deal Fought By Luxembourg, Austria
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-11-15T14:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/eu-set-to-fail-to-meet-savings-tax-goal-on-luxembourg-opposition.html
The European Union’s push to
strengthen its fight against tax evasion with an extended
savings accord by the end of this year may founder on opposition
from Austria and Luxembourg.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said he was “most
surprised” that the savings-tax proposal came up for discussion
at a meeting of EU finance chiefs in Brussels today. No
decisions can be taken on extending the scope of the bloc’s
existing law until the European Commission, the EU’s executive
arm, has completed talks on the issue with Switzerland,
Liechtenstein, Andorra, San Marino and  Monaco , he said.  The lack of a “level playing field” between the EU and
those countries risks money moving out of the 28-nation bloc,
Frieden said.  “It’s extremely important that the commission becomes more
energetic in those discussions, because we don’t think that” a
decision should be taken before then, he said. Acting Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter today backed the Luxembourg
position that they won’t budge until the results of the talks
with the other countries are over.  EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta told finance ministers
during a public debate today that “it’s a must” to agree on
the draft law by the end of the year and that Luxembourg and
 Austria  “please not condition the adoption” of the law on the
regulator’s discussions with the five countries.  “The world is already moving and the EU must not be left
behind,” he said.  Any decision in the EU should also consider the global
situation “and then I think we will reach a result in the
coming months, ” Frieden told his colleagues in the meeting in
Brussels.  Closing Loopholes  The proposed agreement aims to set standards for how
countries can collect information on income that their residents
earn from savings held in other nations. The updated accord
plans to close loopholes in the previous pact by including
savings income from trusts, foundations, funds and other
financial products. It will also require all EU nations to take
part in information exchanges after a transition period.  Under the original 2005 accord, Austria and Luxembourg were
exempt from automatic information-exchange requirements, and
were instead allowed to withhold tax on interest income paid to
depositors from other EU states while protecting their
identities. Other EU states transfer the income data to the
depositor’s home tax authority.  “We gave the mandate for negotiations, but the agreements
with the five third countries are a pre-condition for the
adoption of the revised directive,” said Fekter.  Other ministers today didn’t agree. Spanish Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said he “cannot accept” arguments by
the two countries’ to wait for the end of negotiations with
neighboring countries. He said such arguments are “a sort of
alibi” that have been “paralyzing” ministers for a long time.  French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said the law’s
adoption “can’t be put off again” and that if agreement is not
possible before the end of the year, finance ministers should
hand over to heads of state meeting next month. German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Europe risks looking “a bit
ridiculous” if it doesn’t move on this now.  Luxembourg “will not reverse its decision” earlier this
year to ease its bank-secrecy rules and apply the automatic
exchange of tax data from 2015, said Frieden.  “But to apply it to other sources of income, we need first
to have the negotiations with the third-party countries,” he
said  Commission Court  “The ball is clearly in the commission’s court,” he said.
Knowing more about the situation in these countries “is
important, because otherwise the EU would apply rules of
taxation to certain products whereas the same products would not
be taxed either with a withholding tax or with a system of
automatic exchange of information.”  Luxembourg is expected to get a new government by December,
without Frieden’s Christian Social People’s party, following
national elections last month. Its long-term coalition partner,
the Socialists, are in negotiations with the Liberals and Greens
to form a new government.  Frieden said the new government’s position is unlikely to
change on this point “given that it’s in line with the position
successive Luxembourg governments have had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  