-- Europe’s Health Cuts Leave Mentally Ill Struggling
-- B y   I a n   W i s h a r t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-11-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/europe-s-health-cuts-leave-mentally-ill-struggling.html
Alfonso Rodriguez, a 30-year-old
Spaniard struggling with mental-health problems for a decade,
was able to live independently until last month.  Following  cutbacks  in community support, his condition
deteriorated and he was forced into an overcrowded, understaffed
hospital ward with peeling paint and ancient furniture in his
hometown of Alicante. He can’t even satisfy his desire for a
cigarette.  “If they had enough staff, at least they’d have someone
who could take him out for a smoke,” says his father, also
called Alfonso. “He gets out less than a prisoner in a military
jail.”  Rodriguez counts among the  millions of losers  from policy
makers’ response to the euro area’s financial crisis. Even as
populations age and unemployment climbs to a euro-era record,
governments have cut spending on health care for the first time
since 1975, according to the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development . The EU public-health care bill was
6.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, down from 6.7
percent of GDP the 28-nation bloc spent in 2009. It’s less than
the U.S. government’s 8.2 percent of GDP spent on health care in
2011.  The biggest cuts are in bailed out countries, though even
the Netherlands and  Italy  have brought an end to the annual
increases in health spending, according to World Bank figures.  As President  Barack Obama  struggles to expand health
coverage in the U.S.,  Spain , Portugal,  Greece  and Ireland are
going in reverse.  Dismantling Health Care  “Spain had an excellent health-care system,” said Helena
Legido-Quigley, a researcher at the  London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine . “It’s basically being dismantled.”  Last year, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  outlined 7.3
billion euros ($9.8 billion) of cuts to reduce spending that
peaked at 75.3 billion euros in 2009. Since last year’s measures
were announced, 3.55 billion euros of savings have already been
achieved, according to the government.  Spain, with the highest  unemployment  rate and widest  budget
deficit  in the euro zone, has implemented rules to make it
harder for foreign nationals to access services, introduced new
charges for medicines and saved 2.3 billion euros in
pharmaceutical spending since measures were announced last year.  Next year,  Portugal  plans to spend 8.2 billion euros on
health, according to its budget plan, 9.4 percent lower than
2013 estimates. One condition of its 78 billion-euro bailout
from the EU and International Monetary Fund was the
“rationalization of the hospital network” to reduce costs.  Drug Sales Decline  In Greece, total health spending plummeted by 11 percent in
both 2010 and 2011, according to the OECD. Ireland, which has
gone through the worst recession in its modern history, cut
public health spending by 1.63 billion euros between 2009 and
2012, according to the Irish government’s health department.  Pharmaceutical companies are losing business in  Europe ,
with drug spending expected to fluctuate between a decline of 1
percent and growth of 2 percent through 2016, compared with a
growth rate of 3.8 percent between 2007 and 2011, according to
the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics. Annual spending
per person is expected to drop for Europeans to between $321 and
$375 by 2016 compared with $892 in the U.S., IMS said.  European sales at the world’s biggest drugmakers,  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , Novartis AG and Pfizer Inc., have declined since
2010.  Across Europe, governments have reduced health-worker
salaries, increased patients’ share of costs, reduced the number
of people eligible for free or cheap treatment and renegotiated
deals with drugmakers.  To be sure, there may have been room for economies.  Health Costs Rocketed  During the two decades before the debt crisis,  spending on
health care rocketed . In Portugal, it more than doubled from 5.1
percent of GDP in 1980 to 10.8 percent in 2009, according to the
OECD. In Greece, the ratio shot from 5.9 percent to 10.2 percent
over that period. In Spain, spending soared from 5.3 percent to
9.6 percent in 2009.  That level of spending risked becoming unsustainable,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a  research paper  last year that cited
the need to rein in costs.  The policies may further deepen divisions amid mounting
 joblessness ; unemployment across Europe is 23.5 percent for
those younger than 25, double the overall average.  “While recessions can damage health, pursuing austerity
will only exacerbate these negative health effects,” said  Aaron
Reeves , a sociologist at the  University of Oxford . “Research
has shown that when the cost of receiving health care increases,
utilization declines.” That may widen the gap between the
poorest and richest members of society, he said.  The Budget Axe  Mental-health treatment and preventive services are usually
the first to feel the budget axe, said Mark Pearson, the head of
the OECD’s health division.  “If you close a hospital, you’ve got all those
stakeholders screaming and shouting about it, the workers and
the patients in the local area,” he said. So governments make
more subtle cuts instead, with victims suffering in silence.  And when times are tough, people need the support the most.
Across the euro area’s crisis-hit nations, unemployment and
foreclosures have been linked to depression and suicides.  “In the countries that have not had health cuts you’ve
seen more people going to see doctors about mental-health
problems,” Pearson said. “In the countries where you have seen
cuts, you’ve not seen that and that implies an access-to-care
issue.”  Until last year, Rodriguez was living in an apartment near
his parents. As the government started to cut spending, he saw
the official classification of his disability -- schizotypal
personality disorder -- downgraded.  Benefits Cut  As a result, he lost the 400-euro monthly payment that
allowed him to live with his friends, and his parents saw their
annual tax bill rise by more than 2,000 euros as they were
disqualified from rebates granted to caregivers. On top of that,
he has to pay about 60 euros a month for the medication that
helps to stabilize his condition.  While receiving outpatient treatment at a day-care center,
the activities helped him to structure a daily routine that he
was unable to sustain on his own.  “The staff at the day center thought it was appropriate
for him to reintegrate with daily life,” his father said. “But
there weren’t the resources to support him.”  He dropped out of soccer games with his neighborhood
friends; he stopped helping out at a local magazine; he quit
painting and writing, gave up taking his medication and steadily
withdrew from the world. Four months later, he was hospitalized.  Hospitalization  It’s an increasingly common situation in countries cutting
budgets, and one that’s leading to a reverse of a decades-long
trend of supporting those with mental-health problems at home
instead of hospitals, said Josee Van Remoortel, senior policy
adviser at  Mental Health Europe , a group based in Brussels that
lobbies for the improvement of care.  “They reduce the funds and families have to send their
sons, their daughters, their husbands back to the psychiatric
hospitals,” she said. “Instead of de-institutionalization we
get, through the crisis, re-institutionalization.”  For Jose Maria Sanchez Monge, president of the  Spanish
Confederation  of Families and People with Mental Illness, budget
cuts are counter-productive. “The number of professionals has
declined, so the quality of care has been reduced,” he said.
“As a result, people have more relapses, so they need more
emergency care, and more hospital admissions. And that means
more spending.”  Cuts for Seniors  The  Irish government  promised to “protect frontline
services” as it allocated a maximum of 13.3 billion euros for
health care in its  2014 budget . Total public health expenditure
was 14 billion euros in 2011 and 13.9 billion euros in 2012,
according to  Ireland’s health ministry . For next year, the
government proposed stricter limits on the number of over-70s
who get free health care.  “While health is a key priority for government, the fact
is that it accounts for 27 percent of public expenditure and,
therefore, cannot be immune from making a contribution to our
recovery efforts,” Ireland’s Public Expenditure and Reform
Minister Brendan Howlin said in a statement accompanying the
budget plan, published on Oct. 15.  For Rodriguez in Alicante the consequence of the spending
cuts is that he’s “hidden away and stigmatized,” according to
his father. The hospital doesn’t have enough psychologists to
give the therapy that patients need, he said.  “It’s a life with very few prospects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  