-- Ex-LinkBrokers Employee Chouchane Gets Two Years’ Prison
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-15T00:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ex-linkbrokers-employee-chouchane-gets-two-year-term.html
Former  LinkBrokers Derivatives Corp. (IAP) 
employee Benjamin Chouchane was sentenced to two years in prison
for his role in a stock fraud scheme in which brokers lied to
clients about the prices of securities bought and sold for their
accounts.  Chouchane pleaded guilty in June to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and wire fraud, saying that he and other
brokers had misrepresented the prices at which securities were
bought and sold, earning their employer illegal profits and
bonuses for themselves.  The defendant and his lawyer today asked U.S. District
Judge John Keenan for leniency, arguing that he should be given
credit for working with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to help provide information about his fraud and
others who engaged in the scheme.  “I have tried to conduct my life with integrity and
respect for others,” Chouchane told the judge. “The career I
spent years on is over,” he said. “I am sorry for the pain I
caused my family since my arrest, their lives have been turned
upside down.”  Defense lawyer  Marc Mukasey  said that Chouchane had also
offered to aid federal prosecutors and they declined his
request. He argued that Chouchane had the misfortune of working
at a business in which compliance and following the law isn’t a
priority.  ‘Everybody Did It’  “That fact that everybody did it does not make it right,”
Keenan said sharply, saying it reminded him of the argument he
heard from police officers accused of wrongdoing while he served
as a special prosecutor in corruption cases in the 1970s. “I
don’t buy the argument.”  U.S. probation officials had recommended a three-year
prison term for Chouchane. Keenan said he was giving Chouchane a
sentence lower than the five-year term sought by the government
because he was swayed by the letters submitted on his behalf.  “The scheme went on from 2005 to 2008; this was not a one-shot deal, this went on and on,” Keenan said. “Because of the
defendant’s conduct and because of his prior excellent
background and history, I will take a significant variance from
the recommended term.”  The judge also ordered Chouchane to sell his  Manhattan 
apartment to satisfy a $5 million order of forfeiture the
defendant agreed to pay when he pleaded guilty. He ordered the
defendant to surrender to U.S. prison officials by Jan. 6.
LinkBrokers is a unit of London-based ICAP Plc.  The criminal cases are U.S. v. Chouchane, 12-cr-00923, and
U.S. v. Condron, 1:12-cr-00768, and the SEC case is SEC v.
Leszczynski, 12-cv-7488, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net  