-- Ex-NFL Player Sam Hurd Gets 15 Years’ Prison in Drug Case
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ex-nfl-player-sam-hurd-gets-15-years-prison-in-drug-case.html
Former National Football League
receiver Sam Hurd, who played for the  Dallas Cowboys  and  Chicago
Bears , was sentenced to 15 years in prison for conspiring to
traffic in marijuana and cocaine.  Hurd was arrested as he left a Chicago-area restaurant in
December 2011 with a kilogram (2.2 pounds) of cocaine after
allegedly negotiating with a federal undercover agent for a
weekly supply of $700,000 in cocaine and marijuana, according to
court records.  Hurd, who in April pleaded guilty to the charge of
conspiracy to possess a controlled substance four days before
his scheduled trial, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District
Judge Jorge A. Solis in Dallas. He faced a possible life term.  “You had everything going for you, no reason to get
involved in this activity,” Solis told Hurd before pronouncing
the sentence. “You were involved willingly and knowingly in
cocaine agreements.”  Hurd, 28, is a graduate of Northern Illinois University who
played five years for the Cowboys before joining the Bears in
2011. During his 77-game NFL career he caught 53 passes, amassed
739 receiving yards and scored two touchdowns, according to the
website Pro-Football-Reference.com. Hurd was released by the
team after his arrest.  Drug Distribution  While non-binding federal sentencing guidelines called for
a minimum sentence of 27 years in prison, Solis said this was
Hurd’s first criminal offense and that there was no evidence of
actual drug distribution.  “I have never in my life sold, participated in, bought or
used cocaine,” the one-time pro football player told the judge
yesterday. “Everything in this case is a direct result of my
marijuana addiction. Everything I did I thought would lead me to
more marijuana.”  The investigation started in  Dallas  in July 2011, according
to the original complaint filed against him. Two other men were
later arrested.  One, Jesse Chavful, pleaded guilty to a single count of
conspiracy to possess a controlled substance with intent to
distribute it and was sentenced to more than eight years in
prison, according to court records. He has appealed that ruling.  The third man, Toby Lujan, last year pleaded guilty to a
cocaine-possession charge and is awaiting sentencing.  Hurd, while on pretrial release last year, attempted to
obtain cocaine and marijuana with intent to distribute,
according to a revised indictment filed against him in March.  The case is U.S. v. Hurd, 12-cr-00003, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in federal court in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@texaswordworks.com  