-- Mexico’s Congress Approves Widest Budget Gap in Four Years
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-11-14T15:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/mexico-congress-approves-widest-budget-deficit-since-2009-crisis.html
Mexico ’s Congress authorized the
widest budget gap in four years as President Enrique Pena Nieto
seeks to boost growth in Latin America’s second-biggest economy
from the slowest pace since the 2009 recession.  The lower house voted today 441 to 26 to approve the 2014
 spending plan  of the budget, which calls for 4.47 trillion pesos
($342 billion) in outlays. Next year’s budget, which forecasts a
deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, now goes to
Pena Nieto for signing. The 2014 gap compares with a 0.4 percent
deficit planned by the government for this year.  Pena Nieto’s push for higher deficit spending next year is
part of his plan to jump-start the $1.18 trillion economy by
ending the state’s 75-year oil monopoly and increasing tax
revenue. The budget will help boost spending in critical areas
such as infrastructure to revive growth that has lagged the
regional average over the past decade, said  Benito Berber , a
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  Pena Nieto is trying to “avoid another year of very low
growth,” Berber said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“This spending will indeed help the economy.”  Mexico’s economy will grow 3.5 percent in 2014 compared
with an estimated 1.2 percent this year, according to the median
estimate in a Nov. 5 survey by Citigroup Inc.  Budget Deficit  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Mexico’s dollar-denominated debt instead of  U.S. Treasuries  rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 215 basis points at 9:43
a.m. in Mexico City since Sept. 8, when Pena Nieto requested
authorization to post a  budget deficit  this year, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index. In the
same period,  Brazil ’s  extra yield  climbed seven basis points to
250 basis points.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 13.0408 per  U.S. dollar .  Finance Minister Luis Videgaray has pledged to boost public
spending by 30 percent in 2014 after a balanced budget approved
in December for this year led to spending cuts. The government
has since gained congressional approval for a 0.4 percent
deficit for this year.  The budget “is part of the goal set by this administration
to direct the course of transformation in Mexico to the path of
growth,  job creation  and improved social conditions,” Raymundo
King de la Rosa, a lawmaker from Pena Nieto’s  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , known as the PRI, said in a speech on the
lower house floor. Public spending is “the best instrument for
reactivating the economy,” he said.  Tax Overhaul  The tax overhaul approved last month to pay for the
additional spending was opposed by lawmakers from the  National
Action Party , the largest opposition group, who said it would
hurt the middle class and Mexicans living in the nation’s north.
The plan increases the  sales tax  to 16 percent from 11 percent
in states that border the U.S., including traditional
strongholds for the party known as PAN.  The lower house approved the 2014 budget today with less
spending than the president proposed after lawmakers shaved
taxes from his original plan.  On Oct. 31, Congress agreed to increase the top income tax
rate to 35 percent and impose an 8 percent levy on junk food.
The taxes will help pay for new social programs such as
 unemployment insurance  and pensions for seniors and spur
investment in oil by shifting taxes away from the $95 billion
industry, according to the government.  Non-Oil Revenue  The tax package will reduce the government’s dependence on
oil revenue to about 31 percent of the  federal budget  from the
current 34 percent next year,  Miguel Messmacher , the deputy
finance minister for revenue, said in a  Nov. 1 interview.  Congress reduced new tax revenue projections for next year
to 180 billion pesos from Pena Nieto’s proposed 240 billion
pesos after eliminating his plan to tax private school tuition
and mortgage interest, proposals that ran into opposition from
lawmakers in the PAN, the Democratic Revolution Party and the
president’s own PRI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  