-- Fleury Surges as Controlling Shareholder Explores Alternatives
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-14T18:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/fleury-surges-as-controlling-shareholder-explores-alternatives.html
Fleury SA (FLRY3)  surged the most in three
years after the Brazilian medical service provider’s controlling
shareholder hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to assess strategic
alternatives for its stake in the company.  The shares climbed 9.3 percent to 19.06 reais at 4:39 p.m.
in  Sao Paulo , the biggest advance since August 2010 on a closing
basis. It was the third-biggest gainer on the BM&FBovespa Small
Cap  index , which rose 2.7 percent.  Core Participacoes SA hired JPMorgan’s Brazilian unit to
assess “strategic alternatives regarding its stake” in Fleury,
“including potential entry of new investors in Core,”
according to a regulatory filing today. The investment company
owns about three-quarters of the publicly traded stock,
according to its website. Fleury’s press office didn’t reply to
a phone call seeking comment.  “There’s a whole range of possibilities,”  Pedro Galdi ,
the head strategist at SLW Corretora, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “They could sell their whole stake, or a part of it,
merge with another company. Every time a controlling shareholder
sells their stake, there’s a possibility of a tag along, so
investors could be buying into the stock expecting that
premium.”  Under Brazilian securities rules, owners of voting stock
are entitled to receive at least 80 percent of the price paid to
controlling stakeholders if the company is bought, the so-called
tag along.  Fleury soared 6.8 percent on Oct. 24 after Exame magazine
reported the company was looking for a buyer, without saying how
it got the information. The company said it doesn’t comment on
market speculation when contacted by  Bloomberg News  at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  