-- Forint Gains as Hungary Growth Beats Forecasts: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-14T10:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/forint-gains-as-hungary-growth-beats-forecasts-budapest-mover.html
The forint rose the most this week
and  Hungary ’s bond yields fell as data showed economic growth
accelerated more than economists forecast, indicating a recovery
from last year’s recession has gathered pace.  The currency of Hungary, the most indebted nation in the
east of the European Union, gained 0.2 percent to 298.14 per
euro by 10:52 a.m. in Budapest. The increase pared the forint’s
drop this year to 2.3 percent, the fourth-best performance among
currencies in developing Europe and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.
Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 5.78 percent.  Gross domestic product  climbed 0.8 percent from the
previous three months, according to preliminary data published
today. The median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for 0.4 percent growth. GDP rose 1.7 percent from a
year earlier, the fastest since the first quarter of 2011. The
figures will help boost government revenue as Hungary works to
keep the  budget deficit  within the EU’s 3 percent per GDP limit,
the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  “The forint immediately reacted to the favorable data by
strengthening,” Imre Kerekgyarto, a Budapest-based currency
trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote by e-mail.  The central bank has lowered borrowing costs for 15
consecutive months, cutting the  benchmark  rate by more than half
to a record-low 3.4 percent in October to buoy the economic
recovery.  The forint probably won’t exit the 295-300 range per euro
“despite the waves caused by the GDP data,” Kerekgyarto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  