-- Franchitti Quits Racing Career on Doctors’ Warning After Crash
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-11-14T20:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/franchitti-quits-racing-career-on-doctors-warning-after-crash.html
Dario Franchitti, a three-time
Indianapolis 500 winner, ended his racing career after doctors
told him it was too dangerous to return to the track following a
crash last month that broke his back.  Franchitti, 40, said the advice from doctors who have been
treating him for head and spinal injuries left him with “no
choice but to stop” racing.  “They have made it very clear that the risks involved in
further racing are too great and could be detrimental to my
long-term well-being,” Franchitti said in a statement released
by his Target Chip Ganassi Racing team.  Franchitti ends his career with 31 Indy car wins, tying for
eighth all-time, and 33 poles, sixth most in series history. He
won four IndyCar Series season championships.  He was injured when his car went airborne after a collision
and slammed into a metal safety fence during the final lap of
the Houston Grand Prix. He fractured his spine and  right ankle ,
and sustained a concussion.  Franchitti was awake and alert after the crash, which also
sent an IndyCar official and two spectators to a hospital for
evaluation.  The accident happened when Franchitti made contact with
Takuma Sato’s car in Turn 5 of the 1.7-mile temporary track
after the Japanese driver slid offline as his tires lost grip.
Franchitti’s car was launched into the air and broke apart as it
crashed into the fence, throwing debris onto the track and into
the stands.  Part of the safety fence was ripped apart and IndyCar said
13 people were injured, with 11 treated at the scene.  Sato and driver E.J. Viso, who was also caught up in the
crash, were evaluated at the scene and released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  