-- Freeland Taps Middle Class Angst in Battle for Parliament
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-11-14T17:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/freeland-taps-middle-class-angst-in-battle-for-parliament.html
Canadian journalist  Chrystia
Freeland  wants to practice what she’s preached, and in the
process help revive the once mighty Liberal Party of Canada.  The former Thomson Reuters Corp. editor and author of the
award-winning “ Plutocrats : The Rise of the New Global Super-Rich and the Fall of Everyone Else” is taking the message of
middle class angst and rising income inequality to the streets
of downtown Toronto where she is running as a Liberal candidate
in a by-election this month.  “Figuring out how to make the world economy work for the
western middle class is the big social and political challenge
for all of us,” Freeland said in an interview ahead of the Nov.
25  vote  to fill a vacant seat in  Canada ’s House of Commons. “I
felt it was kind of, for me personally, morally, the right thing
to try to do.”  Her views on the emergence of the “global super elite”
and the squeezed middle class have  dovetailed  with those of new
Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau, 41, who is trying to stem a
decade-long decline in support for his party by using the issue
as an anchor to forge a more popular agenda.  Freeland and Trudeau, both raised in political families,
met at one of her book launches in Toronto last year, she said.
The son of former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau later asked her
to seek the Liberal candidacy in the Toronto Centre riding that
was vacated when former Liberal Leader Bob Rae stepped down. He
also appointed her co-chair of the party’s council of economic
advisors.  The riding in the city’s eastern edge of downtown includes
some of the income extremes that Freeland is trying to address.
The district covers Rosedale, one of Canada’s richest
neighborhoods, where Gerald Schwartz, chief executive officer of
private equity firm  Onex Corp., (OCX)  lives. It also covers Regent
Park, one of the country’s largest social housing developments.  Governing Party  The Liberals, once dubbed Canada’s natural governing party
because of their electoral success last century, fought the last
two elections on policy issues such as parliamentary reform and
climate change that failed to gain traction with voters. They
have also lost ground to Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s
Conservatives as the party most trusted to manage the economy.
The next federal election is slated for 2015.  Fueling losses for the Liberals have been efforts by the
Conservatives to win over suburban voters and the urban working
poor largely through a series of targeted tax breaks such as
deductions on employment earnings for low-income earners, and
increased deductions for children.  The Liberals, who won two out of every three elections
between 1896 and 2004, fell to third place in the 2011 vote for
the first time.  “I always have been a liberal in the Canadian political
context,” Freeland, 45, said in the interview at Bloomberg’s
office in Toronto.  Middle Class  At the event to launch her campaign on Oct. 2, Trudeau said
that, like Freeland, he champions the idea that “prosperity
needed to be accessible to Canada’s middle class.”  “It just so happened my concerns resonated” with Trudeau,
said Freeland, who left her New York posting as managing
director and editor for consumer news at Thomson Reuters to seek
public office in Canada.  She worked at the Financial Times as U.S. managing editor
before joining Reuters in 2010, and previously worked at
Canada’s Globe and Mail newspaper.  “Justin put this middle-class issue at the center of the
agenda,” she said.  Freeland , who studied history and literature at Harvard
University and attended the University of Oxford as a Rhodes
Scholar, said she doesn’t have the “arrogance” to make
specific policy prescriptions, citing broadly the need to reduce
the cost of university education, leverage the nation’s social
safety net to attract businesses and incubate entrepreneurship.  Attended Davos  “For me the issue is how do you grow the economy from the
middle out,” said Freeland, who was a  participant  at the  World
Economic Forum  Annual Meeting in Davos last January.  She’s more definitive on the environment, claiming Harper’s
mishandling of the issue has put the economy in danger.  Harper’s “hostility” toward environmental issues is
jeopardizing the country’s ability to develop its natural
resources, said Freeland, who was born in Peace River, a town of
a few thousand people in northwestern  Alberta .  He “has put the Canadian energy sector at risk
unnecessarily,” said Freeland, citing the controversy in the
U.S. over the Keystone XL pipeline proposed by TransCanada Corp.
“It’s a real irony because you would think that this
Conservative government would be the best defender of the
natural resource part of our economy internationally.”  NDP Opponent  Freeland’s campaign will be one of the first tests of
Trudeau’s leadership. The Toronto Centre vote is among four by-elections scheduled for Nov. 25.  She is running in a  district  that has been Liberal since
1993. Her main opponent, Linda McQuaig, is a former columnist
for the Toronto Star, Canada’s largest selling newspaper, who is
running for the left-leaning New Democratic Party. The
Conservative Party candidate is Geoff Pollock.  If she wins, Freeland would be the first woman to represent
the riding, which was formed in 2003, or its predecessor
Rosedale. About one-quarter of Canada’s federal parliamentarians
are women, ranking it 47th globally, according to data compiled
by the Inter-Parliamentary Union.  “I’m a real feminist,” Freeland said. “It’s important
for women to break through the glass ceiling in all parts of
human activity.”  Freeland’s parents, both lawyers, were involved in
politics. Her mother, Halyna Chomiak Freeland, ran for the New
Democratic Party in 1988 federal elections in  Edmonton , placing
second. Her father, Donald, ran in provincial Alberta elections
for the Liberals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  