-- Generic Drugs Seen Limited in WikiLeaks Trade Document
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-11-14T16:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/generic-drugs-seen-limited-in-wikileaks-trade-document.html
Access to cheaper drugs in other
countries may be limited by a provision sought by the U.S. in a
Pacific trade deal, according to patent specialists who reviewed
a document exposed by the WikiLeaks anti-secrecy group.  The proposal would boost patent protections for brand-name
medicines in some participating countries and curtail access to
low-cost generic drugs, the specialists said after reading a 94-page document WikiLeaks said is a draft of the intellectual-property chapter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership being
negotiated by 12 nations, including the U.S. and  Japan .  Patent safeguards give pharmaceutical makers such as  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  the right to block competition from generic
drugs for a set period to protect their research investments.
U.S. negotiators are trying to balance preserving those barriers
against the desire to make drugs more affordable and accessible
in  developing countries .  “Pharmaceutical companies are extremely important for  job
creation  in the  United States  but we also have more important
issues sometimes,” Robert Stoll, a former commissioner of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, said in an interview. “This
is something that needs to be more transparent.”  European Union  The trade agreement, covering an area with $28 trillion in
economic output, would be the largest accord in U.S. history,
though it may be eclipsed by a separate pact that President
 Barack Obama ’s administration is negotiating with the European
Union. Other nations drafting the partnership are Australia,
Brunei, Canada, Chile, Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru,
Singapore and Vietnam.  The document also shows U.S. positions favoring a broad
definition of copyright infringement and more liability for
Internet-service providers to police the Web for such
violations, according to Susan Sell, a professor of political
science and international affairs at George Washington
University. These measures have been controversial when debated
by lawmakers, she said.  “It’s a way to end-run Congress,” Sell said in a phone
interview. “It’s going to really undermine trust in the
administration” and may derail efforts to give the president
fast-track approval to negotiate trade deals, she said.  Patent Guidelines  U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  has said
negotiators are seeking a deal by year’s end. “We’re now in the
endgame,” he said yesterday at a conference in Washington.  The document released on the WikiLeaks.org website seeks to
set guidelines for protection of patents, copyrights and
trademarks on consumer products, drugs, music and software.  “This document does seem to be proposing broader, stronger
 patent rights ,” Christian Mammen, a lawyer with  Hogan Lovells 
in San Francisco, said in an interview. “It looks like the U.S.
is a proponent of much of that. It’s going to provoke a lot of
discussion.”  Froman’s office declined to confirm the authenticity of the
document, saying it doesn’t do so for items said to be leaked
from continuing trade talks, agency spokesman  Carol Guthrie  said
yesterday by e-mail.  “The intellectual property negotiation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership discussions has not been completed and a
final text has not been agreed to,” she said, citing a need for
balanced copyright protections and access to medicines.  1984 Law  Provisions in the document, dated Aug. 30, mimic a 1984
U.S. law known as Hatch-Waxman that gives makers of branded
drugs exclusive rights to their new medicines for a set period.
It also creates incentives for generic-drug makers to challenge
the patents on the treatments.  Such a proposal could result in a delay in access to low-cost medicines in countries that don’t have strong patent
protections in place or that need drugs quickly on humanitarian
grounds, said Stoll, now a lawyer with Drinker Biddle & Reath
LLP in Washington.  Pharmaceutical companies would get marketing exclusivity
for their new medicines and could delay the entry of generics
during patent disputes. Generic-drug makers could piggy-back on
safety tests conducted by the producers of the branded
treatments without fear of infringement claims and would be
rewarded for successful patent challenges, according to the
WikiLeaks document.  The 1984 law is widely credited with helping to create the
generic-drug industry in the U.S., while at the same time
ensuring that drugmakers can profit from their research.  World ‘Envy’  The proposal in the WikiLeaks document “ought to at least
contribute to making branded companies with patent rights more
comfortable with investing in foreign locales,” said Jon Singer, a patent lawyer with Fish & Richardson P.C. in
 Minneapolis  who often represents drugmakers.  “The U.S. pharmaceutical industry is the envy of the world
and part of the reason for that is the Hatch-Waxman framework,”
he said by telephone.  Mark Grayson, a spokesman for the  Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America , a Washington-based industry group
for drugmakers, said the organization didn’t have a comment on
what WikiLeaks presented.  The document shows where each of the nations stand on
particular issues related to intellectual property, with the
U.S. -- which accounts for about 60 percent of the output of the
12 nations -- at times in the minority.  ‘Limit’ Freedom  Protecting the patents of drugmakers including  AbbVie Inc., (ABBV) 
which was spun off from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in January, and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  as part of the accord has drawn criticism
from groups such as Doctors Without Borders and advocates of
providing cheaper drugs to treat HIV and AIDS.  The document shows that the agreement would “trample over
individual rights,” according to a statement released yesterday
by Melbourne, Australia-based WikiLeaks.  “One of the things you really see from this is how
isolated the U.S. is,” Peter Maybarduk, director of  Public
Citizen ’s Global Access to Medicines program, said in an
interview.  The Washington-based consumer-activist group, which was a
partner to WikiLeaks in the document’s release, said in a
statement yesterday that the U.S. is “demanding terms that
would limit Internet freedom and access to life-saving medicines
throughout the Asia-Pacific region.”  ‘Positive Change’  While critical of U.S. proposals in the document, Public
Citizen cited a few examples from the text in which the U.S.
softened its stance to benefit consumers, including dropping
protections for new versions of existing products. “This is a
positive change,” the group said in a separate statement.  The posting of the document prompted a call on  Capitol Hill 
for more transparency in the partnership talks.  “This chapter of the trade deal will have broad
implications on the Internet economy, innovation and public
health and should be considered as transparently and
deliberately as possible,” Tom Caiazza, a spokesman for Senator
 Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  