-- German Stocks Rise on Speculation Yellen to Hold Stimulus
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-11-14T08:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/german-stocks-rise-on-speculation-yellen-to-hold-stimulus.html
German stocks  climbed, snapping two
days of losses, as Federal Reserve chairman nominee Janet Yellen
signaled the central bank will maintain stimulus measures until
the U.S. economy improves.  K+S AG advanced 2.5 percent after posting third-quarter
profit that beat forecasts and saying it plans to save 500
million euros ($673 million) over the next three years. Infineon
Technologies AG added 2.4 percent after Baader Bank advised
investors to buy the shares. RWE AG tumbled 5.3 percent as
 Germany ’s second-biggest utility forecast profit will drop next
year on weak power prices.  The  DAX (DAX)  rose 0.9 percent to 9,133.84 at 9:46 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The gauge fell 0.6 percent in the past two days as
data showed euro-area industrial output missed estimates. It has
rallied 20 percent this year as central banks around the world
maintained stimulus measures. The broader HDAX Index gained 0.8
percent today.  Yellen, who will replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when his
term expires Jan. 31, said after European markets closed
yesterday that the U.S. economy and labor market are not
performing to their full potential.  “‘‘A strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to
reduce its monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional
policy tools such as asset purchases,’’ she said in  testimony 
prepared for her nomination hearing before the Senate Banking
Committee today in  Washington . ‘‘Supporting the recovery today
is the surest path to returning to a more normal approach to
monetary policy.’’  In Germany,  gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the
third quarter after a 0.7 percent-increase in the previous three
months, according to the Federal Statistical Office in
Wiesbaden. That matched the median projection of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  