-- EU Stumbles Toward Bank Plan Deadline as Germany Resists
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-11-15T19:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/germany-digs-in-against-risk-sharing-in-eu-bank-failure-debate.html
European Union finance ministers
struggled to advance a bank-failure plan for the euro area,
hampered by the interregnum in Berlin and persistent divisions
on basic points.  Ministers will be pressed to meet a year-end deadline to
broker an accord after cutting short talks in Brussels today.
The bloc’s 28 nations are split on who should be the ultimate
decision-maker in the planned Single Resolution Mechanism,
whether it should be backed by a central fund and which banks
should be covered.  Germany  reiterated its opposition to key
planks of the blueprint proposed by the European Commission.  Today’s discussion “proved that today we still do not have
agreement, so it was absolutely senseless to sit overnight,
because there’s still no way to get this final agreement,” said
Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius of  Lithuania , which holds the
EU’s rotating presidency.  The Single Resolution Mechanism is part of a euro-area
effort to break the financial links between sovereigns and banks
by centralizing oversight and crisis management of failing
lenders. The proposal, presented in July by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief, initially met with a barrage of
complaints from governments.  EU leaders nevertheless reaffirmed last month that nations
should agree on a common stance by the end of this year and
called the plan is an essential complement to European Central
Bank supervision of euro-area lenders, which begins in a year.  Common Fund  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called on his
colleagues to rein in their ambitions for the SRM, including the
proposed central fund. He has said that Barnier’s centralized
blueprint should be scrapped in favor of a network of national
authorities without a common fund, on the basis that further
steps can only be taken once changes are made to the EU’s basic
treaties.  Today’s debate “showed that of course we can’t get a
perfect solution on the basis of current treaties,” Schaeuble
said. He noted a “deepened understanding” among his colleagues
that a sound legal basis for any resolution system “is
necessary not only from a German point of view.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc
is in talks with the  Social Democrats  to form a so-called grand
coalition government, almost two months after Merkel’s party won
the largest share of the vote in parliamentary elections.  ‘No Government’  “As long as there is no government in Germany I don’t see
progress,” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.  The barriers in the way of making progress at today’s
gathering led Sadzius to scale back plans for a series of one-on-one meetings with finance ministers, shortening the meeting
by several hours. A planned dinner was also canceled.  Sadzius said that he would seek a political deal on the
plans at the ministers’ next meeting on Dec. 10.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  raised the prospect
that finance ministers may have to convene again after that
meeting to get a deal.  “It seemed to me that there’s a lot of goodwill to get
decisions taken in December, and it’ll be up now to the
Lithuanian presidency to do that at the regular meeting or to do
it at a special meeting,” Noonan said.  Outstanding points in the talks include whether the SRM
should cover all banks and whether the fund should be financed
by “a European-wide levy on the financial institutions or would
that be supported by national levies,” Noonan said.  ‘Strong and Independent’  There are also splits about the governance of the system
and what backstops it should have, he said.  EU leaders set the year-end deadline with the intention
that this would leave time for a final agreement on the
legislation with the European Parliament before the assembly
shuts down before elections in May.  The ECB reiterated last week that it wants a “strong and
independent” European resolution mechanism in place as soon as
possible after it begins oversight, adding to the pressure on
governments.  ‘It is absolutely necessary that we reach agreement by the
end of the year,’’ ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
said today.  While Schaeuble indicated that Germany’s position was
winning converts,  Pierre Moscovici ,  France ’s finance minister,
said support was mounting for a bank-failure system along the
lines proposed by Barnier.  ‘Wide Banking Union’  “This is a day that is finishing well and not only because
it is finishing early,” Moscovici said after the talks
concluded.  “A certain number of principles are emerging around the
commission’s proposal: the idea of a banking union that covers
all banks, which is to say a wide banking union; a mechanism
that can be flexible, simple and efficient, that can be
pragmatic and rapid; and agreement on backstops” including the
possibility of tapping the European Stability Mechanism, the
euro area’s firewall fund, Moscovici said.  Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  also indicted
that Germany may join an emerging EU consensus on the need for
the system to be backed by a central fund.  “I think it gets increasingly clear that the financial
sectors will establish one fund,” Vestager told Danish news
agency  Ritzau . “I find that very healthy, as that means there
are broader shoulders to carry if there is a problem in one
place.”  ‘Clear Choice’  German resistance to Barnier’s blueprint has also focused
on his proposal that the commission, the EU’s executive arm,
should be the key decision maker. Schaeuble has instead
advocated a system based around the Council of the European
Union, an EU institution that represents national governments.  Barnier told ministers that while he’s open to compromise,
they should make a “clear choice” and avoid hybrid solutions.  In addition to the talks on the resolution mechanism,
ministers agreed on guidance for banks that are deemed to have
insufficient capital as a result of ECB-led asset-quality
reviews and stress tests to be carried out next year.  Banks should first seek to raise capital themselves, the
ministers said. If that fails they can turn to national
backstops, with European-level assistance a last resort,
according to the statement.  “At the euro-area level, ESM instruments may be used in
the appropriate sequencing, according to their respective agreed
rules and requirements,” the ministers said.  ‘Player and Referee’  On the resolution plan, Germany won some support at today’s
meeting from  Sweden , which backs handing decision-making powers
to the council to avoid conflicts of interest, since the
commission also regulates state aid.  “It would be logical to have a council solution,” Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said. “We cannot have the
commission being player and referee in the same match.”  European parliament lawmakers and officials have warned
that allowing talks on the SRM to drag on past next year’s
elections risks a delay of as much as nine months as the new
parliament beds in and other internal reorganizations take
place.  Should finance ministers falter in reaching an agreement,
one possible course is for EU leaders to take over the task.
They’re set to meet in Brussels on Dec. 19-20, and  Herman Van Rompuy , the EU president, is free to put the SRM on the agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  