-- European Bonds Rise on Yellen Testimony as Region’s Growth Slows
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-11-14T17:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/german-bonds-rise-for-second-day-before-euro-area-growth-report.html
European government bonds rose as
Federal Reserve chairman nominee  Janet Yellen  signaled she will
carry on the central bank’s stimulus until the  U.S. economy 
improves, boosting demand for fixed-income assets.  Italian and German 10-year securities advanced for a second
day after a report showed the euro-area’s economic growth slowed
in the third quarter. Ireland’s bonds gained for the first time
in three days as Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said the country will
exit its bailout without seeking a  credit line . The Fed buys $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed debt each month to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs.  “At face value, it seems like she’s at least indicating
that she’s not prepared to start reducing bond purchases” yet,
Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich, said of Yellen. “The major market mover
today was Fed commentary, and that was already visible in the
open because we already knew what was in her prepared speech.”  Italy’s 10-year yield fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.06 percent at 4:56 p.m. London time after
dropping four basis points yesterday. The 4.5 percent bond
maturing in March 2024 rose 0.47, or 4.70 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,348) face amount, to 104.03.  The German 10-year bund yield declined three basis points
to 1.70 percent.  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman, voiced her commitment to
using bond purchases known as quantitative easing to boost
growth and lower unemployment that remains above 7 percent.  ‘Strong Recovery’  “I consider it imperative that we do what we can to
promote a very strong recovery,” she said in response to a
question during testimony today to the Senate Banking Committee
in  Washington . “Unemployment remains high.”  In three pages of prepared remarks for the hearing released
yesterday, Yellen, said unemployment reflected a labor market
and economy “performing far short of their potential.”  Dutch 10-year yields fell four basis points to 2.04
percent. Austria’s also declined four basis points, to 2.07
percent.  The euro-region economy  expanded  0.1 percent last quarter,
down from 0.3 percent in the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office said. German  gross domestic product 
rose 0.3 percent from the second quarter, when it increased 0.7
percent, the Federal Statistics Office said.  Irish Bonds  Ireland’s bonds advanced after Prime Minister Kenny told
lawmakers in Dublin the nation will leave its aid program
without the need to prearrange a safety net because it will be
in a position to “fund ourselves in the market.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said last month there’s a
“strong view” Ireland doesn’t need a credit line after
amassing a cash pile of almost 25 billion euros, which he called
a “credible backstop.” In September, he had signaled the
government may ask for a 10 billion-euro credit facility when
exiting the bailout from European partners and the  International
Monetary Fund .  The nation’s 10-year yield fell two basis points to 3.54
percent after declining to 3.48 percent on Nov. 1, the lowest
level since May 29.  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in the euro-area
markets, followed by those of Austria and Belgium, according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Italian  government bonds  climbed 7 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Spain’s returned 11 percent, while Germany’s lost 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  