-- German SPD Chief Set to Sell Party on Merkel Coalition
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-11-15T11:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/german-spd-chief-set-to-sell-party-on-merkel-coalition.html
Germany ’s Social Democrats backed a
motion that opens the way to a future alliance with the anti-capitalist Left Party, overturning a self-imposed ban on such
coalitions.  The proposal was backed by members of the SPD leadership,
who said their Sept. 22 election defeat by Chancellor  Angela Merkel  showed that it’s time to stop closing down options that
could help the party to win power. SPD delegates voted through
the motion at a party convention in Leipzig late yesterday.  “Ruling out a coalition with the Left Party in this
legislative period wasn’t a question of principle but rather one
of sheer pragmatism,” SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  told the
conference in a speech. So long as the Left moves toward the
SPD, “yes, we’re open to such coalitions,” he said.  Flirting with the heirs to the East German communists, who
opposed euro-area rescues, is a gamble for Gabriel as he
attempts to steer his party into government with Merkel. While
previous deals with the Left at regional level cost the SPD
support nationally, wielding the option during coalition
negotiations may prise more concessions from Merkel by showing
her that she can’t take the SPD for granted.  “Gabriel has very good instincts about what moves the
party, and that’s clearly seen in how he’s cleverly opening up
toward the Left,” Andrea Roemmele, a professor of political
science and communication at the Hertie School of Governance in
Berlin, said by phone. It gives the party options for the next
election in 2017, and “adds leverage in addressing his great
challenge, which is to bring around a skeptical grass roots to
support a grand coalition now,” she said.  Leipzig Foundation  Gabriel, a veteran of the SPD’s so-called grand coalition
with Merkel’s bloc in her first term, from 2005 to 2009, used a
speech to the 600 party delegates yesterday to warn his party
not to throw away the chance of implementing its policies,
saying that governing with Merkel is better than a return to
opposition.  SPD delegates are holding a three-day convention in
Leipzig, where the Social Democratic movement was inaugurated
150 years ago this year, to pick over the September election in
which the party took 25.7 percent to 41.5 percent for Merkel’s
bloc, the SPD’s second-worst result since World War II. The
worst was in 2009, after four years of coalition with Merkel.  The SPD leadership was punished by delegates who re-elected
them to their posts with reduced majorities. Gabriel had 83.6
percent of members’ ballots after 91.6 percent at the last vote
in 2011, while General Secretary Andrea Nahles took 67.2 percent
today, her poorest score to date.  The text of the motion voted on said that “in principle we
don’t rule out any coalition for the future,” with the
exception of “right-wing populists or extremist parties.”  The SPD conference will today debate a motion calling for
“new trust in a better  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  