-- Global Logistics to Start World’s Largest China Warehouse Fund
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-11-14T10:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/global-logistics-to-start-world-s-largest-china-warehouse-fund.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) ,
 China ’s biggest modern warehouse operator, plans to start a $3
billion fund that will invest in properties in the country as e-commerce grows and retail chains expand.  GLP, part-owned by Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, GIC
Pte, will partner with six institutional investors, including
state and pension funds, to invest in China over the next three
years, the company said in a statement to the Singapore stock
exchange today. GLP will retain a 56 percent stake in the China
fund, according to the statement.  The fund will be the the world’s largest China-focused
logistics infrastructure fund, according to GLP. Logistics
properties are “the most attractive real estate opportunity”
in China as consumers buy more from e-commerce companies
including Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Amazon.com Inc.,
fueling demand for storage space, according to a report released
in September by  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   “This transaction establishes a strong platform for future
growth and is consistent with GLP’s strategy to focus on the
world’s best markets and grow its fund management business,”
Jeffrey H. Schwartz, co-founder and chairman of the executive
committee of GLP said in the statement. “We will have increased
funding in place to capture a significant share in a $2 trillion
market opportunity.”  GLP’s second-quarter net income fell 25 percent to $145
million as revenue declined 19 percent to $139.8 million, the
company reported separately today.  Key Market  GLP will provide land to the fund to support 1.8 million
square meters (19 million square feet) of leasable area,
according to the statement. It has secured a $1 billion credit
facility with China Merchants Bank Co. for the new fund, it
said.  China is GLP’s key growth market with e-commerce being an
important driver of demand, the company said. E-commerce makes
up 22 percent of GLP’s total leased area in China today compared
with 4 percent in the fiscal year 2010, it said.  GLP will grow its assets under management to $11.4 billion
with the addition of the China fund, which already has $1.5
billion of equity commitment, according to the statement.  The company’s  shares  rose 2.7 percent to S$3.00 at the
close of trading in  Singapore , bringing its year-to-date advance
to 7.9 percent. The FTSE Strait Times Real Estate Investment
Trust Index has declined 6.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  