-- Goldman Sachs’ Cohen Sees Value in Record-High Stocks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-11-14T00:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/goldman-sachs-cohen-sees-value-in-record-high-stocks.html
Value remains in the U.S. stock
market even after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  surged 25
percent this year to a record, according to  Abby Joseph Cohen , a
senior investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Price-earnings ratios are lower now than the last time
stocks were near these levels, Cohen said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview with Tom Keene today.  Janet Yellen  is one of the
finest policy analysts in the U.S. and deserves to be confirmed
as the next chairman of the  Federal Reserve , said Cohen. She
forecasts the  S&P 500  will reach 1,900 by the end of 2014, a 6.6
percent gain from today’s close.  “Companies right now are increasingly enthusiastic about
the dynamism in the economy,” said Cohen. “There’s value in
the market right now. The  U.S. economy  will likely grow faster
next year.”  The S&P 500 today gained 0.8 percent to a record 1,782 in
New York, surpassing a previous high set on Oct. 29 and heading
for the steepest annual rally in a decade. Cohen’s forecast for
the gauge to reach 1,900 by the end of 2014 matches the median
estimate in a Bloomberg news survey of strategists this month.  Gains in stocks have come as the Fed maintained its
unprecedented stimulus. Yellen, nominated to be the next Fed
chairman, said today that the economy and labor market are
performing “far short of their potential” and must improve
before the central bank can begin reducing its $85 billion in
monthly asset purchases. The remarks are from testimony prepared
for Yellen’s nomination hearing tomorrow before the Senate
Banking Committee.  The S&P 500 is trading at 16.1 times  projected earnings ,
compared with a five-year average of 14 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Of the more than 450 index members that
have reported earnings this season, 75 percent have posted
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates, while 54 percent beat
sales predictions,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  