-- Goldman Sachs Said to Lose Executives From Brazil Unit
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-14T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/goldman-sachs-said-to-lose-executives-from-brazil-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost at
least nine managing directors in Brazil this year as revenue
from investment banking falls and trading and wealth-management
fees increase, four people familiar with the matter said.  Jason Mollin, head of Latin American equity research, is
leaving the New York-based firm, the people said, asking not to
be identified because the decision isn’t public. Already
departed are Rodrigo Mello from the investment-banking division,
Sylvio Castro, chief investment officer at the private-banking
business, and Eduardo Adriano Koelle from wealth management, the
people said.  The four executives join five others who left earlier this
year as the New-York based bank halted its growth plans in
Brazil when the economy expanded less than analysts estimated
and merger growth stalled. About a quarter of Goldman Sachs’s
roughly 45-person  Brazil  investment-banking division have
departed, the people said.  “Our headcount in Brazil is going to be steady at around
300 people, though it may go up 5 percent or down 5 percent,”
Stephen Scherr, Goldman Sachs’s chief for Latin America and
global head of the investment bank’s financing group, said in an
interview in New York. “The composition of the people is going
to change -- and that is by design,” Scherr said, declining to
comment on specific departures.  Mello and Castro also declined to comment, while Koelle and
Mollin didn’t returned calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Equity Underwriting  Goldman Sachs ranks 13th in Brazil equity underwriting this
year, down from the sixth for all of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Total equity sales grew to $12.8 billion
from $8.2 billion, the data show. Brazil’s gross domestic
product expanded 0.9 percent last year, the lowest since 2009,
and this year GDP is expected to grow 2.48 percent, according to
market forecasts reported by the central bank.  “The Brazilian economy is changing and the business we
need to do in Brazil changes, but the real relevant fact for me
is that our global franchise plugs into Brazil,” Scherr said.
“We have 33,000 people worldwide and, at any given time, many
of them are working on transactions related to Brazil.”  Scherr said Goldman Sachs’s sales and trading business
tends to do better in periods of volatility and assets under
management in the private wealth-management business “tend to
go up pretty dramatically in such an environment.”  Brazil merger-and-acquisition deals increased 4 percent to
$59.9 billion so far this year compared with the same period of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs
ranks eighth among merger advisers, with $5.3 billion in deals.
That was down from No. 6 last year, when the firm advised on
$14.9 billion of transactions.  Pay Levels  “A down market is a good market to manage your people to
get the best team,” Scherr said. “You’re not going to miss a
lot of business when you ask someone to step away from a role,
and your ability to attract talent to replace that person, while
always taking longer than you wanted, happens at a less
overheated compensation level.”  Goldman Sachs allocated 41 percent of revenue for
compensation in the first nine months of this year, the lowest
figure for the period in the firm’s history as a public company.  Goldman Sachs President Gary Cohn said in an interview in
April that the bank would hire 50 people this year in Brazil.
Cohn said the company would also increase investment-banking
coverage of companies there to 300 from 200.  “While overall headcount will remain modestly down from
the beginning of the year, we continue to work with executive
search firms to identify top talent in Brazil for key seats
across the business,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman from Goldman
Sachs, said in August.  Office Space  The bank is also subleasing one of the four floors of a Sao
Paulo office building it moved into in April, DuVally said.  Goldman Sachs, which doesn’t disclose Brazil revenue or
profit, said in March that Fabio Bicudo and Antonio Pereira
would become co-heads of investment banking for the country
after Daniel Wainstein, one of only two Goldman Sachs partners
who are Brazilian, had left. Wainstein was also on the executive
committee.  Cassius Leal, managing director and head of equity
derivatives trading, also departed as did his team, the people
said. Santiago Rubin, a managing director in investment banking,
was transfered to New York, two of the people said.  Executive committee members who left were Adriano Piccinin,
managing director and head of fixed income; Roberto Belchior,
managing director and head of the legal department; and
Gabriella Antici, managing director, chief investment officer
and head of international asset management, the people said.
Belchior is now legal director for  BM&FBovespa SA. (BVMF3)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  