-- Google Says U.S. Government Requests for Data Rise to 10,918
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-11-14T17:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/google-says-u-s-government-requests-for-data-rise-to-10-918.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said the number of U.S.
government requests for user data jumped 37 percent to almost
11,000 in the first half of 2013, even as it lobbies the
government to let it reveal more details from legal orders.  The U.S. made the most inquiries of any country, with 42
percent of the total for the period, according to the company’s
transparency  report . Google got 25,879 requests globally, up 24
percent from the first six months of last year and almost double
the number from three years ago. Inquiries from the U.S.
government have more than tripled since 2009.  Google, along with technology peers such as Apple Inc. and
Facebook Inc., is pushing for permission to release more details
about user-data requests that the U.S. government now protects
under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Technology
companies are also asking lawmakers to restrain the National
Security Agency, saying they want to “counter erroneous
reports” that they give intelligence agencies direct access to
their servers.  “We believe it’s your right to know what kinds of requests
and how many each government is making of us and other
companies,” Richard Salgado, Google’s legal director for  law
enforcement  and information security,  wrote  in a blog post.
“However, the  U.S. Department of Justice  contends that U.S. law
does not allow us to share information about some national
security requests that we might receive.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , said it
provided some information to the  U.S. government  for 83 percent
of the inquiries it received.  Subpoenaed Data  The company also is releasing some new details in this
transparency report, including U.S. criminal requests, such as
emergency disclosures and wiretap orders. Google also breaks out
subpoenas it has received seeking information about accounts and
products.  The NSA has come under mounting scrutiny in Congress and
abroad in response to revelations that it has spied on foreign
leaders, broken into fiber-optic cables, and gathered the e-mails and bulk phone records of Americans. Most of the spying
was exposed by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  Google’s report today showed that India made the second-most requests in the first half of the year, with 2,691.  Germany 
was No. 3 with 2,311. They were followed by  France , the U.K.,
Brazil and Italy.  The company said it is asking “governments around the
world to uphold international legal agreements that respect the
laws of different countries and guarantee standards for due
process are met.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  