-- Google Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Digital Books Project
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-14T19:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/google-wins-summary-judgment-in-digital-books-copyright-case.html
Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  project to digitally
copy millions of books for online searches doesn’t violate
copyright law, a federal judge ruled, dismissing an eight-year-old lawsuit against the largest search-engine company.  Google Books provides a public benefit and is a fair use of
copyrighted material, Judge  Denny Chin  in  Manhattan  ruled today.
The project, which has scanned more than 20 million books so
far, doesn’t harm authors or inventors of original works, Chin
said.  “Google Books provides significant public benefits,” Chin
wrote. “It advances the progress of the arts and sciences,
while maintaining respectful consideration for the rights of
authors and other creative individuals, and without adversely
impacting the rights of copyright holders.”  Chin’s decision comes more than two years after he rejected
a proposed $125 million settlement in the case filed by The
Authors Guild, which represents writers. The group sued in 2005
alleging that Google, owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, infringed copyrights by scanning and indexing books
without writers’ permission.  Paul Aiken, the Authors Guild’s executive director, said in
a statement today that the ruling is a “fundamental challenge”
to copyrights and that his group plans to appeal.  Fair Use  “Google made unauthorized digital editions of nearly all
of the world’s valuable copyright-protected literature and
profits from displaying those works,” Aiken said. “In our
view, such mass digitization and exploitation far exceeds the
bounds of the fair use defense.”  If upheld on appeal, the decision may help Google retain
its leadership in Internet searching, which has allowed it to
become the world’s largest online advertiser. Google has more
than 70 percent of the ad revenue tied to online searches in the
U.S., according to researcher EMarketer Inc.  “This is a huge victory for Google, which had previously
tried to resolve legal issues regarding  Google Books  by class
action settlement,” Mark P. McKenna, a law professor
specializing in intellectual property at the  University of Notre
Dame , said in an e-mail today. “This decision vindicates
Google’s project entirely on fair use grounds, making
unnecessary the elaborate structure the parties had proposed for
compensation.”  Important Tool  Google Books digitizes books and transforms expressive text
into a comprehensive word index that helps researchers and
others find books, Chin, an appeals judge sitting in U.S.
District Court, said in his opinion.  The project has become an important tool for libraries
because it makes millions of books searchable by words and
phrases, he said.  “Google Books does not supersede or supplant books because
it is not a tool to be used to read books,” the judge wrote.
“Instead, it adds value to the original.”  Google doesn’t sell the scans it makes of books or sell the
snippets of books it displays although the company does benefit
from users drawn to the site, Chin wrote. Writers also benefit
because the scanning project could enhance the sales of books,
he wrote.  Getting Noticed  “Google Books provides a way for authors’ works to become
noticed, much like traditional in-store book displays,”
according to the opinion. “Many authors have noted that online
browsing in general and Google Books in particular helps readers
find their work, thus increasing their audiences.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , in October 2012
reached an agreement with five publishers to end their
objections to the digital scanning. The accord allows U.S.
publishers to choose whether to make their books and articles
available for scanning or have them removed.  The publishers are McGraw-Hill Cos., Pearson Education
Inc., Penguin Group USA Inc.,  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  and Simon &
Schuster Inc., which is owned by CBS Inc.  “This has been a long road, and we are absolutely
delighted with today’s judgment,” Google said in an e-mailed
statement. “As we have long said, Google Books is in compliance
with copyright law and acts like a card catalog for the digital
age, giving users the ability to find books to buy or borrow.”  While Google Books is a small part of the company’s
services, today’s decision helps Google stay in the forefront of
search technology, said  Danny Sullivan , founding editor of
SearchEngineLand.com.  “I don’t think anybody would want to go back to a card
catalog system that some will remember,” Sullivan said.
“Google Books allows us to search books in the same way we can
search across the entire Web and who wouldn’t think that that’s
a benefit for everyone?”  The case is Authors Guild v. Google, 1:05-cv-08136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at  spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  