-- Government Yet to Decide on Timing of Air New Zealand Share Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-11-14T00:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/government-yet-to-decide-on-timing-of-air-new-zealand-share-sale.html
The New Zealand government is yet to
decide on when it will reduce its shareholding in national
carrier Air New Zealand Ltd.  The Treasury department said in an emailed statement today
it hasn’t engaged financial advisers from its panel for an Air
New Zealand transaction “and therefore a decision on sale
timing has not been made.” Local media reported the share sale
could happen as soon as this weekend.  The government plans to reduce its shareholding in the
airline to 51 percent from 73 percent as part of an asset-sales
program to fund infrastructure and reduce debt. It has already
sold 49 percent stakes in Mighty River Power Ltd. and Meridian
Energy Ltd., raising NZ$3.6 billion ($3 billion), and has slated
an offering of Genesis Energy Ltd. shares for next year.  There’s a “very strong probability” that the government
will sell Air New Zealand shares by the end of this month, said
Brian Gaynor, portfolio manager at Milford Asset Management in
Auckland, who expects the sale to generate as much as NZ$400
million.  “The government gets monthly accounts from Air New Zealand
and is therefore considered to be an insider,” Gaynor said in
an interview. “Under insider trading guidelines, the Crown
cannot sell the shares after Dec. 1 until the beginning of
March. So if it wants to sell them within the next two or three
months, it has to sell them by the end of November.”  Referendum  The New Zealand Herald newspaper reported today that a sale
is expected before a referendum on the government’s asset-sales
program opens on Nov. 22, and may be as soon as this weekend,
citing people in the market it didn’t identify.  The referendum “would not make any difference” to the
timing of the sale and no decision on timing has been taken,
Prime Minister John Key said today, according to Fairfax Media.  Air New Zealand  shares  have rallied 28 percent this year
and traded at NZ$1.66 today.  The panel from which the Treasury selects lead managers for
the assets sales comprises Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG, Craigs Investment Partners Ltd., Credit Suisse Group
AG, First NZ Capital Ltd., Merrill Lynch & Co., Forsyth Barr
Ltd., Macquarie Group Ltd. and UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  