-- IAG Discount Arm Vueling to Tap Premium Market Via Wi-Fi Rollout
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-11-14T11:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/iag-discount-arm-vueling-to-tap-premium-market-via-wi-fi-rollout.html
British Airways (IAG)  sister unit Vueling
SA will add onboard Wi-Fi to its planes as early as next month
in a bid to lure more business passengers and set itself apart
from low-cost rivals  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   Barcelona-based Vueling is also examining two or three
other features aimed at tapping corporate travel and not usually
offered by discount operators as it adds more than 50 routes in
2014, Chief Executive Officer Alex Cruz said in an interview.  Vueling delivered a 25 percent operating margin in the
third quarter, almost double the figure at BA, propelling parent
IAG SA to a 690 million-euro ($925 million) operating profit.
Cruz said he’s seeking a balance between targeting business
clients who account for almost 40 percent of ticket sales and
the need to keep a lid on expenses, with the Wi-Fi plan secured
through a deal with an as yet unspecified provider that took
more than two years to seal and comes at no cost to Vueling.  “It’s so easy to ‘premium-ize’ by spending money, but if
we were to do it that would be the beginning of our death
sentence,” the CEO said in  London . “The short- and medium-haul
business is a nasty business with a competitive environment, so
you cannot lose sight of cost.”  Providing in-flight bandwidth is otherwise prohibitive,
even as a paid-for service, Cruz said, adding that his airline
will be similarly patient in pursuing other initiatives to be
sure it maintains unit costs lower than rivals such as EasyJet.  Insulated  The airline has set up a premium product index to measure
its performance as many full-service carriers water down their
business offering on unprofitable short-haul routes, Cruz said,
pledging to provide “the best business class in  Europe .”  Vueling’s business focus has also helped insulate it from
issues at carriers such as Ryanair, which has predicted a first
annual profit decline in five years as fares slide. With Wizz
Air Ltd., based in Budapest, Ryanair is an ultra-low-cost
operator appealing to a different clientele, according to Cruz.  Vueling is even seeing a mild upturn in Spanish activity as
the country’s economy shows modest gains, he said.  The carrier’s management aims to conclude talks with pilots
on a new labor agreement in coming weeks, with negotiations so
far “constructive,” according to Cruz, who said the labor deal
will seek to build in contingencies should growth stall.  While annual increases in supplier and pilot costs have
been offset through other efficiency measures in the past five
years, maintaining that is “becoming a huge effort,” he said.  Product upgrades will help lure passengers beyond a
Barcelona base where Vueling is nearing the limits of the market
with almost 120 routes. New destinations from the Spanish city
announced yesterday included Krakow in  Poland , Donetsk and
Kharkov in the Ukraine and Kaliningrad and Kazan in  Russia .  Willie Walsh , CEO of IAG, as International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA is known, said Nov. 8 that Vueling can expect
“further opportunities.” Cruz said growth may include Germany
and Scandinavia, though southern Europe will remain a focus.  Madrid , home to Iberia, IAG’s main Spanish unit, and  London
Gatwick , where BA’S point-to-point routes are concentrated, will
not at the moment become bases, Cruz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  