-- IBM to Offer ‘Jeopardy!’ Winner Watson as Cloud App Tool
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ibm-to-offer-jeopardy-winner-watson-as-cloud-app-tool.html
     Nov. 14 (Bloomberg) -- International Business Machines
Corp.’s Watson technology, famous for outsmarting humans on the
game show “Jeopardy!,” will be offered as a cloud-based tool
to application developers, letting them tap a resource capable
of giving everything from shopping tips to medical advice.  Programmers will be able to access the IBM Watson
Developers Cloud, an online marketplace with resources for
developing apps, use a content store with data from third-party
providers and get help from IBM and contracted professionals,
the Armonk, New York-based company said in a statement today.  “There is so much more that can be accomplished by drawing
on the creativity of individuals, organizations, entrepreneurs,
startups and established businesses that truly innovate every
day on their own,” said Stephen Gold, vice president of Watson
Solutions, in an interview. “Watson can be this ultimate
assistant to help individuals get their questions answered and
their problems solved.”  Opening up the Watson platform to outside developers is
IBM’s latest step to commercialize the technology as it tries to
boost revenue from cloud computing amid a decline in its
hardware business. Watson, which can answer questions after
being preloaded with documents and websites, has been deployed
in the health and finance markets since its debut on the
“Jeopardy!” in 2011.  App Developers  Application developers, from startups to established
businesses, can submit their requests to use Watson’s services
on IBM’s website beginning this week, said Lori Bosio, a
spokeswoman for the company.  There are no upfront cost for access and partners who use
the service in their apps will be charged on a metered usage
model, Gold said. He declined to comment on expected sales from
the service.  Three apps developed on the cloud-based platform are
targeted to enter the market early next year, IBM said.  MD Buyline, a  company  that provides supply-chain services
for hospitals and health-care systems, will introduce its
Hippocrates app to let clinical and financial users make “real-time, informed decisions,” according to the statement.  Fluid Inc., an e-commerce services company, will offer its
Fluid Expert Personal Shopper app to help consumers with
purchase decisions. Welltok Inc.’s CafeWell Concierge app will
combine users’ input and Watson’s ability to learn to create
personalized health plans catered to an individual’s needs.  The introduction of the Watson cloud service follows six
quarters of declining revenue for IBM, underpinned by slumping
sales in its hardware business. The company said it generated
more than $1 billion in revenue from cloud products and services
in the third quarter.  “We really believe in the future opportunity it represents
in a revenue and upside perspective,” Gold said of the Watson
cloud service. “This is clearly IBM’s most prized possession
that we are opening up to the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  