-- Icahn Reports Stake in Apple Worth $2.05 Billion
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/icahn-reports-stake-in-apple-worth-2-05-billion.html
Carl Icahn , the billionaire activist
investor urging  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to buy back $150 billion of its
shares, owns a stake of 3.88 million shares in the iPhone maker
worth $2.05 billion, a filing showed.  The holding, as of Sept. 30, is part of Icahn’s drive to
get Apple to deploy more of its cash to return value to
shareholders. He sent a  letter  to Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  last month urging the board to increase stock repurchases.  The investor said in the letter that he increased his
holdings in Apple to 4.7 million shares, a figure that wasn’t
reflected in yesterday’s filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission since it tallied numbers through the end of
September. Icahn has indicated that he intends to buy more of
the stock, which he said is undervalued.  Icahn is lobbying for Apple to return more cash months
after Cupertino, California-based Apple announced a plan for a
total of $100 billion in dividends and buybacks.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment
on the filing.  Icahn also reported that he added 20.9 million shares to
his holding in  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN)  as of Sept. 30,
bringing his total stake in the developer of speech-recognition
software to 52.4 million, worth $839 million.  Nuance named two directors from Icahn’s firm last month,
seeking to ward off a proxy fight for control of the company’s
board. As part of the pact with Nuance, Icahn’s investment firm
agreed to a standstill provision, which prevents a hostile
takeover by limiting the amount of voting stock it can acquire
to 20 percent.  Richard Mack , a spokesman for Burlington, Massachusetts-based Nuance, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  