-- Iceland Entrepreneur Has Novel Water Remedy: Fill Ships
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-14T17:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/iceland-entrepreneur-has-novel-water-remedy-fill-ships.html
An Icelandic entrepreneur says his
company may have a novel solution to the world’s water
shortages: Transport the North Atlantic island’s abundant
supplies in supertankers to where they’re needed.  Aqua Omnis ehf, a Reykjavik-based company, plans to ship
water from aquifers beneath Iceland to sell to drier lands as
well as in  Europe , Managing Director Thorsteinn Gudnason said in
an interview. Iceland has vast amounts of spring water naturally
filtered by mountains and lava terrain for hundreds of years
that otherwise goes to waste, he said.  Aqua Omnis’s plan offers an alternative to energy-costly
water desalination and recycling as supplies are reduced by
 climate change  and rising demand from the agricultural, oil and
gas industries. By 2030 almost half the Earth’s population may
face water scarcity, according to the  United Nations .  “We have an abundance of high-quality spring water
underneath our surface which we are offering to the world,”
Gudnason said yesterday in  London  at the IEA & Marketforce
conference. “It flows from Iceland into the ocean, quenching no
one’s thirst.”  Gulf Investors  It will cost $300 million to start the initial project
including a minimum of seven ships, fuel and mooring equipment,
the company said. Conditional funding agreements are in place
from investors including parties in Gulf nations, Gudnason said,
declining to name them. The company plans to start commercial
operations within three years, he said.  Aqua Omnis will transport water from springs using second-hand vessels from the oil industry. Some tankers will be able to
carry as much as 500,000 tons. It can also move the water in
“flexitanks” made of the same material as plastic bottles that
can be transported in trucks or smaller ships.  The company plans to use ultra large crude carriers, some
of which may have been deleted from the official register though
not yet scrapped, and then refurbished, Gudnason said.  “They can be as good as new or even better as new vessels
would need to be overhauled anyway to carry water,” he said.
“Whether we use exactly 500,000 dwt vessel or 441,500 dwt or a
portfolio of different sizes of vessels is not really the main
issue to us,” he said today. Dwt refers to deadweight tonnage.  ‘Unheard of’  In  England , Aqua Omnis could sell the water for about $2
per ton, according to Gudnason. Thames Water Utilities Ltd.
charges $2.05 a cubic meter, where 1 cubic meter is 1 ton, for
household water supplies.  The water flowing from the aquifers through streams under
land Aqua Omnis owns in Olfus in southwestern Iceland to the
Atlantic is drinkable, a quality “unheard of” outside the
country, he said. The tankers will moor just off shore and
deliver water directly to distributors without requiring
treatment, he said.  Ballast water that can sometimes contain invasive species
isn’t an issue because the water collected from Iceland is
uncontaminated after being filtered for years underground, he
said.  This isn’t the first time Iceland has planned to share its
resources. A plan for an undersea power cable to connect the
British grid to Iceland, which has abundant geothermal and
hydropower, is attracting investor interest,  Charles Hendry , a
U.K. lawmaker and former energy minister, said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  