-- IEA Says Mideast Disruptions Pose Risk to Oil Market
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-11-14T10:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/iea-says-mideast-disruptions-pose-risk-to-oil-market.html
Supply losses in the Middle East and
North Africa may offset rising shale oil output and push prices
higher next year, the International Energy Agency said.  Crude prices may “come under renewed upside pressure” as
refiners returning from seasonal maintenance eat into supply
already curtailed by unrest in Libya and  Iraq , the agency said
today in its monthly market report. The IEA slightly increased
estimates for global oil demand in 2014, and for production from
outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
resulting in a “comfortable” balance for early next year.  “Production problems in Libya and Iraq, among others,
continue to relentlessly fester, and may prove more market-supportive in a context of rising demand than they have been
during the recent” refinery overhaul season, the Paris-based
adviser to 28 nations said.  Brent futures have slipped 3.1 percent this year to trade
at about $107.70 a barrel in London today, as protests in Libya
and instability in Iraq are balanced by a muted recovery in
Europe and signs of slowing economic expansion in emerging
economies. Booming shale  output  will make the U.S. the world’s
biggest oil producer by 2015, the IEA said in a separate report
yesterday.  Faster Growth  The agency’s increase of estimates for world oil
consumption in 2014, by 20,000 barrels a day, left its forecast
for growth unchanged from last month. Global fuel use will
expand by 1.1 million barrels a day, or 1.2 percent, to 92.1
million a day next year, an acceleration from this year as the
economic recovery gathers momentum.  The IEA also raised projections for supplies from outside
OPEC in 2014, by about 100,000 barrels a day, to reflect
stronger-than-expected growth in the U.S. and  Russia . Non-OPEC
production will expand by 1.8 million barrels a day to 56.5
million a day next year. Last month the agency described this
rate of growth as the highest since the 1970s.  Rising non-OPEC output mean that the amount of crude
required from the 12-member group, which controls about 40
percent of global supplies, will decline next year, the report
showed. The call on OPEC will fall to 29.1 million barrels a day
in 2014, from 30 million this year. That’s about 800,000 a day
less than the organization pumped last month.  OPEC Decline  Production from OPEC slipped about 100,000 barrels a day to
29.89 million a day in October as Saudi Arabia, the biggest
member, reduced output in line with lower seasonal domestic
demand, according to the IEA. The Gulf kingdom trimmed output
last month to 9.75 million barrels a day, from 10.12 million,
ending a three-month spate about 10 million, the report showed.  Exports of crude from Iraq will probably remain below
capacity until the end of the first quarter next year because of
worsening security in the Basra region and bottlenecks at the
country’s Persian Gulf terminals.  While Libyan production rose by 50 percent month-on-month
to 450,000 barrels a day in October, it had slipped back to
250,000 barrels a day by early November amid worsening political
turmoil and labor disputes, the IEA said.  The creation of an independent oil company to control crude
sales by armed militia controlling areas of eastern Libya “was
seen as largely symbolic, since there is little chance oil
traders would engage with the tribal groups,” the IEA said.  Supply Target  OPEC is expected to keep its supply target unchanged at 30
million barrels a day when officials assemble in Vienna on Dec.
4, the IEA said, based on comments from several ministers.  OPEC’s own secretariat similarly characterized markets as
“well-supplied” in its monthly market report yesterday. The
group’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador ,  Iran , Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela .  “We have a fairly balanced market in 2014, with non-OPEC
supply growth matching demand growth,” Amrita Sen, chief oil
market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd. in London, said before
the report. “The call on OPEC crude falls slightly. Our outlook
for prices in 2014 is that they’ll be lower than this year, but
stable and still high. There is upside risk for the demand
outlook given the improvement in the macroeconomy.”  European refinery processing rates declined in September to
the lowest in more than 22 years on low profitability and
seasonal maintenance, the IEA said. Preliminary data for October
may show that processing in the region has decreased to the
least since 1989, the agency said.  Total inventories of crude and refined products in
industrialized nations are closer to their five-year average
after increasing by 8.6 million barrels in September, a month
when they normally decline, to 2.7 billion barrels, the IEA
report showed. That reduced the deficit in stockpiles compared
with their average to 42.9 million barrels, from 67 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  