-- Tile Shop Drops as Much as 30% After Short Seller Issues Report
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-14T17:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/tile-shop-drops-as-much-as-30-after-short-seller-issues-report.html
Tile Shop Holdings Inc. (TTS)  shares
plunged after short-seller Gotham City Research LLC said the
home-improvement company used improper accounting to inflate
earnings.  Tile Shop lost 28 percent to $15.22 at 12:07 p.m. in New
York after falling as much as 30 percent, the most ever. Shares
of the Plymouth, Minnesota-based company are worth as little as
$1.54, a 93 percent decline from yesterday’s close, according to
the report from Gotham City  posted  on its website today.  Tile Shop exerts control on its suppliers, which sell goods
to the company at or near cost, helping it increase profit
margins, the report from Gotham City said. Two phone calls and
an e-mail to Tile Shop’s investor relations office seeking
comment on the report weren’t immediately returned.  Research firms, such as Gotham City and Muddy Waters LLC,
have targeted companies with Chinese operations to profit from
accounting investigations that claim to uncover fraud. The
companies and their clients borrow shares and sell them with the
aim at buying the stock back at a lower price and pocketing the
difference. Gotham City said in the report that it will make
money from a retreat in Tile Shop.  Short sellers increased bets against Tile Shop to a record
high of 13 percent of shares outstanding on Nov. 12. Bearish
wagers on the stock rose from a low of 0.1 percent in June,
according to data compiled by Markit, a London-based research
firm. The average short interest for a company in the Russell
2000 Index is 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  