-- Lilly Triples Investment in Growing Market for Diabetes
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-14T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/lilly-triples-investment-in-growing-market-for-diabetes.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the biggest U.S.
maker of insulin products, will pour another $700 million into
manufacturing capacity, more than tripling its investment in the
expanding market for diabetes treatments.  Lilly is expanding plants in  Puerto Rico ,  China ,  France  and
at its headquarters in Indianapolis. China alone will see a $350
million buildup that will enable Lilly to produce more insulin
cartridges for re-usable devices.  “We’re doubling down on insulin, and diabetes,” Enrique Conterno, the head of Lilly’s diabetes business, said in a
telephone interview. The $700 million brings to $1 billion the
amount Lilly is spending on insulin manufacturing this year.  The number of diabetics worldwide is projected to grow to
592 million in 2035 from 382 million this year, according to a
report released today by the  International Diabetes Federation .
Those rates are growing rapidly in  emerging markets , with 80
percent of diabetics living in low- or middle-income countries,
the foundation said.  Lilly is expanding into more cities and regions in China,
where international drugmakers dominate the insulin market.  “We have been really investing in that field, and if you
look at some of the results we’ve had, we’re gaining market
share,” said Jacques Tapiero, Lilly’s president of emerging
markets.  Lilly has said that it will have a treatment in every major
class of diabetes therapy, from pills to insulin injections. It
has had less success developing drugs for other diseases,
though, and Conterno said diabetes is competitive.  The setbacks for Lilly’s experimental medicines and the
heavy wager on the diabetes market led  Jami Rubin , an analyst
with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to downgrade the stock to sell
from neutral on Nov. 11. An experimental drug for Alzheimer’s
disease also has a low chance of success, Rubin said.  Ramucirumab, a compound in the final round of testing
usually required for approval, was given a priority review
designation by U.S. regulators for gastric cancer though it
failed to meet trial goals in breast tumors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  