-- Hilton Commercial Mortgage Bonds Said to Be Marketed by JPMorgan
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-11-14T21:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/hilton-commercial-mortgage-bonds-said-to-be-marketed-by-jpmorgan.html
Banks led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
are marketing $3.5 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds tied to
Hilton Worldwide Inc. as Blackstone Group LP prepares to take
the hotelier public, people with knowledge of the offering said.  The largest such transaction since the credit crisis is
linked to 23 properties across the U.S., said the people, who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public. JPMorgan
is working with Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley to arrange the sale.  The Hilton deal comes with sales of securities linked to
commercial real estate loans poised to surpass $70 billion in
2013, more than double the volume in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The commercial-mortgage securities are
enabling  Blackstone (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity firm, to
pay down a portion $13.4 billion in debt refinanced in October,
deal documents show.  The 2007 takeover of Hilton for $26 billion was the largest
ever for a hotel company, Bloomberg data show.  Blackstone restructured the debt in April 2010, reducing
its debt load by $4 billion and pushing back maturities to 2015,
as consumers and businesses cut back on travel amid the economic
downturn.  Seven months later, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs
sought to sell about $3 billion of the restructured debt in a
commercial-mortgage bond deal. The transaction was cut in half
when investors demanded additional yield to buy the securities,
prompting Goldman to pull its portion of the sale, people with
knowledge of the deal said at the time.  Real estate investors are cashing in on hotels as values
climb along with occupancy and room rates. Prices for
hospitality properties in non-major markets, which excludes the
largest U.S. cities such as  New York , have climbed 28.3 percent
over the last 12 months, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  