-- IMF Sees Bulgaria’s Budget Revenue Projection as Too Ambitious
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-11-14T16:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/imf-sees-bulgaria-s-budget-revenue-projection-as-too-ambitious.html
Bulgaria’s 2014 budget revenue
target is “very ambitious” and the government may have to cut
spending if domestic demand and inflation fall short of
forecasts, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Next year’s budget, approved in parliament in a preliminary
vote today, is “justifiable,” Michele Shannon, IMF mission
chief, said in the capital Sofia today at the end of an annual
review visit. The IMF reiterated its economic growth estimate of
0.5 percent for this year and 1.6 percent for next, which
compares with the government’s 0.6 percent and 1.8 percent
forecasts.  “We see some risks in terms of revenue -- it’s a very
ambitious target,” Shannon told reporters. “Revenue may
underperform if the domestic demand recovery is slower than
projected, gains from administrative reforms are lower than
budgeted, or, as projected by the mission, inflation remains
subdued. Thus, expenditures may need to be restrained to achieve
the deficit target.”  Bulgaria  has been gripped by political turmoil since
February, when anti-austerity protests that echoed unrest across
 Europe  forced out former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov’s
administration. The European Union’s poorest country by per-capita economic output weathered the global financial crisis
without an international bailout.  Premier Plamen Oresharski’s minority cabinet, backed by the
Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which
represents ethnic Turks, took power after a May snap election.
It’s survived two no-confidence votes and recurring protests
against what demonstrators say is a corrupt political system.  Revenue, Debt  Budget revenue is estimated at about 31 billion lev ($21
billion), or about 38 percent of GDP, while spending is
envisaged at about 32.4 billion lev, or about 40 percent of GDP.  The IMF doesn’t see risks in the government’s plan to
borrow a total of 3.8 billion lev on global and domestic markets
next year, Shannon said. Bulgaria’s public debt was 17.5 percent
of economic output at the end of August.  “Bulgaria is characterized in Europe and in the region by
its low public debt levels, which is seen as a strength,”
Shannon said. “We believe that the government’s plans are
consistent with prudent debt levels. We don’t see that as a key
risk.”  Bulgaria’s financial system remains stable, well
capitalized and liquid, even though profitability remains low,
the IMF said in a statement. The banking system’s capital
adequacy ratio of about 17 percent is higher than the required
12 percent regulatory minimum and aggregate  Tier 1 capital  is
15.6 percent, according to the statement.  Gross non-performing loans are 17.2 percent of total credit
and are well provisioned, the IMF said.  “Weak credit demand and strong deposit growth have boosted
liquidity, allowing banks to further reduce external
financing,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  