-- Dolphins’ Incognito Challenges Suspension for Bullying Teammate
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/incognito-files-grievance-of-bullying-suspension-espn-reports.html
Richie Incognito filed a grievance
against the Miami Dolphins that challenges the offensive
lineman’s indefinite suspension amid bullying allegations from
teammate Jonathan Martin.  Incognito was suspended by the Dolphins on Nov. 3 for
conduct detrimental to the team after an expletive-filled voice
message he sent to Martin became public.  “The grievance challenges his suspension for conduct which
was alleged to have occurred while he was with the club,” the
NFL Players Association said in an e-mail. “In the grievance,
Incognito requests that the hearing be held on an expedited
basis so that he can immediately resume playing for the team.”  The National Football League’s collective bargaining
agreement states that the maximum suspension a team can issue
for detrimental conduct is four games, plus one additional game
check.  Dolphins spokesman Fitz Ollison didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment.  Martin left the Dolphins on Oct. 28. His lawyer has said
the offensive lineman endured harassment far beyond
“traditional locker room hazing” for the entire 1 1/2 seasons
he spent in Miami and was physically assaulted by an
unidentified teammate.  Incognito has said he’s embarrassed by the content of the
voice mail he left for Martin in April, while describing it as
characteristic of the vulgar way the two communicated. Dolphins
players such as quarterback Ryan Tannehill have publicly
supported Incognito.  The NFL has opened an independent probe into the case, with
no timetable for investigators to submit a report to
Commissioner Roger Goodell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  