-- Indian Inflation Exceeding Estimates Adds Rate-Rise Pressure
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-11-14T07:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/indian-inflation-tops-estimates-adding-pressure-for-rate-rise.html
Indian inflation accelerated more
than economists estimated in October, adding pressure on central
bank Governor Raghuram Rajan to raise interest rates again.  The wholesale-price  index  advanced 7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 6.46 percent climb in September, the
Commerce Ministry said in  New Delhi  today. The median of 40
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 6.95 percent.  Weakness in the rupee and bottlenecks in the supply of
everything from food to energy have fanned the cost of living in
 India  even as  economic growth  moderates. DBS Bank Ltd. and
Crisil Ltd. are among forecasters predicting Rajan will raise
the benchmark interest rate a quarter of a percentage point to 8
percent by the end of March next year.  “Inflation has begun to inch up and it is difficult to
imagine the central bank taking its eyes off it,” said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. She also
expects the  Reserve Bank  of India to boost the policy rate by a
quarter point by March.  The rupee pared gains and bonds dropped after the report.  The currency, which has weakened about 13 percent against
the dollar in the last 12 months, advanced 0.2 percent to 63.19
as of 1 p.m. in Mumbai. The yield on the 10-year government bond
maturing in May 2023 rose to 8.96 percent from 8.92 percent
yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex index of shares increased 1.4
percent, aided by earnings reports.  Weak Economy  Rajan has raised the  repurchase rate  twice, by a quarter
point each time, since taking over at the RBI at the start of
September. The former International Monetary Fund chief
economist has pledged to bring down inflation, which exceeds 10
percent based on a separate gauge of  consumer prices .  Both the weak economy and price pressures are a concern,
Rajan said at a briefing yesterday, adding the RBI will examine
the impact of food and fuel costs and rupee depreciation
“before we make further decisions on  interest rates .”  The rupee has strengthened about 9 percent from a record
low on Aug. 28. Rajan announced concessional swaps for banks
when he became governor to attract dollar inflows and bolster
India’s currency, whose weakness stokes import costs.  Food prices climbed 18.2 percent in October from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Fuel and power increased 10.3
percent. August inflation was revised to 6.99 percent from 6.10
percent.  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of  core
inflation , rose 2.58 percent after a 2.06 percent gain in
September, Bloomberg calculations based on the data showed.  Companies including carmaker Ford India Ltd. have raised
prices as input costs rise. Ford boosted them as much as 5
percent in September.  Inflation has sapped  consumer spending  in the nation of 1.2
billion people, where more than  800 million  live on less than $2
per day, making living costs a key issue for the general
election due by May.  The RBI predicts 5 percent economic growth in the year
ending March 2014, less than the average of about 8 percent in
the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  