-- Infiniti to Target Young Chinese Buyers Who Find BMW Commonplace
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2013-11-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/infiniti-to-target-young-chinese-buyers-who-find-bmw-commonplace.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s luxury Infiniti
brand plans to attract younger Chinese buyers who are more open-minded about trying out new cars because they find an Audi,
Mercedes or BMW too commonplace.  Luxury buyers in  China , the world’s largest auto market,
are younger than the average owner of premium cars globally and
are less concerned about a brand’s heritage than its present-day
image, Johan de Nysschen, president of Infiniti, said in an
interview in  Hong Kong .  “Ironically, these three German brands have become so
successful that they’ve become almost a little bit ubiquitous,”
de Nysschen, who formerly headed Audi’s U.S. operations, said in
an interview with Zeb Eckert on Bloomberg Television’s “Asia
Business.” “They’re everywhere. And this is where we see a big
opportunity with this new emerging premium consumer, to offer
them an alternative, reinvent the notion of exclusivity.”  Infiniti is targeting 10 percent of the world premium
market by 2020. To do that, the marque has to win market share
from Volkswagen AG’s Audi, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz in China, which McKinsey & Co.
predicts will overtake the U.S. to become the top market for
 luxury vehicles  by 2016.  The three German automakers, which all build cars in China,
account for about three of every four premium cars sold in the
Asian nation, LMC data show. China levies a 25 percent duty on
imported cars, making them less competitive against locally
produced models.  Infiniti expects to begin local production of two long-wheelbase models, the Q50 sedan and QX50 crossover, next year.
Automakers offer stretched versions of their models for China,
as consumers there prefer to be chauffeured and seek more
backseat comfort.  “Infiniti will be a boutique brand,” de Nysschen said.
“Rather than try to park an Infiniti in every driveway, we
would like to park them in the right driveways and present the
product and the brand that will appeal to those people who want
something different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  