-- Investor Backlash Yields New Danish Mortgage Plan: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-11-14T08:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/investor-backlash-yields-new-danish-mortgage-plan-nordic-credit.html
Denmark  will adjust a planned
intervention in its $530 billion mortgage bond market following
signs the original proposal risked driving away investors.  A draft unveiled by the Business Ministry in Copenhagen on
Nov. 6 to change maturities on one-year mortgage bonds to as
long as 30 years will probably be changed to limit the maturity
extension to as little as 12 months, said Karsten Beltoft, head
of the Danish Mortgage Bankers’ Federation. Business Minister
Henrik Sass Larsen in an opinion piece in newspaper Borsen today
confirmed the new plans.  “For investors it’s extremely important to know what
they’re buying,” Beltoft said yesterday in an interview. “A
bond with a one-year maturity or a 30-year maturity? Even if the
risk is extremely low, they still have to know that.”  The government is adjusting its proposal after mortgage
banks warned that investors were balking at the intervention and
threatening to drop the securities, which account for about one-third of the total market. Under the original measure, all
short-term bonds would convert to maturities matching the loan
they fund.  PFA, Denmark’s biggest commercial pension fund, has already
said it would demand a higher return to compensate it for the
original maturity change, which is triggered if interest rates
rise 5 percentage points or if an auction fails.  Maturity Jump  “It could be a big jump in maturities that might matter
for some investors,” Peter Jayaswal, deputy head of the
Association of Danish Mortgage Banks, said by phone. “We have
said to the authorities that they have to be aware that there
could be different investor segments. Today we have a huge
investor segment in the short end that is very happy about”
using the bonds as “money market instruments,” he said.  Larsen said Nov. 6 the government needed to intervene after
industry efforts to address refinancing risks posed by the
short-term bonds proved inadequate.  The one-year bonds, which are used to finance mortgages as
long as 30 years, have come under scrutiny from ratings
companies and the central bank after they soared in popularity
since their introduction in 1996.  Borrowers have been reluctant to switch back to 30-year,
fixed-rate bonds after interest rates in AAA Denmark sank to
record lows at the height of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.
That helped cushion the blow to homeowners of a 20 percent slump
in property prices since the 2007 peak.  Destroying Liquidity  Mortgage bonds also have come to serve as an important
money market instrument for Denmark’s financial industry. The
securities make up as much as 80 percent of the liquid assets
banks are required to hold, Beltoft estimates.  “In the short run, there are likely to be many investors
that could run into problems with their investment mandates,”
said Jesper Berg, head of regulatory affairs for Nykredit A/S,
Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank. “This is a big operation and I
am sure the authorities are considering how to implement changes
in way that reduces risks.”  Yields on one-year mortgage bonds may be as low as 0.55
percent in auctions this month to refinance loans with a Jan. 1
interest reset date, according toChristian Heinig, chief
economist at Realkredit Danmark A/S.  Finding Balance  Lawmakers need to be careful that their proposals don’t
“destroy the very liquid market that we have today,” Jayaswal
said. “It is a balance between addressing the refinancing risk
on the one hand and investors on the other.”  The Danish government still needs to convince European
regulators the new maturity profile satisfies stable funding
rules intended to protect against market freezes. The Financial
Supervisory Authority in Copenhagen, which deems funding shorter
than 12 months as unstable for commercial banks, said the
original proposal would fulfill stable funding requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  