-- Iran Is Said to Signal Nuclear Cooperation by Slowing Expansion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-11-14T18:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/iran-slows-nuclear-capacity-while-uranium-stock-grows-to-record.html
Iran  has signaled a willingness to
halt the expansion of nuclear work at the center of its decade-long dispute with world powers, according to diplomats familiar
with the investigation into the atomic program.  Iran stopped installing machinery to boost production at
its uranium-enrichment facility even as the stockpile of its
most sensitive nuclear material grew to a record, United Nations
nuclear monitors reported. The Persian Gulf nation also slowed
construction of a reactor at Arak.  Work on putting in place the advanced centrifuges, which
separate uranium isotopes at supersonic speeds, was halted
shortly after Iranian President Hassan Rouhani took office,
according to three senior diplomats who declined to be named
because the information is not yet public. The construction
slowdown at Arak makes Iranian estimates they could begin
testing next year seem very optimistic, they said.  Today’s report follows a deal struck between the Vienna-based agency and Iran this week that gives investigators broader
access to facilities in the Persian Gulf country. While Iran
insists it won’t give up enriching uranium, negotiators told
world powers last week it’s willing to compromise on the level
and scope of that activity.  “The framework for cooperation marks an important step
forward,” International Atomic Energy Agency monitors said in a
16-page restricted report seen by  Bloomberg News . “The agency
and Iran agreed to cooperate further with respect to
verification activities to be undertaken by the agency to
resolve all present and past issues.”  Uranium Stockpile  While the agency still wants to investigate what happened
at Iran’s Parchin military complex, where Iran allegedly
conducted nuclear weapons tests a decade ago, the diplomats said
it was important to win a first-step agreement to improve
understanding about what is currently happening in the country.
Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful uses.  Iran’s stockpile of uranium enriched to 20 percent rose to
196 kilograms (432 pounds) from 185.8 kilograms reported in
September, the IAEA document said. While Iran has enriched 410
kilograms of 20 percent uranium in total, it has converted
nearly half of that into metal, rendering it more difficult to
further purify it to weapons grade.  About 175 kilograms of 20 percent-enriched uranium, or 630
kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further purified, could
yield the quantity of weapons-grade uranium needed to produce a
bomb, according to the London-based Verification Research,
Training and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to
the IAEA that’s funded by European governments.  French Objections  The IAEA said that while work at Iran’s Arak heavy-water
reactor didn’t stop, “no major components, such as the control
room equipment, the refueling machine and reactor cooling pumps,
had been installed.” French objections to the reactor’s
construction helped derail an initial agreement between Iran and
world powers last week in Geneva.  The amount of uranium enriched to 5 percent rose to 10,357
kilograms from 9,704 kilograms reported in September, according
to the report. Iran left unchanged the number of advanced, so-called P2 centrifuges that are installed, according to the IAEA,
which added that the 1,008 machines that separate uranium
isotopes at supersonic speeds are not in operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  