-- Third Point Invests in Turkey’s Biggest Real Estate Company
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-11-14T16:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/third-point-llc-said-to-buy-150m-in-turkey-s-emlak-konut-spo.html
Third Point  LLC, the New York-based
hedge fund headed by billionaire activist investor  Daniel Loeb ,
bought $150 million of shares in the secondary public offering
of  Turkey ’s biggest real estate company,  Emlak Konut GYO (EKGYO) ,
according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The purchase is Third Point’s only investment in the
Turkish equity market, according to the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public. That gives
the hedge fund a stake of just under five percent, which is the
mandatory disclosure limit in Turkey, the people said.  Emlak Konut, which is 49.3 percent owned by the Turkish
state housing authority TOKI after the sale, has privileged
access to state-owned land, which it auctions to real estate
developers for a share in the revenue generated. The company on
Oct. 30 reported the equivalent of $169 million in net income in
the third quarter, beating the average estimate of $133 million
from nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  shares  rose as much as 3.5 percent today before closing
2.8 percent higher at 2.61 liras. The company is  rated  buy by 13
analysts covering the stock on Bloomberg, hold by eight and sell
by one. It was the  most-traded  stock on the Borsa Istanbul by
volume today, with more than 225 million shares traded,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Investors  Emlak had  dropped  8.3 percent to 2.54 liras in Istanbul
yesterday, its first day of trading after the company sold 1.3
billion shares at 2.50 liras each in an SPO from Nov. 6 to Nov.
8. The price compared with 2.77 liras at the close on Nov. 1,
the last day of trading before the sale.  Foreign institutional investors bought 80 percent of shares
in the offering, while domestic institutional and individual
investors purchased 10 percent each, according to a filing by
brokerage Halk Yatirim with Borsa Istanbul on Nov. 11.  Loeb, who focuses on event-driven investing, buying and
selling stocks or bonds of companies going through changes like
spinoffs or mergers, said on a conference call Nov. 12 that
easy-money policies by central banks in the U.S.,  Asia  and
 Europe  are providing protection for equity investors in the near
term. He has engaged with companies including Yahoo! Inc. and
Sony Corp. to shift corporate strategies with a goal of driving
up share prices.  Loeb’s fund climbed 21 percent last year, boosted by
investments in Greek sovereign debt. That compares with an
average gain of 1.59 percent by  hedge funds  in the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul  National 100 index  jumped 53
percent in 2012, the second-best performance in the world after
 Venezuela ’s benchmark measure. Emlak rose 60 percent in the
year. The stock today pared its year-to-date decline for 2013 to
16 percent, compared with a 5.4 percent drop in Turkey’s gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  