-- Ireland to Exit Bailout Without Precautionary Credit Line
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-11-14T15:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/irish-to-exit-bailout-program-without-precautionary-credit-line.html
Ireland will exit its bailout
program without the safety net of a precautionary credit line
from international authorities, Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said.  Ireland, which sought 67.5 billion euros ($90.8 billion) of
rescue funds from international creditors in November 2010, will
leaving the program on Dec. 15.  “This is the latest in a series of steps to return Ireland
to normal economic, budgetary and funding conditions,” Kenny
told lawmakers in Dublin today. “Like most other sovereign
euro-zone countries, from 2014 we will be in a position to fund
ourselves normally on the markets.”  Arriving in Brussels today to tell his euro region
colleagues of the Irish move, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said Ireland doesn’t need a precautionary line after amassing a
cash pile of about 20 billion euros. While the decision avoids
the fee and conditions that would be attached to a  credit
line , it also means the ECB’s bond-buying Outright Monetary
Transaction program won’t be tested.  “While this has been well signaled, it’s good from a
confidence point of view,” said Juliet Tennent, an economist at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “Still, we would have liked to
have had continued external surveillance that would have gone
with a precautionary line. But it may be that the conditions
being sought may have been too onerous.”  Spain too is on course for a “clean break” from its aid
program, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters in
Brussels. Like Ireland, Spain was hit by a real-estate crash
that prompted investors to shun its debt.  Bank Crisis  Spain  took 41 billion euros in European aid for its banking
industry last year out of as much as 100 billion euros that it
originally requested as concern grew that mounting charges for
souring assets linked to real estate at lenders including the
Bankia group would contaminate government finances.  The credit line secured by the Spanish government for its
lenders last year won’t be available anymore after the country
exits the program, said a spokeswoman for the Economy Ministry
who asked not be named, in line with government policy.  “The banking system is much more solid, much more
solvent,” Guindos said. Ireland “must have done an analysis,
in which it’s seen that effectively they have capacity to access
the market. It’s good news for everyone.”  The yield on 10-year Irish  government bonds  has fallen over
560 basis points to 3.53 percent since the country first
requested a bailout and its spread or difference with 10 year
German bunds has fallen over 460 basis points to 1.82 percent.  Spanish 10-year bond yields have also declined since their
government requested aid, falling 215 basis points to 4.07
percent.  In the run-up to exiting the bailout, the Irish government
has been building up its cash buffers. In March, the state sold
5 billion euros of a 10-year bond, its first such issue since
the international rescue.  Cash Buffer  While the government has enough cash to last until early
2015, the country’s debt agency will issue between 6 billion and
10 billion euros of debt next year to pre-fund for 2015, it said
in an e-mailed statement today.  A war chest hasn’t always been enough for Ireland. In
October 2010, then-Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  pointed to the
country’s 20 billion euros of cash as evidence that the
government wouldn’t need a bailout. Within two months, Ireland
sought outside help, as investors fretted that growing holes in
the banking system would sink the state’s finances.  “It’s a display of confidence by the Irish government,”
said Ryan McGrath, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Dublin,
a primary dealer in Irish sovereign debt. “However, they’ve
given up on having a 12-month insurance policy behind them.”  Portugal , which also needed a bailout, is watching
developments in Ireland, Vice Premier Paulo Portas said in
Lisbon.  “Our objective is to end the program and regain our
autonomy,” Portas said. “In the right moment, we will speak
about the model for Portugal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  