-- Mistry Sees Steady Palm Oil Prices After Output Trails Estimates
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-11-14T10:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/mistry-sees-steady-palm-oil-prices-after-output-trails-estimates.html
Palm oil  will probably trade from
2,400 ringgit ($748) to 2,600 ringgit in coming months after
output was less than expected and as producers expand biofuel
use, said Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  Futures may rise as much as 8.3 percent to 2,800 ringgit a
metric ton on good biodiesel demand in  Indonesia  and poor output
in January and February, Mistry said in comments prepared for a
conference in  China , abandoning a prediction prices may tumble
to 2,000 ringgit by January. At 2,800 ringgit, demand would drop
and prices would be set to decline in the second half, he said.  Palm oil, used in everything from candy to detergents,
entered a  bull market  this month and is heading for its first
annual gain in three years as production declines at plantations
in Indonesia, the world’s biggest supplier. Yields in the
country may drop 15 percent to 20 percent this year on bad
weather, the Indonesian Palm Oil Association said yesterday.  “The path of least resistance will be sideways to slightly
higher,” said Mistry, who has traded vegetable oils for more
than three decades. “September production in Indonesia was well
below expectation. We thought the peak production period had
been delayed and expected much better production in October.
These hopes were dashed.”  Futures fell 0.6 percent to 2,588 ringgit on Bursa  Malaysia 
Derivatives in  Kuala Lumpur  today. Prices rose to 2,628 ringgit
on Nov. 1, the highest close since September 2012 and 21 percent
more than the 2,167 ringgit settlement on July 29, meeting the
common definition of a bull market.  Golden Agri  Mistry said on Sept. 22 in Mumbai that futures could drop
to 2,000 ringgit in January on prospects for big soybean crops
in  Brazil  and  Argentina  and if Brent crude oil fell below $100 a
barrel. Brent traded at $107.67 today.  Crude palm oil output at  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the
second-biggest palm plantations operator, dropped 5 percent to
1.58 million tons in the first nine months because of the trees’
biological cycle, it said Nov. 12. Production at  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL) , the largest palm oil trader, fell 8 percent
to 473,833 tons in the third quarter from a year earlier, the
Singapore-based company said Nov. 7. Output is typically highest
from July to October because of the growing cycle.  Indonesian plantations are on the cusp of a low-yield cycle
and the country could produce less than 27 million tons this
year, falling short of the 30 million tons to 31 million tons
estimated initially, Standard Chartered Bank said in a note
yesterday, citing industry reports.  Increased Blending  “There does not appear to be any big climatic or weather
factor involved and therefore, production which has been lost in
2013 will be made up in 2014,” said Mistry. “It is entirely
likely that we shall have in Indonesia a high cycle, which
started in September and which gathers momentum only toward May
and gives us a peak in September to November.”  Futures could rally to 3,000 ringgit by January if
Indonesian production this year is less than 2012, while if
output expanded by 1 million tons “current prices will be fine
and need not go higher,” said Mistry. There was not much
concern over  Malaysian output , which at best will be 19.1
million tons and at worst 19 million tons this year, he said.  Indonesia’s move to increase biofuels blending will be the
key driver for demand, said Mistry. The country raised the
blending rate for biodiesel in subsidized fuel to 10 percent in
September from 7.5 percent and the mandate will be expanded to
non-subsidized fuel and for industrial users next year.  ‘Game Changers’  Biodiesel capacity may jump to 8.8 million kiloliters by
the end of 2015 from 5.6 million kiloliters this year, Paulus
Tjakrawan, secretary general of the Indonesia Biofuel Producers
Association, said yesterday.  “There can be no denying the fact that domestic mandates
in Indonesia, Malaysia and Brazil are really the game
changers,” said Mistry. A tender for supply of biodiesel for
use by PT Pertamina gave the market a sense of the seriousness
of the Indonesian government, he said.  Domestic mandates for biodiesel in Indonesia and Malaysia
will work as long as palm prices remain competitive with  Brent
crude , he said. Between July and October, the spread between
palm and gas oil was enough to create an additional monthly
biodiesel demand of 100,000 tons to 150,000 tons, he said. All
the world’s major crude oil traders have set up infrastructure
to capitalize on such opportunities, he said.  About 6.34 million tons of palm oil will probably be
processed into fuel this year, according to Hamburg-based
industry researcher Oil World.  ‘Faded Star’  Global cooking oil demand may increase by 6 million tons in
the 12 months from October, while supplies will expand 6.6
million tons, said Mistry. Demand for palm was strong in  India 
and  Europe , he said. A stable rupee and optimism in the economy
have led to better buying from Indian importers to meet demand
and to replenish inventories, he said.  “From being a faded star, India has emerged in the last
few weeks as a stellar importer once again,” said Mistry.
“Palm shipments to Europe have also been brisk and way ahead of
the previous year.”  Imports by India probably climbed 14 percent in October to
710,000 tons from a month earlier as a delay in the local
oilseed harvest reduced cooking oil stockpiles to the lowest
level in nine months, a Bloomberg survey showed this week.  Soybean oil  from the old crop will trade from $920 to $950
a ton on a free-on-board basis in Argentina, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  