-- Italy Contracts in Third Quarter as Recession Enters Third Year
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-11-14T09:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/italy-contracts-in-third-quarter-as-recession-enters-third-year.html
Italy ’s recession, the country’s
longest since World War II, entered its third year after gross
domestic product fell in the three months through September.  GDP declined 0.1 percent from the second quarter, when it
dropped 0.3 percent, national statistics institute Istat said in
a preliminary report in  Rome  today. That matched the median
forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. From a
year earlier, the economy shrank 1.9 percent.  The slump, combined with a third-quarter contraction in
 France , indicates the euro-area economy is continuing to
struggle to recover from the debt crisis. Istat’s acting
chairman, Antonio Golini, told lawmakers on Oct. 29 that Italy’s
GDP will decline 1.8 percent this year. That’s more than the 1.4
percent contraction the statistics office projected in May.  “Acceleration in activity is not in the cards anytime
soon,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in
 London . “Business confidence indicators have been relatively
upbeat in the third quarter, but hard data remained in
contraction territory.”  Germany ’s economy, the euro area’s biggest, lost momentum
in the third quarter, with growth cooling to 0.3 percent from
0.7 percent. France, the region’s  second-biggest economy ,
unexpectedly contracted 0.1 percent.  Unemployment  In Italy,  joblessness  rose more than forecast in September
to a record 12.5 percent, with youth unemployment at 40.4
percent. While industrial production rose in September for the
first time in three months, it fell 1 percent in the third
quarter.  There are some signs of stabilization. Business confidence
rose last month to the highest since August 2011 as executives
expect Italy to exit its slump soon. That view is backed by
Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government, which since taking
power in April has eased some of the budget austerity that Italy
needed last year to fight the European sovereign debt crisis.  “Some macro data say that next year, 2014, the recovery is
actually at hand,” Letta said in a Rome speech yesterday.  Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni told lawmakers last
month that Italy’s  GDP (ITPIRLQS)  will rise 1.1 percent next year. That’s
more than the 0.7 percent expansion forecast both by Istat and
the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  