-- Mizuho Raises Profit Forecast 20% as Stock Rally Spurs Fees
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-14T07:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/mizuho-raises-profit-forecast-20-as-stock-rebound-boosts-fees.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s
third-biggest bank by market value, raised its full-year profit
forecast 20 percent as a stock-market rally spurred fee income
and the value of its shareholdings.  Net income will probably total 600 billion yen ($6 billion)
in the year ending March 31, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement today. That compares with the 500 billion yen
previously forecast and the 574.9 billion-yen average estimate
of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mizuho raised the target even as regulators probe the bank
and lawmakers grill President Yasuhiro Sato for failing to end
loans to crime groups. The company joins  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  in upgrading the earnings outlook amid an
equity rebound that peaked in May on expectations for Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies to stimulate the  economy .  “The earlier estimate doesn’t reflect the reality
anymore,” Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said by phone before the report. “Mizuho’s crime-loan
scandal won’t have any impact on earnings although it may hurt
the bank’s reputation.”  Net income more than doubled to 429.7 billion yen in the
six months ended Sept. 30 from 184.3 billion yen a year earlier,
Mizuho said today. That beat the 379 billion-yen average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Best Performance  Shares of Mizuho closed 0.9 percent higher at 214 yen
before the earnings release. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  rose 1.2
percent, extending this year’s gain to 42 percent, making
Japanese stocks the best performers in the developed world.  Income from fees and commissions rose 28 percent to 275.4
billion yen in the first half from a year earlier, Mizuho said
today. It posted a 39 billion-yen gain from equity-related
investments, compared with a loss of 227.6 billion yen a year
earlier. Lending income rose 0.2 percent to 534 billion yen.  Mizuho has been roiled by revelations that it failed to
cancel loans made to gangsters through a consumer credit
affiliate and then misinformed the Financial Services Agency
about how much its top executives knew about the transactions.
President Sato, who has taken pay cuts as his bank vowed to
improve compliance, apologized in parliament yesterday.  The FSA broadened its probe this month by beginning
inspections of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  and  Sumitomo
Mitsui  as well as reexamining Mizuho.  Sumitomo Mitsui  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest bank by market
value, earlier this week reported record six-month profit of
505.7 billion yen and raised its full-year forecast 29 percent
to 750 billion yen. Mitsubishi UFJ is scheduled to report
earnings later today.  The world’s third-largest  economy  grew at an annual 1.9
percent rate in the three months ended September, a fourth
quarter of expansion, the Cabinet Office reported today. While
that represented a second straight period of slowdown, Economy
Minister Akira Amari said he expects a moderate pace of
consumption growth and a solid export recovery.  Loans at major banks increased 1.7 percent in October, the
11th consecutive advance,  Bank of Japan  data show. That’s
helping to offset the lowest loan profitability in  Asia  as asset
purchases by the central bank depress  interest rates . Net
interest margins at the three megabanks average 0.99 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  