-- James Baker on Espionage, World Bank’s Badre: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-11-14T07:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/james-baker-on-espionage-world-bank-s-badre-d-c-scene.html
Bertrand Badre, managing director
and chief financial officer of the World Bank, and
Representative  Carolyn Maloney , New York Democrat, dined last
night at the  French-American Cultural Foundation ’s 15th
anniversary gala.  Badre, who said he’s the most senior Frenchman to serve at
the bank, described French and Americans as an old couple.
“We’ve had our highs and lows but we’ve never been at war.”  Maloney, who studied French in high school and college,
said that because so many of her constituents have been Latinos,
“whenever I try to speak French, Spanish comes out.”  She said her goal is to have a Parisian museum host an
exhibition of art from the Whitney Museum of American Art, which
is in her district.  French Ambassador Francois Delattre hosted the dinner at
the Four Seasons Hotel in honor of Leonard Silverstein, the
foundation’s president.  Guests dined on duck foie gras, Maine lobster, and farm
lamb prepared by Eric Briffard, executive chef of the Four
Seasons Hotel George V in Paris. Louis Roederer provided the
Cristal.  James Baker  On Tuesday night at the Kennedy Center  James Baker  received
the Making Cancer History Award from the MD Anderson Cancer
Center at the University of Texas, where he was treated for
prostate cancer.  Baker said European leaders shouldn’t be surprised by
allegations of American espionage. “We couldn’t find a hotel in
Paris that wasn’t bugged,” he said about his time as secretary
of state under President  George H.W. Bush .  “You don’t lose a damn thing by talking to people,” he
said in response to a question about negotiations with Iran.
“I’m not in favor of any more wars in the Middle East. We’ve
had enough of those for a while.”  Over short ribs and Texas pecan pie, Baker had the company
of fellow Texan  Randall Stephenson , the chairman and president
of AT&T Inc.,  Henry Kissinger , and  David Rubenstein , co-founder
of the Carlyle Group.  Democratic Senators Thomas Harkin of Iowa,  Jay Rockefeller 
and Joseph Manchin of West Virginia attended, as did
Representative Michael McCaul, the Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Committee on Homeland Security.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on art and Lance Esplund on museums.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at 
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  