-- Japan’s Biggest Banks See Profit Declining in Second Half
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-15T00:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/japan-s-biggest-banks-set-to-report-a-profit-drop-in-second-half.html
Japan ’s three biggest banks reported
a surge in first-half profits this week that they said means the
year will turn out better than expected. The second half won’t
be as good.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  increased
their combined net income target by 23 percent to 2.26 trillion
yen ($23 billion) for the year ending March, company statements
showed. If they achieve the goal, second-half profit will fall
46 percent to 794.3 billion yen from the first six months’ 1.47
trillion yen and drop 43 percent from a year earlier.  The forecast for lower second-half earnings reflects the
banks’ uncertainty over whether Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can
sustain an economic recovery that’s been driven by  government
spending  and a weaker yen. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has slid
from a more than five-year high in May, while expansion of
 output  slowed last quarter as companies eased up on  capital
investment , signaling  loan growth  may remain muted.  “The first half was too good,” Naoko Nemoto, managing
director of financial institutions ratings at  Standard & Poor’s 
in Tokyo, said by phone yesterday. “Abenomics has only given us
a cheaper yen and higher stock prices and I’m skeptical that
Abe’s policies will stimulate corporate investment and lead to
solid loan demand.”  The higher profit targets at the three Tokyo-based banks
exceeded the  estimates  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as the
equity-market revival spurred sales of investment products and
boosted the value of the lenders’ stakes in other companies.
Fees and commissions climbed at least 20 percent in the first
half from a year earlier, the reports showed.  Biggest Bank  Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest bank, said yesterday that
net income will probably total 910 billion yen this fiscal year,
raising its target by 20 percent after first-half profit jumped
83 percent to 530.2 billion yen. Mizuho increased its annual
forecast by 20 percent to 600 billion yen even as it grapples
with a regulatory probe into loans to criminal groups. First-half profit more than doubled to 429.7 billion yen, it said
yesterday.  Sumitomo Mitsui  raised its forecast by 29 percent on Nov.
12 to 750 billion yen after first-half profit surged to a record
505.7 billion yen.  “Banks aren’t expecting operations that did so well in the
first half, thanks to the rally in share prices, to continue
that way in the second half,” Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone yesterday.
“Investors’ attention is switching to how banks’ core business
will fare in the second half.”  Shares Rise  Bank  shares  rose in early trading in Tokyo today as the
Nikkei 225 climbed above 15,000 for the first time since May on
the back of renewed weakening of the yen. Mitsubishi UFJ gained
0.9 percent to 651 yen at 9:33 a.m. local time. Mizuho advanced
1.4 percent and Sumitomo Mitsui increased 1.9 percent.  The stock gauge could fall about 20 percent to 12,000 if
the government doesn’t do more to persuade investors its
economic stimulus efforts will succeed, Norikazu Akedo, head of
Japan equities at Nomura Holdings Inc., the country’s biggest
brokerage, said in an interview this week. Nomura is sticking to
its forecast for the measure to rise to 18,000 by the end of
2013, Akedo said.  Bank executives expressed optimism that loan growth will
pick up and companies will increase investment as Abe attempts
to augment his policies of fiscal spending and monetary easing
with efforts to make industries more competitive.  Corporate Sentiment  “Corporate managers’ sentiment is improving,” Sumitomo
Mitsui President  Koichi Miyata  said on Nov. 12. “If Abe
executes his growth strategy, then  capital spending  will expand
and that will generate loan demand.”  The economy’s expansion slowed for a second quarter to 1.9
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, government data
showed yesterday. The growth was fueled by government spending
and an accumulation of inventories.  Loan growth  at the nation’s biggest banks slowed in October
for the first time since credit resumed expanding in December
2012,  Bank of Japan  data showed this week. Japanese banks need
to expand credit to offset the lowest loan profitability in  Asia 
as the country’s monetary easing depresses  interest rates . Net
interest margins at Japan’s three largest banks average 1
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s first-half lending income climbed 3.7
percent to 908.7 billion yen, yesterday’s report showed.
Mizuho’s rose 0.2 percent to 534 billion yen. Sumitomo Mitsui
posted a 15 percent increase to 780.3 billion yen.  Abenomics Benefit  “You can’t just conclude that banks aren’t benefiting from
Abenomics just because lending income isn’t on a solid upward
trend yet,” Mitsubishi UFJ President Nobuyuki Hirano told
reporters yesterday.  The banks’ upward profit revisions are “conservative” and
there is room for them to exceed their forecasts,  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo, wrote
in a report today. “Further growth in domestic lending would be
a positive for profits and the share price,” he wrote.  A headwind facing Japanese banks is a government probe
after Mizuho was ordered to improve compliance for failing to
stop loans to criminal organizations. The Financial Services
Agency this month began inspections of Mitsubishi UFJ and
Sumitomo Mitsui and reexamining Mizuho.  The scandal that started with Mizuho is turning into a
problem for the whole banking sector, said Yamada at Deutsche
Bank. Mizuho President  Yasuhiro Sato  and Japanese Bankers
Association Chairman Takeshi Kunibe were grilled on the crime-loan issue by lawmakers in parliament this week.  “We will do our best to see that the loan issue won’t have
a big impact on our fiscal-year plan,” Sato said at a briefing
on the earnings yesterday. “I think the 600 billion-yen
forecast is definitely achievable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  