-- Japanese Shares Advance as Yen Weakens on Aso Comments
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-11-14T07:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/japan-shares-rise-on-expectations-fed-to-prolong-stimulus.html
Japanese  shares  jumped, with the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average closing at its highest since May, as
the yen weakened after Finance Minister Taro Aso said the nation
must retain the option to intervene in  currency markets .  Fast Retailing Co., a clothing retailer with an about 9
percent  weighting  on the Nikkei 225, surged 5.2 percent.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. gained on a report the lenders will raise their profit
forecasts today. Sportswear maker Mizuno Corp. sank 3.2 percent
after halving its net-income outlook.  The Nikkei 225 added 2.1 percent to 14,876.41 in Tokyo, its
highest close since May 22. The broader  Topix index  climbed 1.2
percent to 1,218.55, with all but one of its 33 industry groups
rising. Shares advanced in the morning as remarks by  Janet
Yellen , the nominee to lead the  Federal Reserve , fueled optimism
the U.S. will maintain stimulus. The yen slid 0.4 percent to
99.64 per dollar.  “Yellen’s speech is making the market buoyant as the view
spreads that tapering will be delayed,” said Hiroaki Hiwada, a
strategist at Toyo Securities Co. in Tokyo. Aso’s comments
provide “verbal support. While it’s unlikely they’ll intervene
with the currency at these levels, it’s positive as it means
there’ll be pressure on the yen if it strengthens.”  As with other nations,  Japan  needs to be able to intervene
in currency markets if necessary, Aso said at a parliamentary
committee today in response to a question about the government’s
special foreign-exchange accounts law. The country must set
aside a proper amount of money to fund such actions, he said.  Yen Slides  The yen weakened after Aso’s comments during the cash-equity trading break, driving exporters higher. The Topix
Electrical Appliance index gained 1.7 percent, the  biggest boost 
to the broader gauge. Sony Corp., which gets about 70 percent of
sales overseas, added 2.3 percent to 1,786 yen. Panasonic Corp.,
which gets nearly half its revenue abroad, advanced 4 percent to
1,031 yen.  Nikkei 225 futures  jumped  as the yen weakened during the
break, prompting gains on the underlying measure when it
reopened in the afternoon. The gauge’s closing level was the
highest relative to the Topix since May.  Fast Retailing, the most heavily-weighted stock on the
Nikkei 225, jumped 5.2 percent to 34,250 yen. SoftBank Corp. and
Fanuc Corp., the second and third-largest, climbed 1.2 percent
and 3.2 percent respectively.  “The yen weakened and Nikkei 225 futures rose in the cash-equity trading break,” said  Gentoku Kiyokawa , Tokyo-based head
of Japanese  investment management  at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners, which oversees the equivalent of $647 billion. “It
looks like this spurred a surge in arbitrage trading in Fast
Retailing’s cash stocks, which have the heaviest weighting on
the Nikkei 225. Other shares with big impacts on the gauge also
rose significantly.”  Yellen Remarks  Futures on the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent. The measure gained 0.8 percent to a record yesterday.
Yellen said the  U.S. economy  and labor market are performing
“far short of their potential” and must improve before the
central bank can begin reducing bond purchases.  “The view that tapering of stimulus won’t happen for a
while is spreading,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager 
at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Japanese shares
will also benefit from a risk-on scenario.”  Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest bank, gained 1.6 percent to
645 yen today, its highest since Sept. 26. Mizuho rose 0.9
percent to 214 yen. The lenders will boost their net-income
outlooks by about 10 percent, the Nikkei newspaper reported this
morning, without citing anybody.  Mizuho posted earnings after the close, raising its profit
forecast to 600 billion yen from 500 billion. Mitsubishi UFJ
releases earnings at 4:30 p.m. local time.  Mizuno Declines  Among stocks that fell, Mizuno sank 3.2 percent to 553 yen.
The sportwear maker lowered its full-year forecast for net
income by 50 percent.  Japan’s gross domestic product rose an annualized 1.9
percent in the July-September period after gaining 3.8 percent
the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office reported today in
Tokyo. The median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 1.7 percent increase. This marks a second quarter of
slowing growth, as weaker  consumer spending  and a decline in
export growth outweighed stronger real-estate investment.  “There are both positives and negatives to the GDP
figures,” said  Akio Yoshino , chief economist in Tokyo at Amundi
Japan Ltd., which oversees about 3.3 trillion yen ($33 billion).
“One the one hand, it shows Abenomics is steadily moving
forward. However, even though the yen has corrected and has been
weakening over the past nine months,  capital investment  is still
weak. But I think the slowdown in GDP growth will be
temporary.”  The Topix traded at 1.25 times book value today, compared
with 2.57 for the S&P 500 and 1.78 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index yesterday. The Japanese measure’s 30-day  volatility  was
16.08 today, down from its five-year median of 19.1. Volume on
the gauge was 24 percent above the 30-day average today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  