-- JPMorgan Gets Map to Descend FSB Surcharge Plateau With HSBC
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-11-14T11:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/jpmorgan-gets-map-to-descend-capital-surcharge-plateau-with-hsbc.html
Global regulators this week put
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  at the pinnacle of a
list of 29 too-big-to-fail banks that face tougher capital rules
than other lenders. The companies were also handed a map to plot
their descent.  For the first time since it started compiling a roster of
lenders whose collapse would threaten the global economy, the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  also disclosed the
thresholds for how it determined the level of extra capital
requirements that such banks should face. The move will enable
lenders to find ways to move down to a lower surcharge category
or exit the list altogether.  The capital surcharges for globally systemic lenders add an
extra layer of safety beyond beefed-up standards known as Basel
III that emerged in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Regulators said the additional buffers
were vital to protect taxpayers and prevent crises from
cascading through the financial system.  “I think the Basel committee would be quite happy in this
instance for banks to change their scores by becoming smaller,
less interconnected, less complex,” said  Patricia Jackson , head
of prudential advisory at Ernst & Young LLP in  London . “It’s
also a shot across the bows in the sense that if they become
more complex, larger, relative to others they go up the list.”  Basel III  The Basel committee is the architect of Basel III, which
would more than triple minimum rules on the core equity that
banks should have to absorb losses. It also devised the list of
systemic banks for the Financial Stability Board, which brings
together regulators and central bankers from the Group of 20
nations.  It uses a combination of measures to decide which banks
should be included on the list -- and what capital surcharge
they should face. Regulators take into account lenders’
interconnectedness, their size, complexity, global reach, and
the ability of other firms to take over their functions should
they fail.  The extra requirements are set in half-percentage-point
increments ranging from 1 percent of a bank’s risk-weighted
assets to 2.5 percent.  On top of tougher capital requirements, banks on the FSB
list also face greater oversight of their risk management and
internal controls.  Loss Absorbency  The new data should enable banks to work out “their
end-2012 scores and see their positions within the buckets that,
in future exercises, will determine their higher loss absorbency
requirement,” the committee said in a statement on its website,
in reference to the list. The information adds to details of the
general methodology for calculating the surcharges, which was
already public.  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and HSBC in London declined to
comment.  Greater transparency “can help banks move in the direction
regulators wish,” Huw van Steenis, head of European banking
analysis at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , in London, said in an e-mail.  Still, national rules and stress tests are “largely
trumping” the FSB requirements, by forcing banks to hold even
more capital, said van Steenis, whose employer is among the 29
listed banks and currently faces a 1.5 percentage point
surcharge.  Banks and regulators have clashed over the economic
consequences of forcing lenders to boost their capital,
presenting competing assessments of the impact on growth.  Competing Estimates  The Basel committee estimated in 2010 that Basel III would
trim global economic growth by a “modest” 0.22 percent over
its implementation period. The banking industry has presented
estimates that are  several multiples  higher.  Banks can boost their  capital ratios  in several ways,
including by issuing ordinary shares and other instruments that
count as capital, as well as by selling off assets or scaling
back lending.  The largest global banks cut the shortfall in the reserves
they’ll need to meet Basel capital rules, including the FSB
surcharges, by 82.9 billion euros ($111 billion) in the second
half of 2012, leaving a gap of 115 billion euros at the end of
last year, according to data published by regulators in
September. European banks accounted for 70.4 billion euros of
the end-2012 shortfall.  Since the list system was devised in 2011, European and
U.S. regulators have taken independent steps to toughen rules
for their banks. The European Banking Authority requires some
lenders to meet  capital requirements  equivalent to 9 percent of
their risk-weighted assets.  Capital Clamor  Banks in the bloc also stand to face stress tests and asset
quality reviews by the EBA and  European Central Bank . In the
U.S., regulators have indicated that some banks may have to meet
leverage and liquidity rules that in some ways go beyond what is
foreseen by Basel.  The clamor to meet other targets may make the capital
surcharges “less of an issue,” said Jackson. And banks on the
lower rungs may feel there is some security in being on the
list, she said.  “There are certainly some banks who thought they were
better off being included, so that investors see them as too-big-to-fail. At the same time, they probably don’t want to be
one of the highest.”  Lower Ranking  One complication for lenders seeking a lower ranking on the
list is that banks’ systemic importance is measured relative to
other lenders.  “If a bank reduces its size and interconnectedness, but
the whole group does as well, then the bank’s score will not
change,” said Jackson.  The surcharges will be gradually phased in from 2016, and
will be initially based on next year’s version of the list, to
be calculated using data from the end of this year.  “There should come a day” when the FSB list is blank,
Stephen Cecchetti, head of the monetary and economic department
at the  Bank for International Settlements , said last year.
“That day will come when either the institutions change, the
rules change, or both.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  