-- K+S Plans $673 Million in Savings to Counter Potash Slump
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-11-14T09:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/k-s-plans-673-million-in-savings-to-counter-potash-slump-1-.html
K+S AG (SDF) ,  Europe ’s largest potash
supplier, plans 500 million euros ($673 million) in cost savings
over the next three years to help counter weakened potassium and
potash markets and make it more competitive.  The bulk of the planned savings, under a program named
“Fit for the Future,” will stem from material costs though the
company is also considering job cuts, Kassel, Germany-based K+S
said in a statement today. K+S reported operating profit of
115.8 million euros in the third quarter. That compared with
analysts median prediction of 106.5 million euros in a survey.  “This is an ambitious target, reflective of the pressures
K+S faces,” said Sophie Jourdier, an analyst at  Liberum Capital 
in  London . “The challenge for K+S, beyond achieving these
savings, will be to hold on to them given the competitive
environment we foresee.”  K+S is pushing ahead with the development of its Legacy
mineral reserve in  Canada  at a time when the future structure of
the potash market is in flux after OAO Uralkali’s decision to
end a cartel that had buoyed prices. The German company, which
will invest about 375 million euros on the Legacy project this
year alone, said today that the duration of the current phase of
“uncertainty” is difficult to assess.  The savings target is at the top-end of estimates, Jourdier
said in a note.  Clouded Outlook  “Our objective is to increase the international
competitiveness of K+S in a sustainable way,” Chief Executive
Officer Norbert Steiner said in the statement. “We are making
our company more robust in a changed market environment with
larger price fluctuations.”  K+S traded 3.2 percent higher at 21.21 euros as of 9:50
a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has risen about 12 percent so far
this month, compared with a 1.4 percent gain in the Stoxx 600
Chemicals index. Of the 37 analysts covering the company that
share their rating with Bloomberg, 20 recommend selling the
stock, versus 7 buy ratings, and 10 holds.  Moody’s Corp. this month downgraded K+S’s  debt  two levels
to Ba1, one grade below investment, from Baa2. The credit rating
company said the move was triggered by the German producer’s
decision to proceed with investment in its greenfield potash
mine, Legacy, and the resulting deterioration of the company’s
financial profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  