-- Kerry Voices Discord With Netanyahu Over New Sanctions
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-11-14T16:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/kerry-voices-discord-with-netanyahu-over-new-sanctions.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  spoke
with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , as some U.S.
lawmakers said they share  Israel ’s view favoring more sanctions
aimed at curbing the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program.  “We just don’t agree” with Netanyahu that further
sanctions now would force Iran to agree to give up all uranium
enrichment activity, Kerry said, describing today’s phone call
on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” program.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration plans to hold more
briefings with U.S. lawmakers today as it tries to build a case
for a pause in new sanctions. Kerry said that action by Congress
now would risk the progress made in Geneva negotiations, where
world powers and Iran are close to a first-step accord to
constrain Iranian nuclear activities and buy time to negotiate a
comprehensive agreement.  “ Iran  may interpret the congressional reaction of wanting
to increase sanctions as bad faith on our part, and
unwillingness to in fact negotiate, and it may drive the
hardliners even more into a commitment that they have to have
the weapons,” Kerry said.  Kerry, who met with senators yesterday, said his plea to
lawmakers is: “Give us the time to be able to negotiate and be
able to present the good deal that will be able to protect
Israel, protect our interests, protect the region.”  Some Republicans said they’re determined to increase
economic pressure on Iran, and congressional skepticism about
the Iran deal being negotiated is bipartisan.  Supporting Israel  “I hope we can work something out with Iran, but I am a
person who really believes in the state of Israel,” Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from  Nevada , told
reporters yesterday.  “Our concern over here in dealing with the nuclear
capability of Iran is one thing,” he said. “Put your mind-set
that you’re in Israel. There are not thousands of miles
separating you. It’s scores of miles. What we do has to be done
right.”  Lawmakers from both parties in Congress and Netanyahu  have
criticized the negotiations in Geneva last week toward a first-step agreement, saying it would ease some existing sanctions
without first ensuring an end to Iran’s uranium enrichment.  The deal would offer Iran only limited relaxation of
certain sanctions on Iran, a step necessary to make it
“worthwhile for them to say yes,” Kerry said today. If the
talks fail, the world “becomes more dangerous,” he said.  ‘Emotional Appeal’  The talks in Geneva broke up last weekend without an
initial agreement and are scheduled to resume next week. Iran is
negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the U.S., U.K.,
France,  Russia  and China -- plus Germany.  Several Republican senators said they weren’t persuaded by
Kerry’s pitch yesterday.  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, said the administration briefing
suffered from “a lack of specificity based on an emotional
appeal” to give negotiations more time. The briefing was at
best “incomplete,” said Corker, who said he was worried the
administration will grant waivers in coming weeks to lessen the
impact of current sanctions.  ‘Unconvincing’ Pitch  “I do think we ought to accelerate sanctions,” said
Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican who was a leader in
advancing previous sanctions legislation. “The pitch was very
unconvincing.”  Supporters of a new sanctions bill haven’t settled on its
provisions or procedures for considering it. While a measure
could emerge from the Senate Banking Committee, another forum
may be the debate over the annual defense authorization bill
that the Senate is scheduled to take up as soon as today.  “I’d be surprised if we do not have a debate on enhanced
Iran sanctions on the defense authorization bill,” Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said at
a news conference yesterday.  McConnell, who said the Obama administration was promoting
a “bad deal,” said, “We ought to be actually ratcheting up
the sanctions against Iran.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Armed Services Committee, said that sanctions don’t belong on
the defense bill crafted by his panel and that he backs the
administration’s request to hold off.  ‘Could Interfere’  “I support maintaining tight sanctions against Iran,”
Levin told reporters yesterday. “I don’t support increasing
them at this time, because I think it could interfere with the
negotiations.”  “If negotiations don’t succeed, or don’t succeed in a way
that is acceptable, we can always add additional sanctions at
that time,” Levin said.  Kerry said yesterday that the U.S. has support from other
countries negotiating with Iran for a proposal to curb  Iran’s
nuclear program .  If Congress imposed new sanctions now, Kerry said, allies
“would think we’re dealing in bad faith and they would bolt.
Then the sanctions do fall apart.”  Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran specialist with the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in  Washington , said
“countries like China and Russia will start to opt out of
pressuring Iran” if they think the U.S. is piling on more
sanctions just when the group is close to a deal.  Regime Change  More penalties now, he said, would create the impression
that “Washington’s underlying goal is to change Iran’s regime,
rather than merely its nuclear policy.”  The U.S. and Israel say  uranium enrichment  in Iran and
construction of a reactor capable of producing plutonium would
help the Islamic Republic develop the capability to produce
nuclear weapons. The Persian Gulf nation says its nuclear
program is for civilian medical and energy uses.  Netanyahu has said Israel may have no choice but to launch
a preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities if negotiations
fail. He called on Nov. 10 for American Jews to “stand up now
and be counted” against a partial agreement with Iran.  Brent crude  for December settlement, which expires today,
gained as much as 1.3 percent in  London . The  International
Monetary Fund  this week said Iran needs to “tackle high
inflation and restore economic growth.” The IMF  projects  42.3
percent consumer price inflation in Iran this year, up from 30.5
percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  