-- Kimberly-Clark Plans to Spin Off Health-Care Business
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-11-15T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/kimberly-clark-to-spin-off-health-care-business.html
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of
Kleenex tissues and Huggies diapers, plans to spin off its
health-care business, leaving management to focus on its
consumer and professional brands.  The tax-free deal would create a stand-alone, publicly
traded company with about $1.6 billion in annual sales, Dallas-based Kimberly-Clark said yesterday in a statement.  The unit that would be separated makes products such as
sterile wraps, surgical face masks and catheters. About 70
percent of its sales last year were in North America, with most
of the rest in Europe and Asia. Third-quarter revenue rose after
the division posted declines in the previous four quarters.  “The business has been very volatile for them for years,
and we had been questioning if they know how to run the business
well,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in an e-mail. “We’re encouraged that they are spinning it
off; however, we would have liked them to do it when their
valuation was lower, not at the elevated levels it is at
today.”  Dibadj, based in New York, has a market perform  rating  on
Kimberly-Clark shares, the equivalent of hold. The company’s
stock is valued at  18 times  projected 2014 earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to $109.26 at the close in New
York in New York. They’ve gained 29 percent this year, compared
with a 26 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Spinoff Logic  Chief Executive Officer Thomas Falk said Kimberly-Clark
didn’t look into selling, rather than spinning off, the health-care unit.  “We see health-care companies of this size and scale
competing successfully in the marketplace,” he said today on
the company’s investor call. “Spin gives you a high certainty
of transaction completion.”  Selling the company would carry certain tax costs that
“would be a challenge,” Falk said.  Kimberly-Clark’s intent to separate its health-care unit
contrasts with competitors such as Clorox Co. and  Newell
Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  that are seeking to deepen their operations in
the market. Newell sells telemedicine systems that let doctors
consult with patients hundreds of miles away, while Clorox has
made acquisitions of infection-control products it sells to
hospitals and other institutions.  Different Directions  Although Kimberly-Clark has been in the health-care
business since the 1970s, and has made  acquisitions  in the
sector such as the $263 million purchase of drug-delivery
systems maker I-Flow Corp. in 2009, the strategy of the unit is
“going more and more into things that have less to do with
where the rest of Kimberly-Clark is heading at this point in
time,” Falk said.  Robert Abernathy, group president for Europe, global
nonwovens and continuous improvement and sustainability, will be
chief executive officer of the new health-care company if the
spinoff is completed, Kimberly-Clark said. Abernathy joined in
1982 and has held senior management positions, including
responsibility for the health-care business from 1997 to 2004.  The health-care division posted a 4 percent increase in
sales in the quarter ended Sept. 30 on a currency-neutral basis,
lower than the companywide 5 percent sales gain on that basis.
Last year, the unit accounted for  7.7 percent  of the company’s
$21.1 billion in sales.  Board Proposal  Kimberly-Clark’s management will continue to study the
potential spinoff and make a final recommendation to its
directors within the next several months. The transaction
probably would be completed by the end of the third quarter next
year if approved by the board, the company said. It hired Morgan
Stanley to advise it during the process.  A spinoff would likely slow the rate of dividend increases
for a period of time, Chief Financial Officer Mark Buthman said
on the investor call.  A year ago, Kimberly-Clark’s European unit announced a
restructuring that included exiting most of its diaper business
there, along with some lower-margin businesses such as consumer
tissues, and paring its European manufacturing and
administration operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  