-- Korean Brokerages Fall After Short-Sales Ban Lifted
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-11-14T03:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/korean-brokerages-fall-after-short-sales-ban-lifted.html
Daewoo Securities Co. (006800)  led shares of
South Korean brokerages lower in  Seoul  after the nation lifted a
five-year ban on shorting of financial stocks.  Daewoo, the country’s second-largest brokerage by market
value, sank 6.1 percent, the biggest intraday decline since
December 2011, to 8,930 won as of 12:13 p.m. on the Korea
Exchange.  Samsung Securities Co. (016360)  slid 2.7 percent and Woori
Investment & Securities Co. fell 5.2 percent, while the
benchmark Kospi index rose 0.6 percent.  South Korea began allowing investors to short sell shares
of banks, brokerages and other finance companies from today,
lifting a ban that had been imposed in October 2008 to bolster
stocks at the height of the global financial crisis. The
Financial Services Commission said the nation’s equities market
has stabilized since July and removing the restriction may help
improve trading volumes.  “Brokerage shares seem to be particularly vulnerable after
the ban on shorting was lifted as the industry’s profitability
has been weak,” Kang Seung Gun, a Seoul-based analyst at
Daishin Securities Co., said by phone today. “It’s hard to
expect an earnings turnaround in the sector in the near term.”  Among the 62 brokers operating in  South Korea , 26 failed to
make profits in the April-September period, while combined
industrywide earnings plunged 63 percent from a year earlier as
broking fees dropped and earnings from trading stocks and bonds
with their own accounts shrank, the Financial Supervisory
Service said in a statement on Nov. 11.  South Korea lifted the ban on short sales -- which occur
when an investor sells borrowed securities in anticipation of a
price decline -- for non-financial companies in June 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  