-- Noah’s Ark Depends on Faith in Default-Plagued Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/noah-s-ark-depends-on-faith-in-default-plagued-debt-muni-credit.html
Given the default history of unrated
municipal debt, investors may have to pray for the success of
bonds being sold to build a full-scale replica of  Noah’s Ark .  The northern Kentucky city of Williamstown plans to offer
$62 million of securities next month for affiliates of Answers
in Genesis, a Christian nonprofit that operates the Creation
Museum upstate. Proceeds will help build a 510-foot (155.4-meter) wooden ship, the centerpiece of a planned biblical theme
park called “Ark Encounter.” Bond documents project the venue
will attract at least 1.2 million people in its first year.  Investors who buy $100,000 of the taxable securities will
get a lifetime family pass, bond documents show. Yet they may
not get their money back, given the track record of unrated
munis. Of the 438 issuers currently in default, 93 percent
initially offered bonds without a credit grade, according to
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  “If it’s something you believe in and you want to help
them out, you can buy the bonds,” said Gene Gard, who oversees
$1.3 billion in munis at Dupree & Co. in Lexington,  Kentucky ,
about 45 miles south of the proposed site. He said he wouldn’t
consider purchasing the debt.  “People give to charity all the time,” he said in an
interview. “If you buy an issue like this and lose money, it
could end up being deductible for you as well. Maybe you could
think of these bonds as charity with some upside.”  VisionLand Hindsight  From the VisionLand amusement park that showcased the
experience of mining and steel production in Bessemer,  Alabama ,
to the  Great Platte River Road Archway  in Kearney,  Nebraska ,
munis have financed tourist attractions aimed at boosting local
economies. Many ventures have failed to repay bondholders. The
Nebraska museum, which depicts the 19th century pioneer
experience, this year offered investors $50,000 for $20 million
of bonds.  About 2,500 issuers in the $3.7 trillion market for city
and state obligations defaulted from 1970 to 2011, the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York  said in a report last year. Industrial-development bonds, like those for Ark Encounter and the Nebraska
venue, represented 28 percent of the failures, the most of any
segment.  “The history of theme parks and specialized projects like
these has not been very good,” said Triet Nguyen, a managing
partner at Axios Advisors LLC, a municipal-research company.
“This is the first one I’ve seen in a while that reminds me of
those debacles from the early days of the high-yield market.”  Cubit Calculation  The plan for the Kentucky site envisions visitors mingling
with costumed villagers in a first-century community featuring
period dining. A lake with special effects will mimic the
subterranean explosion that the bond documents say triggered the
biblical flood. The latter-day ark, eventually housing a petting
zoo, will be built according to dimensions specified in the Book
of Genesis in cubits, an ancient unit of measurement that bond
documents say equals 20.4 inches.  The documents cite at least 39 risks to investors, ranging
from the potential for the animals to catch infectious diseases
to the unclear constitutionality of tax incentives for a
biblically themed attraction. There’s also no assurance that
projected results, which are based on data gathered as early as
2008, will materialize, bond statements say.  Nor is Answers in Genesis backing the debt. Bondholders’
sole revenue stream comes from money spent at Ark Encounter. The
park “may never achieve positive cash flow,” which documents
say would lead to default.  Creation Precedent  Michael Zovath, co-founder of Answers in Genesis, said the
group’s  Creation Museum , 48 miles away in Petersburg, shows why
investors can have confidence.  The 70,000 square-foot museum, which features zip lines,
camel rides and an exhibit about whether dinosaurs were dragons,
attracted 404,000 people in its first year, compared with a
projection of 400,000, he said in an interview.  Attendance has declined every year since the museum opened
in 2007, offering documents show. Ark Encounter assumes annual
visitor increases, according to a feasibility study prepared by
the Nehemiah Group, which says it has consulted on religious and
biblically sourced attractions worldwide since 1998.  Church, State  Ark Encounter may also face legal hurdles stemming from its
religious theme. The park’s 75 percent property-tax break from
Williamstown has drawn scrutiny from groups such as  Americans
United for Separation of Church and State .  Attorneys for the Washington-based organization are
“reluctant to proceed with litigation for something that may or
may not happen,” said Alex Luchenitser, the group’s associate
legal director.  Williamstown Mayor Rick Skinner said he has “a lot of
faith” in attendance projections and that residents of the
community of about 3,900 are eager for the park to open and draw
tourists.  Talks about issuing bonds began last year, he said. The
project has collected about $14 million of the $73 million
needed for the park through donations.  “It’s an awful lot of money to ask for investors to put
up,” Skinner said in an interview. “We thought bonds probably
would be the ultimate answer to their financing.”  Ark Encounter will be built on about 200 acres, with 800
acres reserved for future expansion such as hotels and
restaurants, the documents show. Construction will begin in
March, and the park is slated to open in April 2016.  Popularity Prediction  The 1.2 million to 2 million visitors projected for Ark
Encounter’s first year translates to $42.4 million of gross
sales, according to the documents. The forecast is based on a
study by American Research Group that found two-thirds of the
U.S. population has interest in visiting such an attraction.  The site’s nearest competitor is  Kings Island , an amusement
park about 60 miles north in Mason,  Ohio . It drew 3.2 million
visitors in 2012, 16th most among North American theme parks,
according to a  report  by the Themed Entertainment Association
and Aecom Technology Corp.  Ark Encounter planners hope the biblical park will draw new
visitors to northern Kentucky rather than siphon off from nearby
attractions.  “We’re really trying to focus on the cultural heritage and
religious travel market, not thrill-seekers,” Zovath said.  Plague Diversion  Earnings will fund future attractions such as the “Ten
Plagues Ride” and a 100-foot-high “Tower of Babel,” according
to the offering statement. The group will embark on major
capital projects every other year starting in the third year the
venue is open, documents show.  For the project’s risk, the extra yield isn’t sufficient,
said Gard, Nguyen and Bill Black at Invesco Ltd.  The taxable bonds due in 15 years are projected to yield 6
percent, offering documents show. That’s equivalent to 3.62
percent tax-free for the highest earners. In comparison,
benchmark revenue bonds with a similar maturity and rated five
steps above speculative grade yield  4.32 percent , Bloomberg data
show.  The projected yields “just boggle my mind,” Nguyen said.
The rate on the 15-year debt should be at least 8 percent, he
said.  Answers in Genesis is “pleased with the reception” for
the bonds in the market, Joe Boone, the nonprofit’s vice
president of advancement, said in a statement.  Boone declined to comment on how the yields were determined
and if they could be raised.  Institutional Memory  Ross Sinclaire & Associates is the underwriter on the deal.
Dan Blank, in the company’s Cincinnati office, said in an e-mail
that it is against company policy to comment on bond offerings
during order periods.  Williamstown may have to boost interest rates to entice
investors who have limited cash. Individuals have pulled $7.6
billion from high-yield muni funds in 2013, Lipper US Fund Flows
data show.  “It’s fair to say that high-yield municipal investors will
approach this with a good deal of caution,” said Black, who
oversees Invesco’s $5.8 billion  high-yield municipal fund  from
Oakbrook Terrace,  Illinois . “We have a long memory of deals
like this.”  Issuers nationwide are offering $5.4 billion in long-term
debt sales this week with benchmark yields at the highest level
in about three weeks.  The interest rate on AAA 10-year munis is  2.78 percent ,
compared with  2.71 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 103 percent. It compares with an average of 94 percent
since 2001. The smaller the number, the more expensive munis are
compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  