-- Nomura’s Akedo Sees Stock Drop Unless Investors Convinced
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-11-14T07:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/nomura-s-akedo-sees-nikkei-drop-unless-investors-convince.html
Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
could fall about 20 percent to 12,000 if the government doesn’t
do more to persuade investors its economic stimulus efforts will
succeed,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s head of Japan equities said.  “Worldwide investors are breathlessly watching the future
of Japan,” Norikazu Akedo, who oversees equity sales and
trading at the nation’s largest brokerage, said in a Nov. 12
interview. “We want the government to send out strong messages
to foreign and local investors.”  The Nikkei 225 rose 2.1 percent to 14,876.41 at the close
of trading in Tokyo today. The measure is down 4.8 percent from
a 5 1/2-year high on May 22 amid concern that a planned sales-tax increase by the government will slow momentum in an economy
bolstered by unprecedented monetary and fiscal stimulus. For
now, Akedo said Nomura is sticking to its forecast for the
measure to rise to 18,000 by the end of 2013.  Japanese equities are still the best performers among
developed markets this year, with the Nikkei 225 and broader
Topix index rising 40 percent through yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Overseas institutional investors have poured
$108.5 billion into Japanese stocks this year, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Japan’s stock-market rally helped Nomura’s trading profit
in the three months to September rise 24 percent from a year
earlier, an Oct. 29 exchange filing showed. While the firm’s  net
income  for the period climbed almost 14 times, profit missed
estimates as equities dropped from their May peak.  Third Arrow  The Topix index rose less than 0.1 percent in October, the
smallest gain among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg,
amid speculation whether Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can succeed
with growth-oriented initiatives in the so-called third arrow of
his strategy following fiscal stimulus and monetary easing.  Abe said Oct. 1 he will proceed with a plan to raise the
sales levy in April to 8 percent from 5 percent.  The premier pledged to create a “virtuous circle” of
higher employment and spending in an October speech marking the
opening of the current session of parliament that runs through
Dec. 6. Abe has dubbed the session as the one for “getting
things done,” reflecting a focus on pushing through legislation
for his growth strategy.  On the table are steps to encourage corporate restructuring
to boost industrial competitiveness and the introduction of
zones for deregulation in fields from medical treatment to urban
development. The cabinet on Nov. 5 approved the special zone
bill.  “Japan is at a turning point of whether it can change or
not,” Akedo, 47, said.  Growth Slowdown  Japanese companies eased off on  capital spending  in the
July-September period and failed to step up exports even amid
weakness in the yen, government data showed today. Economic
 growth  slowed to an annualized 1.9 percent from 3.8 percent the
previous quarter, the data showed, with the gain relying on
 government spending  and an accumulation of inventories.  Corporate investment in the world’s third-largest economy
increased 0.7 percent in the quarter, down from the previous
period’s 4.4 percent, according to the Cabinet Office  report . A
widening trade gap pared growth by 1.8 percentage point.  Government and central bank policies will fail to reignite
long-term growth as they don’t address structural flaws in areas
such as labor and immigration, Andreas Utermann, Allianz Global
Investors’ chief investment officer, said in an interview from
Paris yesterday.  Daiwa Forecast  Twenty-five of 34 economists including those at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG expect the BOJ to add to easing in
the first half of next year, according to a Bloomberg survey
carried out Oct. 23-28.  The Nikkei 225 will probably rise to 18,261 next year,
which was the gauge’s peak in 2007 during Abe’s first stint as
prime minister, Takashi Hibino, chief executive officer of Daiwa
Securities Group Inc., said today.  Company earnings currently are close to levels seen in 2007
and “the market is supposed to be reacting similarly,” he said
at a conference in Tokyo. Daiwa is Japan’s second-largest
brokerage.  Economy Minister Akira Amari and five other government
officials are scheduled to speak at a Nomura investment forum
next month, Akedo said. A record 500 foreign and 1,500 Japanese
investors plan to participate, he said.  Top executives at 37 Japanese companies including  Panasonic
Corp. (6752) , Yahoo Japan Corp., Gree Inc., Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp., Kirin Holdings Co. and Komatsu Ltd. are
scheduled to hold presentations at the forum next month.  Investors attending the forum are keen to know how the
increased  consumption tax  will hurt Japanese companies, Akedo
said. They want to know whether corporates plan to raise base
salaries for employees, continue mergers and acquisitions and
buy back shares or raise dividends, he said.  “The checkpoints on the list include whether Japan can
really change and what the  Bank of Japan  will do as the second
step for monetary easing,” Akedo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  