-- Obama Says U.S. Loses Nothing by Waiting on Iran Talks
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-14T23:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/obama-says-u-s-will-lose-nothing-by-waiting-on-iran-sanctions.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  defended
offering  Iran  “modest” relief on sanctions in exchange for
progress on nuclear talks and urged Congress to hold off on
imposing more economic penalties.  “We can dial those sanctions right back up” if Iran
doesn’t live up to an agreement, Obama said today at a White
House news conference. “If we’re serious about pursuing
diplomacy, then there’s no need for us to add new sanctions on
top of the sanctions that are already very effective and that
brought them to the table in the first place.”  Obama made his comments amid criticism from lawmakers and
objections by Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to a
potential deal between world powers and Iran in Geneva talks,
which are scheduled to resume next week. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and other administration officials are lobbying lawmakers
to pause in acting on legislation adding to sanctions.  “At this time, I see no reason to let up the pressure,”
Pennsylvania Democratic Senator Bob Casey said today in a
statement, reflecting the president’s challenge in gaining
support even from his own party.  Until Iran agrees to suspend all  uranium enrichment  and
take other measures demanded by the  United Nations Security
Council , Casey said, “I will urge my colleagues on the banking
committee to move forward with a package of additional
sanctions.”  Limited Relief  Kerry said last week that negotiators in Geneva were very
close to an agreement that would grant Iran limited sanctions
relief in return for curtailing key nuclear activities. The goal
is a first-step accord that would keep Iran from getting closer
to a nuclear weapons capability during subsequent talks toward a
comprehensive agreement to guarantee that Iran’s activities are
exclusively peaceful.  In Vienna, UN nuclear monitors reported today that Iran has
stopped installing machinery to boost production capability at
its uranium-enrichment facility even as the stockpile of its
most sensitive nuclear material grew to a record. The Persian
Gulf nation also slowed construction of a heavy-water reactor at
Arak, according to inspectors from the  International Atomic
Energy Agency .  Iran hasn’t given a reason for the slowdown, which
diplomats interpreted as a positive signal from the government.
The unilateral action could be reversed.  Military Option  Netanyahu has advocated further increasing sanctions
pressure on Iran until it agrees to irreversibly give up its
uranium enrichment operations, which could be used to produce
fuel for nuclear weapons if the nation were to break out of
international monitoring.  Israel  also wants construction
terminated on a reactor at Arak, which could provide plutonium,
an alternative route to a weapon.  Obama said an attempt to resolve the Iranian nuclear issues
through negotiations is better than the alternative of military
action.  “No matter how good our military is, military options are
always messy, are always difficult, always have unintended
consequences,” Obama said.  Sanctions have reduced Iran’s oil revenue to “about $40
billion to $45 billion” a year, from as much as $120 billion a
year, Kerry said today on MSNBC. In addition, that money is
frozen in banks under banking sanctions, he said. Iran was the
sixth-largest oil producer in OPEC last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent crude  for December settlement, which expired today,
climbed 1.3 percent to end the session at $108.54 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  ‘Modest Relief’  The administration has been briefing U.S. lawmakers in the
attempt to get them to hold off on additional sanctions. Some
members of Congress and Netanyahu said that last week’s talks in
Geneva gave Iran the promise of relief without forcing an end to
Iran’s uranium enrichment.  “We would provide very modest relief” at the margins of
sanctions while leaving in place core sanctions on oil, banking
and finance, Obama said. That approach allows the U.S. “to test
how serious are they,” while if Iran isn’t serious “we will
have lost nothing.”  “Let’s see if this short-term Phase One deal can be
completed to our satisfaction” that Iran is not advancing its
program, he said. “We can buy some additional months” in terms
of Iranian breakout capacity.  ‘Don’t Agree’  Sanctions advocates including Israel say they worry that
any easing may lead to the sanctions regime unraveling beyond
the limited measures, easing economic pressure on Iran for
further concessions.  Kerry, describing a phone call this morning with Netanyahu,
said “we just don’t agree” with the Israeli leader that
further sanctions at this point would force Iran to agree to
give up all uranium enrichment activity.  Speaking on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” program, Kerry said
that action by Congress now would risk the progress made in
Geneva. Iran “may interpret the congressional reaction of
wanting to increase sanctions as bad faith on our part, and
unwillingness to in fact negotiate, and it may drive the
hardliners even more into a commitment that they have to have
the weapons,” Kerry said.  Iran is negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up
of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the
U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Russia  and  China  -- plus  Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  