-- Lockheed to Cut 4,000 Jobs on U.S. Defense-Spending Cuts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-11-14T22:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/lockheed-to-cut-4-000-jobs-as-u-s-shrinks-spending.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said it will
cut 4,000 jobs and close some operations in response to
decreased federal spending, even after third-quarter profit rose
16 percent.  The cuts affect four of the company’s five business
segments, sparing only aeronautics, which accounts for 30
percent of the largest U.S. government contractor’s sales and
includes the F-35 jet, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons
program.  The move was necessary and reflects job cuts that may be
ahead at every major defense vendor as the U.S. curtails
military spending after years of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
said Brian Ruttenbur, an analyst with CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “You’ve got to keep your cost structure under wraps,”
Ruttenbur said in a phone interview. “They’re not evil. They
have to be competitive going forward, and the way you stay
competitive is by keeping costs under control.”  The Defense Department faces budget reductions of about
$500 billion over a decade under the automatic cuts known as
sequestration, including about $52 billion in the current fiscal
year.  Lockheed shares rose less than 1 percent to close at
$138.29 in  New York  after climbing 45 percent this year.  Pennsylvania, Texas  Operations will close by mid-2015 at a Newtown,
 Pennsylvania , space systems unit; an Akron, Ohio, mission
systems and training site; a Goodyear,  Arizona , information
systems facility; and a Horizon City, Texas, missiles and fire
control plant, Lockheed said in a statement today.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company said it also will shut
several buildings used for space systems work in Sunnyvale,
 California .  Of the units affected, the company’s two smallest, space
systems and missile systems and training, brought in $11.3
billion of Lockheed’s $33.8 billion in net sales from January
through September. By contrast, aeronautics accounted for $10.2
billion.  Pentagon officials have managed so far to protect major
weapons systems from deep cuts under sequestration, including by
locking in some contracts for Lockheed’s $391.2 billion F-35
program before the automatic reductions took effect in March.  They have said weapons procurement won’t be spared in
coming years unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress agree on
a plan to call off sequestration.  Maintaining Profits  “You can’t hold the F-35 harmless” if the Pentagon must
continue to live under declining budgets, said  Robert Levinson ,
an analyst with Bloomberg Government. “The cuts in other
programs would be way too dramatic.”  For now, the biggest U.S. defense contractors have squeezed
expenses to maintain profits even as sales fell.  While Lockheed reported last month that sales declined 4.4
percent to $11.3 billion in the third quarter, it said profit
from continuing operations rose 16 percent from a year earlier
and it raised its full-year earnings forecast.  Since 2008, Lockheed said, it has trimmed capital expenses
and cut its workforce to 116,000 employees from 146,000.  “Reducing our workforce of dedicated employees and closing
facilities are among the most difficult decisions we make,”
Chief Executive Officer Marillyn Hewson said today in a
statement.  “In the face of government budget cuts and an increasingly
complex global security landscape, these actions are necessary
for the future of our business and will position Lockheed Martin
to better serve our customers,” said Hewson, who left a U.S.
Commerce Department event in  Washington  today without speaking
to reporters.  No Work  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst who also consults for
companies, said Lockheed didn’t anticipate that any new work
would be coming for the plants it’s shutting.  “Anytime you close a facility, you foreclose
opportunities,” said Thompson, an analyst with the Lexington
Institute, an Arlington, Virginia-based research organization,
“Lockheed expects the downturn to continue.”  Lockheed has been lobbying Congress to come up with
alternatives to sequestration.  “I spend a lot of time on  Capitol Hill  talking to
lawmakers about the uncertainty of our business,” Hewson told
reporters Oct. 22 after the company’s earnings release.  Political Action  The company’s political action committee boosted its
contributions to $1.52 million during the first nine months of
2013, from $1.37 million during the same period two years
earlier.  Its lobbyists on sequestration include former Deputy
Federal Aviation Administrator Linda Daschle, the wife of former
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle of  South Dakota ; and the
firm of former House Republican Conference Chairman J.C. Watts
of  Oklahoma .  Even as contractors lobby against sequestration, they must
continue to look for efficiencies in a new era of reduced
 defense spending , said Levinson, the Bloomberg Government
analyst.  “They’ve been on a gravy train for a decade,” he said.
“Now they’re living in a different world, and they’re adjusting
just like any company would.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  