-- Loeb’s FedEx Stake Heightens Focus on Smith Succession
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-11-14T22:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/loeb-s-fedex-stake-heightens-focus-on-smith-succession.html
Investor Dan Loeb’s decision to take
a stake in  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  is poised to heighten scrutiny of the
role played by Fred Smith, who has run the airfreight company
since its founding more than 40 years ago.  Even as Loeb has said he’s not seeking a leadership change,
his Third Point LLC hedge fund brings a history of activism to
Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx. Loeb, 51, has an effort under
way now to replace the chief executive officer of  Sotheby’s (BID)  and
spurred the resignation of a Yahoo! Inc. executive in 2011.  “At some point Smith’s career is going to come to an end,
and the appearance of an activist is a reminder,” said  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate
Governance  at the  University of Delaware . “Smith is a very
overpowering figure. Loeb is an icon, too.”  Smith, 69, holds the titles of chief executive officer,
president and chairman at the world’s largest cargo airline. He
first described his concept for a reliable express airfreight
carrier in a paper as a Yale University undergraduate and
developed it while in the Marine Corps during the  Vietnam War .
The company began operating in 1971.  Along the way, Smith branched out into surface
transportation by buying Caliber System Inc., which later became
FedEx Ground, in 1998. He has maintained FedEx’s classification
of its drivers as independent contractors, unlike  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS) ’s use of unionized employees.  Not Going  After signaling in 2010 he might leave as soon as 2013,
Smith said last year “I’m not planning on going anyplace.”
He’s overseeing a $1.7 billion plan to cut costs and boost
earnings amid a shipping-market shift as customers opt for less-expensive options instead of overnight deliveries.  “We like the business,” Loeb said Nov. 12 at the DealBook
conference in New York. He said he met with Smith last week in
Memphis and won’t push for his ouster.  Third Point reported in a regulatory filing today that it
bought 2 million shares. The stake represents about 0.6 percent
of the carrier’s stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loeb’s record ensures that executives will be mindful of
his views even if he doesn’t resort to an activist stance,  Jim Corridore , a Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ analyst in New York,
said in an interview.  ‘Mere Presence’  “I don’t think that he always has to take agitation as a
position -- sometimes you can just invest in a company,” said
Corridore, who reiterated his buy rating on Nov. 12 and
projected FedEx would reach $180 within 12 months, 42 percent
more than his previous target. “His mere presence on the list
of shareholders will keep the company on its toes.”  The  shares  rose 0.9 percent to $136.44, extending this
year’s gain to 49 percent. That beat advances of 26 percent for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 37 percent for UPS, the
biggest package-delivery company.  FedEx “has an effective process in place to select
successors to the chairman of the board and other members of
executive management,”  Jess Bunn , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. Smith “periodically” gives directors recommendations on
successors, Bunn said.  FedEx has a history of promoting from within, and
executives such as Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf are among
possible successors to Smith, said S&P’s Corridore. FedEx has no
mandatory retirement age for CEO and Smith can keep his job as
chairman until he turns 72.  ‘Deep Bench’  “Fred’s planning for succession is a point that has come
up over the years,” said  Justin Yagerman , a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in New York who also has a buy recommendation on FedEx.
“What the company’s always said is that it has a deep bench.”  Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies
and try to force management and boards to make changes that
boost share prices and investor returns. New York-based Third
Point was founded by Loeb and this year disclosed stakes in
companies including Sony Corp.,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Sotheby’s.  In this year’s first half, activists’ second-most-common
strategy was the removal of a CEO, trailing only the quest for a
board seat, according to data from Activist Insight, which
tracks the industry. As recently as 2010, removing the CEO was
sixth, the data show.  CEOs were replaced at  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  after activist investor  Bill Ackman  pushed
for shakeups. Greg Taxin’s Clinton Group Inc. prompted
management changes at  Nutrisystem Inc. (NTRI)  and  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSL)  in the
past year.  Technicolor, Murphy  Sotheby’s adopted a shareholder-rights plan last month to
protect itself from hostile takeovers after Loeb increased his
stake in the auction house and called on the CEO to resign. Loeb
didn’t seek to dump CEOs after investments in Technicolor SA,
Murphy Oil Corp. or Smurfit-Stone Container Corp.  Smith and FedEx should face less pressure than other Third
Point targets because profits are improving and the CEO has
agreed to a stock buyback program, Yagerman said.  “These are the two big things that activist investors are
usually looking to agitate for,” Yagerman said. For Loeb to
take a stake is “a vote of confidence from someone who is held
in high regard. The fact that he does want to keep  Fred Smith  in
place lends credence to the way the company’s managed right
now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  