-- Oil Producers Overtaking Refiners on Flood of U.S. Shale: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-11-14T22:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/oil-producers-overtaking-refiners-on-flood-of-u-s-shale-energy.html
Energy investors are shifting their
attention from U.S. refining stocks that added $20 billion in
market value last year to oil producers promising record output
in shale fields.  An  S&P energy index  of U.S. shale-oil explorers such as
 Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD)  has jumped about 28 percent, or
nine times the gain achieved during the last three years
combined. They’re riding the explosion of new wells and rail
links to refineries that’s bolstering revenue after crude traded
in New York touched a 27-month high in August.  The shale boom will propel the U.S. past Russia as the
world’s top oil producer by 2015, the  International Energy
Agency  said two days ago, bringing its estimate forward by two
years. That’s pushed a group of refiners including  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  out of the spotlight, after they topped the S&P
500 Energy Index last year with 80 percent average gains.  Oil explorers are tapping deeper layers of oil-soaked rock
in shale formations, bringing them “a lot of success this year,
even outside the rise in the oil price, in the form of
increasing production,” Sam Margolin, an analyst at Cowen & Co.
LLC, said in a telephone interview from  New York .  Although swelling crude stocks from the flood of new
production has cut the benchmark North American oil price by
about 17 percent since its 2013 peak in late August,  an S&P
index  of U.S. shale producers has gained 5 percent in the same
period, keeping on track for the largest annual increase since
2009.  Pioneer forecasts oil output will surge 14 percent this
year as it turns the tap on new wells in south and west Texas,
even after selling all of its assets in  Alaska .  Profit Forecast  Gushing output has been a “mixed blessing” for producers
because it yields more crude they can sell while also
undermining the prices they receive, said Kevin S. McCarthy, who
 manages  $10.8 billion as chairman and chief executive officer of
Kayne Anderson Energy Development Co. in Houston.  Profits in the oil patch will continue to be “very
strong” because even with the recent drop in crude markets,
prices are well above production costs in shale formations,
McCarthy said.  Weakening oil prices in the last half of the year won’t
provide much lift to refiners as they continue to produce
gasoline, diesel and jet fuel faster than consumers can burn it,
said Jorge Leis, head of Bain & Co.’s Americas oil and gas
practice.  Top Performers  The top performers in the  S&P energy index  this year
through Oct. 31 all are leading shale explorers: Pioneer,
Chesapeake Energy Corp. and Hess Corp. expanded their combined
market value by $33 billion during the period, seven times the
rate of growth for the trio of refiners that led the index in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last year’s top-performing U.S. refiners -- Marathon
Petroleum,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and Valero Energy Corp. -- reported a
combined $1.59 billion profit decline for the third quarter
compared with a year earlier as the costs of feedstock for their
plants escalated, and  prices  for the fuels they produced
dropped.  Retail gasoline and diesel prices at U.S. filling stations
fell by 16 percent and 7.3 percent, respectively, since reaching
their 2013 peaks on Feb. 25, according to Department of Energy
figures. During that same period, the benchmark grade of U.S.
crude, West Texas Intermediate, increased 1.6 percent, squeezing
 processing margins .  Regional Advantages  The impact has been felt most in the Midwest and Great
Plains where refiners last year enjoyed access to lower-priced
crude from nearby fields. Feedstock costs surged this year as
pipeline expansions and new railcar fleets siphoned off local
oil supplies to the Gulf Coast and Atlantic seaboard markets
where they could fetch higher prices, said  John Auers , senior
vice president at Turner Mason & Co., a Dallas-based energy
consulting firm.  Gulf coast refiners will benefit next year as crude prices
fall in that region much as they did in the Midwest in previous
years,  Bill Day , a spokesman for Valero, said in a telephone
interview Nov. 11. Valero rose 3.9 percent to $42.84 at the
close today in New York. Marathon Petroleum gained 5 percent to
$78.86, and Tesoro added 3.2 percent to $54.95.  The refiner’s curse has been the producer’s blessing.
Higher crude prices have translated into multiplying returns for
Pioneer, whose shares rose 92 percent during the first 10 months
of this year. Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , gained 68
percent during that period after replacing its chief executive
officer in June amid a shift to focus on crude production in its
shale fields. Hess was the third-best performer with a 53
percent rise in shares.  Hess Streamlines  Pioneer’s net income more than quadrupled to $91.1 million
during the third quarter, the Irving, Texas-based company said
in a Nov. 4 statement. Three wells in the Permian basin of west
Texas and southeast  New Mexico  showed record results for that
part of the formation, according to the statement.  Chesapeake (CHK)  swung to a $156 million profit from a $2.1
billion loss a year earlier after boosting crude production by
22 percent, according to a Nov. 6 statement. Hess saw net income
fall 25 percent in the third quarter because of operational
issues in the  Gulf of Mexico  and in  Libya  that reduced
production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  