-- Hong Kong Buoyed by China’s IPO Freeze as Alibaba Eyes U.S.
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-11-15T08:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/hong-kong-buoyed-by-china-s-ipo-freeze-as-alibaba-eyes-new-york.html
Hong Kong , recovering from the
weakest market for initial public offerings in almost a decade,
is getting a much-needed boost from an unlikely source --
China’s securities watchdog.  China’s 14-month freeze on domestic IPOs is driving
mainland companies in search of capital to go public in the
former British colony instead. More than $5 billion of deals
originally planned for China have been moved to Hong Kong since
September 2012, ranging from port operators to car dealers and
apparel makers, based on estimates from bankers who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  That’s an amount equal to more than 40 percent of the $11.4
billion of IPOs in Hong Kong this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The migration is likely to continue as more than
 700 companies  are waiting for permission to go public on the
mainland, giving the city a cushion should it lose the IPO of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., potentially the world’s biggest
since Facebook Inc.  “Companies brought over from mainland China will be a
major source of listings for Hong Kong in the near future,”
said Ronald Wan, chief China adviser at Asian Capital Holdings
Ltd. “Losing Alibaba would weigh on the global ranking of Hong
Kong’s stock exchange.”  The China Securities Regulatory Commission hasn’t approved
any IPOs in Shanghai or Shenzhen since September 2012, as it
drafts rules to curb misconduct in first-time share sales. The
CSRC said Sept. 27 that offerings will resume after the new
regulations are announced, without giving a time frame.  Regulator’s List  The freeze has led bankers at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
search for prospects among the more than 700 companies listed on
the CSRC website that had filed for IPOs on the mainland, people
familiar with the matter said.  China  Grand Automotive Services Co., the car dealer backed
by private-equity firm TPG Capital, is one example. The
Shanghai-based company decided this year to go public in Hong
Kong after waiting since 2010 for permission for a mainland IPO,
said a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified.  China Grand Auto is working with Goldman Sachs and China
International Capital Corp. and plans to seek at least $500
million in the first half of next year, the person said.  Surging Inquiries  Qinhuangdao Port Co., China’s biggest coal port, is
preparing a $700 million IPO in Hong Kong that may start this
month after waiting more than 18 months for approval to sell
shares on the mainland, said people with knowledge of the
matter.  Bank of Chongqing Co., a lender based in China’s most
populous city, raised $548 million in a Hong Kong IPO in October
after shelving its domestic listing plan. It shares have fallen
2.3 percent since they started trading.  Inquiries on how to move an IPO to Hong Kong from China’s
mainland have surged recently, said Ronald Yam, vice president
for  Greater China  at accounting group  CPA Australia . He’s made
five trips to meet Chinese companies considering such moves in
the past three months.  Stock exchanges compete for listings mainly for the revenue
from fees on their stock trades. Listing fees accounted for just
11 percent of  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ’s HK$4.44
billion ($573 million) of revenue in the six months to June 30.
The bourse gets the bulk of its revenue from stock-trading fees.  Global Ranking  Hong Kong led all exchanges with almost $53 billion of
first-time sales in 2010, 26 percent more than the amount raised
on the New York Stock Exchange, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
This year, Hong Kong ranks fourth among global bourses, hurt by
the city’s languishing benchmark stock index and the absence of
giant IPOs like the sale of AIA Group Ltd.  Even so, deals have rebounded from last year’s $8 billion,
which was the least since 2003.  The freeze isn’t the only driver of Hong Kong IPOs. The
CSRC in January eliminated 13-year-old rules that required firms
to reach a certain size before being permitted to apply for
overseas sales. Companies must now only meet local standards in
markets where they seek to sell shares, making it easier for
mainland companies to go public elsewhere.  Alibaba Blow  The flow of IPOs previously bound for Shanghai or Shenzhen
will help soften the blow from a possible decision by Alibaba,
China’s largest e-commerce company, to eschew Hong Kong in favor
for going public in the U.S., said Josef Schuster, the founder
of IPOX Schuster LLC, an investment firm based in  Chicago  with
about $1.9 billion under management.  An Alibaba IPO could raise almost $13 billion, Ernst &
Young estimates. Hong Kong hasn’t hosted a sale of that size
since 2010.  Discussions between Alibaba and Hong Kong’s bourse broke
down in September over the company’s proposal for a partnership
structure that would let members of senior management control a
majority of board nominations.  Unlike the U.S., Hong Kong prohibits IPOs with different
classes of shares, a structure that’s been used by companies
such as Facebook to keep founders in control. Alibaba’s proposal
does not include using different share classes, and it has been
accepted by the  New York  Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock
Market, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Stance Softening  Alibaba spokesman John Spelich said the company hasn’t set
a timetable for an IPO, hired underwriters or picked a venue.  There are indications that Hong Kong may be softening its
stance. The stock exchange is laying the groundwork for possible
public consultation on different shareholding structures,
spokeswoman Lorraine Chan said Oct. 30.  “I speculate that Alibaba is going to make a U-turn and
will compromise to have a primary Hong Kong listing,” said
Schuster. “If not, Hong Kong still has a steady and growing
stream of IPOs coming from the mainland.”  The following companies are among those that have moved IPOs to
Hong Kong from the mainland:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  