-- Monte Paschi Posts Sixth Straight Quarterly Loss on Bailout Cost
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-11-14T17:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/monte-paschi-posts-sixth-straight-quarterly-loss-on-bailout-cost.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena , the
Italian bank seeking  Europe ’s approval for a 4.1 billion-euro
($5.5 billion) bailout, reported a sixth straight quarterly loss
on state aid costs and provisions for bad loans.  The third-quarter  net loss  widened to 138.3 million euros
from 25.9 million euros a year earlier, Siena-based Monte Paschi
said in an e-mailed statement today. That was less than the
average estimate for a 162.1 million-euro loss among seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola has pledged to cut
an extra 3,360 jobs and increase capital by 2.5 billion euros as
he waits for regulators to sign off on his latest restructuring
plan. The European Commission will make a decision by the end of
this month, two weeks later than planned, a person familiar with
the matter said this week.  “The focus of investors remains on the execution of the
capital increase, a key step to avoid nationalization,”
Vincenzo Longo, a Milan-based strategist at IG Markets, said by
telephone. “We also expect the approval of the plan and the
full disclosure of its details.”  Third quarter revenue fell 26 percent to 1.04 billion euros
from a year earlier, hurt by lower income from lending and the
nine percent pro-rata interest paid on state aid. Net interest
income fell 30 percent to 506.6 million euros.  Loan-loss Provisions  Monte Paschi is among lenders in the country suffering from
 Italy ’s longest recession in more than 20 years. Stricter rules
by local and international regulators are also forcing banks to
set aside more money for non-performing loans before a European
Central Bank review of lenders’ balance sheets.  Loan-loss provisions grew to 511 million euros from 461
million euros in the third quarter of 2012. Monte Paschi
decreased its bad-loan coverage ratio by 30 basis points to 40.8
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months.  The company’s shares rose 2.1 percent to 22.45 cents in
Milan today, giving the bank a market value of 2.62 billion
euros and paring declines this year to 0.5 percent. The earnings
were published after the market closed. The 40-company  Bloomberg
Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services Index  climbed 16 percent
since December.  Prosecutors are probing whether former managers at Monte
Paschi, which piled up losses of about 8 billion euros in the
past two years, used derivative contracts to obscure more than
700 million euros of losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Sonia Sirletti} in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
{Francesca Cinelli} in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net  