-- Moody’s Lowers Ratings of Four U.S. Banks After Review
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-11-15T12:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/moody-s-cuts-goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-jpmorgan-bny-mellon.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut its
ratings on four of the biggest U.S. banks after deciding the
government would be less likely to help them repay creditors in
a crisis.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  had their senior holding
company ratings lowered one level yesterday after Moody’s
concluded a review of eight U.S. banks that began in August.
Spokesmen for the four companies declined to comment.  U.S. banking regulators have been preparing rules and
procedures that seek to allow the government to wind down even
the largest financial companies without providing taxpayer
assistance. The plans would require investors to accept losses
and could require bonds to be converted into equity capital.  “We believe that U.S. bank regulators have made
substantive progress in establishing a credible framework to
resolve a large, failing bank,”  Robert Young , a managing
director at Moody’s, said in a statement. “Rather than relying
on public funds to bail out one of these institutions, we expect
that bank holding company creditors will be bailed-in and
thereby shoulder much of the burden to help recapitalize a
failing bank.”  Moody’s affirmed the senior holding company ratings of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Narrowing Spreads  Bank of New York was cut to A1 from Aa3, and Goldman Sachs
was lowered to Baa1 from A3, Moody’s said. JPMorgan was cut to
A3 from A2, and Morgan Stanley was downgraded to Baa2 from Baa1.  Subordinated debt ratings were also lowered for  BNY Mellon ,
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, and Morgan Stanley.  Citigroup’s Citibank NA subsidiary had its long-term
deposits upgraded to A2 from A3 and short-term rating lifted to
Prime-1. Bank of America’s long-term deposit rating was raised
to A2 from A3 and its short-term rating was upgraded to Prime-1.
State Street’s State Street Bank & Trust Co. subsidiary had its
long-term deposit rating and subordinated debt downgraded.  Yields on downgraded bonds typically rise after a rating
reduction to account for the perceived deterioration in an
issuer’s creditworthiness. That hasn’t happened since the
announcement with yields either rising or little changed.  Bond Yields  The yield on Morgan Stanley’s $2 billion of 4.1 percent
subordinated bonds due in May 2023 fell 26 basis points
yesterday to 4.52 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The yield on JPMorgan’s $2 billion of 3.375 percent subordinated
notes due May 2023 slipped 10 basis points to 4.3 percent.  The yield on Goldman Sachs’s $1 billion of 5.95 percent
subordinated bonds due January 2027 rose 1 basis point to 5.4
percent, according to Trace.  “This tells you that the move was entirely expected,”
said London-based Andrew Carrie, a director at brokerage Stifel
Nicolaus Europe Ltd. “Ratings agencies have lost quite a bit of
credibility, although the’re still excellent sources of
knowledge, and ratings actions typically lag the market.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated
bank bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt has
declined 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point, to 137 basis
points this year through yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Banking Index.  That compares with a narrowing of 8 basis points this year,
to a spread of 146 basis points, for the broader high-grade
corporate market, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  