-- Morgan Stanley Said to Seek Broker Dual Status in Mortgage Push
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/morgan-stanley-said-to-seek-brokers-dual-status-in-lending-push.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is seeking regulatory
approval to make financial advisers dual employees of its bank
subsidiary in addition to the broker-dealer as the firm
increases mortgage lending, a person briefed on the matter said.  The move would allow the advisers to get a national charter
for mortgage lending rather than state registration, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because a decision hasn’t
been made. That would allow them to originate  mortgages  for
clients in multiple states without having to register in each
state individually.  Chief Executive Officer James Gorman, 55, is pushing for
the firm’s 16,500 advisers to lend to retail brokerage customers
as it gains almost $60 billion of deposits from Citigroup Inc.
over the next two years. The deposits come from Morgan Stanley’s
purchase of the remaining stake in its joint venture with
Citigroup’s Smith Barney brokerage earlier this year.  Morgan Stanley is seeking to boost profit margins at its
wealth-management unit, which had $1.83 trillion in client
assets as of Sept. 30. Interest income has the highest
incremental profit margin of any revenue in the business, Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat has said.  The request for dual status, already used by other retail
brokerages including  Bank of America Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch, is
seeking clearance from the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, the person briefed on the matter said.  Bryan Hubbard, an OCC spokesman, declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley has said it wants to lend to 10 percent of
its individual customers, double the current 5 percent and
matching the industry average. The bank is targeting a loan-to-deposit ratio of about 70 percent in 2015, compared with about
55 percent last year, Porat said in September.  Morgan Stanley already has about 200 private bankers to
help financial advisers lend to clients. The firm  primarily
makes  floating-rate mortgages with an average loan-to-value
ratio of 60 percent, Porat, 55, said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  