-- Mayor Ford Denies Prostitution Allegations, Vows to Sue
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-14T20:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/toronto-mayor-denies-prostitution-snorting-cocaine.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford denied
allegations he had prostitutes in his office or snorted cocaine
at a restaurant and said he will pursue legal action against the
former employees and waiter who made the statements to police.  Ford is facing new allegations contained in police
documents released yesterday, including that he brought
prostitutes to his office, guzzled vodka in his car, made a
racial slur to a taxi driver and sexually propositioned a female
staff member.  Ford, who has already admitted he smoked crack cocaine and
bought illegal drugs while in office, was responding to
allegations that were made in police interviews with former Ford
staff members. None of the allegations have been proven in court
and police have said there isn’t enough evidence to warrant
charges against the mayor.  Ford said one of the women named in the police documents
who came back to his office after a St. Patrick’s Day party last
year wasn’t a prostitute.  “She’s a friend, and it makes me sick how people are
saying this,” Ford told reporters outside his city hall office.
“I’ve never had a prostitute here.”  He also denied saying he wanted to have oral sex with a
staff member, who no longer works in his office.  “I would never do that, I’m happily married.” Ford said.
“I’ve got more than enough to eat at home.”  ‘Not Perfect’  Reporters present reacted with gasps to that statement and
the mayor’s use of a vulgar sexual idiom. Ford later apologized
for those remarks.  “For the past six months, I have been under tremendous,
tremendous stress,” Ford said at a press conference, which was
attended by his wife Renata. “The revelations yesterday of
cocaine, escorts and prostitution has pushed me over the line
and I used unforgivable language.”  The mayor said today he is receiving “support from a team
of health-care professionals.”  “I am taking accountability,” he said, without
elaborating.  Earlier, Ford said he may have driven a car after drinking.  “I might have had some drinks and driven, which is
absolutely wrong,” he told reporters. “I’m not perfect, maybe
you are, but I’m not.”  ‘Personal Issues’  The police documents were released by an Ontario court the
same day that Ford said for the first time he had bought illegal
drugs within the past two years. Ford made the statement amid
questioning at a city hall meeting in which a majority of city
councilors passed a non-binding motion asking him to take a
leave of absence to address his “personal issues.” Ford has
refused to resign.  One of Ford’s few remaining allies among city councilors,
Giorgio Mammoliti, threatened today to withdraw support for the
mayor.  “If he doesn’t admit that he needs help, then he’s lost me
and I’ll be taking a stand with my colleague Councilor Minnan-Wong and asking him to step down completely,” Mammoliti said,
referring to Denzil Minnan-Wong, who backed the council motion
yesterday for the mayor to take a leave. “He’s got till the end
of the day.”  “Don’t panic, please city of Toronto, do not panic,
everything is OK down here,” Mammoliti said in separate
interview broadcast on CP24 television after Ford’s apology.  Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne said the things she is
hearing about Ford are “truly disturbing,” adding the province
would consider stepping in to help the city if asked by council.
Canadian municipalities are governed by provincial laws.  Provincial Response  “If council were to clearly indicate that they lack the
ability to function as a result of this matter, the province
would respond to a request from council to be provided new tools
depending on what that request might be,” Wynne told reporters
at the provincial legislature.  “Every day he lowers the bar, and this is another one of
those days,” Minnan-Wong, a former Ford supporter, said to
reporters. “I’m very sad for the city and I’m exceedingly angry
at the mayor. The mayor has got to go.”  According to two former staff members quoted in  the
documents , women who may have been prostitutes were in Ford’s
city hall office on St. Patrick’s Day in 2012.  On the same night, Ford called a taxi driver a “Paki,”
and made “mocking fake language sounds,” one of the staff
members said, according to the documents.  Vodka Swig  In another incident last year, a former staff member told
police that Ford pulled over his car, drank an 11- or 12-ounce
bottle of vodka in two minutes and then drove away. Another
staffer told police she bought Ford a bottle of vodka that size
twice a week. Iceberg was his preferred brand, according to the
documents.  In an interview with police, Mark Towhey, Ford’s former
chief of staff, said he believed the mayor was an alcoholic and
that he had consumed alcohol while at city hall, though he’d
never seen him drink himself, according to the police documents.  Towhey was fired after recommending the mayor seek
treatment, according to the documents.  Federal prosecutor Tom Andreopoulos sent the 500 pages of
partially redacted police documents to media yesterday in an e-mail.  Before the latest allegations were released, 30 members of
the  44-person council  in  Canada ’s largest city presented a
letter asking the mayor to step aside as Toronto’s reputation
has been “damaged” and it has become difficult to focus on
city business.  Drunken Stupor  The non-binding motion comes as Ford, 44, vowed to remain
in office after saying last week he smoked crack likely in one
of his “drunken stupors.” Ford, who has been mayor since 2010,
admitted to using the drug after Toronto police said on Oct. 29
they had found a video showing him inhaling from a glass crack
pipe.  While Ford said he was “humiliated” by his recent
actions, he repeated yesterday that he would stay in office and
run in municipal elections next year.  “There is no need for me to take a leave of absence,”
Ford said in city council. He said he used drugs “out of sheer
stupidity” and had been “inebriated” a number of times.  Yesterday’s motion for Ford to step aside is symbolic
because there’s nothing city council can do to force a sitting
mayor from office, according to municipal rules.  Ford, who was removed from his position as a high school
football coach this year, wore a Toronto Argonauts jersey when
he spoke to reporters this morning. That prompted Twitter
messages from the Canadian Football League team, which plays in
a semifinal game this weekend.  “The situation with respect to the mayor and his
leadership is unseemly at best,”  the CFL team posted  on Twitter
today. “These latest remarks, while wearing our team’s jersey,
are particularly disappointing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  