-- OTP Says Provisioning Need May Decline After Bad Loans Dropped
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-11-14T10:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/otp-says-provisioning-need-may-decline-after-bad-loans-dropped.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, sees provisioning needs falling in the coming quarters
after non-performing loans declined for the first time since the
global financial crisis hit central and eastern Europe.  Bad-loan formation decreased in the third quarter,
partially due to the “profitable” sale of such loans, Chief
Financial Officer Laszlo Bencsik said at a news conference today
after the Budapest-based lender released July-to-September
results that beat the average estimate in a Bloomberg poll of 8
analysts.  Third-quarter adjusted  net income  was 42.2 billion forint
($191 million), a 2 percent decline from a year earlier, and net
interest income rose 3 percent to 165 billion forint, OTP said
in a statement to the Budapest Stock Exchange today. Analysts
had expected net income of 38 billion forints in the Bloomberg
survey. Unadjusted net income plunged 74 percent to 10.9 billion
forint after an unexpected 37.2 billion forint goodwill
writedown at OTP’s Ukrainian unit.  The results “paint a picture of favorable trends in the
past, however the current and coming quarters may be more
difficult,” analysts at Budapest-based brokerage Equilor Zrt.
said in an e-mailed note today.  OTP, which is active in nine countries in central and
eastern  Europe , has seen its profitability decrease since the
global economic crisis increased bad loans and Hungary levied
extraordinary taxes on banks. The tax burden in Hungary is set
to rise further in 2014 because of higher financial transaction
tariffs, Bencsik said.  OTP  shares  jumped as much as  4.7 percent and were 3.6
percent stronger at 4,489 forint by 9:52 a.m. in Budapest,
helping lead the benchmark BUX index 2 percent higher.  ‘Enormous Reserves’  “OTP has enormous capital and liquidity reserves. We are
like a compressed spring waiting to boost lending the moment
demand rises,” Bencsik said. Signs of higher credit demand are
surfacing both in the rest of Europe and in Hungary as the
country’s economy gets “more dynamic,” he said.  The rate of loans overdue more than 90 days fell to 20.6
percent of total credits at the end of September from 20.8
percent at the end of the second quarter, boosting the coverage
rate of such loans to a record-high 80.6 percent. The bank set
aside 66 billion forint in risk provisions in the three months
to end-September, 9 percent higher than a year earlier.  OTP’s Ukrainian subsidiary is performing well even with
“rising concerns over the macroeconomic situation,” Bencsik
said. Profitability at the Russian unit, which suffered from an
acceleration in bad-loan formation, is set to turn around in
2014, he said.  Special taxes in Hungary will remain “a serious burden”
for OTP next year, Bencsik said. Special levies imposed on
commercial lenders active in Hungary accounted for as much as
370 billion forint in 2013, compared with as much as 150 billion
in 2012, Bencsik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  