-- Paradise Entertainment Plans Overseas Casino Equipment Push
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-15T08:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/paradise-entertainment-sees-35-sales-growth-on-casino-boom.html
Paradise Entertainment Ltd. (1180) , the
supplier of gambling equipment in Macau, forecast a rise of at
least 35 percent in sales next year and said it aims to expand
overseas to sell its electronic table games outside the city.  Sales may rise by at least 35 percent next year as Macau
casinos order more electronic table games, Chairman and Managing
Director Jay Chun said in an interview in Macau yesterday. The
company gets almost all its revenue from the world’s largest
gambling hub.  The supplier to casino companies such as  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,
 SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , has
benefited from Macau’s transformation into the world’s largest
gambling hub with six times the revenue of Las Vegas. Paradise
Entertainment aims to expand into the U.S., Australia,
Singapore, Cambodia and Vietnam, Chun said.  “There are about one million gaming machines in the U.S.
right now, whereas Macau only has 16,000,” the executive said.
“The U.S. market will definitely be our priority.” The company
plans to accelerate expansion into the country next year, he
said.  The stock climbed 5.2 percent to HK$3.64 in Hong Kong, the
highest close since August 2009. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
rose 1.7 percent.  Paradise Entertainment also manages the Kam Pek Paradise
casino under the license of SJM, Asia’s largest operator, in the
only city in China where casinos are legal. It aims to operate
two more casinos in the Chinese city, Chun said, without
disclosing details.  The company’s revenue rose 27 percent to HK$405 million in
the first six months of the year.  Market Share  The company currently accounts for 20 percent of the slot
machine market in Macau and 60 percent of the electronic live
table games market, Chun said. The Hong Kong-listed company
expects sales for its  slot machines  to rise above 40 percent
next year, he said.  Paradise Entertainment’s first-half profit dropped about 15
percent to HK$40.2 million because of a  one-off disposal  gain
recorded in the same period a year earlier.  Sands China,  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  and Melco
Crown have been expanding on Cotai, a piece of reclaimed land
that is Macau’s equivalent to the  Las Vegas Strip . Smaller
rivals  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  and  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  are building
their first resorts there.  The expansion is boosting the demand for gambling equipment
such as Paradise Entertainment’s  multi-games live table
machines , which allow gamblers to play multiple games such as
jackpot and baccarat at a terminal-based table with real-life
dealers concurrently.  Overseas Expansion  Located next to SJM’s oldest Lisboa casino in Macau’s
peninsula, Kam Pek Paradise casino has 37 gaming tables, more
than 900 live multi-game machines and over 300 slot machines,
according to the company’s  website .  Paradise Entertainment announced on Nov. 5 that it had
raised about HK$77.6 million by issuing 33.7 million new shares
at HK$2.3 each to two U.S.-based investment funds, according to
a  statement  to  Hong Kong  stock exchange. The proceeds will be
used as working capital, it said.  Gambling revenue in Macau increased 18 percent to 297.1
billion patacas in the first 10 months of this year, close to
the $38 billion revenue raked in last year, as improved rail
connection, added entertainment shows and hotel rooms drew more
gamblers to the Chinese city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  