-- Paulson to Taconic Frozen in Iceland Bet Five Years After
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-11-14T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/paulson-to-taconic-frozen-in-iceland-bet-five-years-after.html
When Iceland’s banks failed in 2008
under $85 billion of debt, dozens of  hedge funds  flocked to the
island betting they could make money buying up creditor claims.
Five years later, they’re still waiting.  The firms, including Davidson Kempner Capital Management
LLC and Taconic Capital Advisors LP, snapped up the claims on
the lenders’ assets at prices far below face value. They were
wagering, as they did when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bust, that they’d profit as markets recovered, bank assets were
sold off and creditors repaid. Over the years, about 80 firms
joined, including Paulson & Co., which had made more than $1
billion betting on Lehman claims.  What the investors, some of them managing more money than
Iceland’s $14 billion economy, may not have factored in was the
backlash in the country of 320,000 people against the
speculative Wall Street culture that, in their view, helped
cause the failures of Glitnir Bank hf, Kaupthing Bank hf and
Landsbanki Islands hf. While Lehman has paid out more than $40
billion to claim holders in the past five years, the hedge funds
have yet to get any distributions from the Icelandic banks’
estates. The government, elected in April on a platform that
included providing mortgage debt relief to Icelanders, has
proposed paying the funds only part of their claims and using
the difference to finance its campaign promise.  “Obviously they would love to be in the position to
expropriate all our assets and pay them into the Treasury but
there’s no basis for that in Icelandic or international law,”
said Andrew Jent, president of  Dallas , Texas-based Hayman
Capital Management LP, which bought Glitnir claims in mid-2012.  Creditor Meeting  Jent said the firm had originally expected that creditors
would start getting cash distributions this year and that the
process was slowed in part by the elections. He said that
creditor representatives have finally been promised a meeting
with Iceland’s central bank and the committee overseeing the
Glitnir estate on Nov. 18 in Reykjavik, yet he doesn’t consider
it a start to formal negotiations.  Elva Sverrisdottir, a Finance Ministry spokeswoman, and
Stefan Johann Stefansson, a central bank spokesman, didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki, Iceland’s largest
lenders before their failure, collapsed within weeks of each
other in October 2008, after they were unable to secure enough
short-term funds. The banks had relied on overseas funding to
expand their combined balance sheets to 10 times the size of the
country’s economy, and were crippled when investors fled amid
the credit crisis.  Fish, Aluminum  Their failure plunged Iceland into its worst recession
since World War II, forcing the government to seek a $4.6
billion bailout from a group led by the  International Monetary
Fund . The country instituted capital controls to stabilize the
currency, after the krona lost about 80 percent of its value
against the euro in the offshore market. Those controls, which
limit the amount of kronur that can be exchanged into foreign
currency, are at the center of the dispute with the hedge funds.  The government, which relies on tourism as well as exports
of fish and aluminum to attract foreign currency, is worried
that releasing kronur to international investors, who will
immediately sell it, will devalue the currency and boost
inflation, which has slowed to around 3.6 percent from more than
6 percent last year. The krona is now trading close to 122 to
the dollar, compared with a range of 60 to 70 per dollar before
the crisis.  The drawn-out process demonstrates the obstacles for
distressed investors abroad, where bankruptcy laws aren’t always
as creditor-friendly as in the U.S. While such funds, which buy
the debt of companies in or near bankruptcy and often try to
influence debt restructurings, produced an average annual  gain 
of almost 10 percent since stock markets bottomed in March of
2009, legal costs and recovery rates are uncertain.  No Argentina  The hedge funds say the government will eventually have to
lift the controls if it wants access to global  capital markets 
and to attract foreign direct investments.  “The government recognizes if they expropriate assets or
they put in place some really punitive tax, it’s going to be a
problem for them,” said Hayman’s Jent. “They can’t possibly
want to end up in a similar position to  Argentina .”  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. The country imposed restrictions on imports,
banned currency purchases, and nationalized private companies in
a bid to keep money from leaving the country. Even so,
Argentina’s foreign currency reserves plunged to a six-year low
of $33 billion this year as the measures deterred foreign
investment.  $44 Billion  Jent estimates that about two dozen funds have large enough
investments in Iceland to travel there for meetings, and about
80 may be involved in total. Claims on Glitnir and Kaupthing
total about $44 billion today, according to Jent.  The two banks had assets of about $14 billion as of June 30
-- $6.5 billion at Kaupthing and $7.5 billion at Glitnir,
according to reports from the banks. Glitnir claims trade at
about 31 cents on the dollar, up from 28 cents at the beginning
of the year, according to Jent.  Landsbanki Islands’ general creditors have filed claims
against the bank amounting to 1.68 trillion kronur ($13.7
billion). However, since Landsbanki had a really high proportion
of priority claimholders, such as depositors, general claimants
like bondholders are only expected to get about 5.25 cents to
the dollar, according to Keldan.is, a website run by H.F.
Securities in Reykjavik. That would bring the total Landsbanki
creditors can expect to $717.8 million.  Splitting Banks  The funds, including York Capital Management LP, HBK
Capital Management, Claren Road Asset Management LLC and Fir
Tree Partners Inc., are betting they can still make 10 percent
or more a year for the next several years -- if they can get the
government to allow distributions, according to more than half a
dozen investors and hedge-fund managers, who asked not to be
identified because the funds are private.  After the banking collapse, Iceland split the failed
lenders, transferring domestic assets into new banks and leaving
foreign assets with the failed banks. The claim holders were
given equity stakes in the new banks as well as rights to the
assets of the old banks. While most of the assets are
denominated in British pounds, euros and dollars, the committees
winding up the banks can’t make any distributions to the
creditors until a decision is made how to deal with the assets
denominated in kronur that are subject to the  capital controls  -
- about $3.8 billion across the three banks.  Opening Salvo  Last month, Morgunbladid newspaper, whose editor-in-chief
David Oddsson served as prime minister for 13 years and was once
the nation’s top banker, said the central bank would demand that
creditors in Glitnir and Kaupthing should forgo 75 percent of
their krona-denominated assets. The central bank later denied
planning to force creditors to accept less than they’re owed,
and said it was still studying the impact a creditor settlement
will have on the country’s balance of payments.  The central bank, together with the finance minister, can
grant exemptions to the capital controls.  Several hedge-fund managers said while there is no economic
reason for them to accept less for their krona assets, they
expect to take some financial hit. They see the 75 percent
haircut as an opening salvo in the negotiations, though no one
would say what they expect the final number will be. The
creditors are hoping they can get the government to release the
assets in foreign currencies first and figure out how to release
the krona-denominated assets later.  Mindich Exits  Hedge funds began betting on the Icelandic banks as early
as 2008, though many got in more recently, according to
investors. Claims trade every day and prices vary based on
market participants’ views on timing of distributions and
capital control issues.  The $10 billion Eton Park Capital Management LP, run by
Eric Mindich, was one of the first big funds in the trade,
buying the senior unsecured bonds and bank debt of Kaupthing and
Glitnir in late 2008, according to investors. It exited much of
its position by the beginning of last year.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Eton Park with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the investment and
whether it made a profit.  Thomas Kempner’s $21 billion Davidson Kempner, based in  New
York , has one of the bigger positions and has owned claims on
Glitnir since 2009, according to investors.  The $8 billion Taconic, run by former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. executives Frank Brosens and Ken Brody, held Icelandic bank
clams in their main fund and decided to raise an additional $160
million for a separate, dedicated pool this year after they
reached their position limit in the fund. That fund, known as a
sidecar, had its second closing on March 1.  Asymmetric Trade  Paulson & Co., the $18 billion firm run by  John Paulson ,
bought $229 million of Glitnir claims in June through its $5.3
billion Credit Opportunities fund. Both firms are based in New
York.  Officials from Davidson Kempner, Taconic and Paulson
declined to comment on their investments.  The firms and their investors see Iceland as an asymmetric
trade, meaning that the probability of a loss is low and the
chances of a win are large. In part that’s because so much of
the banks’ assets are in cash.  As of June 30, about 53 percent of Kaupthing’s assets were
in cash, and only 18 percent of assets were denominated in
krona, according to a  report  released in September. Glitnir’s
cash position was 56 percent of total assets. About 30 percent
of assets were denominated in krona.  ‘Funny Situation’  April’s election resulted in a coalition government run by
the Progressive and Independence parties. Prime Minister
Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson, head of the Progressive Party, has
suggested creditors should accept less than they’re owed so the
money can be used to help pay for debt relief to Icelanders. He
said last month that creditors in the banks won’t get any
special treatment as the nation seeks to exit capital controls.  Iceland Finance Minister  Bjarni Benediktsson , who is the
leader of the Independence Party, has been more conciliatory in
his tone toward creditors. He said in an interview in mid-October that the country could exit capital controls in the next
six to 12 months.  All political parties in the country agree that exchanging
the krona assets for foreign currency and moving the money out
of the country would seriously affect households, by driving up
consumer prices and mortgages, most which are linked to
 inflation .  “It’s a funny situation,” said Hayman’s Jent. “There’s
the prime minister and the finance minister and because it’s a
coalition government they exist on separate sides of the aisle.
It seems they each want different things out of the negotiation
and we’ve had a difficult time trying to pin down who exactly
we’re supposed to negotiate with.”  ‘Unscrupulous Dealers’  There is no consensus on when a payoff may happen.
Estimates range from mid-2014 to 2019, according to hedge-fund
investors and managers. The length of time it takes to return
capital and the haircut will determine how much the funds make.  The funds had originally expected that returns might be
higher, based on gains from the Lehman Brothers estate,
according to fund managers and investors. Elliott Management
Corp., like Paulson, has earned more than $1 billion on its
Lehman stakes, according to investors.  While investments that involve politics are always tricky,
foreign money managers should have foreseen that their wager on
Iceland might not go as smoothly as they hoped.  In March 2008, as the cost of buying insurance against a
default of the Icelandic banks was approaching the highest of 81
banks worldwide, Oddsson, then the central bank governor, had a
warning for speculators.  Attacks on the country’s banks “give off an unpleasant
odor of unscrupulous dealers who have decided to make a last
stab at breaking down the Icelandic financial system,” Oddsson
said at the central bank’s annual meeting. “They will not get
away with it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  