-- Paulson, Soros Join Loeb Taking New Stakes in FedEx
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-11-15T21:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/paulson-soros-join-dan-loeb-in-taking-fedex-stake-last-quarter.html
Billionaire investors  George Soros 
and  John Paulson  joined  Daniel Loeb ’s  Third Point  LLC in taking
stakes last quarter in  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s
largest cargo airline.  Soros Fund Management  LLC bought 1.52 million shares valued
at $173 million at the end of the third quarter, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. Paulson & Co. disclosed a new stake
of 646,800 shares valued at $73.8 million.  Loeb, the activist investor who has pushed for change at
companies including Sony Corp., said this week that Third Point
had acquired a FedEx stake and that he had met with Chief
Executive Officer Fred Smith. Third Point reported a holding of
2 million FedEx shares, valued at $228.2 million.  The purchases add three of Wall Street’s highest-profile
investors to a list of FedEx shareholders led by Smith, 69, who
founded the Memphis, Tennessee-based company and serves as CEO,
president and chairman. He owned 19.7 million shares, or 6.2
percent, as of April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Naturally, the first thing you think of is that these are
folks who will be vocal and activists for change,” said Jack Atkins, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas .
“The push-back question is, what sort of change would they be
advocating for?”  Atkins pointed to FedEx’s profit improvement plan and
Smith’s recent authorization of the largest share repurchase
program in the company’s history as two changes that investors
would normally seek.  “They’ve kind of ticked all the boxes off,” he said.  PointState, Eminence  A FedEx spokesman,  Jess Bunn , declined to comment yesterday
on the Soros and Paulson stakes or whether the investors had met
with FedEx leadership. Bunn said earlier this week that Loeb had
met with FedEx executives and that it was “a matter of routine
business” to confer with shareholders. Representatives for
Soros and Paulson declined to comment.  Smith, in an interview with CNBC today, said that he was
“flattered” Loeb had made the investment and doesn’t plan on
leaving the company in the “foreseeable future.”  PointState Capital LP, started by former employees of Stan Druckenmiller’s Duquesne Family Office LLC, and Ricky Sandler’s
Eminence Capital LLC also now hold stakes in FedEx, filings
show. Highfields Capital Management LP added 1.09 million shares
to its stake, bringing it to 1.59 million as of Sept. 30,
according to a filing yesterday.  Hedge fund managers  collectively held 3.8 percent of FedEx
as of yesterday, up 0.3 percentage points from Nov. 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Wishful Thinking’  If the hedge-fund managers do seek changes, they will have
to confront a strong-willed CEO, Atkins said.  “If they think they’re going to come in and get  Fred Smith 
to do their bidding, I think that’s wishful thinking at best,”
he said. “Fred Smith is not going to be dictated to by an
outside party, especially when shares are hitting an all-time
high.”  Atkins has an overweight rating on FedEx shares, equivalent
to buy.  FedEx  rose  1.6 percent to close at $138.65 at New York. The
stock has increased 51 percent this year. That beat advances of
26 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 37 percent
for United Parcel Service Inc., the biggest package-delivery
company.  Soros Fund Management is the New York-based family office
for the 83-year-old hedge-fund industry pioneer and
philanthropist. Paulson, 57, made $15 billion for his investors
in 2007 by betting against subprime mortgages before the housing
collapse. His New York-based firm has about $18 billion in
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  