-- Paulson Hedge Fund Adds to Merger Play Raising Vodafone
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-11-14T22:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/paulson-hedge-fund-adds-to-merger-play-raising-vodafone.html
Paulson & Co., the $18 billion
hedge-fund firm run by billionaire  John Paulson , increased his
bet that  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  may be a takeover candidate by
increasing its stake in the phone company.  Paulson & Co., which is based in New York, added 17 million
American depositary receipts of Vodafone last quarter, bringing
its holding to 20 million ADRs valued at $703.6 million as of
Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing today. Paulson also
increased its stake in  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , adding 2.76 million
shares and bringing the total value of its holding to $504.7
million.  AT&T Inc. executives are laying the groundwork internally
for a potential takeover of Vodafone next year, mapping out a
strategy for a complex deal with Europe’s largest mobile
carrier, people familiar with the situation said this month.
Paulson has previously said he considers Vodafone a takeover
candidate.  Paulson’s firm joined activist investor Daniel Loeb and
billionaire  George Soros  in buying shares of  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  in the
third quarter. The firm bought 646,800 shares of the operator of
the world’s largest cargo airline.  Loeb, who has pushed for change at companies including Sony
Corp., said earlier this week his Third Point LLC took a stake
in FedEx, which is in the midst of a $1.7 billion restructuring
program to lower costs and boost earnings with steps such as
cutting air capacity to Asia, retiring older planes and offering
employee buyouts.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. with
WalekPeppercomm, declined to comment on the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  