-- Paul McCartney Urges Putin to Free Jailed Greenpeace Activists
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-14T09:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/paul-mccartney-urges-putin-to-free-jailed-greenpeace-activists.html
Paul McCartney  wrote to Russian
President  Vladimir Putin , urging him to free Greenpeace
activists arrested for protesting against Arctic oil drilling.  “Vladimir, millions of people in dozens of countries would
be hugely grateful if you were to intervene to bring about an
end to this affair,” McCartney, who was taken on a tour of the
Kremlin by the Russian leader and played before him in a 2003
concert on Red Square, said in a letter to Putin dated Oct. 14
and posted on his  website  today.  Russia  has faced worldwide protests by the environmental
group and a legal claim from the Netherlands since it detained
30 people for participating in a Greenpeace protest at an
offshore oil platform in September, impounding their ship and
charging them with piracy, which is punishable by as long as 15
years in prison. Prosecutors have since reduced the charges to
hooliganism, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years.  “The Greenpeace I know is most certainly not an anti-Russian organisation,” McCartney wrote. “In my experience they
tend to annoy every government! And above all else they are
peaceful.”  Two protesters sought to scale state-run  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s
Prirazlomnaya oil rig in the Pechora Sea on Sept. 18. A day
later Russia’s Coast Guard boarded the group’s Arctic Sunrise
ship in international waters and towed the vessel to the port
city of Murmansk, where 28 activists as well as a photographer
and a videographer were detained and charged with piracy. The
Russian authorities on Nov. 11 moved the Greenpeace detainees to
the country’s second largest city,  St. Petersburg , easing
consular access to them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  