-- Peltz’s Trian Sold State Street Shares in Third Quarter
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/peltz-s-trian-sold-sotheby-s-state-street-stakes-last-quarter.html
Activist investor Nelson Peltz, who
took a stake in  State Street Corp. (STT)  more than two years ago to
push for changes to boost the share price, exited his holding in
the custody bank in the third quarter.  Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP divested 1.86 million
shares of Boston-based State Street, with a market value of
$121.5 million as June 30, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  State Street shares have more than doubled since Trian made
a public statement on Oct. 16, 2011, admonishing State Street’s
board of directors for poor performance and suggesting steps to
increase share prices. Peltz, along with Trian executives Peter
May and Ed Garden, urged the company to adopt a multistep plan
for raising profit that included a possible sell-off of the
custody bank’s money-management unit, prioritizing shareholder
returns over  acquisitions  and a commitment to cost-cutting.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph Hooley cut costs and
returned capital to shareholders more aggressively than rivals
such as Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. over the past three years.
State Street’s  third-quarter  profit climbed 14 percent as the
global stock-market rally helped boost assets and the company
benefited from reduced costs.  The efforts paid off as State Street shares have beaten
peers this year, climbing  50 percent  through yesterday, compared
with 29 percent for Bank of New York Mellon Corp., and 14
percent for  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  State Street shares closed at
$70.62 yesterday, up 108 percent from Oct. 14, 2011, the last
trading day before Peltz’s letter was made public.  Custody banks such as State Street keep records, track
performance and lend securities for institutional investors
including mutual funds, pension funds and hedge funds. State
Street also manages investments for individuals and
institutions.  Activist Peltz  Trian successfully pushed  Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  to spin off
units last year. Peltz also is pressuring  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the
snack-food maker and soda producer, to acquire competitor
 Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , formerly known as Kraft Foods Inc.,
or separate its snacks and beverages businesses.  Trian also sold its stake in  Sotheby’s (BID)  in the third
quarter. The firm sold 2.07 million shares of the New York-based
auction house valued at $78.6 million as of June 30. Sotheby’s
had its debt put on review for a possible downgrade by Standard
& Poor’s in September after the company said it’s reassessing
its capital allocation and financial policies.  Anne Tarbell , a managing director at Trian, declined to
comment on the stakes, as did Carolyn Cichon, a spokeswoman for 
State Street.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  