-- Pentagon Says No to More Disputed Russian Copter Deals
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/pentagon-says-no-to-more-disputed-russian-copter-deals.html
The Pentagon won’t buy more Mi-17
helicopters from Rosoboronexport,  Russia ’s state-run arms
trader, after completing a $572 million contract signed in June,
a Defense Department spokeswoman said yesterday.  “The department has re-evaluated requirements in
consultation with Congress,” Maureen Schumann, the spokeswoman,
said in a statement. “We currently do not have plans to
purchase additional Mi-17s from Rosoboronexport” following the
acquisition of 86 bought for the  Afghanistan  military.  Pentagon officials have said Rosoboronexport was the only
source for the Russian-made aircraft that Afghanistan’s military
has flown since the 1980s. U.S. lawmakers raised objections
about the contract because the trader has supplied arms to
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  “I applaud the Defense Department’s decision to finally
cancel its plan to buy additional helicopters,” Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the Senate’s second-ranking Republican, said
yesterday in a statement. “Doing business with the supplier of
these helicopters has been a morally bankrupt policy, and as a
nation, we should no longer be subsidizing Assad’s war crimes.”  The decision means that the Defense Department won’t
continue to seek $345 million that it had requested to buy 15
more of the helicopters, Schumann said. The Senate defense
appropriations panel rejected the request for the fiscal year
that began Oct. 1.  The $572 million contract signed in June will provide
Afghanistan with 30 Mi-17s as well as spare parts and service.  A dozen senators in August called on the Pentagon to
“fully sever its business relationship” with Rosoboronexport,
including canceling the June contract.  Rosoboronexport, based in Moscow, accounted for 85 percent
of Russia’s arms exports as of 2010, according to
GlobalSecurity.org, a research group based in Alexandria,
Virginia. It’s the sole Russian company controlling exports of
the Mi-17, according to the Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  