-- Philip Green Eyes Convenience Food to Stem ‘Annoying’ BHS Losses
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-11-14T13:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/philip-green-eyes-convenience-food-to-stem-annoying-bhs-losses.html
Billionaire  Philip Green  plans to
introduce a convenience food offering across his BHS outlets to
help revive the unprofitable U.K. chain and pit it against
grocers like  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and discounter Aldi.  As many as 150 of the retailer’s more than 180 British
stores could offer food, Green, 61, said today in an telephone
interview. The chain’s customers want to buy food, he said,
citing the results of market research conducted for BHS.  “We are in the process and have a model for  convenience
stores  in BHS,” Green said. The entrepreneur also said he’s not
discussing a sale of the chain following a Nov. 10 Sunday Times
report that BHS has attracted attention from bidders including
South African billionaire Christo Wiese.  Green has owned BHS since 2000, though the business has
struggled amid rising competition in clothing and home
furnishings and a subdued consumer climate. That’s partly offset
the growth of Green’s TopShop and TopMan fashion chains, which
are expanding into international markets such as the U.S.  BHS’s losses are “annoying as opposed to life-threatening,” Green said, declining to be more specific.  Green’s Arcadia Group today reported pretax profit of 167.8
million pounds ($269 million) before one-time items for the year
ended Aug. 31, little changed from the previous year’s 166.9
million pounds. Revenue increased 2.1 percent to 2.74 billion
pounds, though same-store sales fell 2.7 percent.  The decline in comparable sales accelerated to 3.7 percent
in the first 10 weeks of the new financial year, weighed down by
unseasonably wet and mild fall weather, Green said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  