-- Platts Oil-Price System Prone to Collusion, EU Official Says
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-14T16:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/platts-system-could-be-prone-to-collusion-eu-official-says.html
Platts’s oil-price reporting system
“could be prone to collusion or distortion,” according to the
European Union official in charge of the benchmark probe that
led to raids on the premises of  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and  Statoil ASA. (STL)   “The mere set up could be prone to collusion or distortion
because it doesn’t take much to basically have strange
reporting” by companies that participate in the pricing system,
Celine Gauer, director at the European Commission’s antitrust
unit for the  energy industry , said today at a conference in
Brussels.  It takes at least a year to review all the documents
garnered during and after raids in cases such as the oil probe
if the commission plans to open a formal investigation, Gauer
said in an interview. Reviewing documents can go faster if the
EU decides not to open a formal probe, she said, emphasizing
that her comments today were in a personal capacity.  The commission also raided the premises of Abengoa SA and
Argos Energies in May looking for evidence in relation to the
markets for crude oil, refined oil products and biofuels.
Gauer’s comments come after four longtime traders in the global
oil market said in a U.S. lawsuit that the prices for buying and
selling crude are fixed.  ‘Robust’ Process  Platts’s “oil-price assessment process is robust and
specifically designed to safeguard against distortion, requiring
that any data submitted for consideration is in line with the
market, that any bids or offers are firm, transactable and
verifiable and move incrementally in step with the market,”
Kathleen Tanzy, a spokeswoman for the company in  New York , said
in an e-mail.  “Any data out of line with the market will not be
considered in the final assessment,” she said. “Platts has not
been charged with any wrongdoing and we are not aware of any
evidence that our assessments are not reflective of true market
value.”  The EU probe is still examining two areas of concern --
abuse of dominance and unlawful collusion, Gauer said.  “None of the two avenues is closed yet because we are
simply looking at the material” gathered during the
investigation, she said.  Instant Messages  Platts has assessed prices for crude oil, petroleum
products and related swaps using its market on close process
since 2002 in  Europe . Traders voluntarily report bids, offers
and trades to Platts through e-mails, instant messages and phone
conversations in a defined window period each day, which are
then used to create end-of-day price assessments for various
commodities, including crude oil and ethanol.  “Very often you see that it is not that many transactions
or bids and offers that are reported on a day-to-day basis,”
Gauer said. “On the basis of these trades, Platts develops
independently, or so it seems, its price benchmark.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  