-- Plosser Says Price Stability Should Be Fed’s Primary Mandate
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-14T15:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/plosser-says-price-stability-should-be-fed-s-primary-mandate.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser , an opponent of Fed bond purchases,
said the central bank should focus on  price stability  as its
primary objective, and not worry as much about “fluctuations”
in employment.  “It would be appropriate to redefine the Fed’s monetary
policy goals to focus solely, or at least primarily, on price
stability,” Plosser said today in prepared remarks for a speech
at the  Cato Institute  in  Washington . “I base this on two facts:
Monetary policy has very limited ability to influence real
variables, such as employment. And, in a regime with fiat
currency, only the central bank can ensure price stability.”  Plosser’s remarks underscore the tensions on the  Federal
Open Market Committee  that  Janet Yellen  is poised to lead. While
he argues in favor of a single mandate at the Cato Institute,
Yellen today will go through her confirmation hearing in the
 U.S. Senate , where her prepared remarks show her endorsing the
Fed’s current approach to policy.  Yellen will tell the Senate Banking Committee that
unemployment remains too high and the economy is performing well
below its potential, warranting a strategy of “unconventional
policy tools such as asset purchases,” according to prepared
remarks released yesterday.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy on the
FOMC, with Plosser voting next year. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s term as central bank chief expires Jan. 31, and so if
Yellen is confirmed she will have Plosser on her committee.  Congressional Mandate  Plosser, 65, said that while Congress has given the Fed the
mandate to promote “the goals of maximum employment, stable
prices and moderate long-term  interest rates ,” the Federal
Reserve Act “doesn’t mention reducing short-term fluctuations
in employment.”  He said “focusing on short-run control of employment
weakens the credibility and effectiveness of the Fed in
achieving its price stability objective.”  In answer to a question, Plosser said he would prefer a
lower inflation target than the 2 percent that the FOMC has set.  He said he’s not as concerned as some of his colleagues
that inflation can fall too low. “It’s not obvious to me that
mild deflation is such a bad thing,” he said. “For me, I think
the value of an inflation target is a form of commitment, and it
really doesn’t matter quite as much whether the number was 1.5
percent or 2.5 percent or 2 percent. It’s the signaling of a
commitment of the institution to deliver something in
particular.”  ‘Rule-Like Approach’  Plosser also called for broader limits to the central
bank’s authority, saying that the Fed should be restricted to
purchases of  Treasury securities  and should be required to
follow a “systematic, rule-like approach” to policy.  Plosser’s limits would prevent the Fed from engaging in its
current strategy of $85 billion a month of bond purchases,
divided between $45 billion in Treasuries and $40 billion of
mortgage-backed securities. The MBS purchases are aimed at
boosting housing, and Plosser said that “programs to allocate
credit rightfully belong in the realm of the fiscal authorities
-- not the central bank.”  The Philadelphia Fed chief has spoken out against the
second and third round of bond purchases. The last year he voted
on monetary policy, in 2011, he dissented against a pledge to
hold interest rates near zero until mid-2013 and against the
Fed’s so-called Operation Twist program, designed to lower
interest rates.  Today, he also opposed efforts to focus the Fed on ensuring
financial stability.  “Some have even called for an expansion of the  monetary
policy  mandate to include an explicit goal for financial
stability,” Plosser said. “I think this would be a mistake.”  “By taking a highly discretionary approach to monetary
policy, policy makers increase the risks of financial
instability by making monetary policy uncertain,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  