-- Poland Defies Power Slump in $3.7 Billion Gamble: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-11-14T16:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/poland-defies-power-slump-in-3-7-billion-gamble-energy-markets.html
Poland  is seeking to avoid a looming
power shortage by forcing the nation’s biggest utility to build
a $3.7 billion coal plant its chief executive officer says will
be unprofitable after prices fell to a five-year low.  PGE SA, majority-owned by the government, can afford to
expand the Opole utility in the southwest because it is making
money elsewhere, Deputy Prime Minister Janusz Piechocinski told
reporters in Warsaw on Nov. 6. Electricity prices need to rise
by about 50 percent to make it viable, according to Krzysztof Kilian, the Warsaw-based utility’s CEO.  Poland, which the  International Monetary Fund  says will
exceed the euro area’s growth by at least 1.4 percentage points
through 2018, needs to replace 28 percent of its coal-fired
generation by 2020 to provide a stable flow of power.  Europe ’s
record renewable energy output is damping prices and making
supplies more unpredictable. The government says PGE must
complete the Opole expansion because the nation may face
shortages in as little as four years.  “The power market in Europe is in deep crisis,” Kilian
said in an interview Oct. 28. “Decisions on investments are
based on what’s happening in the market today.”  The price of next-year Polish power contracts are headed
for a second annual decline, according to broker data compiled
by Bloomberg. The contract slid 15 percent in 2013 to trade at
150.55 zloty ($48.41) per megawatt-hour today. Shares of PGE
gained 0.5 percent this year, compared with a 2.3 percent
advance in the  WIG30 index  of the nation’s leading stocks.  EDF Accord  PGE’s plans for the 20-year-old Opole facility, 9
kilometers (6 miles) outside the town of the same name, will add
two new 900-megawatt units in 2018 and 2019 costing as much as
11.6 billion zloty ($3.7 billion). A supply of 1,000 megawatts
can power two million European homes.  The company will be able to avoid losses from the plant by
securing state-backed guarantees on prices, similar to the
agreement won by Paris-based Electricite de France SA in the
U.K., Kilian said. EDF, the world’s biggest atomic-energy
producer, will build the first new reactor in the U.K. since
1995 after the British government offered a power price almost
double today’s market rate.  “Opole is a very, very risky investment,” said Marek Buczak, a  fund manager  at the Quercus TFI SA mutual fund in
Warsaw which manages $1.14 billion of assets, including PGE
shares. “If current regulations won’t change, giving up
construction of Opole would be much better from a minority
shareholder’s point of view.”  Leaving Poland  The new plant would be the biggest power project in Poland
since the fall of communism in 1989. The region’s population of
1.01 million is the fastest shrinking in the country, Henryk
Galwas, head of the Opole Business Chamber, said in an interview
on Nov. 8.  “Young people are leaving the region to work in  Germany 
and are staying there,” he said. Expanding the plant may create
3,000 jobs, encouraging people to return, he said.  Opolskie’s population shrank 5.2 percent in the 10 years
through 2012, compared with a 0.8 percent increase across
Poland, according to the  Central Statistical Office .  European power prices plunged from their 2008 peak as the
euro-area’s longest-ever recession curbed demand and nations
flooded the market with electricity from solar and wind plants
to meet the region’s 2020 renewable energy targets.  Power output from mainly solar and wind jumped 88 percent
in the five years through 2011 in the European Union, excluding
 Croatia , according to Eurostat data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries.  Rural Commune  “Who knows where the price of electricity will be in 40
years,” said Henryk Wrobel, the head of the rural commune of
Dobrzen Wielki, 15 kilometers from Opole. “Projecting the
investment’s value based on today’s prices is not quite
justified,” said Wrobel, an economist by training who worked on
financial projections for the existing Opole plant in the 1990s.  PGE may tell contractors to start building the plant as
early as Dec. 15, the company said in August.  Nations from Germany to the U.K. are boosting output from
renewable sources by subsidizing solar and wind power and giving
those sources priority access to the grid, which means less
profitable running hours for plants burning coal and gas.  Burning Money  It makes no economic sense to build any type of
conventional power plant today, Grzegorz Gorski, head of Paris-based GDF Suez SA’s operations in Poland, said Nov. 6 by phone.  “With subsidized renewable output, power-plant operators
are mostly burning money in their generators as it’s difficult
to cover any type of costs,” he said.  The European Union should abandon subsidies and improve
power market regulation, the heads of Europe’s 10 biggest
utilities said at a joint press briefing in Brussels last month.  The  profit margin  from generating electricity from coal in
Germany, Europe’s biggest power market, fell 20 percent in the
past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg using
next-year prices. Gas-fired  power plants  in Germany will be
unprofitable until at least 2016, the data show.  PGE wrote down almost the entire value of its 1,500-megawatt coal-fed Dolna Odra power plant in Poland, the company
said in February, citing the utility’s losses.  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA, the nation’s most profitable
coal producer, decided against investing in a 500-megawatt power
plant GDF Suez may build in southeast, CEO Zbigniew Stopa told
reporters in Warsaw on Nov. 7.  April Cancellation  PGE canceled the Opole expansion in April to focus on
plants burning lignite, a less costly coal variety, as well as
wind farms and a nuclear power plant. The government reversed
the decision in June.  Poland will be short of 800 megawatts of power at peak
times in 2016 and 1,100 megawatts in 2017, according to the
 Economy Ministry . The gap would swing into a 114-megawatt
surplus in 2018, assuming 3,000 megawatts of new coal- and gas-fired plants including Opole, are built, the ministry says.  The government says PGE can afford to build the new Opole
plant after arranging a deal with Katowice-based coal producer
Kompania Weglowa SA, also controlled by the state, for a long-term supply contract.  PGE also will receive payments for keeping reserve capacity
on standby, Piechocinski said. Measures may be in force as early
as next year, according to Urzad Regulacji Energetyki, the
country’s Warsaw-based energy market watchdog.  The country is working on a set of measures that would help
power plant operators, including price guarantees, and has yet
to choose an optimal solution, Marek Woszczyk, the head of Urzad
Regulacji Energetyki, said by e-mail.  Debt Free  Unlike GDF Suez and EDF, which are both in debt, PGE has
net cash, which will allow it to pay dividends as Opole is
expanded,  Pawel Puchalski , an analyst at the Warsaw-based unit
of Banco Santander SA. The utility will be limited in its
ability to make additional payments to investors, he said.  After Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk initially said on
April 9 that it “seemed rational” for PGE to cancel the Opole
expansion, about 60 lawmakers from his own Civic Platform party
in the Opole and coal-producing Silesia regions signed a
petition in May demanding the project be saved. Tusk changed his
position on June 6.  Local projects depending on the expansion of Opole include
the construction of a new bypass and a heated water park, Tomasz
Kostus, deputy chairman of the Opole Province local assembly,
said in an interview Nov. 8.  “We estimate that some 30 percent of the value of the
investment will stay in our region, boosting the local economy
and jobs,” he said.  The  Opole University of Technology  also started departments
in energy and mechatronics, a discipline combining mechanical
engineering and electronics, on the assumption the expansion
would proceed, the university’s Rector Marek Tukiendorf said in
a Nov. 8 interview.  “We’ll not die without this investment, but canceling it
wouldn’t be responsible,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  