-- Poland Reviews Pension Revamp Plan to Address Legal Concern
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-11-14T11:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/poland-reviews-pension-revamp-plan-to-address-legal-concern.html
Poland ’s government has dropped a
proposal that would force privately managed pension funds to
invest at least 75 percent of assets in stocks as it seeks to
forestall any legal challenges to its planned system revamp.  Funds will also be allowed to hold government bonds until
February 2016, according to a modified version of the  draft law 
published on the government’s website today. The revision
follows public consultations and reverses an earlier ban on
investments in state debt. The measure must now be approved by
the government and parliament and signed into law by President
Bronislaw Komorowski in order to take effect early next year.  Poland plans to take over 51.5 percent of the privately
managed funds’ pension assets, mostly  government bonds , to
reduce public debt by 9.2 percentage points of economic output.
The move would give the government, which trails the opposition
in opinion polls, some leeway to increase spending and boost
economic growth before general elections in 2015.  The initial draft of the pension funds bill attracted
criticism from, among others, the country’s central bank, the
financial watchdog and state lawyers who said it may carry legal
risks.  The proposed modifications are an “improvement,” Irena Woycicka, a minister at the president’s office, said today in an
interview on Polish Radio One. Some concerns remain about the
constitutionality and certain “technical” aspects of the
proposed law, she said.  Transfer Uncertainty  Among the points of uncertainty is the government’s
proposal to automatically transfer to the pay-as-you-go state
system pension-fund members who don’t specify whether they want
to stay with the funds, Woycicka said.  Poles will have four months to declare whether they still
want to save for their retirement in privately managed funds,
according to the revised plan. They’ll be able to review their
decision in 2016.  Pension funds in the mandatory system held 292 billion
zloty ($93.6 billion) of assets, including 120.3 billion zloty
of stocks and 124.1 billion zloty of bonds as of Sept. 30, data
from Poland’s financial markets regulator show. The owners of
companies running the funds include Aegon NV,  Allianz SE ,
MetLife Inc., Aviva Plc, AXA SA, Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A.,
ING Groep NV and Nordea Bank AB.  The government has already included the pension-fund
changes in its 2014 budget, which will run a 4.6% of GDP surplus
thanks to the asset transfer, according to a Nov. 5 forecast by
the European Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  