-- Polish GDP Beats Estimates With Fastest Expansion Since 2012
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-11-14T12:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/polish-economy-expands-most-since-mid-2012-beats-estimate-1-.html
Polish economic growth accelerated
to its fastest pace in more than a year in the third quarter as
foreign demand improved and consumers boosted spending.  Gross domestic product , unadjusted for seasonal effects,
rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 0.8
percent advance the previous quarter, according to an initial
estimate published today by the statistics office in Warsaw.
Expansion was faster than the 1.6 percent median  estimate  of 36
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Seasonally adjusted GDP
increased 0.6 percent from the previous quarter.  The central bank last week pledged to keep its main
interest rate at a record low until mid-2014 or longer to aid a
“moderate” recovery from the economy’s worst slowdown in at
least a decade.  Retail sales  rose for a fifth month in
September, while manufacturing probably expanded the most in
more than two years last month, HSBC Holdings Plc said Nov. 4,
citing a survey of purchasing managers.  “It seems the acceleration was due to stronger private
consumption and stabilization or even slight improvement in
fixed investment,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist for  Poland  at
Citigroup Inc. in Warsaw, said today by e-mail. “The data will
allow the central bank to stick to its wait-and-see mode.”  Zloty Gains  The zloty strengthened after the data, trading at 4.1917
per euro at 11:52 a.m. in Warsaw, a gain of 0.1 percent from
yesterday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year notes was
unchanged at 4.33 percent after the GDP results, down 4 basis
points from yesterday.  “Growth is clearly improving” even as it remains “below
potential,” Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council, told TVN CNBC today. “In this
situation we can say that this year’s expansion will be close to
our projection of 1.4 percent.”  Poland’s faster growth contrasts with its biggest trading
partner, the euro area, whose nascent economic recovery lost
momentum in the third quarter as German expansion slowed and
 France ’s economy unexpectedly contracted.  In eastern Europe, Czech  GDP (CZGDPSAQ)  unexpectedly shrank between
July and September, while  growth  in Hungary and  Romania 
accelerated more than analysts predicted, official data released
today showed.  Private consumption and exports probably “contributed
positively” to Poland’s third-quarter growth, Maria Jeznach,
director of national accounts at the statistics office, told
reporters today in Warsaw. There’s also “a gradual
improvement” in investment by Polish companies, she said.  The statistics office will give a breakdown of the growth
figures on Nov 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  