-- Portuguese Economy Expands for a Second Quarter, INE Says
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-11-14T12:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/portuguese-economy-expands-for-a-second-quarter-ine-says.html
Portugal’s  economy  expanded for a
second quarter in the three months through September, even as
growth slowed amid a continued contraction of domestic demand
and a rise in imports.  Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, when it rose 1.1 percent, the Lisbon-based National
Statistics Institute said in a preliminary report today.
Economists predicted an increase of 0.3 percent, the median of
six estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  showed. GDP dropped 1
percent from a year earlier.  “It seems the economy is touching bottom,” Vitor Bento,
economist and chairman of payment-processing company SIBS SA
said at a conference in Lisbon today. The question now is
whether the country can grow at a sustainable path, he said.  Portugal’s government raised its 2014 growth forecast on
Oct. 3 to 0.8 percent from 0.6 percent, and said it expects the
economy will shrink 1.8 percent this year, less than its
previous estimate of 2.3 percent. The nation’s jobless rate
dropped to 15.6 percent in the three months through September
after exports lifted the economy out of a 2 1/2 yearlong
recession in the second quarter.  Trim Spending  While the economy seems to be picking up, Prime Minister
 Pedro Passos Coelho  still has to trim spending by about 3.2
billion euros ($4.3 billion) next year to meet the terms of a 78
billion-euro aid plan from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund, after relying mainly on tax
increases this year.  Domestic demand shrank at a slower pace in the third
quarter than a year ago, the statistics institute said. The
contribution of net trade decreased as imports accelerated, it
said.  The euro area’s recovery came close to a halt in the third
quarter as German growth slowed,  France ’s economy unexpectedly
shrank and  Italy  extended its record-long recession. Euro-area
unemployment stands at a record 12.2 percent and the European
Central Bank cut its benchmark rate to an all-time low of 0.25
percent last week to fight low inflation and rekindle growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  