-- Pound Climbs to 4-Year High Versus Yen on U.K. Outlook
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-14T16:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/pound-weakens-against-dollar-before-u-k-retail-sales-report.html
The pound advanced, appreciating to
a four-year high versus the yen, on speculation the U.K. economy
will outperform those of its major counterparts.  Sterling rose for a second day against Japan’s currency
after a government report showed growth in the Asian nation’s
economy cooled last quarter. The pound extended this month’s
gain versus the euro after Europe’s statistics office said the
region’s gross domestic product came close to a halt in the
third quarter. The Bank of England signaled yesterday it may
raise interest rates sooner than it previously predicted as the
economy improves. U.K. government bonds rose.  “The pound outperformed the euro and the yen on the
comparative economic outlook and that will affect differences in
yields,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “The BOE will
hold rates until the fourth quarter next year, although they
would probably prefer to hold them a little longer. But the euro
region and Japan have no rates hikes on the horizon.”  The pound jumped 0.9 percent to 160.71 yen at 4:31 p.m.
London time after rising to 160.92, the highest level since
August 2009. The U.K. currency gained 0.3 percent to 83.78 pence
per euro after appreciating 0.6 percent yesterday. Sterling
climbed 0.2 percent to $1.6085.  UBS AG recommended investors should add to bets the pound
will extend gains versus the yen if Britain’s currency closes
above 159.99, with a price target of 168.  Slowing Growth  Japan ’s GDP growth slowed to an annualized 1.9 percent from
3.8 percent in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said in
 Tokyo . The euro-area economy expanded 0.1 percent in the three
months through September, compared with a 0.3 percent expansion
in the second quarter, the statistics office in Luxembourg said.  Sterling rose yesterday after the Bank of England signaled
in its quarterly Inflation Report that officials may increase
borrowing costs earlier than previously forecast as the economy
improves. Britain has “one of the strongest recoveries in the
advanced world,” Governor Mark Carney said.  The pound gained 3.8 percent in the past three months, the
best performer among 10 developed-market counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro climbed 1.4
percent, while the dollar weakened 0.4 percent.  The pound fell in earlier trading after the Office for
National Statistics said U.K.  retail sales  including fuel
unexpectedly dropped 0.7 percent in October, after rising 0.6
percent the previous month. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists was for no change.  ‘Strengthen Gradually’  The retail sales number “raises a risk to the strong trend
we’ve seen but I don’t think one month’s figures are going to
change the market’s opinion on the recovery,” said Lee Hardman,
a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 London . “If the data continue to remain robust then that should
help the pound to strengthen gradually.”  The pound extended gains versus the dollar after Federal
Reserve Chairman nominee Janet Yellen signaled she will carry on
the central bank’s unprecedented stimulus until she sees
improvement in an economy.  “The perception in the market is that the BOE has brought
forward its expectations regarding the first rate hike this
week,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International. “The Fed and the ECB are both ultra-dovish. There are expectations of more Bank of Japan easing next
year after today’s GDP data highlighted weak consumption.”  Gilts advanced with Treasuries and German bunds following
Yellen’s testimony.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.76 percent. The 2.25 percent bond
maturing in September 2023 rose 0.38, or 3.80 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.67.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year gilts
instead of similar-maturity German bunds was little changed at
106 basis points. The spread ended yesterday at 107 basis
points, the widest since October 2005 based on closed prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  