-- Prim Capital Founder Guilty of NBA Union Fraud Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-11-14T21:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/prim-capital-founder-guilty-of-nba-players-association-fraud-1-.html
Prim Capital Corp. founder Joseph
Lombardo, whose firm helped manage as much as $250 million for
the National Basketball Players Association, pleaded guilty to
trying to defraud the organization of $3 million.  Prim was the primary outside advisory firm entrusted with
the union’s investments and finances from 2001 to 2013,
according to prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara.  Lombardo, 72, told U.S. District Judge Jesse Furman today
in Manhattan that from the summer of 2011 through this year, he
engaged in a scheme to defraud the NBPA by creating a fraudulent
contract between the group and his company. He also said he
conspired to obstruct a federal grand jury in New York.  “I and at least one other person agreed to impede and
attempted to impede the grand jury,” Lombardo said. “We agreed
that we would provide testimony we knew not to be true about the
nature and origin of the contracts between Prim Capital and the
National Basketball Players Association.”  Lombardo, who pleaded guilty to wire fraud and obstruction
of the grand jury, faces from 51 to 63 months in prison when he
is sentenced on March 20. Teri  Washington , a spokeswoman for the
union, declined to comment on Lombardo’s plea.  Served Subpoena  In May 2012, as part of a U.S. Department of Labor
investigation, Prim was served with a subpoena seeking documents
pertaining to agreements between the association and the firm,
prosecutors said. Prim produced copies of its agreements with
the union, including a purported 2011 contract listing Prim’s
fee as $602,000 per year for a five-year term, prosecutors said.  The contract was signed by Gary Hall, the union’s former
general counsel. Bharara said an investigation revealed that
Hall’s signature wasn’t authentic and was created at Prim,
months after Hall’s death in March 2011, prosecutors said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Richenthal told the judge
today that the signature was created from a stamp. He said
Lombardo and an unidentified person agreed to lie to the federal
grand jury in New York and that Lombardo had given false
testimony when he appeared before the grand jury in February.  Compiled Evidence  Richenthal also told the court that the government had
compiled evidence against Lombardo that included “recordings in
which Mr. Lombardo is attempting to or sought to influence the
testimony of other individuals during the winter of this year
with respect to the contract” between Prim and the NBPA.  In court today, Lombardo and prosecutors didn’t name the
person he allegedly conspired with. Lombardo and Carolyn Kaufman, a Prim principal who served as president of the
company’s advisory services unit, were charged in a criminal
complaint unsealed in April.  Kaufman has pleaded not guilty to the charges and faces
trial Dec. 2.  ``Ms. Kaufman has done nothing wrong and she was not 
charged with the scheme to fabricate the contract that 
Mr. Lombardo pleaded guilty to today,'' Steven Molo, a 
lawyer for Kaufman, said. ``We look forward to a trial 
in December in which she will be vindicated.''  ‘Good Man’  Michael Koenig, Lombardo's lawyer, said that his client 
has no cooperation agreement with the government, and will 
seek leniency at sentencing.  “Joseph Lombardo is a good man who made a series of
unfortunate decisions, including to this matter for which he is
now paying a steep emotional and professional price,” Koenig 
said after the hearing. “By admitting his conduct and fully 
accepting his responsibility for his actions, he can now begin 
to repair and fully restore his reputation.”  Lombardo’s arrest followed months of turmoil at the union,
whose members in February voted to fire Executive Director Billy
Hunter after an independent investigation found that the former
federal prosecutor put his own interests ahead of the union’s
member players.  Hunter’s son, Todd, was a principal at Prim Capital. Billy
Hunter in January purged family members from union roles after
the investigation conducted by the New York law firm Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP was critical of nepotism
at the organization.  Family Members  The New York-based union paid almost $4.8 million to
Hunter’s family members and their professional firms since 2001,
according to public records. Billy Hunter also severed ties with
Prim.  The investigation concluded that Hunter didn’t do anything
illegal.  Bharara’s office started investigating the union after the
association’s president, Derek Fisher, called for a review of
business practices, including nepotism. Hunter, a former
National Football League player, ran the union since 1996.  The case is U.S. v. Lombardo, 13-01072, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  