-- Productivity in U.S. Rose Less Than Forecast in Third Quarter
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-14T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/productivity-in-u-s-rose-less-than-forecast-in-third-quarter.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
rose less than projected in the third quarter, showing employers
are finding it difficult to boost efficiency.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 1.9
percent annualized rate, after a revised 1.8 percent gain in the
prior three months that was smaller than previously estimated, a
Labor Department report showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 59 economists called for a 2.2
percent gain. Expenses per worker dropped at a 0.6 percent rate.  Employers will need to boost efficiency in a bid to bolster
profits as consumer spending and business investment are having
trouble gaining momentum. Nonetheless, businesses are finding it
difficult to squeeze more from existing staff indicating hiring
will need to pick up along with sales.  “Companies can’t count on productivity growth to meet
increased demand -- they’re going to need to hire as well,” Gus Faucher, senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Pittsburgh, said before the report. “Particularly given the
fact that the October jobs number was quite good, we might see
slowing in productivity growth in the fourth quarter.”  The estimates of economists surveyed ranged from
productivity gains of 0.1 percent to 3 percent. Second-quarter
productivity was previously reported as a 2.3 percent increase.
In the six months ended in March, the back-to-back quarterly
declines in efficiency were the biggest over a similar period
since 1993.  Other reports today showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for unemployment benefits last week, and the
trade deficit widened more than forecast in September.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims  in the week ended Nov. 9 declined 2,000 to
339,000 from a revised 341,000 the week before that was higher
than initially reported, the Labor Department said. The  median 
forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 330,000. Applications for five states were estimated
because of the Veterans Day holiday-shortened week, the Labor
Department said.  The gap between exports and imports increased 8 percent to
$41.8 billion, a four-month high, from $38.7 billion in August,
the Commerce Department reported. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 72 economists called for a $39 billion
deficit.  In the third-quarter, productivity was little changed from
the same three months in 2013.  Labor Costs  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to fall 0.1 percent, the Bloomberg survey median
showed.  Employee expenses were up 1.9 percent in the third quarter
compared to the same time last year, today’s report showed.  “Wage growth is very weak right now,”  Gus Faucher , senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh,
said before the report. “We’re seeing slow but positive gains
in productivity. So labor is relatively cheap -- that’s another
factor behind businesses’ decisions to hire, as well as
profitability is good. Given that credit is still tight, that’s
an important consideration as well.”  The job market has picked up in the fourth quarter.
Employers added 204,000 workers in October even as the 16-day
government shutdown weighed on growth. Payroll gains have
averaged 186,300 so far in 2013, compared with 182,750 last
year, according to Labor Department data.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annualized rate
in the third quarter, a faster pace than forecast and a pickup
from the 2.5 percent gain in the prior three months, Commerce
Department figures showed last week. The partial government
shutdown at the start of the fourth quarter may weigh on growth
at the end of the year, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Of the S&P 500 companies that have announced so far, about
75 percent have beaten analysts’ income forecasts, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed yesterday. Profits for the gauge will rise
4.7 percent in the third quarter and 6.2 percent in the final
three months of the year, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  