-- Progressive Highlights Data for Insuring Driverless Cars
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-11-14T16:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/progressive-highlights-data-for-insuring-driverless-cars.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR)  said its
technology that tracks driver behavior to set insurance rates
will help the company adapt as automated cars take the road.  The auto insurer offers a device called Snapshot, which
plugs into a vehicle and monitors habits to calculate discounts
for customers. As cars become more automated, the technology
could be used by underwriters to design policies, Chief
Executive Officer Glenn Renwick said today.  “It gives us some very direct insight to the vehicle,” he
said during a conference call. “That gives us opportunities to
think about things differently, what might be insurable.”  Cars that allow motorists to read e-mails or watch a video
while being ferried to their destination are still years away
from widespread adoption. Still, automakers including  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Daimler AG are starting to roll out systems that
take over the wheel in some instances. Nissan Motor Co. plans to
bring affordable, fully autonomous vehicles to market by 2020.  Such developments could challenge auto insurers’ business,
much the way that digital photography and video transformed the
film-camera industry, Renwick said. Automating driving can
reduce the risk of human error, which is currently the main
cause of car accidents, he said.  Auto insurance will have “more to do with information that
comes from the car than the classical segmentation with regard
to characteristics of the driver,” Renwick said.  Prior to Snapshot, Progressive was a pioneer in using
metrics such as credit scores to determine rates. The practice
is now used widely in the industry. The auto insurer said in
April that the monitoring device had helped it log more than 6
billion miles (10 billion kilometers) of driving data.  State Regulation  In the U.S., the federal government oversees vehicle safety
and each state regulates insurance and licenses motorists.
Insurers and state authorities will have to decide how to assign
liability and responsibility for an accident if a machine rather
than a person is driving.  Those impediments could delay adoption. Still, the pace of
change isn’t keeping Progressive from thinking about
opportunities, Renwick said.  “We’ll just continue to refine estimates over time,” he
said. “But along with those estimates, we’ll also be starting
to ask, ‘What does an insurer look like in the future?’”  Progressive  climbed  0.2 percent to $27.12 at 10:54 a.m. in
 New York . The company has rallied 29 percent this year, beating
the 25 percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  