-- Prudential CEO Sees Future in Retaining U.S. Jackson Life Unit
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-14T15:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/prudential-ceo-sees-future-in-retaining-u-s-jackson-life-unit.html
Prudential Plc (PRU)  Chief Executive
Officer Tidjane Thiam said the U.S. business has a “great
future” in the company, damping speculation he may follow
European competitors in selling the North American unit.  Jackson National Life, the insurer’s U.S. division,
increased new business profit 11 percent to 756 million pounds
($1.2 billion) in the nine months to Sept. 30, boosted by sales
of Elite Access, a variable annuity product, the London-based
company said in a statement today. Revenue in the U.S., which
contributes about a third to the group, rose 6 percent to 1.2
billion pounds.  “It’s a great business. We like Jackson very much, and
it’s been very good for the group to own it,” Thiam said on a
conference call with reporters. “When the times are good
everyone comes to you and says, ‘Break it up, there is not much
sense, sell this, sell that.’ When times are bad,
diversification is great.”  Jackson National has benefited as competitors such as
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and Prudential Financial Inc. scaled back variable
annuity sales to limit risks tied to volatility in stock and
bond markets. In  Europe ,  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  have
retreated from the North American market.  Aviva sold its U.S. unit to Apollo Global Management LLC
last month for $2.6 billion as it rebuilds reserves. ING sold a
$1.1 billion stake in its U.S. insurance unit to reduce its
holdings to 57 percent in agreement with European regulators.
Elsewhere,  Canada ’s Sun Life Financial Inc. divested its U.S.
annuity business to a firm tied to Guggenheim Partners LLC. last
year.  ‘Open Minded’  Thiam, 51, said in August when Jackson National reported a
32 percent increase in six-month operating profit that he
remained “open minded” to the future of the U.S. division
including a potential sale.  “We are very happy with the U.S. business, it’s had a
phenomenal performance and is an amazing success story,” said
Thiam said today. “It’s a very disciplined business that has
done very well. It has a great future in the group.”  Jackson National, which has been controlled by its U.K.
parents since 1986, was the top variable annuity seller in the
first half of this year. It trailed only Prudential Financial
last year, and lagged behind both that firm and MetLife in 2011  Prudential, the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value,
reported 12 percent growth in new business profit for the group,
boosted by an increase in sales of at least 10 percent in six
South-East Asian markets.  The company is scheduled to hold a presentation for
analysts and investors on Dec. 10.  Prudential Plc has no relation to Newark, New Jersey-based
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  