-- Putin Beats EU as Finland Rediscovers Soviet-Era Trade: Economy
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-11-15T09:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/putin-beats-eu-as-finland-rediscovers-soviet-era-trade-economy.html
Finland, which lost its biggest
trading partner when the  Soviet Union  collapsed, is now pegging
its export recovery on  Russia .  Sprawled over nine time zones, Russia has once again
emerged as a destination for the Nordic nation’s exports and a
source of imports. Trade has more than doubled and investment
flows from Finland to Russia have jumped eightfold over the past
decade.  With Finland’s erstwhile powerhouse Nokia Oyj on the ropes
after losing the smartphone battle and the euro area
experiencing its longest recession, companies peddling
everything from cheese to forestry equipment to real estate
ventures are finding growing markets right on their border in
the world’s largest energy exporter. The development underscores
a post-crisis shift away from Europe and toward economies buoyed
by more growth potential.  “It’s become more pronounced in the past few years that
Russia has provided stability amid volatility in many of the
other main markets,” said Jaakko Laurila, who heads the Russian
unit of Ponsse Oyj, a maker of harvesters and cranes used to
handle timber. “Russia has become even more important.”  Increasing trade and investments eased the impact of the
euro area’s debt crisis on Finland, which has endured two
recessions in four years. The development has also helped
improve ties between Finland and Russia, neighbors who share a
1,340 kilometer (833 mile) border and, at times, a troubled
history.  ‘Growth Outlook’  Finnish exports  to Russia have grown 143 percent in the
past decade while direct investments rose eightfold to 3.2
billion euros ($4.3 billion), according to the Bank of Finland.
About half of Finnish exports are to the European Union,
unchanged in the past 10 years, while Russia’s share of Finnish
exports has risen to 10 percent from 7.5 percent.  “As  Europe ’s economic growth slowed and the economy
plunged into a recession, Russia continued to grow,”  Seija
Lainela , an economist at the Bank of Finland Institute for
Economies in Transition, said by phone. It’s attractive for
companies “because of its large size and growth outlook.”  Companies that are expanding eastward include Valio Oy,
Finland’s biggest dairy company, which sells cheese and yogurt.
Kesko Oyj, Finland’s biggest listed retailer, has opened 37
stores in the country and YIT Oyj, its biggest residential
builder, is constructing almost 10,000 apartments and gets a
quarter of its revenue in the country.  ‘Frosty Night’  This growth is helping rebuild what Finland lost on a
frosty night on Dec. 25, 1991, when the Soviet Union ceased to
exist and  Mikhail Gorbachev  stepped down.  While trade between the countries began centuries earlier,
it intensified after 1945, following two wars and as Finland was
forced to pay reparations in the form of trains, ships and
machinery. That laid the foundations for much of Finland’s metal
industry, which evolved to service Soviet five-year plans.
Textiles were another staple.  Then trade plunged in 1992 after the Soviet Union fell
apart. Russia’s share of Finnish exports fell to a peace-time
low of 2.8 percent from as high as 26.7 percent in 1982.  One change since Soviet times is that the goods Finland
sells to Russia are also now viable in other markets.  ‘Much Healthier’  “We sold in the Soviet Union products that might not have
been bought elsewhere, such as textiles and footwear,” Lainela
said. “When the Soviet Union collapsed, trade in those goods
vanished along with the industries. The current situation is
much healthier.”  Russia’s economic potential and market structure, as well
as its proximity all add to the nation’s appeal as a trade
partner, according to Markku Kotilainen, an economist at the
ETLA research institute in Helsinki.  “Globalization and urbanization are late in Russia and
consumers’ spending patterns are shifting,” he said. “Niches
form in the market. The fact that  Finland  dominates foreign
direct investments between the countries is due to the
technological know-how we have,” he said.  Finland is betting it can boost its economic ties with
Russia without succumbing to political pressure that’s being
exerted on other neighbors such as Ukraine.  Russians’ direct investments in Finland have grown 72
percent over the past decade to 583 million euros, according to
the Helsinki-based central bank.  Political Concessions  Markku Kivinen, professor at the University of Helsinki and
the head of its Russian research institute, said Finland’s EU
membership helps shield it from attempts by Russia to exert
influence.  “Finland’s in the EU and pays global market rates for its
goods,” he said. “It’s entirely different now than during the
 Cold War , when the economy was politics. Ukraine’s problem with
Russia on the gas markets has been that it has paid less than
global market prices and has been forced to make political
concessions.”  Finland lacks the oil and supplies of neighbors Russia and
 Norway  and has harnessed most available hydro-power. Last year,
68 percent of its energy imports came from Russia, including all
of its natural gas, according to Statistics Finland.  Finland must now contend with slowing growth in Russia, as
the past decade’s boom ebbs. Gross domestic product will expand
at an average pace of 2.5 percent through 2030, the Russian
Economy Ministry said this month. That compares with an average
annual rate of 7 percent during  Vladimir Putin ’s first spate as
president from 2000 to 2008.  The Finns still say the pros far outweigh the cons.  “It would be a great economic risk to Finland to not tap
the resources in Russia,” Kivinen said. “We need to promote
even more investment in Russia so that Finland’s relative
position doesn’t weaken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  