-- Racial Discrimination in Auto Loans Probed by Two U.S. Agencies
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-11-14T19:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/racial-discrimination-in-auto-loans-probed-by-two-u-s-agencies.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and the  Department of Justice  are probing a
group of auto lenders for possible racial discrimination, a
senior official said today.  “We have a number of ongoing joint investigations in the
indirect auto-lending space,” Steven Rosenbaum, chief of the
housing and civil enforcement section at the  Justice Department 
said at a forum hosted by the CFPB in  Washington .  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  said on Nov. 5 that the bureau has told
the lender it failed to prevent auto dealers from using
practices that violate the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which
the bureau and Justice Department jointly enforce. Other lenders
have also been warned of possible lawsuits, according to people
briefed on the matter.  Patrice Ficklin, CFPB’s assistant director for fair
lending, said that the agency’s work has indicated a
“significant risk of discriminatory pricing outcomes.”  The consumer bureau’s public initiative on discrimination
in auto lending began in March, when it issued a formal letter
of guidance on auto lending. It said that banks it supervises --
those with assets above $10 billion -- face lawsuits if they buy
discriminatory loans made by dealers. Auto dealers were excluded
from the bureau’s supervision in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that
created the CFPB.  Ficklin said that the bureau’s supervision of banks has
revealed “substantial and statistically significant
differences” in interest rates on  car loans  paid by black,
Hispanic and Asian borrowers when compared with costs paid by
white customers.  Rate Disparities  “Numerous institutions” show disparities not explained by
differences in credit quality of over 10 basis points, while
others reach 20 or 30 basis points. “What we’ve already seen
amounts to tens of millions of dollars in overpayment,” Ficklin
said, and “the total could be much greater than that.”  The CFPB guidance takes aim at a practice the agency refers
to as “dealer mark-up” and auto dealers call “dealer-assisted
financing.” Under the system, banks function as indirect
lenders, allowing dealers to add points to the interest rate and
pocket the difference. The consumer bureau said that one way for
lenders to comply with guidance would be to pay flat fees to
dealers instead of varying  interest rates .  Consumer groups, including the Durham, North Carolina-based
 Center for Responsible Lending , charge that the financing
practice gives dealers an incentive to move buyers into more-expensive loans. Dealers say the mark-up is a standard practice
in retail transactions and represents a reasonable price for
their services, which include bringing in sales and handling
paperwork.  Rosenbaum said that the collaboration between the two
agencies has been “terrific and very constructive” since the
bureau was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  “And it’s not just in the auto-lending space, it’s in the
other spaces where authority overlaps,” Rosenbaum aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  