-- Record Yuan Shows Resilience to Fed as Lew Visits: China Credit
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-14T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/record-yuan-shows-resilience-to-fed-as-lew-visits-china-credit.html
China fixed the yuan at a record
high amid U.S. calls for faster appreciation and investors are
tipping  renminbi  bonds to be one of the best bets in  emerging
markets  as the  Federal Reserve  prepares to rein in stimulus.  The central bank raised the yuan’s  reference rate  to 6.1315
per dollar yesterday and the currency has gained 2.3 percent
this year, the best showing among 24 developing-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on China’s 10-year
sovereign bonds climbed one basis point in May when Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first raised the possibility of
curbing debt purchases.  Indonesia ’s yield surged 48 basis points
as the exit of foreign investors strained its finances.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, who will meet
officials in Beijing today, has called for China to speed up its
move to a market-determined exchange rate after the nation’s
 currency reserves  jumped to a record $3.66 trillion at the end
of September.  Western Asset  Management Co. is buying Dim Sum
corporate bonds to gain from the yuan’s appreciation while
Amundi  Hong Kong  Ltd. says it is positive on the currency.  “We don’t expect the renminbi to experience any particular
pressure once the Fed begins to taper,” said  Mitul Kotecha ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy in Hong Kong at Credit
Agricole CIB, the fourth-best forecaster of the currency
according to Bloomberg Rankings. “China has a strong external
position and is therefore not vulnerable to capital outflows.”  Low Volatility  The yuan, which touched a 20-year high on Oct. 25, is
forecast to gain 1.3 percent to 6.01 per dollar by the end of
2014, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Its three-month implied volatility is 1.9 percent, the lowest in
Asia after the greenback-pegged  Hong Kong dollar . That compares
with 14.3 percent for the Indonesian rupiah and 9.3 percent for
the Australian dollar.  The  yield  on China’s 10-year government debt climbed to a
five-year high of 4.47 percent on Nov. 13, after the nation’s
leaders said following a four-day Communist Party plenum that
market forces would be given a “decisive’” role in allocating
resources.  This suggests the market will have more freedom to
determine interest and exchange rates and, if central bank
interventions decline, the yuan should strengthen, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB,
said in a Nov 13 interview. U.S.  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  due in a decade
yielded 2.7 percent yesterday while the rate in Australia was
4.2 percent.  Attractive Yields  “In a world of fairly low  interest rates , China’s bond
yields are quite attractive, and there is less  currency risk 
than somewhere like Australia where volatility is a lot
higher,” said Desmond Soon, a Singapore-based portfolio manager
at Western Asset.  Soon, who predicts the Chinese currency will gain around 2
percent annually, said he’s buying yuan debt, including Dim Sum
bonds issued by Ford Motor Co. and Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. because of low credit risk.  China’s economy  expanded 7.8 percent in the three months
through September, reversing a two-quarter slowdown that put the
government at risk of missing its 7.5 percent growth target for
2013. Reports this month showed industrial output, exports and
manufacturing rose more than economists projected in October,
while inflation quickened to 3.2 percent from 3.1 percent in
September.  Gradual Appreciation  “The  yuan  is going to see gradual appreciation,” said
Ayaz Ebrahim, chief investment officer for Asia ex-Japan at
Amundi, which manages $1 trillion globally. “We are positive on
the currency because of still-competitive exports, a strong
current account surplus and positive announcement in the third
plenary session.”  China’s yuan faces increasing appreciation pressure as the
nation’s trade surplus widens, Liu Li-gang and Hao Zhou,
economists at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
wrote in a Nov. 8 research note. That’s in contrast with
Indonesia, which has a trade deficit of $657 million.  The yuan may “remain broadly steady,” Stephen Chang, head
of Asian fixed-income at JPMorgan Asset Management in Hong Kong,
said in a Nov. 12 interview. “Current-account deficit countries
remain vulnerable when capital flows have paused or reversed.”  Yuan ‘Undervalued’  The yuan is significantly undervalued, the  U.S. Treasury 
said in its twice-yearly review of currencies and economic
policies, although it stopped short of naming China or any other
major trading partner as a currency manipulator.  Secretary Lew will discuss the importance of countries
allowing financial markets to determine their exchange rates,
Treasury officials who requested anonymity as a condition for
briefing reporters said on Nov. 8.  The People’s Bank of China limits the yuan’s movements to 1
percent on either side of a reference rate set every day. It
widened the range from 0.5 percent last year, and has pledged to
keep the exchange rate “basically stable” while seeking to
increase the currency’s two-way flexibility.  The nation’s rising foreign reserves point to structural
appreciation in its currency, and net capital inflows may
strengthen further if the economy continues to stabilize,
according to a Nov. 1 research note from Singapore’s Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. Yuan positions at financial institutions
accumulated from sales of foreign exchange, a gauge of inflows,
climbed 126.4 billion yuan in September to 27.5 trillion yuan,
according to PBOC data.  “The Chinese  debt market  is going to be more dependent on
the outlook for the policy decisions of the PBOC rather than
those of the Fed,” said Christian Wildmann, a fixed-income
portfolio manager in Frankfurt at the subsidiary of Germany’s
Union Investment Group, which oversees about 201 billion euros
($270 billion) in assets. The Chinese currency is also “more
resilient than the Brazilian real, Turkish lira, South African
rand, Indonesian rupiah and Indian rupee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  