-- Redfin Raises $50 Million Led by Tiger, T. Rowe Price
-- B y   P u i - W i n g   T a m
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/redfin-raises-50-million-led-by-tiger-t-rowe-price.html
Redfin Corp., an online real-estate
brokerage, raised $50 million in a financing round led by Tiger
Global Management LLC and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., the latest
mature startup to get capital from big institutional investors.  The investment brings the company’s total funding to $95.7
million, said Chief Executive Officer Glenn Kelman, with early
backers such as  Greylock Partners  and Globespan Capital Partners
also participating. He declined to comment on Redfin’s
valuation, which was less than $500 million in 2011.  The funding underscores the march of financial
institutions, including mutual-fund companies like T. Rowe
Price, into private technology companies with more developed
businesses that want to wait before selling shares to the
public. T. Rowe Price last month invested in online database-software maker MongoDB Inc. and Tiger Global last month put
money into neighborhood social-networking site Nextdoor.com Inc.  “The money gives us more flexibility,” Kelman, who
founded Seattle-based Redfin in 2004, said in an interview.
“It’s encouraging that investors of this caliber want to invest
in the business.”  Online real-estate sites  Zillow Inc. (Z)  and Trulia Inc. have
gone public in the past two and a half years. Kelman told
 Bloomberg News  in 2012 that “we expect to be public in 2014.”  ‘Clear Shot’  In the interview this week, the CEO said the new capital
doesn’t replace going public. While he isn’t sure when Redfin
will hold an IPO, he said there is “no way this company is
likely to get bought. We have a clear shot at the title and
we’re going to take it.”  Redfin uses its website to generate leads for home buyers
and also employs teams of salaried sales agents to complete a
sale. The company, which operates in 22 markets in the U.S. and
employs about 500 people, is seeing sales accelerate in its
listings business and projects revenue growth of more than 50
percent, with an annual revenue run rate of $100 million, Kelman
said.  Kelman said he plans to use the money to expand into new
markets and hire employees. Redfin is also working on other
initiatives that will cover a consumer’s real-estate experience
more comprehensively, he said. He declined to provide details.  “Redfin is reinventing the process of buying or selling a
home,” Henry Ellenbogen, portfolio manager for T. Rowe Price’s
New Horizons Fund, said in a statement. “We invest in companies
that have the opportunity to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pui-Wing Tam in  San Francisco  at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  