-- Clashes Erupt in Saudi Capital as Police Round Up Foreigners
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-11-14T17:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/renewed-saudi-police-clashes-with-foreigners-leave-one-dead.html
Clashes between Saudi police and
foreign nationals in  Riyadh  left a Sudanese man dead and 17
people injured during a crackdown on undocumented workers across
the kingdom.  Fighting erupted between residents and expatriates in the
capital’s Manfouha district,also the scene of violence last
week, as rioters attacked cars and pedestrians with rocks, the
official  Saudi Press Agency  said. Police set up a roadblock
around Manfouha. Dozens of buses were parked on the roadside,
many already filled with Ethiopians trying to leave the country.  Clashes in Manfouha, a neighborhood with a large Ethiopian
population, started on Nov. 9 as authorities enforced measures
against violators of  labor laws . Two people were killed and 561
arrested during a day of violence. Since then, about 17,000
Ethiopians have surrendered to authorities in the capital,  al-Riyadh newspaper  said on Nov. 12.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, is taking
action against illegal workers as it pushes to create more jobs
for its citizens and stave off the unrest that has toppled
leaders across the  Middle East  since 2011.  ‘Any Job’  The jobless rate for Saudi workers is about 12 percent,
according to official figures. Economic growth is forecast to
slow to 4.2 percent this year, from 5.1 percent last year and
8.6 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Taher Ali, a 25-year-old from Jimma in  Ethiopia , said he’s
been in the kingdom without work permits since sneaking across
the border from Yemen three years ago. “I’ve been waiting to
leave since the problems started,” he said, standing in
threadbare clothes with a scarf wrapped round his head. “I took
any job. I don’t know what I’ll do when I go back.”  Ali and several men sitting around him said they’d never
come back to the kingdom. Some said that the deportation will be
their first time on a plane.  A video posted on YouTube today showed hundreds of  Africans
marching  through Manfouha. In Jeddah, police arrested 20
Ethiopians for leading “a mob” to attack the Deportation
Center in the city,  Arab News  said.  “Saudi authorities are trying to prevent the emergence of
ungovernable neighborhoods” populated by religious pilgrims who
overstayed their visas and workers who entered illegally, said
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near
East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.  U.S. Warning  The U.S. Embassy in Riyadh advised employees and American
citizens to avoid Manfouha because of the clashes.  An editorial in today’s al-Riyadh newspaper expressed
support for the crackdown. “Most of those who have worked hard
and started looking for jobs after graduation are unemployed
because most jobs are taken by non-Saudis,” Turki Abdullah Al-Sudairi wrote.  At Bole International Airport in the Ethiopian capital
Addis Ababa yesterday, hundreds of young women in headscarves
filled the car park after a plane from Saudi Arabia arrived.
Medina Asemo, a 24-year-old, said she had spent three months in
detention in  Saudi Arabia  with 200 other Ethiopians because of a
disagreement with her sponsor. She had been employed for two
months.  Jail Threat  “I wanted to change houses,” she said in an interview
outside the arrivals terminal, pushing an airport trolley
stacked with blankets. “But they said either you stay or you go
to prison.” Medina, who is from a village in southern Ethiopia,
said she was given a ticket to go home this week.  Nearly 160,000 Ethiopian women went to work in Saudi Arabia
in the 12 months through July 7 last year, more than 10 times
the number a year earlier, according to Ethiopia’s government.
Tens of thousands more migrated illegally, according to the
 United Nations . Many replaced Asian domestic workers, after the
execution of an Indonesian maid and allegations of abuse of
Filipinos led those countries to cut the flow of migrants.  Some foreigners are fleeing into the mountains in the
southwest to escape the crackdown. Border guards have detained
and processed 31,000 people for deportation in the region of
Jazan near the Yemeni border since the roundup started, Abdullah
Bin Mahfouz, a spokesman for the force, said on Nov. 12. Many
Yemenis and other migrants searching for work on farms and
construction sites in Saudi Arabia slip in through Jazan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  