-- Camp Nears Decision on Biggest Tax Changes Since 1986
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-11-14T20:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/republican-camp-raises-prospect-of-missing-tax-plan-date.html
Representative  Dave Camp , the top
Republican tax writer in Congress, emerged from a meeting with
party leaders today without a firm timeline for action after
working for almost three years on revisions to the tax code.  Camp, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, wants
to push legislation through his panel to lower individual and
corporate tax rates and curtail breaks in the most significant
change to the Internal Revenue Code since 1986.  The details of his plan, which Camp started developing when
he became the panel’s chairman in 2011, are “very close” to
being done, said Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana
Republican on the committee.  Camp met today with the House’s top Republican leaders,
including Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , along with five other Ways and Means
Committee members.  “I’m going to continue to move ahead on the bill and
continue to refine it,” Camp said after the meeting. No
decision was made about the timing of a release, he said.  Politics are another matter. Republicans are wary of
siphoning attention from the flawed start of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law and toward a bill that would impose
higher burdens on some taxpayers while benefiting others.  Camp, 60, said for the first time yesterday that he may not
meet his self-imposed deadline of releasing a bill and moving it
through the committee this year. His Senate counterpart,
Democrat  Max Baucus , postponed a closed-door bipartisan meeting
set for today to discuss members’ concerns.  October Shutdown  The 16-day partial government shutdown last month set back
the committee’s work by three weeks, Camp said. House members
are scheduled to be in session for 14 more days this year,
counting today, before they plan to leave  Washington  on Dec. 13.  “I very much have wanted to stick to that, certainly to
have the bill ready and to be able to move forward this year if
we can,” Camp said. “Things do change around here and I think
you have to look at the timing and circumstances you’re in.”  The leaders can’t stop Camp from releasing a bill. They
may, though, urge him to wait, say they would withhold support
if he moves ahead or ask other party members to tell Camp that
they oppose his plan.  Camp, of  Michigan , said he has thought about whether the
Ways and Means Committee could do something short of moving a
complete bill this year to make some progress. He said that idea
isn’t being actively considered.  Republican Priority  The tax bill is a party priority that would advance a goal
Republicans have embraced in their budget each year since
winning the House majority in the 2010 elections. What they
haven’t done is add all of the details, showing which taxpayers
would win and who would lose.  A major tax bill would affect multiple industries and
markets, including states that issue tax-exempt municipal bonds,
companies such as retailer  Macy’s Inc. (M)  that advocate lower
corporate tax rates, and individuals who receive tax-free health
insurance from their employers.  Republican leaders are concerned about the lack of a path
to a tax law before this Congress concludes at the end of 2014,
given their opposition to raising taxes and Democrats’
insistence that major tax-code changes be accompanied by revenue
increases, said three Republican aides who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss party strategy.  ‘Revenue Question’  Camp has said that his plan wouldn’t raise or lower federal
revenue and that it wouldn’t shift the tax burden from higher-income households to others.  “The revenue question hasn’t gone away,” said
Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat and senior
Ways and Means member.  Still, Neal said, there are plausible paths for Congress to
succeed before the end of 2014.  “Nobody likes the current system,” he said. “The
argument’s over what the new one should look like.”  Revenue has become part of lawmakers’ debate over tax-and-spending issues with the U.S.  budget deficit  in mind. The U.S.
Treasury Department yesterday released a report saying the
budget deficit narrowed last month, even as the federal
government was closed down for part of it. Spending exceeded
receipts by $91.6 billion last month, compared with a $120
billion shortfall in October 2012.  Narrowing Deficit  Stronger hiring has helped reduce the country’s budget
deficit as a share of gross domestic product by more than half
in the past four years, narrowing it from a record $1.42
trillion in 2009.  The Treasury last month said the shortfall in the 12 months
ending Sept. 30 was 4.1 percent of GDP, and the  Congressional
Budget Office  has projected it will decline to 3.3 percent of
the economy this fiscal year and 2.1 percent in 2015.  On the tax front, Camp has held details of his plan
closely, particularly those on politically charged issues such
as the mortgage interest deduction, capital gains rates and the
 tax exemption  for  credit unions .  He has been holding a series of closed-door meetings with
his committee’s Republican members over the past few months as
they try to draft a proposal. The goal is to lower the top
individual rate to 25 percent from 39.6 percent and the top
corporate rate to 25 percent from 35 percent.  Small Business  Camp has released discussion drafts of changes to the
taxation of international income, derivatives and small
businesses.  Camp has been working with Baucus, the Montana Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. They have a joint
Twitter handle on their goal of revising the  tax code  and went
on a multi-city tour earlier this year.  Baucus plans to hold a closed-door meeting next week with
committee members from both parties as he prepares to release as
many as three discussion drafts of his own.  Probable subjects for those drafts include the taxation of
U.S. companies’ foreign income, tax administration and capital
cost recovery, said Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican on
the Finance panel.  “Senator Baucus wants to take some additional time to talk
to members and hear the concerns expressed by some before
deciding on a path forward,” said Sean Neary, a spokesman for
Baucus.  Republicans want Baucus to wait until after budget
negotiations conclude to keep the two issues separate, said
Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the
Finance Committee’s top Republican.  Hatch told Baucus that waiting would be prudent, Ferrier
said.  “There’s a bipartisan desire to fix America’s broken tax
code, but there’s also a partisan desire by some to raise taxes
under the guise of so-called  tax reform ,” she said.  The budget talks have a Dec. 13 deadline, and Democrats
want to use them to make tax changes such as ending the
preferential treatment of private equity managers’ carried
interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  