-- Reynolds Group Said to Seek Lower Rate on $2.6 Billion Loan
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-11-14T17:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/reynolds-group-said-to-seek-lower-interest-on-2-6-billion-loan.html
Reynolds Group Holdings Inc., the
maker of Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil, is seeking to reduce the
rate it pays on $2.6 billion of loans, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  The company is proposing to pay interest at 3 percentage
points to 3.25 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate on a $2.21 billion term piece due in December 2018,
compared with 3.75 percentage points more than Libor on the
debt, which matures in October 2018, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Reynolds joins companies including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
that are replacing loans once call protection, or the
restriction to repay the debt, either weakens or is lifted.
While these deals reduce interest expense for borrowers they
lower income for investors that have poured almost $60 billion
this year into loan mutual funds, according to Bank of America
Corp.  “When the market heats up, it’s common to see borrowers on
larger deals with better  credit quality  reduce call protection
to six months from one year,”  Justin Smith , head of research at
Xtract Research LLC in Westport,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “They could probably get the deal done
without any call protection, but it’s more headache to negotiate
it out all together.”  Joseph Doyle, a spokesman at Reynolds Group, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Reduced Protections  In the five months ended Sept. 30, the number of credit
agreements with a six-month call protection exceeded deals which
had similar clauses applying for one year, according to an Oct.
9 report from Xtract. That makes it easier for borrowers to
replace higher interest debt without paying a penalty to
investors.  Reynolds, which obtained the loan in September 2012 with 12
months of call protection of 101 cents, is offering lenders six
months of soft-call protection at 101 cents on this refinancing,
the person said, meaning it would have to pay a one cent premium
over face value to refinance the term loan in its first six
months.  The Auckland-based company also is seeking to lower the
 interest rate  on a 297 million euro ($399.7 million) term
portion to 3.25 percentage points to 3.5 percentage points more
than the lending benchmark, compared with 4 percentage points it
currently pays, the person said. The loan will expire in
December 2018, compared with October 2018.  The lending benchmark on both loans will have a 1 percent
minimum, the person said. Lenders are offered the debt at par.  Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing and was
scheduled to host a call with lenders today at 11 a.m. in  New
York , the person said. Investors must submit commitments to the
loan by 5 p.m. on Nov. 21.  Delta Repricing  Delta Air Lines is seeking to lower the rate it pays on
$1.34 billion  term loan  due in April 2017, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company is seeking to pay interest at
2.75 percentage points more than Libor with a 0.75 percent
minimum on the lending benchmark, down from 3.25 percentage
points more than Libor with a 1 percent minimum currently.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is arranging the transaction, which
offers lenders six months of call protection of 101 cents on the
dollar. The company in February obtained the original financing,
which carried call protection of 101 cents for six months,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  