-- Rio Unit Readies $2.4 Billion Rights Offer for Mine
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-15T01:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/rio-unit-readies-2-4-billion-rights-offer-to-mine.html
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , the
Rio Tinto Group unit that produces copper in Mongolia, may go
ahead with a $2.4 billion share offer after it failed to arrange
funding to expand its Oyu Tolgoi mine.  Turquoise Hill, which owns 66 percent of Oyu Tolgoi, was
unable to obtain long-term  project financing  because of
uncertainty about when it will resolve disagreements with its
other shareholder, Mongolia’s government, the Vancouver-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  Turquoise Hill “remains committed to obtaining project
finance to fund the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project and is
engaging with the government of Mongolia to achieve this,”
according to the statement.  Oyu Tolgoi, located 80 kilometers (50 miles) north of the
Chinese border, is forecast to account for about a third of
Mongolia’s economy when in full operation. Rio, which has a 51
percent  stake  in Turquoise Hill, in July delayed work on the
underground expansion, which is expected to cost about $5.1
billion, until discussions with the government on funding and
other issues are resolved.  Oyu Tolgoi’s shareholders are discussing four outstanding
issues, Turquoise Hill Chief Executive Officer Kay Priestly said
on a conference call. These relate to the sharing of the mine’s
wealth, clarifying its construction costs, concerns over long-term access to water, and the timing and approval of the
feasibility study for its expansion, which should be completed
in the first half of 2014, she said.  Discussions Continue  “ Rio Tinto  confirms that it is in continuing discussions
with the government of Mongolia in relation to a number of
issues concerned with the development and operation of Oyu
Tolgoi,” London-based Rio said in an e-mailed statement. “Good
progress is being made but there is still more to be done.”  The suspension led to the layoff of about 1,700 workers at
the mine, Rio said in a statement in August.  Turquoise Hill shares fell 7.8 percent to C$4.27 in Toronto
yesterday. They’ve dropped 44 percent this year. Rio was little
changed in Sydney trading today at A$65.01.  While Rio, the world’s second-biggest mining company by
market value, and the government of Mongolia have cleared up
some of their disagreements, the two sides have yet to resolve
“broad” issues related to cost overruns and the project’s
long-term financing, Davaadorj Ganbold, one of three Mongolian
nationals on the board of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, said in an Oct. 27
interview in the capital Ulaanbaatar.  Credit Facility  Turquoise Hill said yesterday it and Rio agreed to extend
the maturity date on an interim credit facility to no later than
Jan. 15 to provide time to complete the rights offer. The rights
offer may raise as much as $2.4 billion, it said in a separate
filing.  Commercial output at Oyu Tolgoi started in July, although
Chinese customs delayed deliveries to customers for more than
three months before releasing the first batch of concentrate
from a bonded warehouse in  China  last month.  Production of copper in concentrates at the mine is
proceeding, with output expected to be between 72,000 and 77,000
metric tons this year, according to the statement. The mine’s
concentrator is operating at full nameplate capacity of 100,000
tons of ore per day. Concentrates are semi-processed ore that’s
shipped to smelters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  