-- Romania’s Economy Grows at Fastest Pace in Two Years on Harvest
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-11-14T08:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/romania-s-economy-grows-at-fastest-pace-in-two-years-on-harvest.html
Romania ’s economy grew at the
fastest pace in two years in the third quarter, probably spurred
by a bumper harvest and export growth.  Gross domestic product  increased 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 1.5 percent in the second quarter,
according to a preliminary estimate released by the  National
Statistics Institute  in Bucharest today by e-mail. The median
forecast of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 3.5
percent expansion. GDP rose a seasonally adjusted 1.6 percent
from the previous three months.  “Favorable weather conditions this year resulted in a good
agricultural output, very likely above multi-annual averages for
most crops,” analysts at Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA, including
Ionut Dumitru, wrote in an e-mail before the GDP release. “We
foresee the gross value added in agriculture to increase 23
percent in 2013 and to have a positive contribution of 1.4
percentage points to the GDP growth rate this year.”  Last month the government, in agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, increased
Romania’s 2013 economic-growth forecast to 2.2 percent from a
previous estimate of 1.9 percent, citing a good harvest and a
pickup in exports.  The leu rose 0.2 percent to 4.4560 against the euro at
10:02 a.m. in Bucharest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Industrial production increased a  seasonally adjusted  7.1
percent from a year earlier in September, the institute said on
Nov. 8. The country’s trade deficit shrank to 413 million euros
($556 million) in September, as exports grew faster than
imports, the institute said on Nov. 11. Retail sales  decreased 
0.8 percent in September, it said on Nov 4.  The statistics institute will release a breakdown of third-quarter GDP on Dec. 4, according to a calendar on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  