-- Rubber Gloves to Condoms Give Ansell Edge in Emerging Markets
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-14T20:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/rubber-gloves-to-condoms-give-ansell-edge-in-emerging-markets.html
Ansell Ltd. (ANN) , the world’s largest
maker of protective clothing, is seeking to boost expansion and
best the competition by tapping middle-class growth in emerging
markets with sales of high-tech gloves and upmarket condoms.  “We’re focusing on emerging markets because working hands
have moved from developed to developing markets and clearly we
need to be where working hands are,” Chief Executive Officer
Magnus Nicolin said in an interview in London. “We have the
opportunity to grow rapidly for many years before we hit any
kind of ceiling.”  Founded more than a century ago as a rubber company, Ansell
has been investing in innovation and expanding its international
presence. The Richmond, Australia-based company introduced 48
products in the fiscal year ending June 30, up fourfold on
previous years, while emerging market sales increased 17 percent
to represent more than one-quarter of total sales.  New products released by the company in recent years
include hand protection that’s resistant to fire and electric
shocks, sweat-proof rubber gloves and a line of condoms made of
lightweight polyisoprene instead of latex. Such products allow
the company to tap into rising demand for high-quality products
from middle-class consumers in  emerging markets .  Ansell posted pretax profit of A$156.7 million in the
fiscal year through June, an 8 percent increase from the
previous year. Analysts predict 2014 profit of A$190.3 million,
implying a 21 percent increase, according to the average of  11
analysts’ estimates  collected by Bloomberg.  “Ansell’s profits are growing at a high and rising rate
and they’re relatively cheap,” said Timothy Stanish, an analyst
at Eva Dimensions in  New York . “They are profitable so
investing more is a good thing for them to do and will compound
the wealth they create for investors.”  Acquisitions  “Middle-class people in emerging markets are all of a
sudden expecting to get good quality medical care, which
includes surgical procedures,” CEO Nicolin said. “Countries
like  Russia  and  Brazil  are also introducing western European-style legislation for industrial hand protection.”  After gaining a foothold in Brazil, Russia,  India  and
China, Ansell is now turning its attention to  Africa  and
southeast  Asia . The company has made eight acquisitions over the
past two years and currently has at least $250 million available
for new purchases, Nicolin said.  Since Nicolin took over as CEO in February 2010, the
company’s share price has  increased  about 90 percent to A$19.63
for a market value of about A$2.6 billion. That compares with an
18 percent rise for the Australian benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index. (AS51)   Competition  While competition is high in some of the segments Ansell
works in, such as the condom market where it competes with Durex
maker  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the protective gloves market
is fragmented. Ansell says it has about 12 percent of the
market, while the second biggest player,  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON) , has 5 percent, and other operators have less than 1
percent.  Ansell plans to increase its share by using its exposure to
multiple markets to both develop greater expertise and stay
afloat during downturns. The polyisoprene used in the company’s
high-end condom range was initially developed for surgical
gloves.  The exposure to multiple sectors also makes the company
more resistant to crises, particularly since the sexual wellness
segment is counter-cyclical and the market for medical gloves
remains stable through economic cycles.  “The sexual wellness segment tends to balance our
portfolio,” Nicolin said. “When the economy is bad, people
have more sex, it’s as simple as that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  