-- Russia to Discuss Multibillion Weapons Supply Deals With Egypt
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-14T08:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/russia-to-discuss-multibillion-weapons-supply-deals-with-egypt.html
Russia and  Egypt  will discuss
multibillion-dollar arms deals as President Vladimir Putin seeks
to capitalize on the U.S. decision to cut defense aid to the
military-backed government.  Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov are in Cairo today to meet their counterparts
Abdelfatah al-Seesi and Nabil Fahmy, the highest-level contact
between the two countries since the military led by al-Seesi
ousted Islamist President Mohamed Mursi in July.  “The visit by our defense minister to this friendly
country is a major event in our bilateral relations and we will
of course discuss cooperation in the military-technical
sphere,” Lavrov said in an  interview  with Egyptian newspaper
al-Ahram, posted on the Russian ministry’s website yesterday.
“Russia and Egypt are determined to forge a closer partnership
and mutually beneficial cooperation.”  The Obama administration last month suspended some military
aid to Egypt, including $260 million in cash and deliveries of
F-16 fighter jets, helicopters and tanks in an effort to prod
the North African country toward democracy. More than 1,000
people have been killed since Mursi’s removal in clashes between
security forces and his supporters.  While no immediate military deals are expected to be signed
at the Cairo talks, the two sides will agree on a framework for
the defense contracts, the Russian government newspaper
Rossiyskaya Gazeta  reported  today, without citing anyone.  Fighters, Missiles  Egypt is seeking as much as $2 billion of Russian weaponry,
including MiG-29 fighter planes, air-defense systems and anti-tank missiles, according to Ruslan Pukhov, a member of the
Russian Defense Ministry’s advisory board and head of the Center
for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow.  Egyptian officials are seeking financing from an
unidentified Persian Gulf country to buy as much as $4 billion
of Russian arms, Palestinian newspaper  Dunia al-Watan  reported
Nov. 6, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Kuwait have pledged at
least $12 billion to Egypt’s new government.  Egypt is discussing the possibility of spending $4 billion
on Russian weapons and renovation of the Aswan Dam,  Asharq al-Awsat  reported Nov. 11, citing unidentified Egyptian government
officials.  Egypt, an American ally for more than three decades,
received about $1.3 billion a year in military aid from the U.S.
prior to Mursi’s ouster.  Soviet Ally  Egypt and the Soviet Union became allies in the 1950s when
Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser and Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev forged ties. Egypt received Soviet military
assistance, including during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, and the
Soviets financed infrastructure projects such as the Aswan Dam
to irrigate land and supply electricity.  The ties lapsed after Nasser’s death in 1970, when the Arab
nationalist was succeeded by Anwar Sadat, who set the regional
power on a pro-U.S. track that accelerated under  Hosni Mubarak ,
who was toppled in 2011. In 1972, Sadat expelled thousands of
Soviet military advisers and in 1976 ended a treaty on
friendship and cooperation with the Soviet Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  