-- RWE Says 2014 Net to Halve on Low Power Prices, Cuts Jobs
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-11-14T17:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/rwe-says-profit-to-halve-in-2014-on-weak-power-prices-cuts-jobs.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, said profit will drop by almost half next year as power
prices fail to recover. The company plans to cut about 10
percent of its workforce.  Recurrent net income, the measure used to calculate the
dividend, will fall to 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion) to 1.5
billion euros from about 2.4 billion euros forecast for this
year, the Essen-based utility said today in a statement.  “The company is passing through a vale of tears,” Chief
Executive Officer Peter Terium said on a call with reporters.
“The level of results achieved this year is something we will
not see again for the foreseeable future.”  The company and larger competitor EON SE are cutting costs
and selling assets after wholesale electricity prices tumbled,
making many  power plants  unprofitable. Germany’s move toward
wind and solar energy, which now account for more than 20
percent of generation and take preference on the grid, has
forced prices down.  RWE sank 5.1 percent, the biggest one-day decline in more
than three months, to close at 25.76 euros in Frankfurt. Trading
volumes were more than four times the three-month daily average.  Slow Progress  The company is making slow progress in selling its Dea oil
and gas unit, said Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at Union
Investment GmbH who is responsible for the fund’s 69 million-euro stake in RWE. Instability in  Egypt , where Dea has gas
operations, and stagnant oil and gas prices have made the
disposal difficult, he said by phone from  Frankfurt .  RWE plans to reduce costs by at least a further 500 million
euros by 2017, according to CEO Terium. Without cuts, its power
generation division can’t remain profitable, he said on the
call.  The utility will lose 6,750 jobs by 2016, including 1,400
workers at Dea, it said. That will reduce staff to less than
61,000. RWE wants to discuss a wage freeze from 2015 after an
agreement with unions expires and doesn’t rule out further job
cuts after 2016, Chief Human Resources Officer Uwe Tigges said
on the call.  “RWE is throwing numbers around as if we were chips in a
bingo hall,” Peter Hausmann, the member responsible for tariff
policy at the  Industriegewerkschaft Bergbau, Chemie, Energie 
trade union directorate, said in an e-mailed statement. “For
the employees, it’s more than their nerves can bear.”  Missed Estimates  RWE missed analyst estimates for the sixth quarter in
seven, according to Bloomberg Industries. The company reported a
recurrent net loss of 73 million euros in the third quarter,
compared with a profit of 227 million euros a year earlier. The
result was calculated by subtracting half-year earnings from
nine-month results published today.  Profit by that measure rose 1.2 percent to 1.92 billion
euros in the first nine months of 2013, missing the 2.03
billion-euro average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales advanced 4 percent to 39.9 billion euros,
according to today’s statement.  RWE confirmed its full-year target for recurrent net income
of about 2.4 billion euros, near last year’s level.  EON said yesterday that 2013 profit will be at the lower
end of its forecast as it reported a 52 percent decline in nine-month profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  