-- RWE Trading Unit’s Loss Doubles in Third Quarter on Gas Costs
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-11-14T15:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/rwe-trading-unit-s-loss-doubles-in-third-quarter-on-gas-costs.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, doubled losses at its trading unit in the third quarter
as it seeks further renegotiations with OAO Gazprom to lower the
cost of gas under oil-linked contracts.  RWE Supply & Trading lost 126 million euros ($169 million)
in the three months through September, according to a Bloomberg
calculation that subtracts the unit’s  six-month operating  profit
from the nine-month figure  published  today. That compares with a
63 million euro loss in the same period of last year.  “Our third quarter was weak in trading,” Bernhard Guenther, RWE’s Chief Financial Officer, said today on a
conference call with journalists. “The unit’s profit and loss
account is: trading profit minus gas losses minus costs for
staff.”  The Essen, Germany-based utility buys gas from  Russia ’s
Gazprom under long-term contracts at oil-linked prices higher
than those on the wholesale market. While RWE renegotiated one
of the contracts earlier this year, it still buys the fuel under
unfavorable terms, the German company said today.  “The purchase conditions continue to be partly determined
by developments on the oil market,” the company said in its
earnings report. “We initiated a new price revision in order to
fully eliminate oil indexing, which is disadvantageous to us.”  The price for gas imported at the German border was  27
euros a megawatt-hour  at the end of August, according to data of
the German Federal Office of Economics and Export Control, BAFA.
That’s 5.3 percent more than the closing price of  25.63 euros a
megawatt-hour  on Aug. 30 for month-ahead gas on the Dutch Title
Transfer Facility, the continental European benchmark, according
to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Forecast  Guenther declined to give details on the company’s gas
supply contract or to comment on how much gas it still buys
under oil-linked contracts.  RWE expects the unit’s 2013 operating profit to be
“significantly higher” than last year, when Supply & Trading
posted a 598 euro million loss, it said. The business generated
an operating profit of 903 million euros in the first nine
months of this year, RWE said in its report.  EON SE, Germany’s biggest utility,  reported  yesterday a 56
percent drop in its Global Commodities unit, which comprises
trading, optimization and energy infrastructure, to 860 million
euros. The business had also benefited from a one-time payment
by  Gazprom (GAZP)  after renegotiating gas supply contracts, and EON
said it had traded less power and gas than in the prior-year
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  