-- SAC Boosts Stakes in Yahoo, Air Products in Third Quarter
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-11-14T19:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/sac-boosts-stakes-in-yahoo-air-products-in-third-quarter.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, billionaire
 Steven A. Cohen ’s hedge-fund firm that pleaded guilty last week
to securities fraud, boosted its holdings in  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  in the third quarter.  SAC bought 6.7 million shares of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo and owned 7.6 million shares valued at $251 million
as of Sept. 30, making it his largest equity investment,
according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The firm purchased 1.5 million shares of
Air Products, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania, holding a stake
worth $154.7 million.  Cohen’s firm, based in Stamford, Connecticut, this month
agreed to pay $1.8 billion to settle insider-trading charges
after the U.S. government accused it of engaging in an
unprecedented scheme lasting more than a decade. The market
value of SAC’s U.S.-listed equity holdings declined by about $2
billion in the second quarter as clients pulled their money amid
the government’s probe of the firm.  In the third quarter, the firm’s stock holdings fell by
$123 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SAC added to its stakes in  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) , a maker
of robotic-surgery devices; energy company  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ; and
retailer  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  The firm reduced positions in drilling
lease owner Continental Resources Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)   SAC’s main fund returned about 16 percent this year through
October, a person with knowledge of the returns said last week.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., declined to comment on the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  