-- Sales of Structured Notes Tied to Rates Tumble to Four Year-Low
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-11-14T18:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/sales-of-structured-notes-tied-to-rates-tumble-to-four-year-low.html
Monthly sales of structured notes
tied to interest rates fell to an almost four-year low last
month as issuance of securities that pay a fixed coupon plunged.  Banks sold $223.2 million of U.S. rate-linked notes in
October, about half the total from a year earlier and the lowest
sales since January 2010, when Bloomberg started to collect
comprehensive data on the securities. Issuance of callable notes
that have fixed, “step up” coupons dropped by about 80
percent, to $75.1 million.  Investors shied away from buying the securities as job
growth slowed in September, the federal government partially
shut down and the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond’s yield
dropped to 2.5 percent on Oct. 23 from a September high of 2.99
percent. Lower rates depressed the amount that banks could offer
on fixed-coupon notes.  Fed officials “don’t want to see rates go significantly
higher,” Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York, said in a telephone interview today.
“It would be a drag on the economy, notably the housing
market.”  Janet Yellen, nominated by President Obama to become the
next Fed chairman, voiced her commitment to using bond purchases
known as quantitative easing, according to prepared testimony
for her nomination hearing before the Senate Banking Committee
in  Washington  today. The stimulus program is intended to boost
growth and lower unemployment that remains above 7 percent more
than four years after the economy began to recover from the
deepest recession since the Great Depression.  Libor Leads  Banks sold $4.1 billion of rate-linked notes this year
through October, the slowest such period since 2010, Bloomberg
data show. Issuance has rebounded somewhat in November to $216
million in the first two weeks, on a pace to exceed the year’s
monthly average.  Libor-tied notes are selling the best in 2013, making up
$1.88 billion of volume during the first 10 months. They pay a
coupon above the London interbank offered rate, so investors
receive more in the event rates increase, though that may not
happen soon.  The U.S. central bank will delay starting to reduce its $85
billion a month in bond buys until March, according to the
median estimate of 40 economists surveyed Oct. 17-18, after a
16-day partial government shutdown endangered the four-year
economic expansion.  RBC Notes  On Oct. 18,  Royal Bank of Canada  sold $30 million of 12-year callable, step-up notes, the largest offering tied to rates
last month. The securities yield 3 percent for the first five
years, then increase twice to pay 5 percent for the final two,
according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The bank can first redeem the notes after
five years.  Sanam Heidary, a spokeswoman for RBC in New York, declined
to comment on the notes.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts with
values derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  