-- Samsung Loses New Evidence Bid in Australia Apple Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-11-14T02:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/samsung-loses-new-evidence-bid-in-australia-apple-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , fighting a
global battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over disputed patents, lost a
court bid in Australia to bring up evidence showing the two
sides have been involved in on-going settlement talks.  Samsung sought, through witness statements, to show there
have been ongoing talks “until recently” to determine a fair
royalty, according to a Nov. 4  ruling . The decision issued by
Australia Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett was posted on
the court’s website today with redactions to commercially
sensitive references, including the specifics of the royalties.
Bennett dismissed the request, saying it was made too late and
would disrupt the timetable for a trial.  Apple had unsuccessfully sued Samsung in  Australia  in 2011
seeking a ban on the sale of its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablets,
claiming the South Korean company infringed its touch-screen
patents. Samsung countersued claiming Apple devices infringed
three of its standard-essential patents. Apple countered with a
suit accusing Samsung of breaching international obligations to
negotiate a fair royalty on the patents.  “Substantial costs would be wasted and it is more probable
than not that the hearing date would need to be vacated,”
Bennett wrote. “Samsung has been given more than sufficient
opportunity to agitate its case.”  A trial on Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s counterclaim
is scheduled to begin Nov. 26 and run through April 10 in
federal court in Sydney.  Battle Royalties  Apple’s cross-claim is based on an offer made by Samsung on
July 25, 2011 for a specific royalty to be paid for each
product, details of which are crossed out in Bennett’s judgment.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , claims it’s willing
to pay a royalty on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND, as required by the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute. Samsung has refused and
continues to refuse to offer FRAND royalty terms, Apple said, a
claim Samsung has denied.  The Australian dispute coincides with Apple’s bid to recoup
most of the $410.5 million that U.S, District Judge Lucy Koh cut
from the original $1.05 billion a jury in  San Jose , California,
awarded Apple for Samsung’s patent infringement. The do-over
trial began yesterday in San Jose.  Litigation between the two companies began in the U.S. in
April 2011, when Apple sued Samsung for “slavishly copying”
its iPhone and iPad designs. It has since spread to  France ,
 Germany ,  Italy , U.K., South Korea, Japan and the Netherlands.  The Australian case is Samsung Electronics Co. v. Apple
Inc. NSD315/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  