-- Sanofi MS Drug’s Mixed Verdict at FDA Panel Puzzles Analysts
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-11-14T21:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/sanofi-ms-drug-s-mixed-verdict-from-fda-panel-puzzles-analysts.html
Sanofi’s multiple sclerosis drug
Lemtrada is effective for preventing flare-ups of the disease,
U.S. regulatory advisers said yesterday, even as they decided
the company’s trials weren’t adequate to assess the drug.  A U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory committee
voted 12-6 that Sanofi provided substantial evidence of the
drug’s effectiveness for treating patients with relapsing forms
of MS, and 11-6 that the company’s trials weren’t conducted well
enough to assess the drug.  “That seems contradictory,”  Mark Clark , an analyst with
Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said by phone today. “Either they
were adequate and proved something, or they were inadequate and
proved nothing. We’re somewhat confused.”  Lemtrada, approved in the European Union in September, was
a key part of Paris-based Sanofi’s $20 billion acquisition of
Genzyme Corp. in 2011. If cleared in the U.S., the drug would
enter a crowded field in which relapsing MS patients now have 10
treatment options with varying degrees of efficacy, including
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tecfidera and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone.  The panel’s other verdicts added to the mixed picture. The
committee voted 14-2, with two abstentions, that Lemtrada didn’t
reduce a patient’s disability, and 17-0 that the drug’s risks
don’t preclude approval.  Complete Response  The FDA is expected to decide whether to approve Lemtrada
by Dec. 27. The agency will probably issue a so-called complete
response letter that rejects the drug until the company does
further work, said Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies in
 New York .  “With the panel voting that the studies were not adequate
and well-controlled, the FDA probably has to issue a CRL,”
Holford wrote in a note today. “We continue to see the
probability of approval at 20 percent to 30 percent.”  Sanofi shares rose 1.4 percent to 78.85 euros in Paris.
Before today, Sanofi had climbed 13 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 25 percent advance in the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  Genzyme stockholders had received rights to additional fees
of as much as $14 a share, in the form of contingent value
rights, or CVRs, at the end of 2020 if Sanofi meets certain
goals, most of them tied to the approval and sale of Lemtrada.  The CVRs fell 2.2 percent to 68 cents in New York. The
securities were halted from trading yesterday, after plunging 62
percent on Nov. 8, when the FDA published briefing documents for
yesterday’s meeting that questioned whether the two key trials
of the drug were valid.  Sales Forecast  Lemtrada may generate sales of $672 million in 2017,
according to the average of eight analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  plans to co-promote the drug and will
receive payments based on sales.  “We are pleased that the advisory committee clearly
recognized the effectiveness of Lemtrada and voted unanimously
that the safety profile should not stand in the way of
approval,” Jack Cox, a Sanofi spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The committee vote did acknowledge FDA’s
concerns around study design but this appears not to have had an
impact on the committee’s votes of the effectiveness and safety
profile of Lemtrada.”  Drug Access  Multiple sclerosis  is a debilitating disease that attacks
the central nervous system. Relapses, or flare ups, are episodes
of worsening neurological function, according to the National MS
Society.  Several patients who said they had severe MS testified
yesterday in favor of Lemtrada’s approval, imploring panel
members to leave the weighing of risk versus benefit to those
who have the disease and their physicians.  “It’s critical that people with significant disease who
stand to lose function and become disabled have the opportunity
to access this drug,” said David Goldblatt, a neuroradiologist
from Austin,  Texas , who said he started taking Lemtrada 10 years
ago.  “I understand your issues with safety,” Goldblatt told
the panel. “I think that nowadays patients are taking more
responsibility and should be allowed to make the decision that
they may decide that the risk/benefit ratio is adequate for
them, that they would like to take this medication.”  Drug’s Safety  The panel agreed, with many members saying they voted that
the drug’s safety issues didn’t preclude its approval because
patients should be allowed to make that decision with their
doctor. While panelists said the drug appeared to be effective
against the disease, they also voted unanimously that Lemtrada
shouldn’t be a first option for patients, if approved.  “For the foreseeable future, I would rank it as a third-line drug,” said Justin Zivin, a panel member and professor
emeritus at the  University of California  at  San Diego .  FDA staff determined in a Nov. 8 report that Sanofi’s
annual infusion has “serious and potentially fatal safety
issues” including risk of cancer and autoimmune and thyroid
diseases. FDA staff also questioned Sanofi’s claims the drug is
effective.  The company’s decision not to keep secret which patients in
clinical research were taking the medicine or an older treatment
and the subjective nature of determining whether the drug was
working may have skewed results, agency staff said. That was a
main focus of yesterday’s FDA advisory panel discussions.  Annual Dosing  Sanofi said it was unable to keep that information
confidential because of the differences in how the drugs,
Lemtrada and an older treatment, were given, including annual
dosing compared with three times a week. Follow-up data showed
findings consistent with clinical trial results,  Sanofi (SAN)  said in
an e-mailed statement on Nov. 8.  Lemtrada won European Union approval in September and the
active ingredient alemtuzumab was cleared by the FDA in 2001 to
treat a certain form of leukemia, though the drug is no longer
for sale.  Other treatments for relapsing MS include another Sanofi
drug Aubagio, Biogen’s Tecfidera and Tysabri and Teva’s
Copaxone. Lemtrada is given through two courses of infusions
given a year apart.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  