-- Scene Last Night: Paulson, Schlosstein, Effron, Brokaw
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-14T17:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/scene-last-night-paulson-schlosstein-effron-brokaw.html
If  John Paulson  and Tom Brokaw left
the Pierre last night with toothpaste and a toothbrush, it
wasn’t grand hotel larceny but a goody bag given at the  New
Visions for Public Schools  benefit.  The canvas tote contained a 7.8-ounce tube of Colgate Total
Clean Mint Paste and one Pro Tip SlimSoft toothbrush touting
“17x slimmer tip bristles for a deep clean.”  How did gala hygiene reach such heights? When Ian Cook,
chairman and chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive Co., joined
the board of New Visions, its members wondered how his
experience with toothpaste could help an organization devoted to
improving public-school education in  New York .  It turned out there were similarities, said  Roger Altman ,
founder of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and New Visions board co-chairman. What makes Colgate successful -- a focus on leadership
and results -- is also what makes New Visions successful, Altman
said in a tribute to Cook, without mentioning the benefits of
free product.  New Visions helps run public schools and operates six of
its own  charter schools , serving 50,000 students. To open
charters, it seeks $1 million in private funding for each school
over a three-year period.  Strong Results  Paulson is one such donor, committing “to aid in the
conversion of one of the poorest-performing high schools in the
Bronx into two charter schools focused on the humanities and
math and science,” he said in an e-mail. “The results so far
have been very strong.”  At the gala Paulson caught up with a New Visions student he
met before donating, Guirny Occean, class of 2015. Occean said
his school is “like a tailored suit.”  Altman said children in New Vision schools have “an 8-to-10-point higher graduation rate than the city as a whole.”  “Public education is the way to upward mobility in our
society, so we have to get it right,” said Ralph Schlosstein,
CEO of Evercore. Blair Effron of  Centerview Partners  said New
Visions is “willing to experiment with anything that improves
the standards of public education in New York.”  Effron also supported the East Harlem School’s 20th
anniversary celebration Monday night at 583 Park Avenue, raising
$1.1 million for the independent school for low-income students
in grades 4-8.  Daily Meditation  School founder and head Ivan M. Hageman said athletics,
small classes, daily meditation and vegetarian lunches are among
the factors that help students thrive.  Students working on the benefit’s silent auction praised
the macaroni and cheese, veggie pizza and French toast served at
Friday brunches before posing for a photograph with  Hillary Clinton . The former secretary of state was on hand to introduce
honorees Susan Patricof and  Greycroft LLC  Founder  Alan Patricof .  On Tuesday, Paulson and Effron were both elected trustees
of the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina and Philip Borff on
 auctions ,  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  