-- Schaeuble in Brussels as CDU-SPD Vow Common Euro Bank-Union Aims
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-11-14T09:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/schaeuble-in-brussels-as-cdu-spd-vow-common-euro-bank-union-aims.html
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
meets with his European counterparts today after  Germany ’s
prospective coalition allies agreed there mustn’t be any
taxpayer liability for failed banks.  Coalition talks between  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic bloc and the Social Democrats have focused
on ensuring that future banking union in  Europe  protects German
taxpayers while effectively breaking the link between failing
banks and sovereign debt.  “Fundamentally, we agree that the German taxpayer must not
bear liability” for failed banks,  Norbert Barthle , the CDU’s
budget spokesman in parliament, said in a phone interview.
“Differences with the SPD over details remain, but the
fundamental lines of agreement are in place.”  SPD negotiators are abandoning election campaign pledges
that might have heaped new burdens on German taxpayers. These
include euro bonds and setting up a European debt redemption
fund -- both of which are rejected by Merkel -- adding credence
to CDU claims that the SPD won’t thwart Schaeuble’s design for
banking union.  Today’s meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels
is the first since Merkel’s bloc kicked off coalition talks with
the SPD last month aimed at a so-called grand coalition. German
officials say they agree with European Union partners that a
plan for resolving failed banks is needed by the time the
 European Central Bank  begins supervision of lenders in 2014.  Before Germany’s election, “the hope was that a grand
coalition might soften Germany’s stance towards the  euro zone ,”
 Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy,
said in a note yesterday. “Yet what was overlooked was the fact
that the SPD is even more insistent on bailing in creditors to
banks.”  Debating Details  After three weeks of talks, Merkel and the SPD are still
debating details on banking union. So far there’s progress on
agreeing the nature of a Single Resolution Mechanism and on
interim finance for resolving banks before a central fund is
sufficiently filled.  The CDU favors a network of national regulators bundled
into a resolution agency, the German Finance Ministry said.  While agreeing with the CDU that the European Stability
Mechanism should function as a backstop for resolution finance,
the SPD wants to prevent banks from circumventing a sequence of
liability to tap the ESM directly.  “The SPD doesn’t want direct banking recapitalization
through the ESM,” Johannes Kahrs, an SPD lawmaker and coalition
negotiator, said in a phone interview. “This would be as bad as
euro bonds. We don’t have a common position yet. We have to find
common ground with the CDU.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  