-- Newtown Rampage Spurs $5 Billion School Security Spending
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-11-14T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/schools-boosting-security-spending-after-newtown-massacre.html
After the Newtown shooting rampage,
 Tennessee ’s Dickson County pledged to spend $500,000 on
classroom barricades and a surveillance system at its school
buildings -- enough money to pay for 14 first-year teachers.  “The school shooting up in Connecticut gave us a chance to
stop and review things,” the county’s mayor, Bob Rial, said in
a telephone interview. “You are always worried about that
person on the fringe.”  The slaughter that left 20 children and six educators dead
11 months ago at Sandy Hook Elementary School unleashed a wave
of concern that is prompting officials from  California  to New
Jersey to direct tax dollars toward security measures in hopes
of protecting against a threat as rare as it is terrifying.  Almost 90 percent of U.S. school systems have made changes
to their facilities or security policies since the Sandy Hook
shooting, according to a survey of 600 districts that will be
published next month in Campus Safety Magazine, a trade
publication. Annual spending on school security systems is
projected to jump to $4.9 billion in 2017 from $2.7 billion last
year, in part because of mass killings like the one in Newtown,
according to IHS, an Englewood, Colorado-based research company.  While Congress failed to enact gun-control legislation in
the wake of the Sandy Hook massacre, companies including  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC) ,  Assa Abloy AB (ASSAB)  and  Axis Communications AB (AXIS)  are
stepping in to meet increased demand for security by local
school officials.  Orders Jump  Tyco Integrated Security had an 82 percent increase in web
inquiries for school products over the past year, said Brett
Ludwig, a spokesman for the Neuhausen am Rheinfall, Switzerland-based company. SimplexGrinnell, a Tyco unit that installs
security systems at K-12 schools in the U.S., has seen a 68
percent jump in orders since Newtown, Ludwig said.  HID Global Corp., a U.S. unit of Stockholm-based Assa
Abloy, reported as much as a 50 percent increase in sales
inquiries from K-12 schools in the past year, said Brett St.
Pierre, the company’s director of education solutions. HID is
experiencing a 25 percent jump in sales for education, more than
twice the increase it saw last year, he said.  “It is across the board,” said St. Pierre. “We’ve
definitely seen a lot more interest from the school-district
level than we have in the past.”  Still Rare  Statistically, the chance of a child being killed on a
campus is small. Only  19  of 1,369 youth homicides in the U.S.
from July 2009 to June 2010 -- about 1.4 percent -- occurred at
a school, according to the U.S. Education Department. Eleven
students were killed at schools in the same period the following
year, the data show. Since the department started keeping data
in 1992, the deadliest school year was 1997-1998, when 34 pupils
were slain.  “The truth is that schools are the safest place a child
can be,” said Dennis Van Roekel, the president of the
Washington-based National Education Association, the nation’s
largest teachers union.  Van Roekel said he also wants funds spent on mental-health
services and training teachers to identify and address students
who might be at risk of committing a violent act.  “What is really important is that people don’t reduce this
down to the one answer,” Van Roekel said.  He’s pressing Congress to pass gun-control legislation. In
April, the  U.S. Senate  failed to secure the 60 votes needed to
pass a measure backed by President  Barack Obama  that would have
expanded background checks on gun buyers.  High Volume  Companies say that even before Sandy Hook, they viewed
school security as a fast-growing market.  “It is high volume,” said Steve Surfaro, a spokesman for
Lund, Sweden-based Axis, which is also reporting an increase in
inquiries. “There are so many schools.”  At least three states -- Connecticut, Indiana and
 Pennsylvania  -- created or beefed up grants for school safety in
the past year, which will inject a combined $49 million into the
market from state coffers. Additionally, the state grants
typically require some type of local matching funds.  “Every week, it seems there is an announcement that some
school district or county or state is upgrading school
security,” said Robin Hattersley Gray, executive editor of
Campus Safety, which is based in Torrance, California. “After
Sandy Hook, we’ve seen a significant public push for schools to
increase security.”  ‘Steps Necessary’  In  Connecticut , the site of the Sandy Hook rampage,
Democratic Governor Dannel Malloy announced $16 million in
school-safety grants this week, the second round of funding in
two months. In September, he allocated $5 million for school
security under a measure approved by the legislature.  The funds mean 604 of the state’s 1,035 schools will get
more money for security. Malloy said he plans to go back to the
legislature next year for additional cash.  “We will never be able to prevent every random act of
violence,” Malloy said in a statement. “But we can take the
steps necessary to make sure that our children and our teachers
are as safe as possible.”  In places without new sources of state funds, such as
Verona,  New Jersey , officials plan to finance proposed security
enhancement through bonds and existing state grants.  “We are not looking to do outlandish things; we are
looking to do what we think are best practices,” Steven Forte,
Verona’s schools superintendent, said in a telephone interview.  In Tennessee, where Rial is putting $500,000 toward
fortifying 13 school buildings, all of the funds will come from
other programs in the county budget.  “The most important thing we can do as a government is
ensure the safety of our citizens and the safety of our students
while they are at school,” he said.  School Cops  Initially, the money, which represents 5 percent of Dickson
County’s non-salary general fund, was earmarked for furnaces,
painting and refurbishing of other municipal buildings,
including the county courthouse, the state’s oldest. He said he
would also like to add a police officer to each school.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is helping to pay for
additional officers like those sought by Rial. It awarded $45
million from Community Oriented Policing Services grants this
year to schools that planned security enhancements. Last year,
schools that focused on security received $11 million.  Security companies seeking business with school districts
stress that their products will also address other, more
frequent, issues on campuses, such as bullying, fighting and
theft.  Crowd Screening  Standing before a dozen school officials at the Axis
offices in Chelmsford,  Massachusetts , last week, Dan Michelinie
of the video company BriefCam rattled off a series of statistics
about U.S. school violence. He then demonstrated how his
Modi’in, Israel-based company’s software can condense hours of
surveillance video footage into minutes.  “This allows you to see crowds of kids forming,” he said,
showing time-lapse footage on a screen. “It shows who is doing
what in the hallways.”  Since the Newtown massacre, there have been other high-profile mass shootings. A gunman killed five people near the
Santa Monica College campus in California in June. Another one
killed 12 inside the Washington Navy Yard in September.  “The market is being driven by an increased focus on
student safety,” said Paul Bremner, a video surveillance and
market analyst at IHS who wrote a report on the global school
security market. In the U.S., he said “Sandy Hook was mentioned
by everyone we spoke to for our report.”  Panic Button  Fear of similar attacks has given rise to new products,
including soon-to-be-released software from Elerts, a Weymouth,
Massachusetts-based company. It allows school staff to lock down
a campus from a mobile phone.  “It turns every smartphone into a panic button,” said Ed
English, the company’s chief executive officer.  There’s also the bullet-proof white board, created by
Hardwire LLC, based in Pocomoke City on  Maryland ’s Eastern
Shore, which can be used as a shield against mass shooters. The
product is made from a plastic developed to protect U.S.
soldiers in Iraq and  Afghanistan  from improvised explosive
devices.  “We just have a different threat and a different front,”
said George Tunis, the company’s chief executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  