-- Shunfeng Says Liquidators Haven’t Approved Suntech Acquisition
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-11-14T20:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/shunfeng-says-liquidators-haven-t-approved-suntech-acquisition.html
Shunfeng Photovoltaic International
Ltd. (1165) , the Chinese company seeking to buy the main unit of what
was once the world’s largest solar-panel maker, said the deal
hasn’t been approved by Suntech Power Holdings Co.’s
liquidators.  Provisional liquidators notified Shunfeng that Suntech
isn’t authorized to sell its Wuxi Suntech unit and they haven’t
approved any transfer or disposal, according to a Hong Kong
stock exchange filing yesterday. The liquidators were appointed
by a Cayman Islands court on Nov. 7.  Suntech’s main unit was pulled into bankruptcy proceedings
by Chinese banks after the Wuxi, China-based company missed a
bond payment in March. Shunfeng agreed to buy the unit on Nov. 1
for 3 billion  yuan  ($492 million). Suntech was the world’s
biggest solar panel maker in 2011.  Shunfeng said yesterday that that transfers took place
while Wuxi Suntech was under the control of an administrator,
according to the filing. That means the liquidators should lodge
any objections with the administrator or with the Wuxi
Intermediate People’s Court, which is overseeing the process
under Chinese bankruptcy law.  The Suntech liquidators said they will “investigate and
pursue” the transfer of two other units, Suntech Power
Investment Pte. and Suntech Power Japan Corp., to Wuxi Suntech
because the disposals may be voidable under British Virgin
Islands law, according to the filing.  Shunfeng, based in Changzhou,  China , plans to discuss the
situation with its lawyers and the Wuxi Suntech administrator.  Suntech told a Manhattan court on Nov. 7 that an
involuntary bankruptcy petition against it in the U.S. may
derail consensual restructuring efforts. Shunfeng said Nov. 12
that creditors and equity-interest holders of Wuxi Suntech
approved the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  