-- Alfa’s Sigma Bets on Europe With $908 Million Campofrio Bid
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-11-14T21:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/sigma-offers-908-million-for-spanish-meat-processor-campofrio.html
Alfa SAB (ALFAA) ’s Sigma Alimentos food unit
offered 675 million euros ($908 million) for Madrid-based
sausage maker  Campofrio Food Group SA (CFG)  in a bet on European
expansion by  Mexico ’s largest processed-meats producer.  The 6.80 euro-a-share bid by Sigma is 11 percent higher
than Campofrio’s closing price yesterday. The stock rose
12 percent to 6.87 euros on speculation that Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based shareholder in
Campofrio, may demand a higher price or make a counteroffer.  The bid marks Sigma’s first foray into  Europe  after a
decade-long acquisition spree in  Latin America  and the U.S.
Spanish companies are attracting foreign investment as the
nation’s economy emerges from a five-year slump, with the Ibex
35 benchmark index gaining 27 percent in the past year.  “It’s the entry into Europe for Sigma and they’d be going
in through a very big door,”  Carlos Hermosillo , a Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB analyst with a hold rating on Alfa
shares, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “In
terms of acquisitions, there’s not much left for them to do in
Mexico and there aren’t many deals of this size to be done in
the rest of Latin America.”  The European economy is at a low point and will soon show a
“trend to recovery,” Alfa Chief Executive Officer Alvaro Fernandez told reporters on a conference call. The Campofrio
deal may close in the first quarter of 2014, he said.  ‘Right Time’  “We think now is the right time to go shopping,” he said.
“This is an extraordinary opportunity for Sigma to diversify.
This will make us a global company, not just a regional one.”  Campofrio makes cured hams, hot dogs and packaged pizzas,
and has 25 plants in eight countries including  Spain ,  France ,
 Italy ,  Germany  and the U.S., Fernandez said.  The Spanish company had 1.92 billion euros in  sales  in the
past 12 months while Sigma had $3.72 billion, Alfa said in a
statement. At current exchange rates, that implies an almost
70 percent increase in Sigma’s sales.  Campofrio shares with today’s gain in  Madrid  have climbed
22 percent in the past 12 months. The  stock  is still about
75 percent below its 1998 peak.  Alfa climbed 0.3 percent to 35.77 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based company’s
 shares  have risen 37 percent in the past 12 months.  Shuanghui Stake  Sigma has already bought a 44.5 percent stake in Campofrio,
Fernandez said. The meat producer is seeking to learn more about
Shuanghui’s reaction, he said.  “It will all depend on Shuanghui’s intentions toward
Campofrio,” BPI analysts led by Joao Safara wrote in a note to
investors. “On a pure financial basis we believe it should
reject the offer considering the low price offered.”  The bid values Campofrio at 1.12 billion euros including
debt, Alfa said. At 7.6 times the company’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Editda, in
the past 12 months, the price is “quite attractive” for Alfa,
Banorte’s Hermosillo said.  Shuanghui,  China ’s biggest pork producer, inherited a
37 percent Campofrio stake when it bought U.S. hog processor
Smithfield Foods Inc. in September. Shuanghui said in September
it would reduce its holdings in Campofrio to less than the
30 percent threshold that triggers a legal requirement to offer
to buy out other shareholders.  Chairman Alliance  Sigma said it’s forming an alliance with Campofrio Chairman
Pedro Ballve, who will invest in the company as well. The
Mexican company said it has also bought stakes from shareholders
including CaixaBank SA. The bidder has submitted the offer to
the securities market regulator for approval.  The Mexican company will fund the acquisition through a
fully committed five-year term loan of as much as 675 million
euros, Alfa Chief Financial Officer Ramon Leal said on the
conference call. The company has already used 300 million euros
of the loan to buy Campofrio shares.  If Sigma buys all the Spanish company’s shares, its net
debt would climb to 3.4 times Ebitda, from 1.8 times as of Sept.
30, Leal said. The unit would seek to reduce that leverage
quickly, potentially through an initial public offering next
year, he said. Alfa said on Sept. 30 that it was studying an IPO
for Sigma.  Alfa also has businesses in petrochemicals, auto parts,
telecommunications and oil and gas production. Past acquisitions
include a meat producer in  El Salvador  in 2003, a Peruvian meat
processor in 2008 and Phoenix-based Bar-S Foods Co. in 2010.  Sigma’s offer for Campofrio follows the purchase in October
of a stake in Spanish builder  Fomento de Construcciones &
Contratas SA  by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates , the world’s
richest man. Private-equity company Apollo Global Management LLC
has also made acquisitions in Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  