-- Singer Builds Celesio Stake as McKesson Plans Acquisition
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-11-14T15:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/singer-builds-celesio-stake-as-mckesson-plans-acquisition.html
Billionaire Paul Singer almost
doubled his stake in  Celesio AG (CLS1)  in the past week in a sign he
may try to extract a higher price for his holding as  McKesson
Corp. (MCK)  seeks to acquire the German drug distributor.  The hedge-fund manager’s New York-based Elliott Management
Corp. holds 21.13 percent of the  voting rights  in Stuttgart-based Celesio, of which 5.44 percent are convertible bonds, the
company said in a statement today.  Elliott held just over 11 percent in Celesio last week. The
firm became the largest shareholder in Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG this year when the cable operator was the subject of a 7.7
billion-euro ($10.4 billion) takeover offer from  Vodafone Group
Plc. (VOD)  Elliott also tried unsuccessfully to oust board members of
Actelion Ltd. in 2011, partly to push the Swiss drugmaker into
considering a sale.  McKesson, the largest U.S. pharmaceutical distributor,
announced plans on Oct. 24 for a 3.9 billion-euro purchase for
Celesio, with the deal subject to acceptance of shareholders
owning 75 percent of the German company’s stock.  Under the sales agreement, San Francisco-based McKesson
will acquire the 50.01 percent stake held by the founding
family’s Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH investment company for 23 euros
a share, and begin a tender offer for the remaining publicly
traded shares at the same price.  Celesio  rose  as much as 0.4 percent and was trading up 0.2
percent at 23.25 euros at 4:39 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  German takeover rules allow investors to refuse to sell
during a takeover attempt and to ask for a higher price, leaving
a court to decide on the stock’s value. Rainer Berghausen, a
Celesio spokesman, wasn’t immediately available for comment.
Stephen Spruiell, a spokesman for Elliott Management, said he
couldn’t immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  