-- Sinopharm, Mitsubishi Tie Up to Create Chinese Medical Supplier
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-11-14T03:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/sinopharm-mitsubishi-tie-up-to-create-chinese-medical-supplier.html
Sinopharm Group Co., China’s top
drug distributor, teamed with Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  to form a
medical supplies distributor to slash the rising cost of
healthcare in Asia’s biggest economy.  Sinopharm MC Hospital Services Co., based in  Shanghai , will
add to the two Beijing-based pharmaceutical wholesalers the
partners took over this year with Tokyo-based  Medipal Holdings
Corp. (7459) , Mitsubishi said today in a  statement .  Healthcare is a growing market for Japan’s trading houses,
with Mitsubishi already the biggest medical supplies provider at
home.  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , Mitsubishi’s biggest domestic rival, made
its largest investment outside commodities in 2011 by paying
$1.1 billion for a minority stake in Kuala Lumpur-based  IHH
Healthcare Bhd (IHH) , Asia’s top hospitals operator.  Led by Japan, South Korea and China, Asia is the fastest
aging region in the world and is set to account for 60 percent
of the world’s elderly by 2030, according to Mitsui. China will
have 300 million people 65 and over by that period, while its
rural market for healthcare is growing at 18 percent a year,
Boston-based Lux Research said in a report last year.  The medical supplies market in China grew to 157 billion
 yuan  ($25.8 billion) last year, more than double the 69 billion
yuan in 2008, according to Mitsubishi.  A “complex distribution network” of drug sellers that may
be 100 times larger than Japan’s and inefficient management are
behind China’s push to cut medical services costs, Mitsubishi
said.  China’s  Ministry of Commerce  in May warned of a rapid rise
in drug distribution costs in the country. Hong Kong-listed
Sinopharm is controlled by state-owned China National
Pharmaceutical Group Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  