-- SolarCity Advances on First Solar-Bond Sale, Upgrade
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-11-14T21:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/solarcity-advances-after-54-million-bond-sale-upgrade.html
SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , the second-largest
U.S. solar company by market value, climbed the most in three
days after selling the first bonds backed by revenue from
rooftop solar projects.  SolarCity jumped 4.3 percent to $56.23 at the close in New
York, the most since Nov. 11.  The $54.4 million in bonds have a 4.8 percent interest rate
and will mature in December 2026,  San Mateo , California-based
SolarCity said in a statement yesterday after the close of
regular trading.  The asset-backed securities will be paid with the  cash flow 
from the company’s solar leases and power-purchase agreements,
in a “first-of-its-kind deal,” said Stefan Linder, a New York-based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The deal is a
sign that mainstream investors are recognizing that solar power
provides reliable, long-term income.  “This is really the first time we’ve seen asset-backed
financing for a distributed-solar company,” Linder said in a
telephone interview today. “Securitization offers a great way
to lock in low-cost, long-term debt. This is important.
SolarCity, like everyone else, knows that  interest rates  have
nowhere to go but upward.”  SolarCity installs rooftop solar panels, typically at
little or no cost to customers. The company owns the systems and
its residential and commercial clients sign long-term agreements
to buy the power.  More Bonds  The company may be planning to issue more solar-backed
bonds, said Ben Kallo, a San Francisco-based analyst for Robert
W. Baird  & Co., who upgraded SolarCity today to the equivalent
of a buy with a 12-month price target of $71.  “We expect additional securitizations to occur as SCTY
continues to install PV systems,” Kallo said in a research
note. Securities backed by revenue from solar panels “could
merit a lower cost of capital as investors become increasingly
comfortable with the financing product.”  First Solar Inc. is the largest U.S. solar company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  