-- Solvency II Accord, Global Data Probe, SAC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/solvency-ii-accord-global-data-probe-sac-compliance.html
Europe may be nearing an agreement
on rules that aim to make insurance companies safer after 13
years of wrangling between politicians, companies and
regulators.  Insurers and European Union officials are working out a
compromise on the capital they need to ensure they can make good
on long-term products such as annuities, according to Ralph
Koijen, professor of Finance at the London Business School,
citing recent draft accords he has studied.  Insurers from countries including Germany, the U.K. and
France have criticized the so-called Solvency II proposal,
saying the rules could make savings products excessively costly
as more capital would be required to cover risks for longer-term
investments.  Representatives from the European Commission,  European
Parliament  and  Council of the European Union  are convening for
talks that started in Brussels yesterday. Firms including
 Allianz SE , the continent’s biggest insurer, say the talks could
bring an accord for implementing Solvency II.  Insurers are Europe’s biggest institutional investors with
8.4 trillion euros ($11.3 trillion) under management. They lag
behind banks in adopting a framework to help them withstand
losses in any repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  Aegon NV (AGN) , the
owner of U.S. insurance firm Transamerica Corp., and reinsurance
company  Swiss Re (SREN)  were among firms that received financial
support after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the U.S. bailout of AIG.  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way firms allocate
capital against risk, was scheduled to come into force last
year. Its introduction was delayed several times over issues
such as calculating capital needed for liabilities for products
with long-term guarantees such as annuities and investments such
as  government bonds . Insurers and regulators now plan to
implement the rules on Jan. 1, 2016, with a transitional period,
should an agreement be reached in time.  Deals reached in so-called trilogue meetings, such as
yesterday’s talks on Solvency II, require approval by parliament
and the council, which represents the EU’s 28 member states.
Further meetings are often held at short notice before draft
agreements are reached.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Global Data Network Probed by EU Regulators Over NSA Reports  European privacy watchdogs started a probe into whether
consumers’ personal data on the global Swift money-transfer
network can be accessed by the U.S. National Security Agency or
other intelligence services.  The Dutch and Belgian data protection authorities are
leading the investigation into whether the payment network is
safe, Jacob Kohnstamm, the European Union’s top privacy watchdog
said yesterday. Swift relays money-transfer orders among more
than 10,000 banks and other financial institutions in over 200
countries and territories.  The probe by Kohnstamm and his Belgian counterpart Willem
Debeuckelaere follows media reports that foreign intelligence
services allegedly had unlawful access to Swift data concerning
international bank transfers. Global spy agencies have come
under scrutiny in recent months after former U.S. intelligence
contractor Edward Snowden revealed the scale of NSA surveillance
activities, including allegations it had tapped German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone.  Swift last month said it conducted an audit that showed
nothing wrong had happened, said Kohnstamm. The  European
Parliament  last month demanded a halt to bank-data transfers to
U.S. counter-terrorism investigators because of possible
violations of privacy.  Swift said in a statement that there is no evidence that
suggests there have been any confidentiality breaches on its
network and would cooperate with the probe.  European data protection regulators from the 28-nation EU
decided that because Swift is based in Belgium and has an
important data processing center in the Netherlands, the
respective national privacy regulators should lead the probe,
Kohnstamm said.  Compliance Action  U.S. Receives $1.2 Billion From Sales in October of GM Shares  The  U.S. Treasury  Department said net proceeds of its sales
of General Motors Co. shares totaled about $1.2 billion last
month as the government winds down its investment in the
automaker.  Through the end of October, the U.S. government had
recovered $37.2 billion of the $51 billion it spent to bail out
and restructure Detroit-based  GM (GM) , the Treasury said Nov. 12 in a
report to Congress. The report doesn’t say how many shares were
sold during the month or at what price.  Treasury said in a September report its GM stake had been
reduced to 7.3 percent. Following its 2009 bankruptcy, the
automaker went public again in 2010, leaving the U.S. Treasury
as GM’s largest shareholder. The government began selling down
its stake in December, when it said it would sell the rest of
its remaining shares within 15 months. The U.S. is the third-largest GM shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government may complete selling its GM stake before the
year is over, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said.  The government is exiting GM as investor confidence in the
company has risen.  Courts  SAC Manager’s Trial to Start Days After Fund’s Guilty Plea  SAC Capital Advisors LP money manager Michael Steinberg
lost a bid to delay his  insider-trading  case, leaving him to
face a jury next week in the first of two upcoming trials tied
to the hedge fund run by  Steven A. Cohen .  SAC Capital sought to plead guilty last week in Manhattan
federal court after being indicted for securities and wire
fraud. A judge declined to immediately accept the plea, saying
she wanted to review documents in the case. Steinberg, 41, had
argued that publicity surrounding the U.S. probe of SAC, and the
record $1.8 billion plea deal, would compromise his right to a
fair trial in the same courthouse.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan said in a two-page
order yesterday rejecting the request that the case would likely
continue to be in the press months from now.  Steinberg’s trial is to be followed in January by that of
former SAC fund manager Mathew Martoma, also charged with
insider trading.  SAC agreed to shutter its investment advisory business as
part of the accord announced Nov. 4 to end both its prosecution
and a money-laundering lawsuit filed by the  Justice Department .  Cohen, 57, who founded SAC in 1992, wasn’t named as a
defendant in the indictment of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund. He still faces an administrative action filed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for his alleged failure
to supervise the firm’s activities.  Steinberg has pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and
securities fraud, and faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted. Barry Berke, his lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on Sullivan’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Fudged Taxes With Help From Aide on Trial, Jury Told  Bernard Madoff  and his wife chose the exact amount of
personal tax they would pay each year with the help of fake
documents provided by a top aide on trial over the con man’s $17
billion fraud, a jury was told.  Daniel Bonventre, one of five former Madoff employees on
trial in Manhattan, prepared false general ledgers and corporate
profit statements to help reach what Madoff called “fudged”
numbers for tax filings, David Friehling, Madoff’s accountant
for more than 20 years, testified yesterday.  Friehling, 53, said he told Bonventre to “destroy or get
rid of” copies of accounting documents that were fabricated to
trick auditors because they “had no bearing on the business
going on.” Bonventre didn’t object, he said.  Some of the defendants are accused of  tax fraud  in addition
to the securities violations at the heart of the  Ponzi scheme .  Friehling pleaded guilty to fraud in November 2009, and
agreed to cooperate in a bid for leniency when he’s sentenced.  Bonventre, who oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary
trading operations of Madoff’s company, pleaded not guilty and
has denied involvement in the fraud, saying he was duped like
thousands of others.  Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch, is scheduled to cross-examine Friehling when prosecutors are finished questioning him.
Defense lawyers have said the government’s witnesses are willing
to lie and implicate others to reduce their own sentences.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  LSE’s Rolet Expects Exchange Consolidation, Handelsblatt Says  London Stock Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet 
expects stock exchanges to consolidate, Handelsblatt reported.  There will only be room for “four or five global stock
exchanges in the long run,” Rolet said, according to
Handelsblatt, which cited an interview with the CEO.  One or two of these global stock exchanges will be in the
European Union, Rolet said, the newspaper reported. Clearing
houses will become more important, he said. Rolet sees growth
potential in this area for the London Stock Exchange, the paper
reported, citing the interview.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , the operator of Europe’s
oldest independent bourse, May 15 reported annual profit that
beat estimates as revenue increased.  Comings and Goings  Cameron Arrives in India Set for Lecture on Business Regulation  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  arrived in New Delhi
yesterday for a 23-hour visit with a message for his Indian
counterpart,  Manmohan Singh , on the need for consistent business
regulation.  Cameron, who’s stopping over on the way to the Commonwealth
summit in Colombo, Sri Lanka, said India needs to deal fairly
with companies if it is to attract investors.  He planned to raise cases like Newbury, England-based
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s $2.2 billion tax battle with the Indian
government over its 2007 acquisition of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
Indian unit when he met with Singh yesterday. He said the case
serves an example of the importance of access to the law and
equality in front of the law in fostering “security and inward
investment.”  It’s Cameron’s third visit to India since becoming prime
minister in 2010. He will meet with business and political
leaders, academics and students during the visit to explore ways
to boost trade and build on the personal, family and business
ties between the two countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 