-- Southwest-JetBlue Seen Reprising Flight-Slot Duel
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-11-14T18:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/southwest-jetblue-seen-reprising-flight-slot-duel.html
The sale of prized airport flight
slots as part of the American Airlines- US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
merger is poised to trigger a second faceoff between the
country’s biggest low-cost carriers.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  was the victor in a 2011 auction for
access to  Washington ’s Reagan National and  New York ’s LaGuardia,
topping larger  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  Now, flight rights at the
airports are going on the block again under the settlement
ending the U.S. lawsuit over the American- US Airways  tie-up.  Reagan National and LaGuardia are among only four U.S.
airports with federal flight curbs to damp congestion. Airlines
covet chances to fly there, because the airports’ proximity to
the cities’ downtowns makes them popular with business travelers
who typically buy the most-expensive tickets.  “JetBlue and Southwest clearly are going to be the most
active bidders,”  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Research Inc. analyst in
New York, said in an interview today. “For Reagan and
LaGuardia, those two are probably going to be the driving force.
They’ve got the cash to spend.”  AMR Corp.’s American and US Airways will give up 52 pairs
of flight slots at Reagan -- for one takeoff and landing -- and
17 pairs at LaGuardia as part of the Nov. 12 accord to resolve
the  Justice Department  suit. The divestitures are intended to
boost competition and reduce fares by bringing in more low-cost
operators, according to the government.  Interest Signaled  Southwest and New York-based JetBlue have signaled for
months that they wanted more flights at  Reagan National  and
LaGuardia, and spokeswomen reaffirmed those goals in e-mails
this week. US Airways is the dominant carrier at Reagan
National, and Delta Air Lines Inc. has the largest share of
LaGuardia flights.  “All low-cost carriers likely have some interest, but
JetBlue and Southwest are the most eager bidders,” Duane Pfennigwerth, an Evercore Partners Inc. analyst in New York,
said in a note to investors. “JetBlue and Southwest see a
larger opportunity at Reagan.”  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE)  is studying whether to participate,
said Misty Pinson, a spokeswoman, while Virgin America Inc.
Chief Executive Officer David Cush said the airline will take
“a hard look.” Allegiant Travel Co. has “no specific plans to
bid,” said Micah Lillard, a spokesman.  Airlines like Dallas-based Southwest and JetBlue must keep
operating costs low to help ensure they stay profitable. They
don’t have first- or business-class seats or flights to Asia or
Europe like full-service airlines such as American, which will
vault to No. 1 in the global industry in traffic after the
merger from No. 3 in the U.S.  Reagan Dominance  US Airways controls 55 percent of Reagan National flights,
a share that would have swelled to 69 percent with the merger.
Giving up the 52 slot pairs will leave the new American with 57
percent of daily departures. The combined carrier will have
about 28 percent of LaGuardia flights.  With 69 slot pairs in the auction, the current divestitures
will be almost three times as big as the 2011 sale, when 24 slot
pairs were put up for bid after Delta and US Airways swapped New
York and Washington landing rights. JetBlue paid $72 million for
eight slot pairs at Reagan National and eight pairs at
LaGuardia. Canada’s  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  bought eight LaGuardia
pairs for $17.6 million.  U.S. View  Full-service carriers like Delta and United Continental
Holdings Inc. probably won’t win U.S. approval to acquire
LaGuardia or Reagan National slots in this go-round, Renata Hesse, a senior official in the Justice Department’s antitrust
division, said today in Washington.  “Whether somebody wants to try to get assets, we’re not
going to stop people from trying,” Hesse told reporters. “But
it’s hard for me to see how Delta and United would qualify.”  Delta said yesterday that the New York-Washington auctions
should be open to all airlines. A message left today with
United’s media office wasn’t immediately returned.  New York’s Kennedy Airport and New Jersey’s Newark Liberty
are the only two other U.S. facilities besides Reagan National
and LaGuardia with federal flight-slot controls. The AMR-US
Airways settlement also requires the carriers to divest two
airport gates in  Los Angeles ,  Boston , Miami, Dallas and  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  