-- South Africa Halves Trade Deficit After Revisions to Data
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-11-14T18:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/south-africa-halves-trade-deficit-after-revisions-to-data.html
South Africa  halved its trade
deficit for the first nine months of 2013 after revising the
data to include exports and imports from a customs union with
neighboring countries.  The shortfall for January to September was lowered to 64.5
billion rand ($6.3 billion) from 126.4 billion rand, the South
African Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement today. The
revisions take into account a trade surplus of 61.9 billion rand
with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and  Swaziland  in the period, the
agency said.  The rand climbed against the dollar after the statement was
released, jumping about 1 percent to 10.17776, and was trading
at 10.2214 as of 8:33 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency of
 Africa ’s largest economy has come under strain this year,
falling 17 percent against the dollar, as a widening deficit
increased South Africa’s vulnerability in financing the
shortfall.  “The extent of the revision to the SARS data would at
least be positive for the rand and therefore the local fixed-income market,” Carmen Nel, an economist at Rand Merchant Bank
in  Cape Town , said in a phone interview. “It will not improve
the current-account deficit enough to ensure that South Africa
is not viewed as a twin deficit economy.”  South Africa’s trade gap for 2012 was restated to 34.6
billion rand from 116.9 billion rand under the old accounting
method, while the nation posted a surplus in the previous two
years compared with deficits, the revenue service said. The
September shortfall was revised to 12 billion rand from 19
billion rand, it said.  Foreign Investment  The deficit on the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, has been at 5 percent of gross
domestic product or above that since the first quarter of 2012,
contributing to a weaker rand. South Africa relies on foreign
investment in bonds and stocks to help finance the current-account gap, inflows that have fluctuated this year as
investors’ risk perception toward  emerging markets  changed.  “We are very suspicious of the timing now, when the
government is very annoyed at its inclusion as a stressed
country,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in
 London , said in an e-mail. “It's a particular surprise it's
happened without any consultation or working papers or even
mention by policy makers that actually trade numbers were better
than they look.”  The revenue agency said the data was adjusted in
consultation with the National Treasury and Reserve Bank, which
will revise its balance of payments data in the Quarterly
Bulletin, due for release on Dec. 3.  Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland, also known as the
BLNS countries, and South Africa form the Southern African
Customs Union, the oldest customs union in the world. South
Africa had a surplus with the four nations of 82.3 billion rand
last year and 68.6 billion rand in 2011, the revenue agency
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  