-- Standard Chartered Said to Cut 12% of Private-Equity Workforce
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-14T08:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/standard-chartered-said-to-cut-12-of-private-equity-workforce.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
bank that earns most of its profit in Asia, plans to cut about
12 percent of the workforce at its private-equity unit, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The reductions will be spread among senior and junior
employees and bring headcount at the division to about 100, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the details
are confidential. Most of the job losses will come in Asia, one
of the people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said this week he’s
reviewing the London-based lender’s businesses and will cut back
or withdraw from less-profitable areas.  Standard Chartered 
doesn’t expect to hit a target of 10 percent revenue growth for
a “couple of years,” he said.  “There are pieces of our portfolio, whether very small
 geographies , or businesses that lack strategic synergies with
other parts of the bank, that we are evaluating very
carefully,” Sands told analysts and investors at a Nov. 11
presentation in London.  Standard Chartered’s private-equity unit has invested more
than $3.9 billion since its inception and focuses on Asia,
 Africa  and the  Middle East , according  to its website . It has
invested about $275 million in Asia this year, one of the people
said.  The bank plans to eliminate three or four private-equity
jobs in India, where the unit has made about $750 million of
investments, the person said. As part of the changes, Managing
Director Udai Dhawan was promoted last week to run the Indian
private-equity business, one person said.  Kunal Pradhan, a spokesman for the bank in Mumbai, declined
to comment on the changes in an e-mailed response to questions
from  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  