-- Subaru Plant to Stop Making Camry, Executive Tells Media
-- B y   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 2013-11-15T01:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/subaru-plant-to-stop-making-camry-executive-tells-media.html
Subaru’s plant in  Indiana  will stop
making Toyota Motor Corp.’s Camry, the best-selling car in the
U.S., after 2016, an executive for the automaker unit of  Fuji
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)  said.  Toyota decided not to renew a contract to have the
Lafayette, Indiana, factory build the Camry, Tom Easterday,
Subaru of Indiana executive vice president, told television
station  WLFI  and the Journal and Courier newspaper November 13.
Jennifer McGarvey, a spokeswoman for the plant, yesterday
confirmed Easterday’s remarks and said he would have no further
comment.  The Camry, the leader in U.S. car sales for 11 years, is
also produced at a Toyota factory in  Kentucky . Output at the
Subaru plant has helped keep the model ahead of Honda Motor
Co.’s Accord. The Camry also faces intensified competition from
Nissan Motor Co.’s Altima and Ford Motor Co.’s Fusion.  Toyota is in discussions with Fuji Heavy, Keisuke Kirimoto,
a spokesman for Toyota, said by phone today. He declined to 
comment further as no decisions have been made yet.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , is Fuji Heavy’s
largest shareholder, with a  16.5 percent  stake, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Easterday told the Lafayette television station and
newspaper that the end of Camry production wouldn’t cause any
reduction in the 3,600 workers at the factory. Toyota’s decision
may delay plans to add 900 employees there, he told the Journal
and Courier.  Easterday was “authorized to speak to the local media to
clarify that there will be no loss of jobs,” McGarvey said in a
follow-up e-mail. She referred questions to Fuji Heavy’s
headquarters in  Tokyo , where the company’s press office declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Koenig in Southfield, Michigan at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  