-- Swedish Banks Face 25% Risk Weights as Watchdog Fights Debt
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-11-14T11:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/swedish-banks-face-25-risk-weights-as-fsa-fights-housing-bubble.html
Sweden  may raise risk weights
further after tripling requirements this year as the regulator
warns more steps may be needed to avert a housing bubble.  The Financial Supervisory Authority in Stockholm said risk
weights on mortgages may be raised to 25 percent from 15 percent
if household debt continues to grow, according to a  statement 
today. The FSA urged  banks  to limit dividends and use surplus
cash to pad buffers as risks in the real estate market grow.  “The high level of debt among Swedish households poses a
risk to individual households and, in the long run, also to
financial stability,” the FSA said. “Major Swedish banks have
sufficient resilience to a sharp downturn in the economy, but
their considerable dependence on market funding continues to be
a risk.”  Sweden’s largest banks are already subject to some of the
world’s strictest reserve rules and must hold at least 12
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets by
2015. While  Nordea (NDA)  Bank AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Swedbank
AB and SEB AB already exceed that level, the government had
warned of stricter requirements to protect taxpayers from
financial industry losses.  Sweden, which is grappling with record household debt
levels and soaring  house prices , has taken numerous steps to try
to cool its  property market . Measures have included capping
mortgages at 85 percent of property values and earlier tripling
mortgage risk weights.  Housing Market  While the lending cap helped slow loan growth, borrowing
has started to accelerate again and house prices are still
climbing. That’s left Swedes with debt equivalent to more than
170 percent of disposable incomes, the highest level on record.  Apartment prices, which more than doubled since 2000,
increased  14 percent  in the 12 months through October, according
to Svensk Maeklarstatistik, which publishes monthly data. The
price of single-family houses rose 5 percent since October last
year, it said. State-owned mortgage bank SBAB warned on Oct. 18
that prices are likely to continue rising and that there is a
risk of overheating.  Dividend Restraint  “Household debt consists mainly of mortgages and is very
high both from a historical and an international perspective,”
the FSA said. “If the debt growth rate continues to be high,
measures such as a targeted capital requirement in the form of a
higher risk-weight floor on mortgages and the implementation of
a countercyclical buffer may become relevant.”  Still, the FSA said that raising the risk-weight floor on
mortgages to 25 percent would reduce “the need to fully utilize
the countercyclical capital buffer.”  The new risk-weight floor could be in place by the middle
of 2014, with the counter-cyclical buffer likely to be somewhere
between zero and 2.5 percent,  Martin Andersson , the director-general of the regulator, said today in an interview. While that
buffer probably won’t need to exceed 2.5 percent, that’s still a
possibility, he said.  SEB welcomed the targeted approach of raising risk weights.  “It’s positive that this measure is directed so that it
focuses on mortgages and doesn’t raise overall requirements,”
Anna Helsen, a spokeswoman for SEB, said. “It’s good that
measures are put in place where they should be put in place.”  Stress Tests  Henrik Westman, a spokesman for Handelsbanken, and Erik
Durhan, a spokesman for Nordea, both said the banks would adjust
to any new regulations. Swedbank wasn’t immediately available
for a comment.  Stress tests released today also show “that the banks’
margins above the buffer requirements are small,” the FSA said.
“Since the  capital requirements  could be raised in the future
as a result of new measures, the FSA believes that the banks in
the long run should be cautious when distributing profits to
shareholders and buying back shares.”  The  stress test  found that the four big banks would face
total credit losses of 260 billion kronor ($39 billion) in 2014,
2015 and 2016. That would be less than was lost during Sweden’s
banking crisis of the early 1990s or in the Baltics during the
global financial crisis, the FSA said.  Loss Scenarios  Nordea and SEB would face the highest impairments in the
stressed scenario, with losses equivalent to 1.34 percent of
total lending at Nordea in both 2014 and 2015 and 1.23 percent
and 1.22 percent at SEB. That would lower their ratios to such
an extent that the banks would have to use the capital
conservation buffer, which would result in limits on dividends
and bonuses, the FSA said.  Handelsbanken and  Swedbank (SEBA)  would post profits in a stressed
scenario in the 2014-2016 period, with total net income of 376
million kronor at Handelsbanken and profit of 7.02 billion
kronor at Swedbank. Nordea would post a loss of 3.87 billion
kronor while SEB’s loss would be 2.13 billion kronor, according
to the test.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  