-- Swiss Stocks Advance After Yellen Stimulus Comments
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-14T08:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/swiss-stocks-advance-after-yellen-stimulus-comments.html
Swiss stocks  advanced, halting a
two-day decline for the Swiss Market Index, after  Janet Yellen ,
nominated to be the next chairman of the  Federal Reserve , said
the  U.S. economy  must improve before monetary stimulus is pared.  Zurich Insurance Group AG increased 2.7 percent as
Switzerland’s biggest insurer said third-quarter profit rose 64
percent, beating analyst estimates.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s
largest food company, rose 0.5 percent, contributing the most to
the benchmark gauge’s gain. Swatch Group AG and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA climbed.  The  SMI (SMI)  advanced 0.7 percent to 8,289.84 at 9:26 a.m. in
Zurich. It has surged 22 percent this year, heading for the best
annual performance since 2005, as central banks around the world
pledged to leave  interest rates  low for a prolonged period. The
Swiss Performance Index also added 0.7 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 23 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman, yesterday voiced her
commitment to using bond purchases known as quantitative easing
to boost growth and lower unemployment that remains above 7
percent more than four years after the economy began to recover
from the deepest recession since the Great Depression.  “A strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to
reduce its monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional
policy tools such as asset purchases,” Yellen said in testimony
prepared for her nomination hearing before the Senate Banking
Committee. “I believe that supporting the recovery today is the
surest path to returning to a more normal approach to monetary
policy.”  Zurich Insurance (ZURN)  climbed 2.7 percent to 259 Swiss francs.
Net income in the third quarter rose to $1.1 billion from a
restated $672 million a year ago. Earnings surpassed the $993.5
million average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. General insurance, the biggest unit, saw operating
profit rise 68 percent to $755 million in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  