-- U.A.E. Borrowers Cut Loan Costs as Economy Accelerates
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i ,   S a m u e l   P o t t e r   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-14T07:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-a-e-borrowers-cut-loan-costs-as-economy-accelerates-correct-.html
(Corrects  Abu Dhabi  property price increase in seventh
paragraph of story originally published Oct. 10.)  United Arab Emirates’ companies,
including real estate developer Tourism Development & Investment
Co. and holding group Al Ghurair, are seeking to cut borrowing
costs as the country’s economy recovers and  default risk  falls.  Al Ghurair plans to borrow about 1.3 billion dirhams ($354
million) to refinance a 2009 loan, two people with knowledge of
the matter said today, asking not to be identified because the
information is private. TDIC, as the Abu Dhabi company is known,
is seeking a $1 billion loan to replace an existing $600 million
facility, according to two other bankers aware of the details.  Companies in Abu Dhabi and Dubai are taking advantage of an
accelerating economy and decline in credit risk to press banks
for better lending rates. Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, a business
park operator, negotiated a 1.25 percentage point cut on a $1.2
billion Islamic loan last month, while airport retailer Dubai
Duty Free in July reduced interest on a $1.75 billion loan.  “If investors around the world have a far more positive
view of the U.A.E. now than they had two or three years ago, why
not capitalize on that and bring down your cost of funding by
renegotiating loan terms?” Chavan Bhogaita, head of the markets
strategy group at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. (NBAD) , said by e-mail. “The cash saving for the borrower can be substantial.”  The U.A.E.’s gross domestic product increased 4.4 percent
in 2012, the most since it surged 9.8 percent in 2006, according
to preliminary government data. Expansion may reach 4.5 percent
this year, Economy Minister Sultan Al Mansoori said last month.  A spokesman for Al Ghurair declined to comment. TDIC also
declined to comment.  Property Surging  Property markets in the emirates are gaining, with prices
for high-end villas in Dubai climbing about  30 percent  and those
in Abu Dhabi 13 percent this year, according to Cluttons LLC
data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai and Abu Dhabi’s stock markets
are among the world’s top 10 fastest-growing indexes this year.  Dubai five-year credit default swaps, contracts insuring
the emirate’s debt against default, declined 80 basis points
over the past year to 200 at 3:40 p.m. in Dubai today, according
to data provider CMA.  Aldar Properties PJSC, Abu Dhabi’s biggest developer, is
talking to banks to raise as much as $1.5 billion from a loan to
repay a bond due in May, according to two people familiar with
the plan. Banks have been asked to submit pricing for the
facility, which will be used to repay a $1.25 billion bond, the
people said today, asking not to be identified as the
information is private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  