-- U.K.’s FTSE 100 Advances; Prudential, Burberry Gain
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-11-14T17:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-k-s-ftse-100-advances-prudential-burberry-gain.html
U.K. stocks  advanced the most in
three weeks after  Janet Yellen , nominated to be the next
chairman of the  Federal Reserve , said the central bank should
take care not to withdraw stimulus too early.  Prudential Plc, Britain’s biggest insurer by market value,
climbed 1.9 percent after saying nine-month sales rose 6
percent.  Burberry (BRBY)  Group Plc gained after reporting first-half
earnings.  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  plunged the most in at least 22 years
after forecasting a decline in profit.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 36.13 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,666.13 at the close of trading in London, rebounding from
yesterday’s 1.4 percent loss. The benchmark has rallied 13
percent this year as central banks around the world committed to
maintaining stimulus measures. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
increased 0.6 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.5
percent.  “The market is interpreting Yellen’s comments as she will
continue the policy, or even go deeper,” Nathalie Pelras, who
helps oversee 2.6 billion euros ($3.5 billion) at KBL Richelieu
Gestion in Paris, said. “Yellen meant the economy needs more
liquidity and that the Fed cannot take it out very quickly.
Without that, the market would not be supported. It’s good for
the market, but it means the macro is not so good.”  Critical Juncture  Yellen’s testimony comes at a critical moment for monetary
policy. The  Federal Open Market Committee  she is poised to lead
is considering whether to begin slowing its $85 billion monthly
bond-purchase program, which is pushing the Fed’s assets toward
a record $4 trillion.  “It’s important not to remove support, especially when the
recovery is fragile and the tools available to monetary policy,
should the economy falter, are limited given that short-term
 interest rates  are at zero,” Yellen said in testimony to the
Senate Banking Committee in Washington today.  Stocks kept gains even as U.K. retail sales unexpectedly
fell in October. Sales including fuel dropped 0.7 percent from
September, when they rose 0.6 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said. The median forecast of 19 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for stagnation in sales.  Prudential (PRU)  rose 1.9 percent to 1,266 pence. The insurer
said sales until Sept. 30 this year advanced as gains in the
U.S. and Asian markets offset a decline in the U.K.  Revenue climbed to 3.27 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) from
3.08 billion pounds in the year-earlier period, the company
said. That met the 3.26 billion-pound average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by the company.  Burberry Earnings  Burberry added 1.9 percent to 1,489 pence. The U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker said first-half earnings were little
changed as the start of its own beauty business and weaker
wholesale revenue offset growth in retail sales.  Adjusted pretax profit for the six months ended Sept. 30
was 173.9 million pounds compared with 173.4 million pounds a
year earlier, the company said today, less than a month after
forecasting that the earnings would be around last year’s level.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  gained 1 percent to 414.6 pence. Citigroup
Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis and Exane BNP Paribas raised
the recommendation on the stock after the U.K.’s third-largest
supermarket company yesterday said first-half earnings climbed 7
percent.  Citigroup analysts raised their recommendation on Sainsbury
shares to buy from neutral, or hold, and their price estimate to
470 pence from 400 pence. They wrote in a report that the stock
is priced for sluggish growth that may prove too pessimistic,
while profit margins in the industry may fare better than
estimated.  Trinity Mirror  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , which publishes the Daily Mirror
newspaper, gained 20 percent to 166 pence, its highest price
since April 2010. The company said it expects to report full-year earnings at the high end of market expectations.  Serco plunged 17 percent to 419.1 pence, the worst
performance since at least 1991. The services company forecast a
decline in profit next year as it grapples with a criminal
inquiry into the handling of U.K. government prison contracts.  Centrica Plc (CNA)  dropped 5.1 percent to 345.3 pence, for the
worst performance in the FTSE 100. The biggest energy supplier
to U.K. homes cut its margin outlook, citing a political debate
over rising bills.  3i Group Plc (III)  fell 4.6 percent to 353.8 pence even as
Britain’s largest publicly traded private-equity firm said that
it will pay a special dividend after proceeds from asset sales
almost doubled.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  declined 2.3 percent to 356.15 pence. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its recommendation on shares of the
supermarket chain to sell from neutral, citing competition from
online providers. William Morrison Supermarkets Plc fell 2.9
percent to 266.2 pence as Goldman also reiterated a sell on
Tesco’s rival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  