-- U.S. Federal Budget Uncertainty Hampers Business Plans, EMC Says
-- B y   S a m   C h a m b e r s
-- 2013-11-14T09:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-s-federal-budget-uncertainty-hampers-business-plans-emc-says.html
EMC Corp. (EMC)  said U.S. contractors need
budget clarity after weaker-than-expected government sales in
the third quarter led the world’s largest maker of storage
computers to cut sales and earnings forecasts for the year.  “Uncertainty makes it harder for us to predict our
business, when you have an important sector that’s limping along
from a budget point of view,” Chief Financial Officer David Goulden said in a telephone interview this week. “It’s part of
the global environment right now, everybody is impacted by it to
a certain extent.”  EMC, the majority owner of VMware Inc., is more dependent
on sales to the U.S. government in its third quarter than in any
other, and the lack of a formal fiscal budget this year limited
spending on new projects and lengthened the approval process,
Goulden said. EMC shares posted their biggest decline since May
2012 after reporting the quarterly results last month.  Congress failed to reach an agreement to fund many
government functions after the federal fiscal year ended Sept.
30, triggering a 16-day government shutdown, the first since
1996. The resolution of that fight ended with a funding law that
expires Jan. 15. Lawmakers have made little progress reaching an
agreement since.  In addition, federal agencies this year have been coping
with the across-the-board cuts known as sequestration,
increasing the uncertainty for contractors.  Still, EMC expects a pickup in global technology spending
this year, Goulden said -- albeit at a lower rate than
previously anticipated.  ‘Above Average’  “We are still likely to see an above average growth rate
in spending in the second half of the year,” Goulden said. “We
were fairly confident growth in total IT spend would be 3
percent, now we think it will be between 2 percent and 3
percent.”  Cuts to technology spending forecasts have followed
worsening economist projections for global GDP growth in 2013.
In July, research firm Gartner trimmed its global forecast by
2.1 percentage points to 2 percent.  EMC has been preparing for the release of its all-flash
array, enterprise storage product Xtremio, after acquiring the
business for $430 million in May 2012. Goulden said he expects
the product to begin contributing to EMC’s revenues in 2014.  “Xtremio is a very complex, disruptive and unique
architecture, and it’s taken a bit of time to get it right
before opening it up to broader-use cases,” Goulden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Chambers in London at 
 schambers7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  