-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 8 (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2013-11-14T16:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-8-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 15.4 million
barrels per day during the week ending November 8, 2013, 343
thousand barrels per day higher than the previous week’s
average. Refineries operated at 88.7% of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production rose from the previous week,
averaging 9.4 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel
production increased last week to 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 7.8 million barrels per
day last week, up by 620 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged 7.5 million barrels per day, 7.5% below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports (including
both finished gasoline and gasoline blending components) last
week averaged 446 thousand barrels per day. Distillate fuel
imports averaged 130 thousand barrels per day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.6 million barrels
from the previous week. At 388.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper range for this time of year.
Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 0.8 million
barrels last week, but are near the top of the average range.
Finished gasoline inventories increased while gasoline blending
component inventories decreased. Distillate fuel inventories
decreased by 0.5 million barrels last week and remain near the
lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories fell 1.3 million barrels last week
and are in the lower portion of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 5.9 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
19.7 million barrels per day, up by 5.0% from the same period
last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline product
supplied averaged about 9.0 million barrels per day, up by 4.7%
from the same period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied
averaged 3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks,
up by 6.9% from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is up 0.1% compared to the same four-week period last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  