-- U.S. Didn’t Intervene in Currency Markets Last Quarter, Fed Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-14T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-s-didn-t-intervene-in-currency-markets-last-quarter-fed-says.html
The U.S. didn’t buy or sell dollars
to affect foreign-exchange rates in the third quarter, the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  said in a report to Congress.  The value of the Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund was
steady at $23.45 billion at the end of September from the prior
quarter, today’s report said. The fund comprises yen and euro
holdings.  The Fed’s System Open Market Account holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets were at $23.47 billion in the
quarter, little changed from the previous period.  The New York Fed, which acts for the U.S. Treasury and the
Fed in the $5.3 trillion daily currency market, intervened in
the currency market in 2011 for the first time since 2000. The
Fed bought $1 billion of the U.S. currency on March 18, 2011,
when Group of Seven nations sought to halt the surge in the yen
after  Japan  was struck by the nation’s worst earthquake on
record.  The central bank’s nominal trade-weighted measure of the
U.S. dollar fell 3 percent from July through September, after
reaching its highest level since July 2010 early in the quarter.
The greenback depreciated 3.8 percent and 6 percent against the
euro and the pound, respectively, the report said.  Price Swings  Emerging-market currencies, including the Turkish lira,
Brazilian real and Indian rupee, dropped against the greenback
during the period as investors reduced exposures to countries
with above-target inflation, relatively large current account
and fiscal deficits, and weaker growth outlooks, according to
the report. The  20-most traded  emerging-market currencies fell
0.2 percent in the three-month period, a third quarter of
decline.  At the end of June, the Exchange Stabilization Fund’s
direct holdings of foreign government securities totaled $22.24
billion.  At the end of the quarter, the European Central Bank had
$511 million outstanding in reciprocal currency arrangements,
all through the dollar swap line with the Fed.  The swap lines were provided by the Fed, also with central
banks of Japan, Switzerland,  Canada ,  Mexico  and the U.K., as
part of measures taken since 2007 to combat the effects of the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. The emergency
liquidity tool, which provides dollars as needed, was
reintroduced in May 2010 in response to renewed demand by
overseas banks for dollar-based funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  