-- U.S. Third Quarter Foreign Exchange Operations (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-11-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-s-third-quarter-foreign-exchange-operations-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
foreign exchange operations report.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS  July-September 2013  During the third quarter, the U.S. dollar’s nominal trade-weighted exchange value decreased 3.0 percent as measured by the
 Federal Reserve  Board’s major currencies index. The dollar
depreciated against most major currencies, on net, as relative
softness in U.S. economic data and the continuation of asset
purchases by the Federal Reserve prompted investors to pare back
dollar exposures established in the second quarter. The dollar
depreciated 3.8 percent and 0.9 percent against the euro and
Japanese yen, respectively, though its performance against
emerging market and cyclically sensitive currencies varied
widely. The U.S. monetary authorities did not intervene in the
foreign exchange markets during the quarter.  U.S. DOLLAR DEPRECIATES AGAINST MAJOR CURRENCIES AS U.S. DATA
UNDERPERFORM RELATIVE TO OTHER MAJOR ECONOMIES’ DATA AND AS FED
LEAVES POLICY UNCHANGED  During the third quarter, the trade-weighted  U.S. dollar 
depreciated 3.0 percent, on net, after reaching its highest
level since July 2010 early in the quarter. The dollar’s
depreciation over most of the quarter occurred amid some signs
of softening in U.S. economic data relative to the second
quarter and the trajectory of data in other major economies, as
well as the reevaluation of the outlook for U.S. monetary
policy. Most notably, the July and August U.S. employment
reports were interpreted as disappointing, as headline nonfarm
payrolls printed below expectations, while the drop in the
 unemployment rate  remained driven in part by declining labor
force participation. Housing data were also mixed over the
quarter, as  mortgage rates  increased and housing starts were
weaker than expected, while homebuilder sentiment and house
prices increased. These mixed U.S. data contrasted with
generally improving euro area and U.K. growth indicators and
prompted some investors to pare back long U.S. dollar positions
established during the second quarter.  The U.S. dollar depreciated between 1 and 2 percent against
major currencies immediately following the decision by the
 Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC) at its September meeting to
maintain the stance of monetary policy given the recent
tightening in financial conditions, the need for sustained labor
market improvement, and fiscal headwinds. Specifically, the
outcome of the FOMC meeting was interpreted as more
accommodative than expected given growing market expectations
that the pace of the Federal Reserve’s asset purchases would be
pared back. This expectation also contributed to the rise in
Treasury and agency mortgage-backed-security yields, both of
which reached their highest levels since mid-2011. In addition,
the Committee members’ projections for the path of the federal
funds rate were released for the first time for yearend 2016,
and were below the level expected by market participants. These
factors prompted investors to reevaluate the U.S. economic
outlook and the path of monetary policy, and contributed to a
further paring back of long U.S. dollar positions.  U.S. DOLLAR IS MIXED AGAINST EMERGING MARKET CURRENCIES AS
VOLATILITY REMAINS ELEVATED  The U.S. dollar was mixed against emerging market currencies
during the second quarter as shifting U.S. monetary policy
expectations and the outlook for higher developed market
 interest rates  remained a key driver. As expectations for a
reduction in the pace of policy accommodation from the Federal
Reserve solidified through much of July and August, the U.S.
dollar appreciated notably against several emerging market
currencies, in many cases reaching its highest level since 2009.
Early in the quarter, rising U.S. and other developed country
interest rates reduced the relative attractiveness of many
emerging market assets, contributing to the trend of continuing
capital outflows by foreign investors that began in the second
quarter. However, emerging market currencies mostly stabilized
later in the quarter, particularly as U.S. yields declined
following the disappointing August employment report and the
aforementioned September FOMC decision to maintain the pace of
asset purchases.  Country-specific factors also affected emerging market currency
performance, as investors generally continued to reduce
exposures to countries with above-target inflation, relatively
large current account and fiscal deficits, and softening growth
outlooks. During July and August, the U.S. dollar appreciated
between 5 and 11 percent against the Turkish lira, Brazilian
real, Indian rupee, and Indonesian rupiah, while depreciating
between 1 and 3 percent against the Korean won and several
Eastern European currencies. Implied volatility on several
emerging market currency pairs also rose notably during this
time, in contrast with more subdued implied volatility in major
currency pairs.  Amid this volatility, monetary authorities in some emerging
market countries implemented policy measures intended in part to
address  currency depreciation , elevated volatility, and broader
domestic economic issues. Most notably, India and Indonesia
unexpectedly increased their target policy rates and either
established or expanded bilateral swap arrangements with other
Asian central banks, among other measures. Monetary authorities
in both countries reportedly sold reserves throughout the third
quarter, as official reserve levels declined by $7.9 billion and
$2.4 billion, respectively. Elsewhere, the  Central Bank  of
Brazil formalized its official currency operations by
introducing daily forward liquidity swaps and weekly spot dollar
repurchase operations, which contributed to a stabilization of
the Brazilian real in late August.  EURO AND BRITISH POUND APPRECIATE AMID STRONGER EURO AREA AND
U.K. ECONOMIC DATA  The U.S. dollar depreciated by 3.8 percent and 6.0 percent
against the euro and British pound, respectively, as euro area
and U.K. economic data continued to show signs of improvement.
Euro area surveys of manufacturing and service sector activity
for the third quarter were better than expected, while second-quarter GDP data were positive on a quarter-over-quarter basis
for the first time in two years. In the United Kingdom, second-quarter GDP growth accelerated modestly, and manufacturing and
labor market data were better than expected. The appreciation of
the euro and the pound was consistent with the 7 and 11 basis
point widening in the German bund and U.K. gilt five-year
interest rate differentials with five-year Treasury yields,
reflecting the better euro area and U.K. economic data relative
to U.S. data.  The  European Central Bank  (ECB) and the  Bank of England  (BoE)
provided forward guidance on policy rates over the quarter. At
its July policy meeting, the ECB’s Governing Council said that
“key interest rates” would “remain at present or lower levels
for an extended period of time,” a departure from its previous
statement that it does not precommit, though this elicited
minimal currency response. At the same time, the BoE signaled
that it would study the merits of using forward guidance,
prompting a 2.5 percent depreciation of the pound following the
announcement. However, the actual BoE policy announcement in
August was seen as less accommodative than expected, as market
participants viewed the employment and inflation thresholds as
potentially limiting the duration for which the policy would be
in effect.  U.S. DOLLAR REMAINS IN NARROW RANGE AGAINST JAPANESE YEN  The U.S. dollar was relatively stable against the Japanese yen
during the quarter, as there were few new developments in Japan
that significantly influenced currency moves. The dollar-yen
currency pair traded within the narrow ¥97 to ¥100 per-dollar
range for the better part of the quarter. This stability
followed a roughly 26 percent appreciation of the dollar against
the yen in the previous three quarters as Japanese authorities
announced and implemented significant expansionary monetary and
fiscal policies. Several data releases pointed to a continuation
of the trend of economic improvement since the April
announcement by the  Bank of Japan  (BoJ) of its Qualitative and
Quantitative Easing program, including strong second-quarter GDP
growth of 3.8 percent. Toward the end of the quarter, the yen
began to modestly appreciate against most major currencies as
near-term U.S. fiscal uncertainties resulted in modest safe-haven flows.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE HOLDINGS The U.S.
monetary authorities did not undertake any intervention
operations during the quarter. As of September 30, the value of
the U.S. Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled $23.45 billion, comprising
euro and yen holdings. The  Federal Reserve System  Open Market
Account holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled
$23.47 billion, also comprising euro and yen holdings.  Liquidity Swap Arrangements with Foreign Central Banks  On December 13, 2012, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with
the  Bank of Canada  (BoC), the BoE, the BoJ, the ECB, and the
 Swiss National Bank  (SNB), agreed to extend the authorization of
the U.S. dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements
through February 1, 2014. The rate on the dollar liquidity swap
arrangements was unchanged at the U.S. dollar overnight indexed
swap rate plus 50 basis points. As of September 30, the ECB had
$511 million outstanding under the U.S. dollar liquidity swaps,
of which $186 million was in three-month tenors and $325 million
was in a one-week tenor transaction. The BoC, BoE, BoJ, and SNB
had no outstanding swaps at the end of the quarter.  Foreign Exchange Reserve Holdings  The U.S. monetary authorities invest their foreign currency
reserves in a variety of instruments that yield market rates of
return and have a high degree of liquidity and  credit quality .
To the greatest extent practicable, the investments are split
evenly between the System Open Market Account and the Exchange
Stabilization Fund. A significant portion of the U.S. monetary
authorities’ foreign exchange reserves is invested on an
outright basis in German, French, and Japanese  government
securities . The amount of euro-denominated reserves held on
deposit at official institutions remained elevated in the third
quarter, given extremely low rates in euro-denominated money
markets, although the amount of yen-denominated deposits has
remained fairly steady over recent quarters. A smaller portion
of the reserves is currently invested in euro-denominated
 repurchase agreements , under which the U.S. monetary authorities
may accept sovereign debt backed by the full faith and credit of
the following governments: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, and Spain. Foreign currency reserves are also
invested at the  Bank for International Settlements  and in
facilities at other official institutions. As of September 30,
direct holdings of foreign government securities totaled $22.24
billion and foreign government securities held under repurchase
agreements totaled $4.47 billion.  This report, presented by  Simon Potter , Executive Vice
President,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , and Manager of the
System Open Market Account, describes the foreign exchange
operations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the
Federal Reserve System for the period from July through
September 2013. Evan Kereiakes was primarily responsible for
preparation of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  