-- U.S. Midwest Farmland Values Rose 14% in Third Quarter, Fed Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/u-s-midwest-farmland-values-rose-14-in-third-quarter-fed-says.html
Farmland values in the U.S. Midwest
rose 14 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier as crop
yields recovered from the 2012 drought, the Federal  Reserve Bank 
of Chicago said.  Iowa,  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin  may harvest
38 percent more corn than in 2012, and soybean output may be 8.5
percent higher, the Fed said today in a report, citing U.S.
Department of Agriculture forecasts. Land values rose 1 percent
from the second quarter.  “Better-than-expected crop yields for the District may
have contributed to the momentum of rising farmland values,”
David Oppedahl, a senior business economist at the bank, said in
the quarterly report, referring to the Fed’s Seventh District of
five Midwestern states. “However, in areas affected by back-to-back droughts, the loss of revenue from declines in crop prices
and yields may have constrained farmland value gains.”  Seventy-five percent of the 195 bankers surveyed forecast
stable farmland prices in the fourth quarter, while 21 percent
project lower values. Four percent projected higher prices.  Farmland values in  Iowa , the biggest U.S. producer of corn
and soybeans, rose 9 percent from a year earlier, the smallest
gain among the five states. Iowa’s land values fell 1 percent
from the previous quarter, the only decline in the district, as
 drought  conditions tempered gains, according to the report.  Indiana farmland rose 18 percent from a year earlier. That
marked the biggest increase in the district.  Incomes for crop farmers are expected to drop this fall and
winter from a year earlier, according to 73 percent of survey
respondents, while 37 percent project higher earnings for cattle
and hog producers, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  