-- Ukraine Gets EU Extension After Tymoshenko Vote Postponed
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-14T13:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/ukraine-gets-eu-extension-after-tymoshenko-vote-postponed-2-.html
The European Union gave  Ukraine 
until a Nov. 28-29 summit to meet conditions for closer ties
after the country’s lawmakers failed to vote on a bill to allow
jailed ex-Premier Yulia Tymoshenko to get medical care abroad.  Ex-Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski and former
European Parliament head Pat Cox will continue their monitoring
mission until the summit in Vilnius,  Lithuania , pegged as the
venue for signing the deal, the European Parliament said in a
statement yesterday. Kwasniewski and Cox will return to Ukraine
next week, it said.  Ukraine wants to sign an association agreement and free-trade pact with the EU at the summit in Vilnius, Lithuania. The
deal would cement a westward shift and snub  Russia ’s offer to
join its customs union with Belarus and  Kazakhstan . The accord
has been delayed since 2011, when Tymoshenko was convicted in an
abuse-of-office trial that she and the 28-member EU deem
selective justice.  “Time is running out to achieve compliance with the
conditions required for the signature of the Association
Agreement on 29 November 2013,” Cox and Kwasniewski said
yesterday in Brussels after returning from Kiev. “The mission
urges all parties involved to constructively use the short time
available to reach an historic consensus that could result in a
successful summit in Vilnius.”  Yield Rises  The yield on 10-year government debt fell 7 basis points to
10.086 percent as of 3:19 p.m. in Kiev, compared with 7.491
percent on April 12, when it started trading, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The cost to insure the country’s debt against
non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps dropped 20
basis points to 1,055, the world’s third-highest level.  “While it is difficult to find a more vulnerable emerging
market country now, and a more speculative bet, we think the
Tymoshenko case will be resolved last-minute,” Commerzbank AG
said today in an e-mailed note. “It is possible that the  bond
market  would reverse losses on the eventual Tymoshenko
solution.”  Ukrainian lawmakers failed to vote yesterday as they didn’t
have a reconciled draft at a special session, parliament Speaker
Volodymyr Rybak said. They’ll reconvene Nov. 19, he said. The EU
in February gave the country until early May to show “concrete
progress” on selective justice as well as electoral and
political changes.  ‘Selective Justice’  The EU mission suggested the partial pardoning of
Tymoshenko “as the most viable way to resolve the remaining
problem of selective justice,” Cox and Kwasniewski said.
Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych has “indicated a
preference for the alternative path of a special law that would
permit treatment abroad of convicted persons on health and
humanitarian grounds,” according to the statement.  While President  Viktor Yanukovych  has underscored his
desire to sign the EU accord at the Vilnius summit, lawmakers
have squabbled over the legislation sought by the bloc to get
Tymoshenko treatment in  Germany  for back pain. Compounding the
impasse, Tymoshenko’s lawyer Serhiy Vlasenko was detained by
prosecutors Nov. 11.  Yanukovych said today that Tymoshenko won’t get an
“exclusive approach,” with all Ukrainian citizens receiving
equal treatment under the law, the Unian news service reported.
He pledged to sign a bill allowing prisoners get medical
treatment abroad once parliament supports one of five possible
drafts, Unian said.  ‘Mental Blocks’  The Swedish and Polish foreign ministers said Oct. 22 that
Ukraine’s EU deal will hinge on the conclusions drawn by
Kwasniewski and Cox in a report. Speaking in Warsaw, Polish
Prime Minister Donald Tusk said the EU deal is facing “mental
blocks” from Ukraine’s readership.  On the “outstanding issue of Yulia Tymoshenko, there must
now be a decisive move,” EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule’s spokesman, Peter Stano, told reporters in Brussels
yesterday.  Tymoshenko first became prime minister in 2005 after the
Orange Revolution helped overturn Yanukovych’s presidential
victory, clearing the way for  Viktor Yushchenko . Yanukovych
defeated her to become Ukraine’s leader in a 2010 vote.  Tymoshenko is also accused of  tax evasion  and involvement
in organizing a murder, charges she denies, and faces further
court cases.  The planned EU deal has caused friction with Russia, which
disrupted the passage of Ukrainian goods across its border in
August and has banned imports from its neighbor’s biggest
confectionery producer. Yanukovych suggested Oct. 25 that the
customs union and the EU set up a body to work out further
cooperation between Ukraine and former Soviet states.  Normalizing relations with Russia is a priority for
Ukraine, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  told a weekly government
meeting yesterday. Ukraine can’t permit a decline in output and
job cuts as result of falling exports to Russia, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in  Kiev  at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  