-- Under Armour Buying MapMyFitness in $150 Million Deal
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-11-14T21:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/under-armour-to-buy-fitness-technology-company-for-150-million.html
Under Armour Inc. (UA)  agreed to buy
MapMyFitness Inc. for $150 million as the maker of athletic
apparel looks to compete with  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in offering fitness
buffs a way to measure their training and performance online.  MapMyFitness, founded in 2007, designs applications that
allow athletes to record and share their workouts using global-positioning technology, according to a statement from Under
Armour. Closely held MapMyFitness has about 20 million
registered users worldwide, who can measure their training on
more than 400 devices, sensors and wearables.  As consumers embrace fitness and technology, sports apparel
makers are looking for ways to combine the two. Nike offers apps
that work with devices powered by  Apple Inc. (AAP)  and Google Inc. and
currently controls 15 percent of the market among such users,
while Austin, Texas-based MapMyFitness has about 5 percent,
Piper Jaffray Cos. analysts said in a note.  “MapMyFitness products are device agnostic and it makes
Under Armour an immediate leader in the fitness tracking
space,” Sean Naughton, a Piper Jaffray analyst, wrote in the
note. He has a neutral rating on Under Armour’s stock.  Runners and cyclists can use  MapMyFitness  to plot a
training route in locations all over the world by entering their
time and speed, while calculating the calories burned. They can
also share their own progress with friends.  Under Armour will finance the acquisition initially under
its existing revolving credit facility and cash on hand.  The
deal is expected to close by the end of the year.  “This partnership is about Under Armour enhancing our
digital expertise to drive the future of performance innovation
for the global athlete community,” Kevin Plank, Under Armour’s
founder and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Under Armour, based in Baltimore, rose 1.1 percent to
$83.53 at the close in  New York . The shares have gained 72
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Minsi Chung in New York at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  