-- Hungary GDP Growth Accelerates More Than Forecast in 3rd Quarter
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-11-14T08:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/hungary-gdp-growth-accelerates-more-than-forecast-in-3rd-quarter.html
Hungary’s economic growth
accelerated more than economists forecast in the third quarter,
boosting Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  before next year’s
parliamentary election.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent from the previous
three months after a revised 0.4 percent advance in the second
quarter, according to preliminary data published by the
Budapest-based statistics office today. The median estimate of
11 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 0.4 percent. GDP rose
1.7 percent from a year earlier, the fastest since January-March
2011, compared with the 0.8 percent forecast economists.  Orban, whose party leads opinion polls before elections in
the second quarter of next year, is seeking to fortify a
recovery from last year’s recession while keeping the  budget
deficit  within the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP. The
government estimates growth of about 1 percent this year and 2
percent next year, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said yesterday,
state news service MTI reported.  “The sectors connected to car production are where we’re
seeing expansion within industrial manufacturing,” statistician
Balint Murai told reporters today.  The central bank has lowered borrowing costs for 15
consecutive months, cutting the  benchmark  by more than half to a
record-low 3.4 percent in October to buoy the recovery. The bank
is also providing 2.75 trillion forint ($12 billion) in
interest-free loans to commercial lenders to boost credit to
small and medium-sized companies.  Orban has pinned his economic policies on the introduction
of a 16 percent flat personal-income tax, which failed to avert
a recession last year while causing fiscal revenue to drop. The
cabinet has relied on extraordinary industry taxes from banking
to energy to plug budget holes.  Hungary’s credit rating was affirmed at non-investment
grade with a negative outlook by  Standard & Poor’s , which for
its Oct. 25 decision cited the country’s “weak” growth
prospects and high debt level for its decision. The government
debt level was 81.1 percent of GDP through the second quarter,
the highest among eastern EU members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  