-- Vale Steps Up Divestments as Brazil Tax Dispute Deadline Looms
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-14T16:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/vale-steps-up-divestments-as-brazil-tax-dispute-deadline-looms.html
Vale  SA, the largest iron-ore
exporter, agreed to its second asset divestment this week,
bringing this year’s total sales to at least $3 billion, as a
deadline to settle a tax dispute with  Brazil  approaches.  Vale signed an agreement to sell 20 percent stakes in two
natural gas exploration blocks in Brazil’s Parnaiba basin to GDF
Suez SA, the French supplier said in a  statement  today, without
disclosing the accord’s value. That follows Vale’s divestment
this week of a stake in aluminum maker  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  for $1.82
billion.  The miner based in Rio de Janeiro is selling lower return
assets, putting projects on hold and focusing on its more
profitable iron-ore unit in a bid to boost profit margins and
regain investors’ confidence after shares  fell  to a four-year
low in July. In September, it sold stakes in a cargo unit for
about 2.7 billion reais ($1.2 billion) to  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co.
and a Brazilian government fund.  “It may be getting ready for the tax claim settlement,”
Rodrigo Garcilazo, an equity analyst at GBM Grupo Bursatil
Mexicano SA, said by telephone from Santiago, Chile. “The
timing so close to the deadline doesn’t seem to be a
coincidence.”  While Vale had previously indicated the divestment of the
Norsk Hydro stake and oil and gas assets, the announcement is
attracting attention before the Nov. 29 Brazil tax settlement
deadline on a 30.5-billion dispute, Garcilazo said.  Cargo Stakes  Vale is in exclusive talks with  Canada ’s Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. to sell an additional 26 percent of the cargo
unit, known as VLI, which may generate about 2 billion reais if
the accord is completed on terms similar to the sale to Mitsui.
That would bring Vale’s divestments in 2013 to at least $3.8
billion, more than double last year’s $1.47 billion of sales,
which included a coal mine in Colombia and 10 large vessels.  Vale has enough time to make a decision on the possible tax
settlement before the deadline, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira told reporters on Nov. 7. The company confirmed the
sale of the gas blocks to GDS in a statement to Bloomberg News
today, without providing details. GDF Suez, based in Courbevoie,
 France , didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the value
of today’s accord.  Vale  rose  0.9 percent to 32.35 reais at 2:24 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. GDF Suez  lost  1.2 percent to 18.41 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  