-- Vanda Wins U.S. Panel Backing for Sleep Drug for Blind
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-14T21:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/vanda-wins-u-s-panel-backing-for-sleep-drug-for-blind.html
Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA)  won the
backing of U.S. advisers for an experimental drug to regulate
the circadian rhythms of blind people to help them sleep.  Vanda’s medicine, known as tasimelteon, is effective and
safe for use, advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  said
today in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . The medication, which the
company has proposed calling Hetlioz, is supposed to help
synchronize the body with a 24-hour cycle. The FDA isn’t
required to follow the recommendations of its advisory panels.  No other approved treatments exist for the condition called
non-24-hour disorder, which affects about 80,000 totally blind
people in the U.S., Rockville, Maryland-based Vanda said. Most
people have a master body clock that naturally runs longer than
24 hours and light resets the rhythm.  “For as long as I can remember I have experienced periods
lasting from about 10 days to a couple of months where night
after night a full night’s sleep eludes me no matter what I
do,” Melanie Brunson, executive director of the American
Council of the Blind, told panel members today. “I urge you to
give us another option that will let us experience quality sleep
at night so we can have full and quality lives during the day.”  The FDA is expected to decide whether to approve Vanda’s
drug by Jan. 31. The panel voted 10-0, with one abstention, that
Vanda had presented substantial evidence of the drug’s efficacy
in non-24 hour disorder. It voted unanimously that the
medicine’s safety has been adequately addressed, though some
panel members said the studies involved a small number of
patients.  ‘Breakthrough’  “This is a breakthrough,”  Michael Vitiello , a panel
member, professor and co-director of the Center for Research on
Management of Sleep Disturbances at the  University of Washington 
in  Seattle , said today, referring to disruptions to circadian
rhythms being considered a disorder. “You need only look at the
data graphs to see that sleeping at the wrong time can have a
profound impact.”  Vanda  shares  almost doubled Nov. 12 after an FDA reviewer
recommended the drug’s approval in a staff report. They were
halted today during the committee meeting. The company’s only
FDA-approved product, Fanapt for schizophrenia, is licensed to
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  in the U.S.  Patients with non-24-hour disorder now try the hormone
melatonin with mixed results. Vanda studied tasimelteon’s
ability to “entrain” or modify circadian rhythms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  