-- Viacom Profit Beats Estimates as Television Ratings Improve
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-11-14T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/viacom-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-as-tv-ratings-improve.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of cable networks
such as MTV and Nickelodeon, posted profit that topped analysts’
estimates amid improved television ratings, even as slowing
advertising growth raised concerns for investors.  Excluding some items, fiscal fourth-quarter earnings were
$1.55 a share, surpassing the $1.44 that analysts  predicted  on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Viacom, controlled by billionaire  Sumner Redstone , relies
on its television business for more than  90 percent  of annual
operating income. Advertising revenue  advanced  10 percent last
quarter to $1.28 billion, and licensing fees paid by cable and
satellite systems increased 6 percent to $1.03 billion. While
the advertising growth exceeded projections, Viacom predicted a
slower increase in the current quarter.  “People thought there would be more staying power in
advertising,” said  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group LLC.  Viacom’s shares fell 2.8 percent to $80.80 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 53 percent this year.  On a conference call with analysts, Chief Executive Officer
 Philippe Dauman  said he expects the company’s programming
revenue from affiliates to grow in the “high-single to low-double-digit” percentages in the current quarter, while
advertising growth will slow to a “mid-single-digit”
percentage increase.  Profit Gains  Net income jumped 25 percent to $806 million, or $1.69 a
share last quarter, from $643 million, or $1.24, a year earlier.
Sales advanced 8.6 percent to $3.65 billion. Analysts had
estimated $3.59 billion.  Media networks revenue grew 7 percent to $2.46 billion,
driven by growth in domestic advertising sales and affiliate
fees, the New York-based company said.  The company purchased $2.7 billion worth of its own shares
in the period, when it doubled the size of its buyback program
to $20 billion -- about half of its market value.  “There were two positive takeaways from today’s release:
accelerated advertising and a strong buyback,”  Marci Ryvicker ,
a media analyst with  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , said in a
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  