-- Volkswagen Pays Least for Aussie Asset-Backed Bonds Since Crisis
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-11-14T07:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/volkswagen-pays-least-for-aussie-asset-backed-bonds-since-crisis.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the German carmaker
that’s doubled the number of own-brand and Audi vehicles on
Australian roads since 2008, paid the least to sell asset-backed
bonds in the country since the financial crisis.  The manufacturer, which finances 28 percent of its cars
globally, priced top-rated bonds backed by auto loans at 85
basis points more than swaps, the tightest spread on similar
debt in six years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Macquarie
Leasing Pty Ltd., part of  Australia ’s largest investment bank,
paid a 95 basis-point spread for similar-maturity notes backed
by auto and equipment receivables in September, the data show.  Debt offerings supported by assets including motor loans
slid 5 percent this year as issuers instead ramped up mortgage-backed bond sales. Lenders have sold A$24.4 billion ($22.8
billion) of notes supported by Australian home loans since Dec.
31, already the busiest year since 2007, as low interest rates
and rising house prices boosted September  dwellings sales  to the
highest since June 2011.  “It’s an impressive result,” said Justin Davey, a
portfolio manager at BT Investment Management Ltd., which has
about A$58 billion of assets under management. “It adds to
portfolio diversification as there haven’t been many Australian
auto deals by manufacturers that consist primarily of their own
cars and are undiluted by other asset types.”  Macquarie Leasing was the last issuer to pay less than VW
for similar notes, selling debt with a 1.95-year average life at
a 60 basis-point spread in November 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  VW’s A$433 million of AAA rated securities have a 1.38-year
average life, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company also
sold A$26 million of notes with a 2.39-year average life at 180
basis points more than swaps, the data show.  The company started marketing the larger class of notes at
a premium of about 90 basis points earlier this week, a person
familiar with the matter said at the time, asking not to be
identified because the terms weren’t set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  