-- Volkswagen Issues Global Recall of 2.64 Million Vehicles
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-11-14T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/volkswagen-issues-global-recall-of-1-68-million-vehicles.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is recalling about
2.64 million vehicles globally, including its biggest such
recall in China, to fix electronic and drive-system flaws in
some of its most popular models.  Volkswagen is recommending that mineral oil be used in
dual-clutch gearboxes on 1.6 million cars and vans in place of
synthetic oil, Michael Franke, a spokesman at the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company, said yesterday by phone. Another 800,000
Tiguan compact sport-utility-vehicles may have lighting defects
and 239,000 Amarok pickups should be fixed for fuel leaks, the
manufacturer said yesterday.  The recalls this month by Volkswagen,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, as well as  Chrysler Group LLC (F) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  highlight the drawbacks of adding
increasingly sophisticated technology to new models. Nissan
Motor Co. hired the senior auto reviewer for Consumer Reports
magazine in the U.S. as its executive adviser on vehicle quality
last year, citing the need to “keep pace with” product
complexity.  “This isn’t a VW-specific problem, it’s one of the things
that happen at mass-market carmakers,”  Frank Schwope , a
Hanover, Germany-based analyst at Nord LB, said by phone.
“Costs will probably be in the high double-digit or even
triple-digit million-euro range. They might be partly shared
with suppliers involved, but they still make VW’s full-year
earnings target more difficult to reach.”  Gearbox Lubricant  The lubricant replacement in seven-speed dual-clutch
gearboxes is intended to prevent electric malfunctions. VW,
Audi, Skoda and Seat brand vehicles are targeted by the program,
Franke said. A Chinese regulator said yesterday that 640,309
cars in that country are affected.  VW recalled 384,181 vehicles in China in March after state
television featured complaints about vibrations, loss of power
and sudden acceleration in models including the Golf, its best-selling car worldwide. That repair program, also involving dual-clutch gearbox flaws, prompted a public apology by  Jochem Heizmann , chief of the carmaker’s Chinese business, at the
Shanghai auto show in April.  The repair and replacement programs announced by Volkswagen
yesterday compare with recalls of 10 million vehicle by Toyota
in 2009 and 2010 for possible flaws related to unintended
acceleration, including sticky accelerator pedals and floor mats
that could shift out of position. The Japanese carmaker won a
federal judge’s approval in July of a settlement with U.S.
consumers suing the company over lost resale value that
plaintiff lawyers valued at as much as $1.63 billion.  Toyota Program  Toyota said on Nov. 6 that it’s recalling 4,000 Tacoma 4-cylinder pickups in the U.S. to fix engine valve springs. It’s
also recalling 1,180 vehicles in  China  for a similar problem,
that country’s regulator said.  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler said on Nov. 8 that it’s recalling about 1.2 million
Ram trucks to fix a steering-system part. Mitsubishi’s program
involves a combined 96,800 vehicles in  Japan  for headline or
engine-component flaws.  China, the world’s largest auto market, is a critical
market for VW’s strategy to become the world’s largest automaker
by 2018 while making up for a European industry that’s shrinking
for a sixth straight year.  The gearbox-lubricant fault particularly affects vehicles
driving in hot and humid weather in urban areas with a lot of
stop-and-go traffic, Volkswagen said yesterday. The problem can
be fixed by using mineral oil in place of synthetic oil, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  