-- Westpac Joins ANZ With Australia’s Longest Domestic Covered Bond
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-11-14T02:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/westpac-joins-anz-with-australia-s-longest-domestic-covered-bond.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  is planning to
sell a new 10-year covered bond, matching the longest-tenor
domestic offering of the collateral-backed debt from an
Australian bank.  The country’s second-biggest lender by market value
announced the sale in an e-mailed statement today. It’s
marketing the Australian dollar notes to yield about 85 basis
points more than the swap rate, according to three people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t set. Westpac is managing the sale on its own,
they said.  The transaction follows  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) ’s sale in August of similar-tenor securities, the
longest on record from a local lender, according to Bloomberg-compiled data. Those notes were priced at a spread of 100 basis
points. The gap has narrowed to 87 basis points, according to
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  pricing.  The transaction by Sydney-based Westpac will be the fourth
sale this year of covered bonds, which are backed by the
borrower and mortgages that stay on its balance sheet. Royal
Bank of  Canada  and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce also sold
the asset-supported notes in Australia in 2013.  The notes are a form of issuance that was pioneered in 18th
century Prussia. They typically carry top credit ratings and
tend to be issued at narrower spreads than debt that isn’t
backed by collateral.  Australian banks embarked on their first domestic sales of
covered bonds after the government passed legislation in 2011
that permitted such issues by local lenders. The longest
duration covered bonds sold in Australia by domestic lenders
prior to ANZ’s sale were five-year notes, Bloomberg-compiled
data show.  The Westpac issue is expected to price on or before
tomorrow, the issuer said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  