-- White Says SEC Ready for More Trials Prompted by Admissions Push
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/white-says-sec-ready-for-more-trials-prompted-by-admissions-push.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is prepared for a potential increase in trials
resulting from its move to seek tougher settlements from
defendants, the agency’s chairman said.  Mary Jo White said in  Washington  yesterday that the SEC
welcomes the prospect of more trials, which can enhance public
accountability by airing “a full factual record of
wrongdoing.” White cited similar reasons when she announced in
June that the SEC would seek admissions of wrongdoing in more
settlements of its enforcement cases.  “Some have asked whether the agency’s trial lawyers are
ready to go up against the best of the white-collar defense
bar,” White, a former U.S. attorney and litigator, told an
audience at the E. Barrett Prettyman U.S. Courthouse. “It will
probably come as no surprise to you, but my answer is a
resounding yes, we are prepared to do that.”  The SEC has obtained admissions of wrongdoing in several
enforcement cases since White made her June announcement. Her
policy of seeking admissions of wrongdoing marked a change from
the practice of regularly settling cases by allowing defendants
to neither admit nor deny fault.  The regulator has obtained admissions of wrongdoing in
settling cases against defendants  Philip Falcone  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Falcone, a hedge-fund manager, was accused of
improperly borrowing money from his fund to pay his personal
taxes and giving preferential treatment to some of his investors
in returning their money. JPMorgan admitted in September that it
violated securities laws when it failed to catch London-based
traders hiding losses in 2012.  “I altered the policy because I believe that in certain
cases, more may be required for a resolution to achieve public
accountability and to be, and viewed to be, a sufficient
punishment to send a strong message of deterrence,” White said
today. “Not a trial, but some extra measure of public
accountability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  