-- Why Negotiations With Iran Are Doomed
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-11-14T21:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/why-negotiations-with-iran-are-doomed.html
(Corrects description of Arak nuclear reactor in third
paragraph.)  If you want to figure out  what went
wrong  in the first round of negotiations over Iran’s nuclear
program, look no further than  the news briefing  by a “Senior
Administration Official” in the U.S. State Department just days
before Secretary of State  John Kerry  arrived in Geneva.  The unnamed Senior Administration Official (I stick with
the initial caps intentionally) laid out a plan rich in
contradiction. Then, when pressed on the crucial question of
verification, the official essentially punted.  According to reports -- partially disputed by President
 Barack Obama ’s administration -- the meetings collapsed over
France’s insistence that the Tehran regime agree to stop work on
its Arak heavy-water reactor, and possibly over details of
verification as well. Yet just a day before things fell apart,
reports were trumpeting the forthcoming deal.  How did things unravel so swiftly? To answer, let’s take a
peek into Senior Administration Official’s briefing for
reporters held on the eve of the most critical stage of the
talks in Switzerland, which involved the U.S. as well as China,
France, Germany, Russia and the U.K. At this stage, things were
thought to be far enough along that Kerry could join the table.  Deep Toolbox  The official transcript of the briefing includes the
following striking passage:  QUESTION: Why do you think there is so much emphasis on
Iran-U.S. bilateral?  SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Well, I think because we’re
the United States, in the sense that we have the wherewithal
with all of our capabilities to have a very deep and broad
toolbox that includes sanctions and ability to enforce those
sanctions, which we’ve done very, very well.  The important line: “because we’re the United States.” In
other words, our importance to the negotiations derives from the
fact that we are who we are.  But is that really so? As uber-realist (and Nobel laureate)
 Thomas Schelling  points out in  his classic  “Arms and
Influence,” your ability to use the tools of diplomacy
increases with your military reach. Iran knows better than
anybody how the Obama administration’s strategic “ pivot to
Asia ” has left the U.S. far weaker in the Middle East and
Persian Gulf than at any time in recent decades.  Let’s dig a bit deeper into that briefing. Asked about
possible military action, Senior Administration Official had
this to say: “The president will keep all of his options
available to him and to ensure United States national security,
but I think everybody in this room knows that military action is
never a first resort; it is always a last resort. ... It would
not end, in our view, Iran’s nuclear program. It would set it
back, but it would not end it. And so that’s one option that has
also potential consequences beyond what anybody might predict.”  The problem with military action, in other words, is that
it wouldn’t guarantee destruction of the program.  What about the possibility, popular in Congress, of
upgrading rather than downgrading existing sanctions?  “There are some who argue that we should just keep
sanctioning Iran until they basically surrender,” Senior
Administration Official said. “Additional sanctions, certainly
at least in the immediate term, will not stop Iran’s program,
and what it will mean is that Iran’s program will simply keep
moving forward.”  So additional sanctions won’t work, either. And the goal,
by the way, isn’t Iran’s surrender -- in other words, the goal
isn’t to get the regime in Tehran to do what we want. The goal
is this: “We’re trying to stop Iran’s program from advancing,
to put time on the clock to negotiate a complete and
comprehensive agreement. It seems to me it’s worth a brief pause
to test that notion.”  Schelling would have spotted the contradiction: The goal is
“a complete and comprehensive agreement,” but we are told in
advance that the twin threats lying behind diplomacy -- military
action and economic sanctions -- won’t bring it about. Suppose
this is true. Then why on Earth should Iran negotiate in good
faith?  Empty Toolbox  A negotiation isn’t an end in itself. It is a means to an
end. Senior Administration Official is trying to have it both
ways. The president will retain all of his options, but none of
his options will get the U.S. what it wants. If neither the
threat of force nor the threat of increased sanctions will alter
Iranian behavior, then the toolbox, as Senior Administration
Official calls it, is all but empty.  Finally, we come to the most important question of all:
verification. How can we be sure, a reporter asked, that Iran is
“not pursuing some other furtive program elsewhere in the
country, like Fordow, that you didn’t know about until two years
ago?” (The  Fordow enrichment site  was built secretly by Iran,
beginning in 2006. It isn’t clear when the West learned of it,
but public disclosure did not take place until 2009.)  Senior Administration Official’s response was telling:
“There are no guarantees in anything in life, certainly not in
this arena of nonproliferation.” Perhaps worrying that this
answer would hardly reassure, he added an important correction:
“But I would also point out that we may not have known
immediately about Fordow, but we did come to know about it. And
so I think it demonstrates to Iran and demonstrates to the world
that if you do have a secret, you won’t have it for long.”  The reporter, Ali Arouzi of NBC News, turned out to be too
well informed to be easily deterred: “But, I mean, the secret
was pretty full blown until you found out about it. I mean, it
was a pretty big, functioning complex when you found out about
it.” He added: “So it might have been a little late by that
point, even, you could argue.”  At this critical juncture, Senior Administration Official
punted: “One could argue lots of things; that’s why we’re in a
very difficult, complicated and challenging negotiation.”  And with that glib nonresponse on the most important
question of all -- whether Iran will be able to build a new
facility under the noses of International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors -- Senior Administration Official went on to the next
question.  Useless Toolbox  There, then, you have all the pieces for failure actually
laid out in the news briefing before the negotiations began: an
insistence that the U.S. is indispensable because of its
toolbox; a confession that the toolbox is empty; and a refusal
to address seriously the possibility that Iran might cheat.  I’m not one who opposes negotiation with our adversaries.
It’s better for everyone if the diplomatic demarche can avoid
war with Iran by achieving a deal with real teeth. And I
understand fully that foreign policy isn’t a classroom exercise:
You can’t always get what you want. But the purpose of
negotiation is to get as much as you can. You don’t begin by
telling the world that force can’t get you to your result. As
Schelling counsels, you keep your adversary guessing. (You
needn’t even have any real intention of attacking him as long as
he isn’t sure what your intentions are.)  So, here’s a thought: If what Senior Administration
Official said at the briefing is really all the administration
wants to say publicly, then it’s better to say nothing. Forget
the briefings. Let Kerry show up in Geneva, looking grim, and
let him announce that this is Iran’s last chance. He needn’t
even say last chance to do what. Tight-lipped pessimism might be
a considerable improvement over the nonstop gabfest that has
come to characterize contemporary American diplomacy.  ( Stephen L. Carter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at Yale University. He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln.” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 