-- Wolves Tamed Earlier by Human Hunters Than Once Thought
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-11-14T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/wolves-tamed-earlier-by-human-hunters-than-once-thought.html
Wolves may have been domesticated in
Europe more than 18,000 years ago as they trailed roving hunter-gatherers, according to research that puts the taming of what
became modern dogs earlier than previously thought.  Scientists analyzed DNA from ancient bones and found modern
dogs are similar to European wolves that date before the rise of
settled villages about 10,000 to 13,000 years ago, according to
a study released today in the journal  Science . Previous research
suggested that the advent of the human settlements were what
brought wolves nosing around for easy food scraps, said Heidi
Parker, a scientist at the National Human Genome Research
Institute who works on dog genetics.  That may mean that domestication wasn’t a one-way street,
said Parker, who wasn’t involved in today’s study. Wolf-like
animals may have been beneficial to humans when they hunted, and
stayed near groups of roving hunters because scraps of food were
easy to find, she said.  “Whatever kind of wolf or ancient dog-like creature
started spending time with people because they saw some
benefit,” Parker said. “At some point people found it to be a
benefit too, to create the continued relationship.”  Using bones from ancient wolf-like and dog-like animals,
two of which were more than 30,000 years old, the researchers,
led by  Olaf Thalmann  at University of Turku in  Finland , analyzed
mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondria are the energy storehouses of
the cell that are passed on with few alterations from mother to
child.  The scientists compared the ancient DNA with that of 77
dogs, 49 wolves and four coyotes. The dogs were genetically
grouped with the ancient European wolves, not their modern
cousins. Dogs may have been bred from a group of European
animals that are now extinct, the researchers suggested.  Because today’s study moves the domestication timeline
back, it also suggests that some remains found in Russia and
 Belgium  may have been domestication attempts that failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  