-- WTI Oil Swings After Biggest Gain in Week
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-14T13:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/wti-oil-declines-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-gain-a-seventh-week.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near
a five month low on signs of expanding supplies, while Brent
advanced amid disruptions in Libya, widening the spread between
the two crudes to the most since April.  WTI futures were little changed in  New York  after the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that
crude supplies increased by 599,000 barrels last week. The
government will probably report today that inventories rose by
800,000 barrels to 386.2 million, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Brent advanced as much as 0.8 percent in  London  as
protests in Libya disrupted the nation’s oil exports. Middle
East outages may push prices higher next year, the  International
Energy Agency  predicted.  “The U.S. situation is more bearish than the rest of the
world due to the tight oil and shale gas boom,” said Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The
reality is the demand-supply situation in the U.S. is
changing.”  WTI’s discount to the North Sea grade widened as much as
$1.24, a fifth daily increase, to $14.48 a barrel, the biggest
since April 2. WTI for December delivery was down 59 cents at
$93.29 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  as of 1:14 p.m. London time. It settled at $93.04 on
Nov. 12, the lowest since May 31. The volume of all futures
traded was about 21 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for December settlement, which expires today, gained
57 cents to $107.69 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The more-actively traded January contract rose
43 cents to $107.32.  Upside Pressure  Prices may “come under renewed upside pressure” as
refiners returning from seasonal maintenance eat into supply
already curtailed by unrest in Libya and  Iraq , the IEA said
today in its monthly market report. The Paris-based adviser
slightly increased estimates for global oil demand in 2014 and
for production from outside the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, resulting in a “comfortable” balance for
early next year.  U.S. crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for WTI contracts and the nation’s biggest oil-storage
hub, increased by 1.67 million barrels last week, the API in
 Washington  said yesterday.  Gasoline inventories fell by 1.67 million barrels, API data
showed. An Energy Information Administration report today will
probably show they  declined  by 900,000 barrels, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  Distillate supplies, a category that includes heating oil
and diesel, rose by 606,000 barrels, the API said. The report
from the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, will show
they fell  1 million barrels , according to the survey.  Libya Unrest  In Libya, the holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves,
about 300 protesters stopped a tanker from loading at the
country’s Hariga port, Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for state-run National Oil Corp., said by phone from Tripoli yesterday.  Protests at  Libya ’s 120,000 barrel-a-day Zawiya refinery
kept the plant closed for more than a day, Ibrahim Al Awami, the
oil ministry’s head of measurement and inspection, said by phone
yesterday.  Libya  produced  450,000 barrels of oil a day last month,
compared with 1.45 million in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Labor disputes at
ports, storage facilities and oil fields have crippled shipments
from the nation, an OPEC member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  