-- Yellen Says Review of Bank Commodity Activity Could Bring Limits
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-14T21:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/yellen-says-review-of-bank-commodity-activity-could-bring-limits.html
The  Federal Reserve  may consider
limits on bank ownership and trading of physical commodities out
of concern that an event such as an  oil spill  could undermine
financial stability.  “We are involved in a very comprehensive review” of
banks’ commodities activity, Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said
today at a Senate hearing on her nomination to become chairman
of the central bank. “We want to make sure that these are
conducted in a safe and sound manner, and we may be involved in
additional rulemaking as we complete this review.”  Banks trade derivatives related to commodities, from oil to
corn to gold. To support that business, they often accept
delivery of those assets to settle trades, and even store the
materials. Many banks have moved beyond trading to owning
physical operations such as shipping companies and power plants.  Yellen’s reference to rulemaking suggests officials are
growing less comfortable with the possibility of a cataclysmic
risk, such as an explosion or spill, undermining the stability
of one of the largest banks or financial companies and the
overall financial system.  “What it really suggests is banks can be in the business
but there will be constraints in terms of how far they can go,”
said Gilbert Schwartz, partner at the Washington law firm
Schwartz and Ballen LLP.  Fed officials are also considering how firms could face
reputational risk from having extensive operations in basic
commodities important to businesses and consumers.  New Standard  “The Fed is working on a new standard that will permit
banks to remain in physical commodities, but impose higher
capital and other regulatory standards that might make the banks
want to stop doing it,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing
partner at Federal Financial Analytics, a Washington regulatory
research firm.  Yellen’s comments reinforce “the very long view at the Fed
that they don’t like non-traditional activities in banks,” Shaw
Petrou said.  More information about the Fed’s approach to commodities
will come in testimony on the topic by  Michael Gibson , the Fed
board’s director of bank supervision and regulation, on Nov. 20
before a subcommittee of the Senate Banking Committee.  U.S. law restricts banks from owning non-financial
businesses unless they get special exemptions. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley were the two biggest U.S.
securities firms until they converted into banks in 2008. A 1999
law “grandfathers” any commodities operations they had before
Sept. 30, 1997.  The Fed said in July that it’s reconsidering its landmark
2003 decision to grant some lenders, such as Citigroup Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., permission to expand into raw materials.  Yellen made the comments today in response to a question
from Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat. She spoke at a
hearing on her nomination to succeed Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , whose term expires Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  