-- Yellen Says Fed to Tailor Oversight of Non-Bank Financial Firms
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-14T20:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/yellen-says-fed-to-tailor-oversight-of-non-bank-financial-firms.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the central bank should tailor regulations for non-bank financial companies such as insurers that may fall under
Fed oversight, because their businesses are different than
banks.  “One-size-fits-all should not be the model for
regulation,” Yellen said in response to a question from Senator
Jon Tester, a Democrat from  Montana , during a Senate Banking
Committee hearing to consider her nomination to be Fed chairman.
“We need to develop appropriate models for regulation and
supervision of different kinds of institutions.”  The Dodd-Frank Act gives regulators the authority to place
insurance companies and other non-bank financial institutions
under Fed supervision if they are large enough to pose systemic
risk to the financial system. Companies such as New York-based
MetLife Inc. argue that their businesses aren’t suited to bank-like regulation in part because their liabilities are in the
form of policies rather than short-term deposits.  Insurance companies have “some very unique features that
make them very different from banks and we’re taking the time to
try to study what the best way is to craft regulations that
would be appropriate for those organizations,” Yellen said.  Prudential Financial Inc., American International Group
Inc. and General Electric Co.’s finance unit have been
designated systemically important, placing them under Fed
oversight. MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, has said it’s
under consideration for the risk label.  Yellen appeared before the committee today to answer
questions about Fed policy and oversight. President  Barack Obama 
nominated her last month to serve as Fed chairman when  Ben S. Bernanke ’s term ends Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  