-- Yen Finds Support in Euro Cloud After BOJ Drop: Market Reversal
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/yen-finds-support-in-euro-cloud-after-boj-drop-market-reversal.html
The yen’s decline to the weakest
level in four years versus the euro as the  Bank of Japan  commits
to unprecedented stimulus may have set it up for a rally,
trading patterns suggest.  In its 43 percent slide from a 12-year high of 94.12 per
euro in July 2012, the yen is forming a pattern known as an
ascending wedge, according to Commerzbank AG. A break below the
lower support line in the wedge, based on closing prices, may
signal a potential reversal of about 7 percent. The yen’s drop
is also is pushing the Japanese currency toward the top of its
monthly ichimoku cloud, a support level unbroken since 2008.  “I’m watching a potential rising wedge-reversal pattern
for euro-yen,”  Karen Jones , a London-based technical strategist
at Commerzbank, said in a Nov. 13 phone interview. “We are
still within the confines of a converging range. Normally you
should break out of the rising wedge pattern in a dynamic way.”  The euro is the best performer this year and the yen the
worst among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes. The currency bloc emerged from its longest
recession on record while the Japanese government seeks to end
15 years of deflation in the world’s third-largest economy.  The euro gained 6.3 percent against its major peers, while
the Japanese currency dropped 11 percent this year, the indexes
show. The dollar rose 4.1 percent.  Doubling Purchases  The BOJ doubled monthly bond purchases to more than 7
trillion yen ($70 billion) on April 4 in a stimulus program
targeting 2 percent inflation in two years. The extra  money
supply  tends to weaken a currency.  The yen may slide to the top of the wedge around 135.75
before reversing, according to Commerzbank’s Jones. A subsequent
weekly close through the opposite side of the wedge, which
currently appears at 131.50, would then be required for a rally,
she said.  In that case, Jones sees the yen appreciating to 122.80.
The target is based on projecting the difference between the top
and bottom of the wedge in its widest form, she said.  The yen’s decline is pulling it closer to the top of an
indicator known as the monthly ichimoku cloud, Bloomberg data
show. Orders to buy the yen and sell the euro may be gathered at
the level of 135.36 yen, the data indicate. The Japanese
currency hasn’t traded through the top of the cloud since
October 2008.  Ichimoku Cloud  The yen was at 134.56 versus the euro in  London  yesterday.
It depreciated to 135.51 per euro on Oct. 22, the weakest level
since November 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the mid-points of historic highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
over the prior nine data points. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 points.  The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
span lines on the chart and is used to show an area where
trading orders may be clustered.  Using monthly ichimoku strategy to trade the yen versus the
euro over the past decade would have generated a return of
around 6.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Monthly stochastics show the yen is the most oversold in
more than six years, according to Bloomberg data.  Stochastics Signal  Stochastics study measures the velocity of a security’s
price movement to identify overbought and oversold conditions.
The indicator, or “k-line,” measures current price relative to
highs and lows over a time period. Some analysts consider it a
buy signal when the k-line crosses above its own moving average
or “d-line” in the oversold area.  The k-line of the yen’s monthly slow stochastic indicators
versus the euro was oversold yesterday.  The euro-area economy  expanded  0.1 percent in the third
quarter from 0.3 percent previously, a report showed yesterday,
in line with the median of analyst forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Japan ’s economy grew 0.5 percent in the same period from
0.9 percent previously, separate data showed.  “Positive global risk sentiment” is helping drive yen
weakness,  Jens Nordvig , the managing director of currency
research at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage,
wrote in a note. “We like trading the yen short from a basket”
of the dollar, pound and euro, he said, referring to a bet an
asset will fall.  The  European Central Bank  can use negative interest rates,
Executive Board member Peter Praet said Nov. 13. His comments
followed the ECB unexpectedly lowering its main  interest rate 
last week to a record 0.25 percent to combat falling inflation.  Standard Bank Plc’s foreign-exchange model indicators
generated a signal to sell the euro and buy the yen at 132.90 on
Nov. 1, according to  Steve Barrow , the bank’s head of Group-of-10 research in London.  “Rate differentials are pointing euro-yen down after last
week’s ECB cut,” Barrow said in a phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  