-- Dollar Declines as Reports Show Economy Slowing
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-11-15T22:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/yen-biggest-loser-as-fed-to-boj-easy-policy-damps-haven-demand.html
The dollar extended a weekly decline
as measures of industrial production and regional manufacturing
dropped, adding to bets the Federal Reserve won’t stop its
monthly asset purchases anytime soon.  The yen slid for a third week versus the dollar as gains in
stocks and the outlook for further global economic stimulus
trimmed demand for haven assets. The greenback headed for a
weekly drop versus the euro after Fed Chairman-nominee Janet
Yellen said told Congress yesterday that quantitative easing was
still needed to spur growth.  Australia ’s and New Zealand’s
dollars strengthened.  “As risk appetite increases, the dollar and the yen have
sold off,” Michael Woolfolk, a global-markets strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon in New York, said in a phone interview.
“We believe that Yellen’s Senate confirmation hearing slammed
the door shut on a December taper.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the
greenback against 10 major counterparts, fell to 0.2 percent to
1,016.88 at 5 p.m. in New York after dropping to 1,015.83
yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 7. It dropped 0.5 percent this
week.  The yen fell 0.2 percent to 100.19 per dollar after
depreciating to 100.44, the weakest level since Sept. 11. It has
lost 1.2 percent this week.  Japan ’s currency slid 0.5 percent to
135.21 per euro. The dollar fell 0.3 percent to  $1.3496 per
euro, for a decline of 1 percent this week.  Winners, Losers  The Mexican peso rose 1.8 percent and South Africa’s rand
climbed 1.7 percent this week, the most among the 16 most-traded
currencies versus the dollar. The yen dropped 1.1 percent for
the biggest decline, followed by the Swedish krona’s 0.6 percent
slide.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars rose today as
optimism there will be further monetary stimulus from major
central banks buoyed demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The central bank outlook will remain supportive in the
near term,” said David Forrester, a senior vice president for
Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “With the weaker yen, the Aussie and kiwi tend to
outperform.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.7 percent to 93.86 yen, and
gained 0.6 percent to 93.68 U.S. cents. New Zealand’s dollar
rose 1 percent to 83.54 yen and strengthened 0.8 percent to
83.38 U.S. cents.  Won, Stocks  The South Korean won jumped for a second day along with
stocks, boosting demand for emerging-market currencies.  The won appreciated 0.4 percent to close at 1,063.53 per
dollar in  Seoul . The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (SPX)  of regional stocks
advanced for a second day, climbing 1.4 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks gained 0.4 percent.  “Monetary conditions are going to be easy for a very long
period, and that’s particularly positive for currencies geared
to growth and commodity cycle,” Jonathan Lewis, chief
investment officer at Samson Capital Advisors LLC and manager of
the Samson Strong Nations Currency Fund, said in a telephone
interview from New York.  The dollar weakened as total industrial production in the
U.S. fell 0.1 percent in October as output at mines and
utilities declined. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 0.2 percent rise.  The New York Fed Empire Report fell to minus 2.2 from 1.5
the previous month. The media forecast in a Bloomberg survey was
for a gain to 5. Negative readings signal contraction in New
York, northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  Yellen’s ‘Message’  Yellen said yesterday the central bank’s key  interest rate ,
at a record zero to 0.25 percent, would remain low even after
policy makers start to reduce monetary easing. The Fed has kept
its benchmark for borrowing costs near zero since December 2008.  The Federal Open Market Committee that Yellen is poised to
lead is considering whether to begin slowing its  $85 billion 
monthly bond-purchase program. Officials will decide to pare the
purchases to $70 billion a month at their March 18-19 meeting,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey on Nov. 8.  “The currency market appears to be saying, ‘We get the
message from Yellen, the Fed’s not going to taper,’” Lewis of
Samson Capital said. “The Japanese yen is off today, and that’s
a currency we associate with a safe-haven move.”  The yen weakened beyond 100 per dollar yesterday for the
first time since September as Japan’s gross domestic product
growth slowed to an annualized 1.9 percent in the July-September
period from 3.8 percent in the second quarter.  ‘Risk-On Environment’  BOJ policy makers meet Nov. 20-21, with almost three-quarters of economists surveyed by Bloomberg expecting the
central bank will add to stimulus in the first half of next
year.  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar to the most since May, figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 95,107 on Nov.
12, compared with net shorts of 73,792 a week earlier.  “It’s generally a more risk-on environment,” said Kiran Kowshik, a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 London . “That’s why you’re seeing the yen weakening. Yellen’s
testimony has sparked a risk-on move.”  The yen slumped 1.6 percent in the past week, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi gained 0.8
percent and the euro climbed 0.7 percent to pace gainers. The
dollar dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  