-- YRC Needs Union Accord ‘Soon’ as Nov. 15 Goal Slips, CFO Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-14T01:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/yrc-needs-union-accord-soon-as-nov-15-goal-slips-cfo-says.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , the struggling
trucker seeking crucial union concessions to help refinance
debt, won’t wrap up talks to extend a labor contract by the end
of this work week, Chief Financial Officer Jamie Pierson said.  The company had said in a presentation to union leaders
last week that it takes about 90 days to reach a refinancing
agreement with creditors and it must begin that process by Nov.
15.  “It needs to be done soon because Feb. 1 will be here
before we know it,” Pierson said in a telephone interview. He
declined to discuss details of the union talks. A $69.4 million
 bond issue  matures on Feb. 15.  YRC, which has posted  annual losses  since 2007, has asked
its 26,000 union workers to extend a labor contract and retain a
15 percent wage cut to help the company survive. The trucker is
currently in talks with the Teamsters union.  The company hired an independent firm to survey worker
attitudes toward YRC and its management and a “vast, vast
majority” are positive or leaning positive, Pierson said,
boosting the likelihood that workers will support a contract
extension.  YRC has almost $1.4 billion in  borrowings  from what Chief
Executive Officer James Welch has called “numerous missteps”
before he became CEO in July 2011. The company had about $170
million of cash on hand as of Sept. 30. YRC has $944 million of
bonds and loans that mature in the next 16 months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s shares  slid  21 percent to $7.72 at the close
in  New York , the biggest one-day decline since October 2011,
after reporting a quarterly loss yesterday amid a driver
shortage and higher costs.  Driver Shortage  Welch said the results were “hindered” by a lack of
drivers in the company’s freight network, resulting in higher-than-expected overtime pay and lower productivity. The loss
coincides with union talks on a new labor agreement that’s key
to refinancing debt and ensuring the company’s recovery.  The net loss of $44.4 million in the quarter ended Sept. 30
compared with profit of $3 million a year earlier, the  Overland
Park , Kansas-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Operating expenses rose 3.1 percent to $1.25 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  