-- Zurich Insurance Reports Profit Rebound Beating Forecasts
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-14T08:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-14/zurich-insurance-sees-quarterly-profit-rebound-on-non-life-unit.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest insurer, said third-quarter profit rose 64
percent, beating analyst estimates, after a write-off related to
its German business hurt earnings a year earlier.  Net income rose to $1.1 billion from $672 million a year
ago, the Zurich-based company said in a statement today. That’s
above the $993.5 million average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. General insurance, the biggest unit, saw
operating profit jump 68 percent to $755 million in the quarter.  The insurer has been seeking ways to restore investor
confidence following a surprise write-off at its German general
insurance unit of about $550 million. Chief Executive Officer
Martin Senn reiterated today that no “undue pressure” was put
on Chief Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier, who committed
suicide in August, prompting Chairman  Josef Ackermann  to resign
and raising doubts about the company’s financial health.  “Today’s results are a small step in the direction of
restoring confidence,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based
analyst with Vontobel who has a hold rating on the stock. “The
result is fairly solid,” driven by general insurance, he said.  The insurer’s shares rose 2.8 percent to 259.20 francs at
9:40 a.m. in Zurich, bringing annual gains to 6.5 percent.
That’s trailing the 24 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index, which tracks 30 companies.  Operating Profit  Zurich Insurance appointed Tom de Swaan as chairman
following Ackermann’s departure, while the position of CFO was
filled on an interim basis by Vibhu Sharma. Senn told reporters
today the search for a new CFO is “ongoing.”  Zurich restated earnings at the end of last year after a
review of the German business, and earlier this year was forced
set aside an additional $130 million in costs at the unit. The
company said it won’t achieve some of the targets it set itself
for the three years through 2013.  Third-quarter operating profit increased to $1.28 billion
from $998 million a year earlier, according to the statement.
The solvency ratio under the Swiss Solvency Test, which requires
insurers to provide a mark-to-market valuation of assets and
liabilities taking into account their investments, rose to 206
percent from 185 percent at the end of last year.  “Against the backdrop of a fragile global economic
recovery and persisting low  interest rates , we remained focused
on our strategy, growing our business in  emerging markets  while
delivering a resilient performance in mature markets,” Senn
said. The company remains “committed to paying an attractive,
sustainable dividend,” he told reporters.  Zurich is scheduled to give an update on its current three-year targets on Dec. 5. Those targets include improving the
combined ratio, a measure of profitability, by as much as 4
percentage points in general insurance relative to competitors
including  Germany ’s Allianz SE by the end of 2013, and
increasing the market share of its Farmers business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  