-- ‘Die Hard’ Sequel Is Weekend’s Top Movie With $25 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-02-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/-die-hard-sequel-is-weekend-s-no-1-film-with-25-million.html
“A Good Day to Die Hard,” the
fifth film in the  Bruce Willis  action series, opened as the top
movie over the U.S. Presidents Day weekend with $25 million in
ticket sales for  News Corp. ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  The comedy “Identity Thief” dropped to second place from
first with sales of $23.4 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Die Hard” and three other new releases helped revive
box-office sales after four weekends of shrinking sales. The
first four “Die Hard” films, featuring Willis as the
iconoclastic cop John McClane, have taken in $1.15 billion in
worldwide ticket sales for Fox since the first film in 1988,
according to  Box Office Mojo , another researcher.  “For a franchise that was into its fourth decade, it’s a
pretty decent showing, especially considering what happened with
Sylvester Stallone’s and Arnold Schwarzenegger’s films recently
-- they just tanked,”  Jeff Bock , senior box office analyst at
Exhibitor Relations, said yesterday in an interview. “That
Bruce Willis is basically the last man standing is a story in
itself.”  In the new film, Willis’s McClane travels to Russia to
rescue his kidnapped son, only to discover the situation is more
complex and dangerous than he expected. Jai Courtney co-stars as
son Jack.  Date Weekend  “Identity Thief,” may have taken some share from “Die
Hard,” as the comedy had a surprisingly good second week by
offering couples a movie to see together the weekend after
Valentine’s Day, Bock said.  “This is a big date weekend,” Bock said. “If you give
the guy a choice, if they have to go see a date film, they’re
probably going to go to ‘Identity Thief.’ ‘Safe Haven’ is
probably torture for most males.”  “Safe Haven” was third in its debut, taking in $21.4
million for Relativity Media. Julianne Hough stars as a young
woman who seems to have escaped her past by taking a job in a
small North Carolina community. Her idyllic new life is
interrupted when a stranger comes to town asking questions about
her. Josh Duhamel co-stars.  The animated children’s tale “Escape From Planet Earth,”
from Weinstein Co., was fourth with $16 million in its first
weekend. In the film, a heroic astronaut from the planet Baab
ignores the misgivings of his brother and colleagues to respond
to an SOS. The mission turns out to be a trap. The movie
features the voices of  Brendan Fraser ,  Sofia Vergara  and  Ricky Gervais .  Zombie Love  “Warm Bodies” was fifth with $9 million in sales. Based
on Isaac Marion’s novel, the movie tells the story of a slacker
zombie named “R,” who develops a romantic attraction to one of
the world’s few remaining humans. The  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp.  movie stars Nicholas Hoult and Teresa Palmer.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 8 percent to $126.4
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first seven weeks of the year are down 4 percent to
$1.25 billion. Attendance is down 5 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
15-16 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  