-- Actelion Looks Within as Competition Lifts Drug Prices
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/actelion-looks-within-as-competition-lifts-drug-prices.html
Actelion Ltd.  is depending on in-
house research to invent new medicines because the company can’t
compete with bigger rivals to buy products in development
elsewhere, Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Clozel  said.  Actelion is looking “all the time” to acquire or license
the rights to experimental drugs to lessen its reliance on
treatments for pulmonary arterial hypertension, Clozel, 57, said
in a Feb. 14 interview in his office in Allschwil, Switzerland.
The company gets 95 percent of sales from medicines for the
disease, in which arteries that move blood from the heart to the
lungs narrow, causing high blood pressure.  While the company wants to build a second business selling
so-called orphan drugs for rare diseases that are prescribed by
specialists, that’s a strategy also being pursued by  Sanofi ,
 Shire Plc ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  Pfizer Inc.  The competition
means higher prices.  “The chances that we can get very obvious, nice assets is
rather low,” Clozel said. “Specialized orphan drugs is what
people look for, it’s hot. Shire wants it, Sanofi wants it,
Glaxo, Pfizer. They have much bigger pockets.”  Actelion has spent at least 650 million Swiss francs ($704
million) on five deals since going public in 2000. Two gave the
company drugs that flopped in trials, and another resulted in a
lawsuit the company is still fighting. Actelion terminated its
latest deal, an option to buy Trophos SA, in 2011 after that
company’s drug failed in a study.  Tracleer Sales  Diversifying is important because Tracleer, a drug for
pulmonary arterial hypertension, accounts for 87 percent of
Actelion’s sales and starts to lose patent protection in 2016.  Clozel co-founded Actelion to develop Tracleer after his
previous employer,  Roche Holding AG , decided it didn’t want the
product. Tracleer has garnered 13.8 billion Swiss francs in
sales since being approved in 2001.  Actelion has applied for regulatory approval of a successor
product, Opsumit, in the European Union and the U.S., and
expects a decision this year. The company is working on other
home-grown treatments for psoriasis and diarrhea.  “If you want to have good drugs, discover them yourself,”
Clozel said. “I don’t like to depend on other people.”  Actelion said Feb. 14 it plans to increase its dividend by
25 percent to 1 Swiss franc, and repeated a commitment to
completing an 800 million-franc share buyback by the end of this
year.  “If we believed we could use this money to buy an asset so
easily, we would keep it,” Clozel said. “But frankly we have
to be realistic. It’s not so easy to compete.”  Selexipag Trials  Actelion rose 2.8 percent Feb. 15 to close at 47.72 francs,
giving the company a market value of 6 billion francs.  Opsumit’s peak sales may surpass Tracleer’s, Clozel said.
Actelion is testing another drug for PAH, selexipag, in the
third and final stage of trials usually needed for regulatory
approval. The company gained marketing rights to the treatment
outside Japan in a 2008 deal with Kyoto-based Nippon Shinyaku
Co.  Actelion will start advanced trials this year of two drugs
from its own laboratories: ponesimod for psoriasis and an
antibiotic called cadazolid for clostridium difficile, a
diarrhea-causing infection acquired commonly in hospitals.  Still, neither of those will be big enough on their own and
the company will need to look outside for more products, said
 Fabian Wenner , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  Partnership Talks  “Those ones will not change the course of things,” Wenner
said in a telephone interview. “They really need the next big
asset.”  Actelion is in talks with potential partners to help pay
for trials of ponesimod as a treatment for multiple sclerosis,
Clozel said, declining to comment on how advanced the talks are
or whether he expects a deal this year. Partners are waiting to
see whether Biogen Idec Inc.’s MS pill Tecfidera is approved and
what prescribing conditions the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration puts on it, Clozel said.  “There are a lot of moving parts, which make the life of
partnering not so easy,” he said, adding if the company doesn’t
find a partner, it won’t develop the drug for MS. “We want to
keep some value in the product. I am not ready to accept any
price.”  Clozel, who founded Actelion with his wife  Martine Clozel 
in 1997, cited the company’s in-house development as a reason
for remaining independent when Amgen Inc. considered making a
takeover offer in 2010. He reiterated that position in 2011 in
fighting off a hedge fund that sought seats on the board and
wanted Actelion to consider selling itself.  “We have a real company based on research and
innovation,” Clozel said. “That’s unique. When we had
activists, they didn’t see that. Our shareholders have given
their confidence to us. I really want to show them they were
right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  