-- Anastasiades Seen Near Outright Win in Cyprus President Poll
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-02-17T17:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/anastasiades-seen-near-outright-win-in-cyprus-president-poll.html
Nicos Anastasiades , leader of
Cyprus’s main opposition Disy party, was close to winning his
bid to become the country’s next president as Cypriots voted
amid fears of an economic collapse.  Anastasiades, 66, was seen winning between 48 percent and
52 percent of the vote, according to an exit poll by private
broadcaster ANT1 today. He got 51.1 percent voter support in a
poll by state broadcaster RIK and 49 percent to 52 percent of
the vote in separate surveys by Mega TV and Sigma.  If the final result of today’s ballot shows Anastasiades
with less than 50 percent of the vote, the top two candidates
will proceed to a runoff election on Feb. 24. An official final
result is expected about 8:30 p.m. local time, according to vote
officials.  None of the polls, which were published after voting
centers closed, gave  Stavros Malas , who was backed by the
communist Akel party of outgoing president Demetris Christofias,
more than 27 percent of the vote. Independent  George Lillikas 
received no more than 22.5 percent of the vote.  Cyprus’s new president must revive stalled talks with the
European Union on a financial rescue to save the island nation
from a financial collapse. Cyprus has been negotiating for
eight months with the so-called troika of the European
Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary
Fund over terms of a bailout, which could equal the size of its
18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy.  The country, which became the fifth euro-area member to
request international financial aid in June 2012, has been shut
out of debt markets for almost two years with lenders including
 Bank of Cyprus Plc  and Cyprus Popular Bank Plc losing 4.5
billion euros in Greece’s debt restructuring last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Georgios Georgiou  in Nicosia at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net 
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  