-- Cyprus to Hold Runoff Presidential Election as Economy Dominates
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-02-18T10:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/anastasiades-to-face-malas-in-round-two-of-cyprus-president-poll.html
Cypriots will return to the ballot
box on Feb. 24 to choose a leader who can steer the country away
from financial collapse after the frontrunner in yesterday’s
presidential election,  Nicos Anastasiades , fell short of an
outright victory.  Anastasiades, 66, who leads Cyprus’s main opposition Disy
party, will face  Stavros Malas  in the runoff after taking 45.5
percent of the vote compared with 26.9 percent for  Malas , who
was backed by the communist Akel party of outgoing president
 Demetris Christofias . Independent candidate  George Lillikas  was
knocked out of the race after placing third with 25 percent.  Cyprus’s incoming president has to revive stalled talks
with the European Union on a bailout roughly equaling the size
of the island nation’s 18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy.
Cyprus has been negotiating the terms of a rescue for eight
months with the so-called troika of the European Commission,
European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund.  “Anastasiades looks likely to win in the second round,”
 Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg Bank in London,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “A first-round
victory would be a sounder endorsement of reform, but the troika
will exert enough pressure in any case.”  Shut Out  The country, which became the fifth euro-area member to
request international financial aid in June 2012, has been shut
out of debt markets for almost two years, with lenders including
 Bank of Cyprus Plc  and Cyprus Popular Bank Plc losing 4.5
billion euros in Greece’s debt restructuring last year.  The euro, at $1.3369, was little changed against the dollar
as of 11:30 a.m. in Athens. The Stoxx Europe 600 index slipped
0.3 percent to 286.47.  Anastasiades and Malas agree on the need for Cyprus to sign
an international aid deal, saying there is no alternative. They
also agree that there is some room for re-negotiation of
measures already agreed. One issue dividing the candidates is
state-asset sales, which Malas opposes.  Both men say some of the revenue from future sales of
recently discovered natural-gas deposits should be used for
reducing debt and the remainder for growth initiatives and
investing for future generations.  “We all have in common the obligation to give our country
a future with prospects at this very critical point in time,”
Malas, 45, a former health minister, said after the results were
announced. “Together we can face the crisis with growth and not
tough policies that go against society.”  Euro Stability  The integration of Cypriot banks into the Greek financial
system poses a risk to the stability of the euro, a factor that
should be taken into account when weighing whether Cyprus should
gain aid, European Central Bank Executive Board member  Joerg Asmussen  said on Germany’s ARD Television yesterday.  “We need a partner with whom we can negotiate an
adjustment program,” Asmussen said. While the ECB is
politically neutral, “to secure debt sustainability, we’ll need
wide-ranging privatization for example, and that’s something the
incumbent president has rejected. Now we’ll see if we can
reasonably negotiate such a program by the end of March.”  Initial exit polls suggested that Anastasiades had secured
the 50 percent needed to avoid a runoff. His lead slipped in the
next hours.  ‘New Era’  “This result will transform itself next Sunday into a
clear mandate for the formation of a national salvation
government,” Anastasiades told cheering supporters last night
in Nicosia, the capital. “The road to a new era began today.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed Anastasiades on
Jan. 11, a move that may help him clinch a bailout amid growing
dissatisfaction among euro-area countries over funding rescue
programs. Merkel and Anastasiades are both members of the
European People’s Party, the European umbrella group for their
respective political blocs.  After Greece, the Cypriot rescue is set to be the biggest
in the 17-nation euro area as a proportion of gross domestic
product. As much as 10 billion euros may be required to rescue
the banks and 7.5 billion euros will be needed by the
government, Finance Minister  Vassos Shiarly  said on Nov. 22.  “Securing a bailout from the troika is likely to entail
protracted and hard negotiations,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an
analyst at Eurasia Group Plc in London. “Cyprus will have to
devise and adopt a new model of economic development for the
future as a key priority of the bailout is to drastically shrink
its large banking sector.”  Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when Turkey invaded the
northern third of the island following a coup by supporters of
the country’s union with Greece. Yesterday’s presidential ballot
was the first since the invasion in which the economy was the
main issue rather than reunification of the divided island.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  