-- BAE Slips to Third in Weapons Sales on Global Budget Cuts
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/bae-systems-drops-in-weapons-sales-ranking-in-global-slowdown.html
BAE Systems Plc  relinquished its
spot as the world’s second-largest arms maker to  Boeing Co . in
an annual weapons ranking as defense sales fell 5 percent off
their peak, a European research institute said.  BAE Systems slipped into third place based on 2011 sales,
also trailing leader  Lockheed Martin Corp ., the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute said in a review that
excludes Chinese firms.  Global sales by the top 100 arms-producing companies
declined to $410 billion in 2011 as the U.S. and Europe pared
spending and political turmoil in the Middle East and North
Africa crimped sales. U.S. corporations remained dominant as the
Pentagon continued to outspend others.  “Since the late 1990s this is the first time arms sales
have dropped,” Susan Jackson, head of the  SIPRI’s  arms
production program, said in an interview. “It wouldn’t surprise
me if there isn’t at least a flattening or a further decrease”
in 2012.  Still, the top 100 arms companies had a 51 percent run-up
in sales since 2002 as the U.S. and Europe increased spending to
better equip troops fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq.  Vehicle Purchases  BAE Systems, which reports full-year results on Feb. 21,
slipped as the U.S. curtailed vehicle purchases from the
company, Jackson said. Analysts expect BAE to post a 6.3 percent
increase in 2012 sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Northrop Grumman Corp ., the other top-10 defense company to
fall in the SIPRI ranking, slipped to sixth position behind
 General Dynamics Corp . and  Raytheon Co . The change reflected the
spin off of shipbuilding activities into  Huntington Ingalls
Industries Inc .  Declines in defense prospects have companies boosting
efforts to secure sales in adjacent activities, including
protecting computer systems for governments and companies. “We
can see that in increases in mergers and acquisitions in the
broad category of cyber security,” Jackson said. The effect on
sales is hard to judge, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  