-- BlueScope Steel Posts Smaller First-Half Loss on Materials Costs
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-17T22:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/bluescope-steel-posts-smaller-first-half-loss-on-materials-costs.html
BlueScope Steel Ltd. , Australia’s
largest steelmaker, reported a smaller net loss in the first
half in part because of lower materials costs.  The net loss narrowed to A$12 million ($12.4 million) in
the six months ended Dec. 31 from A$530 million a year earlier
when it had restructuring costs, the Melbourne-based company
said today in a statement. Credit Suisse Group AG had expected
BlueScope to book a loss of A$4 million for the period.  BlueScope has stopped most exports from Australia, shut a
mill and a furnace and shed about 1,000 jobs in the past two
years to cut costs as a stronger Australian dollar, higher labor
expenses and lower steel prices hurt profit. The company, which
booked A$1.04 billion of losses in the year ended June 30, in
August agreed to sell half its coated-steel operations in
Southeast Asia and North America to  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo
Metal Corp.  to pay debt.  “This improvement comes on the back of strong cost
management and despite dumped imports and some softening of
domestic volumes” for its Australian coated and industrial
products business, BlueScope said in today’s statement. “We
expect a continued improvement with a small underlying net
profit after tax” in the second half subject to domestic
demand, margins and foreign exchange rates.  The company today reported an underlying profit of A$10
million in the first half, exceeding its own guidance for an
underlying loss approaching break even.  BlueScope fell 0.5 percent to A$3.77 in Sydney trading when
it last traded on Feb. 15. The stock has risen 9.3 percent so
far this year compared with an 8.3 percent gain for the S&P/ASX
200 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  