-- Bull Wagers Tumble Most This Year as Gold Bets Drop: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-18T14:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/bull-wagers-tumble-most-this-year-as-gold-bets-drop-commodities.html
Investors cut wagers on a rally in
commodities by the most since November as signs of improving
U.S. growth reduced demand for gold and rains in South America
added to signs that crop harvests will be bigger.  Hedge funds and other large speculators reduced net-long
 positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options in the week ended
Feb. 12 by 15 percent to 757,060 contracts, the largest decline
since Nov. 13, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. Bets on higher gold prices fell to the lowest since
December 2008, while a measure for 11 farm goods slumped the
most since November 2011.  Gold prices are down 3.9 percent since Dec. 31, the worst
start to a year since 2001, as U.S. retail sales climbed for a
third month in January and consumer confidence rose more than
forecast in February. Combined soybean production in Argentina
and Brazil will increase to a record and rising output of corn
will help replenish global inventories after drought last year
sent prices of both crops to a record.  “As confidence is building in an economic recovery that’s
sustainable globally, you could lose a bid to gold,” said  James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management, which oversees about $325 billion of
assets. “Agricultural commodities to me are going to have a
pullback year as weather normalizes.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
fell 0.3 percent last week, led by declines in silver and cocoa.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities slid 0.2 percent,
while the dollar rose 0.4 percent against a basket of six
trading partners. Treasuries fell 0.1 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Copper, Gold  An improving outlook in the U.S. and China has helped boost
commodities most tied to economic growth this year, while
damping demand for precious metals. The funds lifted wagers on a
copper rally to an eight-week high. Bets on gains in gold fell
19 percent to 70,250 contracts, the lowest since December 2008,
the CFTC data show. Bullish silver holdings declined 13 percent
to 25,674 contracts, the biggest slide this year.  Retail purchases rose 0.1 percent last month, after
increases of 0.5 percent in December and November, the Commerce
Department said Feb. 13. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer  sentiment  climbed to 76.3
this month from 73.8 in January, figures showed Feb. 15. The
gauge was projected to rise to 74.8, according to the median of
65 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Soros Holdings  Last week, bullion fell below $1,600 an ounce for the first
time since August in New York. Billionaire investors  George Soros  and  Louis Moore Bacon  cut their stakes in exchange-traded
products backed by the metal in the fourth quarter, government
filings showed Feb. 14.  “People have become more risk-on,” said  Dan Denbow , a
fund manager at the $1.6 billion USAA Precious Metals & Minerals
Fund in San Antonio. “Therefore, the more defensive aspects are
seeing more money taken off the table. We’re seeing that in
gold.”  Signs of a deepening recession in Europe may mean declines
in demand for commodities as well, said  Walter “Bucky” Hellwig , who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama.  The GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials is down 3.3 percent
since reaching a six-month high in September as Europe’s leaders
struggled to revive economic growth. The 17-nation euro area
shrank the most in four years in the fourth quarter, official
figures showed Feb. 14. The continent accounts for about 18
percent of copper demand and 14 percent of global energy
consumption, Barclays and BP Plc data show.  Japan Growth  Japan’s economy, the world’s third largest, is in recession
after contracting at an annualized 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, the Cabinet Office said Feb. 14. Last month, stockpiles
of  aluminum  in the Asian country, among the top five global
metals users, reached the highest in almost four years,
signaling waning demand, according to Marubeni Corp.  “We saw some of the data coming out of Europe as being
worse than expected,” Hellwig said. “The overall tenor of the
global economy maybe wasn’t quite as strong as we thought, and
as a result, that’s a headwind for commodities.”  Sugar Bears  Money managers pulled a net $13 million from commodity
funds in the week ended Feb. 13, said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows. The declines were spurred by
outflows from gold and precious-metals funds, which totaled $211
million, the sixth straight week of outflows, the longest
stretch since the first quarter of 2011, he said.  Bets on a decline for  sugar  rose to 25,301 contracts, from
a net-short position of 6,600 a week earlier. That’s the most-
negative outlook since September 2007. Prices last week fell to
the lowest since August 2010 on speculation that production will
climb in Brazil, the world’s largest grower.  Cocoa net-long positions dropped 7.9 percent to 16,855
contracts, the seventh decline in eight weeks. Prices in New
York last week fell to the lowest in seven months.  Bullish corn positions plunged 31 percent to 126,363
contracts, the biggest drop since June 5. Bets on a soybean
rally slid 1.4 percent, the first drop in five weeks. Investors
increased their wheat net-short holding, or wagers on a decline,
to 32,415 contracts, the most bearish since May.  More Rains  Warming equatorial waters in the Pacific Ocean are boosting
precipitation in South America and the U.S., after dry weather
scorched crops in 2012, Martell Crop Projections said in a
report last week.  Corn export-sales for delivery before Sept. 1 are 53
percent lower than a year earlier, U.S. Department of
Agriculture  data  show. Domestic inventories before the next
harvest will be 5 percent larger than forecast a month earlier,
the agency said Feb. 8.  “Inventory data for corn has improved, and export volumes
have slowed,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior fund manager at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati who helps oversee $14.7
billion. “Some of the smart money that’s looking at bigger
crops has started to come out, and that’s tripped a landslide.
Some of these agriculture commodities may have moved too far,
too fast, so we may see some bounce back, but it probably won’t
be the start of another rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  