-- Chickens to In-Vitro May Revive Australia’s IPO Market
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-02-18T05:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/chickens-to-in-vitro-may-revive-australia-s-ipo-market.html
A poultry producer and an in-vitro
fertilization business are among Australian companies that may
revive the country’s moribund market for initial public
offerings this year, lured by its strong stock market.  At least four companies, including Inghams Enterprises Pty
Ltd., Australia’s biggest poultry producer, and in-vitro firm
Virtus Health Pty Ltd., are seeking advice from investment banks
on new share sales. If completed, those two IPOs alone could
make 2013 the best year for offerings in Australia since 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. And more are expected,
including some that were shelved last year, said  Simon Cox , head
of equity capital markets at UBS AG in Sydney.  “Last year the theme was ’risk averse’ and investors were
crowding into cash,” Cox said. “Their rush back into the
equity markets makes conditions pretty conducive for companies
to consider IPOs.”  The value of IPOs in Australia last year fell to $1.2
billion, the lowest since 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
as concern about slowing economic growth in China and the debt
crisis in Europe hurt stocks and discouraged expansion by
companies.  That sentiment started to shift in the second half of the
year, as investors grew more optimistic over corporate earnings
and interest rate cuts by Australia’s central bank. The  S&P/ASX
200 Index  rose more than 13 percent in the final six months of
the year, compared with less than one percent in the first half.
By late December, it was 20 percent above its lows of September
2011 and in a bull market.  Window Opening  Gains of almost 9 percent since the start of this year
indicate the benchmark is on track for its best quarterly
performance since  September 2009 . The index today reached its
highest since Sept. 8, 2008. Earnings among the index components
are expected to increase  33 percent  in the year through June,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Consumer confidence in Australia increased this month by
the most since September 2011.  “The window for IPOs, post-earnings season, is about to
open,” said  Michael Richardson , head of equity capital markets
at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney.  Inghams, which put itself up for sale in July, asked
investment banks to submit proposals this month for an IPO to
raise more than A$1 billion ($1 billion), people with knowledge
of the matter said last week.  Biggest Deal  Virtus Health, the in-vitro fertilization business owned by
buyout firm Quadrant Private Equity Pty Ltd., retained  Morgan
Stanley  and UBS for a possible IPO that may raise about A$500
million, two other people said, asking not to be identified as
the information is private.  Officials at Quadrant couldn’t be reached to comment on
plans for Virtus, which was reported by the Australian Financial
Review on Feb. 4.  An offering by either Inghams or Virtus would be the
largest in Sydney since November 2010, when rail company  Aurizon
Holdings Ltd . raised A$4.05 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Together, they would make this year the best since 2010,
when companies raised A$5.1 billion.  Only one company -- a shopping center trust spun off by
Australia’s biggest retailer -- has raised more than $100
million in an Australian IPO over the past 19 months, the data
show. SCA Property Group raised A$472 million from new shares
sold to institutional investors, as part of its split from
 Woolworths Ltd . in October.  Revived Plans  Issuers that considered listings last year, including
McAleese Group Pty Ltd., may add to the list this year, said
UBS’s Cox. McAleese, a transport company, was considering
raising as much as A$300 million, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last July. A spokeswoman for the company couldn’t be
reached to comment on its plans.  TRUenergy Holdings Pty., an energy producer owned by CLP
Holdings Ltd., was planning an offering to raise about A$3
billion last year, people with knowledge of the matter said in
June. Two months later, CLP Chief Executive Officer Andrew
Brandler said the listing wouldn’t happen in 2012, and may
“possibly” happen this year.  KKR & Co.  was considering a sale or IPO of its Australian
mining services and logistics unit BIS Industries Ltd. that may
fetch as much as A$1.8 billion, people familiar with the matter
said in June. The U.S. private equity firm run by  Henry Kravis 
and George Roberts instead hired banks to arrange a A$950
million, three-year loan to refinance debt, a person familiar
with the matter said Nov. 29.  IPO Pipeline  Paula Hannaford, a spokeswoman for TRUenergy at Gavin
Anderson in Sydney, declined to comment on the potential for the
IPO to be revived.  More offerings are in the pipeline. Riversdale Resources
Pty Ltd., an Australian resources company seeking to develop
coking coal deposits in North America, last month appointed
banks to help raise as much as A$60 million in an IPO, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  “I think we will see more activity in 2013 because the
investors are certainly more receptive,” said  Campbell Lobb ,
head of equity capital markets at Credit Suisse in Sydney by
telephone. “And on the sell side, companies are more
comfortable with the risks of doing an IPO.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  