-- College Essays Make Kids Stupid and Selfish
-- B y   N a o m i   S c h a e f e r   R i l e y
-- 2013-02-17T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/college-essays-make-kids-stupid-and-selfish.html
Quick quiz: Which of the following
is not an essay topic on the latest  version  of the common
application to gain admission to U.S. colleges?  1. Some students have a background or story that is so
central to their identity that they believe their application
would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then
please share your story.  2. Recount an incident or time when you experienced
failure. How did it affect you, and what lessons did you learn?  3. Reflect on a time when you challenged a belief or idea.
What prompted you to act? Would you make the same decision
again?  4. Describe a place or environment where you are perfectly
content. What do you do or experience there, and why is it
meaningful to you?  5. Discuss an accomplishment or event -- formal or informal
-- that marked your transition from childhood to adulthood
within your culture, community or family.  6. Discuss a particularly significant Facebook status
update. What prompted it? Where were you when you posted it? How
did you feel when only four of your friends “liked” it?  The common application, which is now accepted by more than
500 colleges, is the best example of how the admissions process
has become an exercise in encouraging 17-year-olds’ narcissism.
Also new this year, rising high-school seniors will be allotted
650 words in which to indulge themselves. Was that because the
500 they have been given previously just didn’t do these topics
justice?  Changing Standards  The college essay as absurdist self-reflection isn’t new.
When I applied to Middlebury College some two decades ago, I was
asked to answer the question: “What’s the worst advice you’ve
ever received?”  Alas, this was no passing fad. “Many people involved in the
admissions enterprise believe -- or want to believe -- that
personal essays are essential,” Eric Hoover of the Chronicle of
Higher Education wrote in a  blog post  after interviewing a
number of admissions officers. “As long as students are free to
write autobiographical vignettes and creative riffs on quirky
topics, then nobody can say the process is just about numbers,
which it often is.”  Well, often it’s not. More and more colleges are  dropping 
the SAT requirement. Measures of every sort of diversity --
race, geography, religion, sexual orientation -- compete with
grade-point averages.  It’s discouraging enough that colleges have increasingly
discounted hard measures in favor of essays, which are often
“edited” by the adults in their lives. Hoover interviewed Danya
Berry, a member of the common application’s panel of counselors,
who said the essay requirements are a way to measure writing
skills: “If you can’t write a succinct, five-paragraph essay,
you’re not going to succeed in college.”  Fair enough. Yet the essays themselves don’t ask college
students to do the least bit of critical thinking. They are
merely exercises in what Twitter users label #humblebrags.  Of course, this generation of social-media-savvy teens
already excels at trying to show how each moment of their lives
is filled with significance. There is no need to encourage it.
How about asking applicants about a favorite author? Sure, it’s
possible it will become an exercise in how reading “Old Yeller”
(does anyone read that anymore?) reminded you of the death of
your pet turtle. But it’s also possible that it will make you
offer some insights beyond your own, no doubt fascinating,
autobiography.  Historical Influence  What about a historical event that influenced you? Again,
there will be plenty of opportunity for reflection on your own
life when you reveal that the Emancipation Proclamation actually
released your great-great-great-grandparents from bondage.  Or that learning about the Holocaust made you change your
view of Judaism and whether God is good. Or perhaps that reading
about the women’s suffrage movement turned you into an ardent
feminist. But it won’t be all about you.  How about an invention that most changed your life? You
might write that it’s the cell phone or the iPad. You would at
least have to reflect on why that is the case, know something
about its development, what life was like before it, and even --
here’s the key -- construct an argument for why this particular
thing was more influential than other things.  The navel-gazing essays require only telling a story, a
“narrative” about yourself, as college administrators have it.
Sure, there’s a beginning, a middle and an end. It could be in a
“five-paragraph” format. But it doesn’t reveal much about how
you think -- just how you feel.  The thrust of the essays I’m proposing would be different.
They would suggest that you are aware of the important ideas,
events and leaders who came before you, who made it possible for
you to spend the next four years of your life in this thing we
call college.  ( Naomi Schaefer Riley  is the author of “The Faculty Lounges
and Other Reasons Why You Won’t Get the College Education You
Paid For.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Naomi Schaefer Riley at  naomisriley@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 