-- Currency Manipulators Check Global Growth, Australia’s Swan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-17T04:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/currency-manipulators-check-global-growth-australia-s-swan-says.html
Governments that manipulate their
currencies are a hindrance to global growth, Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said at the meeting of Group of 20 finance
ministers in Moscow.  “Market-based exchange rates, fiscal and monetary policies
supporting jobs and growth; that’s the core of the G-20
agenda,” Swan said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday. “To have people artificially target their exchange
rates completely repudiates that approach.”  Swan and his peers in Moscow have sharpened their stance
against governments trying to influence exchange rates, as they
seek to tame speculation of a global currency war without
singling out Japan for criticism. With the yen near its lowest
level against the dollar since 2010, policy makers are
attempting to soothe concern that some countries are trying to
weaken exchange rates to spur growth through exports.  Swan, who has been attempting to reduce the negative
effects that the high Australian dollar has had on domestic
exports and the manufacturing and service industries, declined
to specify that Japan had manipulated the yen to his nation’s
detriment.  The yen’s devaluation was “a matter for the market,” he
said. “The Japanese approach is one to stimulate their domestic
economy. That is also good for the global economy.”  Two Speeds  Australian policy makers are aiming to rebalance
Australia’s two-speed economy, where mining regions in the north
and west thrive off of Chinese demand while manufacturers and
retailers in the south and east struggle under the strength of
the local currency.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard, whose ruling minority Labor
government trails in polls ahead of the Sept. 14 election,
announced a A$1 billion program in Melbourne today designed to
spur manufacturing. It included A$500 million to establish 10
“industry innovation precincts” and A$350 million toward the
Innovation Investment Fund in a bid to boost start-up companies.  Demand for Australia’s resources such as  iron ore , coal and
natural gas has helped drive up Australia’s currency 27 percent
since June 2010. Still, in the past year, weaker commodity
prices and the elevated currency have prompted miners including
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  to put off projects and cut jobs, while a
construction slump forced building-materials company  Boral Ltd. 
to reduce payrolls.  G-20 finance ministers were also starting to look at ways
to close loopholes that allow multinational companies to avoid
or reduce their tax payouts, Swan said.  “It is clear there are some multinational companies that
are simply not paying tax,” he said. “What we need is a global
approach to dealing with this problem. If the revenue is being
deliberately reduced, and people are not paying their fair share
of tax, that puts a great burden on taxpayers in those countries
and indeed on taxpayers around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  