-- Ecuador Votes on Correa Bid for New Term Amid Spending Jump
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-02-17T17:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/ecuadoreans-vote-on-correa-bid-for-new-term-amid-social-spending.html
Ecuadoreans began voting today to
pass judgment on President  Rafael Correa ’s bid for a new four-
year term following a surge in government spending aimed at
boosting his support.  The former economics professor, who raised the minimum wage
and increased cash handouts to the poor last month, led the
seven-candidate field with 62 percent of those surveyed saying
they planned to vote for the incumbent, according to a Feb. 5
poll by Quito-based pollster Perfiles de Opinion. The  National
Electoral Council  plans to announce partial voting results after
polls close around 5 p.m. local time.  As the head of a nation where about one in three of its
15.4 million citizens live in poverty, Correa has pledged to
“radicalize” his “citizens’ revolution” with free education
and health care if elected to a new term. Correa needs at least
half the valid votes cast or 40 percent of the vote plus a 10
percentage-point lead over the second-place candidate to be
elected in the first round.  “What’s at stake is Correa’s model of governing and social
spending and redistribution,” Eurasia Group analyst  Risa Grais- Targow  said by telephone from Washington. “He’s very popular,
and so this is about whether people want continuity or change.
From what we can tell from polls right now, it looks like the
overwhelming sentiment is toward continuity.”  First Round  The Perfiles survey, the last poll published before the
elections, shows  Guillermo Lasso , the former chief executive
officer of Ecuador’s second-biggest publicly traded bank,  Banco
de Guayaquil SA , trailing Correa in second place with 9.2
percent support. The survey of 8,050 people had a margin of
error of 1 percentage point. Six other polls found Correa
leading with support ranging from 48 percent to 59 percent.  If no candidate receives the requisite number of votes in
the first round of balloting today, a second-round election will
be held April 7 between the top two candidates.  President Correa, accompanied by his vice presidential
candidate Jorge Glas, called on Ecuadoreans to exercise their
vote responsibly today after casting his ballot at a local
elementary school in Quito.  “The destiny of the nation is in the hands of
Ecuadoreans,” Correa said after voting. “This is a democratic
festival, a national festival, please vote with conscience,
responsibility and infinite love for the fatherland.”  Foreign Debt  Correa, an ally of Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , was first
elected in 2007 on his pledge to renegotiate the country’s
foreign debt and lift the nation’s poor out of poverty.  In 2008, he defaulted on $3.2 billion of bonds and pushed
through laws nationalizing the country’s crude reserves two
years later. While the moves provided short-term gains, the 49-
year-old Correa is now paying the cost with stagnant crude
output and declines in private investment needed to boost
slumping growth.  Ecuadoreans also will vote for a new congress. Correa’s
ruling Alianza Pais political party may increase its control of
the legislature to between 80 and 100 of the assembly’s 137
seats, Eurasia Group said in a Feb. 11 research note.  An increase in the price of oil, tax increases and loans
from China have helped Correa more than double spending in the
past six years, fueling growth.  Now, with oil prices forecast to remain unchanged around
$97 per barrel into 2014, the next government will struggle to
find money to finance campaign promises, said former Finance
Minister  Fausto Ortiz , who worked with Correa in 2007-2008.  “Whoever wins, be it Correa or the opposition, they will
face an economy without the abundant resources seen over the
last six years,” Ortiz said in a phone interview from Quito.
The next president “will need to approach the private sector
and foreign investors to be able to substitute financing that’s
no longer available from oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 