-- Lee Kuan Yew Discharged From Hospital After Mini-Stroke
-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-02-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/lee-kuan-yew-discharged-from-hospital-after-mini-stroke.html
Lee Kuan Yew , Singapore’s first
prime minister, was discharged yesterday after being
hospitalized for two days for a condition linked to a 
prolonged irregular heartbeat.  Lee, 89, was sent to the Singapore General Hospital 
after the suspected transient ischemic attack, a condition 
with stroke-like symptoms that clear within a day, according 
to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office on Feb. 16.  “The doctors are following up with him to optimize his
anti-coagulation therapy, in order to minimize the risk of
further transient ischemic attacks,” the PMO said in a
statement yesterday.  Lee, the Cambridge University-trained lawyer who led the 
island from British rule, crafted a legacy of encouraging 
foreign investment, averting corruption and emphasizing 
discipline, efficiency and interracial harmony. He stepped 
down in 1990 after 31 years as prime minister, handing power 
to Goh Chok Tong. Lee’s eldest son, Lee Hsien Loong, took 
over from Goh as the third prime minister in 2004.   Under Lee’s 31 years as the city’s first elected premier,
the nation was transformed from a colonial backwater into
Southeast Asia’s only advanced economy. He stepped down in 1990,
handing power to  Goh Chok Tong . Lee’s eldest son,  Lee Hsien Loong , took over from Goh as the third prime minister in 2004.  The elder Lee stayed on in the cabinet under Goh and his
son, and resigned in May 2011 after the ruling party he co-
founded won the general election with the smallest margin of
popular vote since independence in 1965.  “There is still the view that Lee Kuan Yew wields
tremendous influence and he is still seen as a talisman of
thought,” said Eugene Tan, assistant law professor at Singapore
Management University and a nominated member of Parliament.
“There is a lot of interest and concern about his health. He
embodies the golden age of Singapore in light of current
difficulties. There is a mix of people who revere him and those
who feel that he is no longer apt for this period 
in Singapore’s development.”  Past Illnesses  When Lee was 86, he was diagnosed with sensory peripheral
neuropathy which impaired feeling in his legs, his daughter Lee
Wei Ling, a senior consultant at the  National Neuroscience
Institute  in Singapore, wrote in a column in the Sunday Times in
November 2011. He also had a heart pacemaker implanted in 2008
after suffering from an irregular heartbeat.  The island republic is the only country in Asia with
triple-A ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Thousands of Singaporeans demonstrated on Feb. 16 against a
government plan to increase the island’s population through
immigration, saying the policy will erode the national identity
and threaten their livelihoods.  Protesters gathered at Speakers’ Corner at Hong Lim Park at
the edge of the city’s financial district on a rainy afternoon,
many dressed in black and carrying signs opposing the plan.
Lawmakers from Prime Minister Lee’s ruling party endorsed a
white paper earlier this month that outlined proposals including
allowing more foreigners through 2030 to boost the workforce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linus Chua in Singapore at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  