-- Egypt Islamist Party Chief Meets With Opposition to Ease Tension
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-17T07:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/egypt-islamist-party-chief-meets-with-opposition-to-ease-tension.html
The head of the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party said he met with opposition leaders,
including Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, amid a push to ease
political tensions that have triggered violence.  The announcement by Saad El-Katatni, who had held the post
of parliament speaker in the now-dissolved legislature’s lower
house, marks the latest step by political rivals to bridge a
divide that has stunted economic recovery and stability efforts.
The news of the meeting came in an e-mailed statement from the
party.  ElBaradei and other critics of President  Mohamed Mursi  have
argued the Islamist leader is intent on bolstering the
Brotherhood’s power at the expense of the nation’s broader
interests. Weeks of unrest that boiled over after the Islamists
and the opposition signed a deal renouncing violence have left
over 50 dead and presented Mursi with his most serious political
crisis since taking office at the end of June.  The meeting came as the Brotherhood’s party wrapped up two
days of internal discussions aimed at charting a course forward
ahead of upcoming parliamentary elections, for which a date has
yet to be determined. While it secured the largest bloc of seats
in the now-dissolved parliament, the FJP faces new challenges as
Mursi’s popularity has waned amid criticism of his stewardship
of the country. The economy has been growing at the slowest pace
in two decades since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.  Living Standards  The party agreed to concentrate its efforts on building
state institutions and working to boost living standards for
Egyptians through concerted work with the state and charitable
organizations, the Freedom and Justice Party said in an e-mailed
statement. It will also concentrate on establishing a
“fundamental basis for building the economy of a state facing
many challenges,” it said.  The Islamist party has launched an initiative over the past
few weeks aimed at providing help to the country’s neediest
citizens, including free medical care and at-cost goods. The
effort was a throw-back to the Brotherhood’s traditional methods
of building grassroots support, which they honed as an
opposition group under Mubarak, whose ouster in 2011 paved the
way for their rise to political power.  The group also said it was immediately starting on its
election platform, including taking into consideration
alliances, to ensure it secures a majority in the next
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  