-- Mursi’s Son Withdraws Egypt Job Application Amid Criticism
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-17T17:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/egypt-protests-called-against-hiring-mursi-son-for-state-job.html
One of Egyptian President  Mohamed Mursi ’s sons said he was withdrawing his application for a job
with a state-run company, amid a lawsuit and allegations he
would secure the post because of his father’s job.  Omar Mursi, a recent graduate of Zagazig University’s
Faculty of Commerce, said he decided not complete the
application with the Egypt Airports and Air Navigation Holding
Company and stressed on his  Facebook  page that the question
remaining is “how can I get a job in my beloved Egypt?”  The younger Mursi also struck back at claims that his
salary was to be thousands of dollars, saying it paid 900
Egyptian pounds ($134) per month, not 27,000 pounds as some had
alleged.  The issue sounded a sour note among many young Egyptians
who struggle to find work for years after graduation and argue
little has changed since  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime in terms of the
need for high-level contacts to secure state jobs. The country’s
unemployment rate climbed to 13 percent in the fourth quarter of
2012 versus 12.4 percent a year earlier, government data show.  Activist groups had criticized the apparent intent to offer
him a job, a move defended days earlier by the civil aviation
minister, who argued the younger Mursi was qualified for the job
and had gone through all the necessary tests and passed.  “The decision came through nepotism and is against the
constitutional principal of equality between citizens,” said
the groups, including the Revolutionary Youth Coalition and
Egypt Students Movement, in a statement.  “We won’t allow the current regime to repeat Mubarak’s
regime or repression, working for their personal interests,”
the statement cited Bishoy Asaad, founding member of the Justice
and Equality movement, as saying.  Egypt’s prosecutor-general ordered an investigation into a
lawsuit filed against the president, Prime Minister  Hisham Qandil  and other officials to reverse the hiring of Mursi’s son,
Al-Ahram newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net 
 Tarek El-Tablawy  in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  