-- Greece May Get Cruel Reward for Its Success
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-02-17T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/greece-may-get-cruel-reward-for-its-success.html
Greece  reported  recently that it has
reached a primary budget surplus, the Holy Grail of austerity,
meaning that once you exclude interest payments on the country’s
massive debts, the government is finally taking in more revenue
than it spends.  This news should be worthy of a ticker-tape parade, after
three years of Draconian retrenchment and a partial writedown of
privately held Greek debt. Cruelly, however, the main
beneficiary of a return to primary surplus may not be Prime
Minister  Antonis Samaras  and his pro-bailout government, but the
main opposition Syriza party, which is pushing for the country
to refuse further austerity measures and declare a moratorium on
its debt payments.  In reality, the Finance Ministry was premature with its
announcement. It said the government reached a non-consolidated
primary surplus in 2012 -- but on a consolidated basis the
country still ran a small deficit. Plus, the calculations
exclude any IOUs the government has run up, of which there are
many, particularly from the second half of last year when Greece
waited for delayed bailout funding and had no other way to pay
its bills.  True Balance  Still, the International Monetary Fund  says Greece  will
probably reach a true primary balance this year, a genuine
achievement made at enormous cost, if you recall that Greece
started the crisis in 2009 with a primary budget deficit of 10.7
percent of gross domestic product. Bringing that figure down to
zero is all the more impressive given the government’s slow
progress in tackling tax evasion and that Greece is in an
economic depression. As a result, the vast majority of the
fiscal adjustment has had to be made through severe cuts in
spending.  Now Greece should be able to reap its reward. Yet one
benefit that economies suffering a debt crisis normally gain
from reaching a primary surplus will be unavailable, due to the
nature of the debt relief that Greece has received to date.  Running a primary surplus reduces the potential cost of
default. A country that doesn’t pay back its debts can expect
either to lose market access entirely, or to borrow at an
unsustainably high cost. This is hugely problematic if the
government is running a primary deficit, because it needs to
borrow money to continue running the state. A government in
primary surplus, by contrast, can get along without access to
debt markets.  Greece has very little short- or medium-term debt on which
to default.  A deal  in March last year saw the vast majority of
privately held Greek government debt swapped for bonds that
start to come due only in 2023, and official creditors agreed in
December to extend maturities on the Greek debt they hold by  15
years . For a government in power today, the possibility of
default in 15 years’ time is essentially irrelevant.  The only bondholders on whom Greece could default in the
next decade are the European Central Bank and a small number of
holdouts from the private-sector debt  restructuring  last March.
A default on this small amount of debt isn’t in the interests of
Greece or its international creditors because the risks would
far outweigh any benefits. So they are unlikely to be the
sticking point in any negotiation.  Syriza Boon  From the point of view of the current government, the net
result is that a primary surplus may play into the hands of
Syriza, which has long argued that Greece should declare a
moratorium on its debt payments and stop implementing the
austerity conditions attached to the bailout.  So far, the government has been able to argue that
austerity is necessary to keep the bailout loans coming, in
order to fund crucial services such as health care and
education. The alternative -- refusing to retrench and being cut
off from international loans -- would involve Greece printing
its own currency to afford these basic services, resulting in
sovereign and bank defaults and a huge drop in living standards
for Greeks. Samaras eventually won last year’s elections because
playing along with the troika -- the ECB, the IMF and the
European Commission -- and accepting further spending cuts
seemed the better option.  That argument becomes more difficult to make once Greece
has a primary surplus and can fund itself (provided it doesn’t
have to service debt). Syriza will be able to argue that the
rationale for wage, pension and spending cuts would no longer be
to guarantee the provision of basic services to the Greek
population, but to pay bitterly resented international
creditors.  Of course, it is impossible to predict exactly how Greeks
will respond to their success in eliminating the primary
deficit. Samaras and his New Democracy party got a boost in
opinion polls from their success in securing a partial debt-
relief deal in November, and edged about a percentage point
ahead of Syriza in two opinion polls late last month. But if
Greeks come to perceive that they are suffering purely for the
benefit of creditors, they may refuse to play along any longer.  That would be a disastrous choice, because structural
reform of the Greek economy is crucial not just to the country’s
short-term budgetary arithmetic but to its long-term growth
prospects as well. And without public support, it will be
impossible to implement such change, no matter what the
intentions of the government and its international creditors may
be.  ( Megan Greene  is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. Until 2012, she was the
director of European economic research at Roubini Global
Economics LLC. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 