-- Libya Parliament Chief Appeals for Calm Amid Dearth of Investors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-02-17T12:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/libya-parliament-chief-appeals-for-calm-amid-dearth-of-investors.html
Libya’s parliamentary chief and de-
facto head of state said foreign companies’ reluctance to move
in was a sign of growing chaos, as he implored all to work to
stabilize the nation two years after the start of the uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi .  “It’s the responsibility of all the people, not just the
government, to keep the country safe and secure,”  Mohammed Magariaf  said in a televised speech from Benghazi, Libya’s
second largest city and the birthplace of the 2011 revolt. “The
first proof of the country not being safe is the foreign
companies not wanting to come in.”  Magariaf’s call during the last official day of anniversary
celebrations reflects the unease in the country that sits atop
Africa’s largest proven reserves of crude. The government of
Prime Minister  Ali Zaidan  has struggled to restore calm,
grappling with a litany of problems including regional militias,
Islamists and a population that has seen little in the way of an
improvement in daily life.  The choice of Benghazi as the venue for his speech appeared
as much a symbolic move as one reflecting the political
realities in Libya. The eastern part of the country was the
first to jockey for greater autonomy from the central government
in Tripoli, threatening to undercut the fitful push to stability
over the past few months.  The government has also struggled to reform the legal
sector, meeting resistance both from Qaddafi loyalists and from
regions jostling for what they see as a fair share of the spoils
after the revolution.  Magariaf said it was critical that Libya deal with
corruption, which he described as having become an
“addiction.”  “Let’s say no to corruption. Let’s say no to chaos,” he
said, adding that “we must stand together to stop the racism,
the violence -- to stand together as one country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  