-- Israel Economy Posts Slowest Growth Since 2009 on Exports
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-17T14:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/israel-economy-posts-slowest-growth-since-2009-on-exports.html
Israel’s economy expanded an
annualized 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest in
more than three years, as exports declined and investments fell.  Growth  slowed from a revised 2.8 percent pace in the
previous three months, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of
Statistics said in an e-mailed statement today. The median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
growth of 2.7 percent.  “The figures point to an across-the-board weakness in
exports, in investment, and in consumption,” said  Alex Zabezhinsky , chief economist at DS Securities & Investments Ltd.
in Tel Aviv. “We had been doing very well compared to the rest
of the world and now things are deteriorating a bit.”  The central bank’s monetary policy committee, led by
Governor  Stanley Fischer , kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.75 percent at the end of January, after gradually
reducing it from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to shore up
the economy amid the European debt crisis. Fischer said last
month that he will step down at the end of June.  “The data supports further loosening,” said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. January
data on industrial exports and tax revenue “seems pretty
dismal,” he said.  Housing Prices  Katz said that while he may forecast a decision to hold the
benchmark rate again at the end of this month, he couldn’t
“rule out a rate cut in the second quarter, if housing prices
do stabilize,” he said.  Israel’s economy will probably expand 3.8 percent in 2013,
the Bank of Israel said in December, updating its forecast to
include natural gas production. Excluding gas output, the growth
outlook was revised down to 2.8 percent, it said.  The yield on Israel’s 2.5 percent notes fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.28 percent at 2:48 p.m.  Exports declined an annualized 6.5 percent in the fourth
quarter, after shrinking 8 percent in the third. Imports fell
8.1 percent, after dropping 10.9 percent, the bureau said.
Exports make up about 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic
product.  Investments fell at an 11.7 percent pace, after dropping
4.1 percent in the previous quarter, the bureau said. Private
consumption was little changed, rising an annualized 0.3
percent, after a 1.1 percent increase in the third quarter.  Government consumption rose an annualized 5.1 percent in
the fourth quarter, after an 0.9 percent increase in the
previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  