-- Japan’s Hurt Locker Squad Digs Local Beach to Explode Dud Shell
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-02-17T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/japan-s-hurt-locker-squad-digs-local-beach-to-explode-dud-shell.html
Residents evacuated a swath of the
central Japanese city of Hamamatsu yesterday and bullet train
runs halted for an hour as military explosives experts detonated
a World War II-era artillery shell at a local beach.  Almost 70 years after the war,  Ground Self-Defense Force 
bomb squads are still clearing unexploded ordnance throughout
the nation, including in central Tokyo. They’ve dealt with some
6,000 tons of duds since the government began keeping records in
1958, according to defense ministry records.  Hamamatsu evacuated about 10,000 residents and halted rail
and road traffic as the latest dud, an 860-kilogram (1,900-pound)
shell probably fired by a U.S. Navy ship, was transported to the
beach and exploded, according to a statement by city authorities.  “They have completed demolition of the shell,” Hidetaro
Honma, an official at Hamamatsu city hall, said yesterday by
phone. “We have not received any reports of accidents or
trouble during the procedure.”  Construction work in Japan routinely uncovers unexploded
bombs dropped during the war or munitions abandoned at former
Japanese or U.S. arms caches. Japan’s ordnance-disposal teams
handled 38 tons of explosives in the fiscal year ended March
2012, according to the  Ministry of Defense .  Explosive Legacy  About 160,000 tons of bombs were dropped on Japan’s main
islands, mostly from B-29 aircraft, during the last five months
of the war, according to U.S. Air Force records. Japan’s defense
ministry has no estimate of the number of duds that may remain,
said Colonel Takeshi Yoshizuka, who heads the GSDF’s ammunition
section.  The 16-inch (41-centimeters) naval artillery shell found in
Hamamatsu, home to  Suzuki Motor Corp . and  Yamaha Corp ., was
unearthed Oct. 11 by construction crews at a maintenance site of
 Central Japan Railway Co ., which operates bullet trains that
pass through the city on the route between Tokyo and Nagoya.  Sergeant First Class Makoto Ohashi and five members of his
crew of disposal specialists, a job portrayed in the 2008
Hollywood movie “The Hurt Locker,” yesterday removed the shell,
transported it to a 4.5-meter hole on the beach and detonated it.  Routine, Precision  Ohashi, who has disabled 12 bombs in the past decade,
follows the same routine each time to settle his mind, including
a precise placement of the tools in the order they’ll be needed.
Last year, he and his team safely disabled a 225-kilogram shell
discovered in the Motoakasaka neighborhood of Tokyo, near the
grounds of the palace that’s home to Japan’s Crown Prince.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who returned the Liberal
Democratic Party to power in December, is pledging to boost
construction spending to stimulate the economy. That may lead to
a jump in bomb discoveries, said Noboru Yamaguchi, a professor
at the National Defense Academy in Yokosuka, south of Tokyo.  “We are increasingly going to dig for new construction, so
there is a possibility we’re going to find more unexploded
shells,” said Yamaguchi, a retired GSDF lieutenant general.  No Japanese disposal specialists have been injured during
missions, said Lieutenant Colonel Masataka Takahashi, who leads
Bomb Disposal Unit No. 102, which covers central and eastern
Japan and includes Ohashi’s team.  “Our mission is to continue that legacy,” Takahashi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  