-- Yankees’ Jeter Targets Opening Day in Return From Broken Ankle
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-02-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/jeter-says-surgically-repaired-ankle-will-be-ready-for-opener.html
Derek Jeter  said his recovery from
left ankle surgery is on schedule and that he’ll be ready to
start at shortstop in the New York Yankees’ April 1 regular-
season opener at home against the Boston Red Sox.  Jeter, who broke a bone in his ankle during the 2012
postseason four months ago, won’t be on the practice field today
as the Yankees begin their first full-squad spring training
workouts in Tampa, Florida.  Jeter also won’t play in any early spring training games,
which begin Feb. 23, and said he plans to move his running
program from the treadmill to the field in the next few days.  “I’m right where I’m supposed to be,” Jeter said at a
news conference yesterday. “Up until this point, the ankle has
healed perfectly. Now, it’s just a matter of getting everything
else in shape. I’m going to have to push myself, but opening day
has been the goal all along.”  Jeter was injured lunging for a ground ball during Game 1
of last year’s American League Championship Series against the
Detroit Tigers. The Yankees’ captain said the offseason was
“terrible” as he recovered from surgery in which plates and
screws were inserted in his ankle to provide stability.  Jeter said he was stuck on his couch for five or six weeks
and used a scooter to get around his house at one point.  “I don’t want to make it sound more dramatic than it is,
but you have to learn to walk again,” Jeter said. “In that
sense, physically it was a challenge. Mentally, it was a
challenge when you are sitting on the couch and you can’t get
anywhere.”  19th Season  Jeter, a 13-time All-Star who will be entering his 19th
year with the Yankees, batted .316 with a major league-leading
216 hits last season.  The 1973 Boston Red Sox are the only team in major league
history to post a winning record while playing with a regular
shortstop who turned 39 or older during the season, ESPN said.
Boston went 89-73 that year with shortstop Luis Aparicio playing
the last of his 18 major league seasons at age 39.  Jeter, who turns 39 on June 26, said questions about his
health are expected as he gets older.  “If I didn’t break my ankle, I’d still be answering
probably similar questions,” Jeter said. “As much as I’d like
to be getting younger, I’m not. Everybody’s getting older.  ‘‘I don’t think about age when I’m playing. I really
don’t,” he added. “If you get caught up talking about how old
you’re getting, those are negative thoughts. I just try to focus
on getting ready to play and doing the best I can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  