-- Khamenei Condemns Iran Leadership Quarrels
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-17T13:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/khamenei-condemns-iran-leadership-quarrels.html
Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  reprimanded the nation’s president and his political
rival for starting a battle in the public eye, stating again the
need to preserve a united front to fight western sanctions.  Khamenei spoke yesterday following a Feb. 3 face-off in the
parliament between President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and
Parliamentary Speaker  Ali Larijani  with the two trading
accusations of corruption and immoral conduct.  “The head of one of the branches in the government accused
the head of the other based on unproven evidence that hasn’t
been brought up in court,” Khamenei said in comments published
on his  website . “This was bad and unsuitable.”  Ahmadinejad aired a video that allegedly links Fazel
Larijani, a brother of the parliamentary speaker, and of the
head of the judiciary,  Sadegh Larijani , to corruption. At the
end of the session, lawmakers impeached Ahmadinejad’s Labor
Minister, Abdolreza Sheikholeslami. Days later, backers of
Ahmadinejad heckled Ali Larijani during his public address in
the holy city of Qom and threw shoes and clay prayer tablets at
him.  “The other side was wrong as well on the impeachment.”
said Khamenei, who has the final say on all affairs of the
state. “Impeachment must serve a purpose. What’s the point of
impeaching a minister a few months before the government ends
its term?”  International Sanctions  The escalating political infighting comes as Iran is
battling a series of sanctions including a European Union ban on
Iranian oil purchases and new U.S. measures this month that
restrict the Persian Gulf country’s access to cash from oil
exports. Iran, which is at odds with the U.S. and its allies
over its nuclear program, is holding a presidential election in
June.  Ahmadinejad, once a protege of Khamenei, fell out of favor
with the top cleric during his second term after challenging his
authority. Ali Larijani, a staunch follower of Khamenei, is seen
as a potential candidate in the June 14 race. While Ahmadinejad
is unable to run for a third consecutive term and will be
leaving office in August he is seeking to retain some influence
by promoting an ally for the post.  Larijani lost to Ahmadinejad in the 2005 vote and later
stepped down as a nuclear negotiator over his disagreements with
the president.  “When we are all brothers and we see the common enemy
facing us and with its plots, what should we do?” Khamenei
said. “My expectation from officials is that now that the
enemy’s actions have become more intense they too must
strengthen internal ties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  