-- NBA’s 2015 All-Star Game Likely to Be in New York, Silver Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-02-17T05:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/nba-s-2015-all-star-game-likely-to-be-in-new-york-silver-says.html
The National Basketball
Association’s 2015 All-Star game will likely be in New York
City, deputy commissioner  Adam Silver  said.  What he couldn’t say was whether the league’s midseason
showcase would be held in the home of the New York Knicks or
Brooklyn Nets.  Both teams have submitted applications to host the game,
Commissioner  David Stern  said yesterday during an All-Star press
conference in Houston. Stern, 70, is stepping down next February
and has named Silver to be his successor as the NBA’s top
executive.  “I think that Commissioner Silver is going to have a great
time with those applications,” Stern said yesterday. “And I
asked him to send me a postcard to tell me how they go.”  New York City last hosted the All-Star game at the Knicks’
Madison Square Garden in 1998, when  Michael Jordan  won his third
and final All-Star game Most Valuable Player award. Next year’s
contest will be in New Orleans.  Silver said the league had discussed hosting future All-
Star games overseas.  “I’m not sure if it will work logistically, but it’s
something we’ll continue to study,” Silver said.  Midtown Manhattan’s Madison Square Garden is in the middle
of a $1 billion privately funded renovation. The Nets moved into
the $1 billion Barclays Center prior to the start of the season.  Stern said his favorite All-Star memory came in 1992,
handing the game’s MVP trophy to  Magic Johnson , who three months
earlier had announced he was diagnosed with HIV. Despite
retiring from basketball after the announcement, Johnson was
voted into the All-Star game and made a three-point shot in the
contest’s final moments.  “Giving sweaty Magic Johnson a big hug right after he hit
the last three and still being able to hug him, because he’s
alive, every time that I see him,” Stern said. “That is at the
top of the list and it will not easily be dislodged.”  -- With assistance from  Scott Soshnick  in Houston. Editors:
 Nancy Kercheval ,  Mike Sillup .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in Houston at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  