-- Obama and Tiger Woods Golfing Today, White House Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-17T20:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/obama-tiger-woods-golfing-today-white-house-official-says.html
President  Barack Obama  played golf
today with  Tiger Woods , according to White House spokesman  Josh Earnest .  Woods, who is working to rebuild his legacy after a 2009
scandal over extramarital affairs derailed his career, joined
the president, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  and  Jim Crane ,
an Obama supporter who owns the exclusive Florida golf course
where they played, Earnest said.  Obama is spending the Presidents Day weekend at the
Floridian National Golf Club in Palm City, playing golf with
friends and donors. The White House didn’t permit reporters
traveling in the president’s press pool to enter the club today
or to watch the foursome play.  The  Tom Fazio -designed private course and club is owned by
Crane, who also owns the Houston Astros baseball team. Yesterday
Obama played with Woods’ former coach  Butch Harmon , who created
the club’s instructional facility.  Crane, 59, an avid golfer and chairman and chief executive
officer of Houston-based Crane Capital Group, and his wife,
Franci, have donated $57,700 to Obama and to the Democratic
National Committee since 2007, when Obama announced his
candidacy for president, according to data compiled by the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington group that examines
the influence of money on politics.  Woods, the No. 2 player in the Official World Golf Ranking,
holds 14 major titles and opened his U.S. PGA Tour season last
month with his seventh win at the Farmers Insurance Open in La
Jolla, California.  Obama arrived in Florida on Feb. 15 and is scheduled to
return to Washington late tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Port St. Lucie, Florida, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  