-- Housing Probably Cooled at Start of 2013: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-02-17T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/housing-probably-cooled-at-start-of-2013-u-s-economy-preview.html
New residential construction cooled
in January and U.S. existing-home sales slowed after the
strongest year since 2007, representing a break in the momentum
for the industry, economists said before reports this week.  Builders  started  work on 920,000 houses at an annual rate
following December’s 954,000 pace that was the fastest since
June 2008, according to the median forecast of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Commerce Department data on Feb.
20.  Purchases  of previously owned properties fell, while the
cost of living was contained, other figures may show.  More hiring and easier access to credit would help
complement historically low mortgage rates and further stoke a
housing market that emerged last year as a bright spot for the
economy. Little inflation is providing Federal Reserve policy
makers with the scope to hold down borrowing costs, minutes of
their January meeting may also show this week.  “The January numbers for housing will be a bit softer
after the exaggerated strength toward the end of the year,”
said  Josh Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez
Inc. in New York. “Housing will recover at a modest pace this
year.”  For all of last year, builders began work on  780,000  homes,
a 28 percent increase from 2011 and the third straight annual
gain. Even with the yearly improvement, housing starts remain
short of the 2.07 million in 2005 at the peak of the boom, which
was three-decade high.  The Commerce Department may also report that building
 permits , a proxy for future construction, climbed 1.2 percent in
January to a 920,000 annual rate, the highest since July 2008,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Apartment Construction  Increased household formation is also encouraging builders
to diversify into construction of apartments. Miami-based Lennar
Corp. in January said it plans to construct $1 billion of
multifamily properties. Toll Brothers Inc., the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, said it will begin development of high-end
college dormitories.  Sentiment in real estate is improving as the selling season
gets under way. The period is traditionally viewed as starting
the weekend after the National Football League’s Super Bowl,
which was held Feb. 3.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  may have climbed this month to 48, the
highest reading since 2006, from 47 in January, economists in
the Bloomberg survey projected before the Feb. 19 report.  PulteGroup Inc., Lennar, and D.R. Horton Inc., the top
three U.S. homebuilders by market value, said  orders rose  in the
most recently reported quarter.  Builder Shares  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index  has
surged 69.1 percent in the 12 months to Feb. 15, outpacing a
13.1 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  “The combination of incredibly low mortgage rates,
continued increases in rental rates and especially rising home
prices, and very low -- and likely to stay low -- inventory
levels for housing lead us to believe that 2013 will be a better
year for U.S. housing than 2012,”  Richard Dugas , chief
executive officer of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based
PulteGroup, said on a Jan. 31 earnings call.  Fewer listings may have prompted purchases of previously
owned houses to drop in January to a 4.9 million annual rate
from 4.94 million the prior month, the Bloomberg survey median
showed before the National Association of Realtors’ release on
Feb. 21. The projected pace still exceeds the  4.65 million 
properties sold last year.  The number of properties on the market decreased in
December to 1.82 million, the fewest since January 2001,
according to the Realtors group.  Federal Reserve  Fed officials are debating how long to continue their bond
buying effort, designed to foster economic growth and cut 7.9
percent  unemployment . The central bank last month kept its
monthly purchase pace at $40 billion in mortgage-backed
securities and $45 billion in Treasury purchases.  Minutes of the Fed’s Jan. 29-30 meeting, due on Feb. 20,
may provide “potential color on the timing and winding down”
of the so-called quantitative easing program, MFR’s Shapiro
said. At this time, “inflation is not a constraint on what the
Fed is doing,” he said.  The view may be reinforced by price measures from the Labor
Department. The consumer-price gauge rose 0.1 percent in
January, the first increase in three months, economists in the
Bloomberg survey projected ahead of the Feb. 21 report.  The core index, which excludes volatile food and energy
expenses, rose 1.8 percent in January from a year earlier, the
smallest gain since July 2011, according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  