-- Nadal Wins in Brazil for First Tennis Title Since French Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-18T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/rafael-nadal-wins-first-tennis-title-since-return-from-injury.html
Rafael Nadal  beat  David Nalbandian 
in the Brazil Open final to secure his first tennis title since
winning last year’s French Open.  Top-seeded Nadal, playing only his second tournament
following a seven-month absence because of a knee injury,
defeated the Argentine 6-2, 6-3 yesterday in Sao Paulo to win
his 37th clay-court career title.  The 11-time Grand Slam champion chose to make his comeback
on his favored surface this month and last week reached the
final in Chile, where he lost to Horacio Zeballos, then ranked
No. 73. Yesterday’s victory gave Nadal his first trophy since
winning his men’s record seventh French Open in June 2012.  “At the end of your career what’s left are the titles, and
depending on certain moments there are some titles that you
appreciate very much,” Nadal, 26, said in comments distributed
by the ATP World Tour. “This one I appreciate it the most
because of all the struggles I went through during the week,
with some problems with my knee some days.”  Nadal, who dropped to No. 5 in the world during his
absence, is next scheduled to play at the Mexican Open starting
Feb. 25 in Acapulco. He had been sidelined with a partially torn
patella tendon and knee inflammation that forced him to miss the
London Olympics, U.S. Open and Australian Open.  Nadal said he’s taking a week-by-week approach to his
schedule as he tries to manage his knee. Following the early-
season clay swing through South America and Mexico, the men’s
tour heads to the U.S. in March for Masters hard-court
tournaments in Indian Wells and Miami.  “I am not in a position to think too far ahead,” Nadal
added. “I need to think day by day, week by week. Let’s see how
my knee feels in Acapulco. We will analyze at the end of this
clay swing what happened in these last three tournaments and I
will see if I am ready to play in Indian Wells.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  