-- Saxo Bank CEO Says Euro Is Doomed as Currency Woes Resurface
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-02-18T12:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/saxo-bank-ceo-says-euro-doomed-as-single-currency-woes-resurface.html
Lars Seier Christensen , co-chief
executive officer of Danish bank Saxo Bank A/S, said the euro’s
recent rally is illusory and the shared currency is set to fail
because the continent hasn’t supported it with a fiscal union.  “The whole thing is doomed,” Christensen said yesterday
in an interview at the bank’s Dubai office. “Right now we’re in
one of those fake solutions where people think that the problem
is contained or being addressed, which it isn’t at all.”  The euro has gained 8.2 percent versus the dollar in the
past six months and reached as high as $1.3711 on Feb. 1, the
strongest since Nov. 14, 2011. The European Central Bank
forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year and ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 7 that the
currency’s gains pose a risk for growth and inflation.  While the euro has strengthened, the economies of Germany,
France and Italy all shrank more than estimated in the fourth
quarter. Ministers from the 17-member euro area met during the
week to discuss aid to Cyprus and Greece as a tightening
election contest in Italy and a political scandal in Spain
threaten to reignite the region’s debt crisis.  “I’d be a bigger seller of the euro at anything near
1.4,” according to Christensen, who said he isn’t making any
speculative bets against the currency.  The euro declined 0.2 percent to 1.3332 against the dollar,
falling for a fourth day.  Shrinking Investment  France is grappling with shrinking investment, job cuts by
companies such as  Renault SA  and pressure from European partners
to speed budget cuts. While Germany expanded 0.7 percent last
year, France posted no growth and Italy probably contracted more
than 2 percent, the weakest in the euro area after Greece and
Portugal, according to the European Commission.  The economy is on the brink of its third recession in four
years and the highest joblessness since 1998. Prime Minister
 Jean-Marc Ayrault  said Feb. 13 the country won’t make its
budget-deficit target of 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year as the economy fails to generate growth and taxes.  “Another possible fallout is getting rid of some of the
countries that are being ruined by being in the euro, notably
the southern European economies,” Christensen said. “People
have been dramatically underestimating the problems the French
are going to get from this. Once the French get into a full-
scale crisis, it’s over. Even the Germans cannot pay for that
one and probably will not.”  Cyprus Election  Cyprus has been shut out of debt markets for nearly two
years with lenders including Bank of Cyprus Plc and Cyprus
Popular Bank Plc losing 4.5 billion euros ($6 billion) in
Greece’s debt restructuring last year. The nation is holding a
presidential ballot today where the economy is the main issue
rather than reunification of the divided island.  Spanish and Italian bonds rose last week as debt sales
allayed concern the nations may struggle to raise funds before
Italy goes to the polls to elect a new prime minister. Yields on
Spain’s 10-year bonds fell for the first week in five as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the country
had achieved “enormous progress” in its reforms. The spread
between Spanish 10-year bonds and comparable German securities
decreased two basis points to 354 basis points.  Spain, which plans to sell three- and nine-month bills
tomorrow and bonds maturing in 2015, 2019 and 2023 on Feb. 21,
faces a sixth year of slump. Output is forecast to contract for
a second year in 2013 with unemployment at 27 percent amid the
deepest budget cuts in the nation’s democratic history.  Record Debt  Public-sector debt is at record levels, having more than
doubled from 40 percent of gross domestic product in 2008. The
European Commission, which is due to update its forecasts this
week, sees it rising to 97.1 percent of GDP next year.  “It’s the political world that has been extremely
supportive of the euro, not for economic reasons but for
political reasons,” said Christensen, a long-time critic of the
single currency who now lives in Switzerland.  TPG Capital, the private equity firm started by  David Bonderman , bought a 30 percent stake in Saxo Bank in August 2011
for about $560 million. Christensen and co-founder and co-CEO
 Kim Fournais  maintain majority ownership of the company.  The Hellerup, Denmark-based bank said in August that first
half profit dropped to 44 million kroner ($7.8 million) from 346
million kroner a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  