-- U.K. Labour’s Miliband Seeks Allies on European Tour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-17T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/u-k-labour-s-miliband-seeks-allies-on-european-tour.html
Ed Miliband , leader of the U.K.
opposition Labour party, will visit Denmark, Sweden and the
Netherlands this week, seeking to demonstrate engagement with
the European Union following Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
recent confrontations.  Since the start of the year, Cameron has pledged a
referendum on U.K. membership of the 27-nation bloc and then
negotiated its first-ever budget cut. Miliband has argued that
the promise of a referendum by the end of 2017 is likely to
deter investors, and Cameron is isolated in Europe and having
policy dictated by Euro-skeptic lawmakers at home.  The Labour leader’s choice of countries suggests that, like
Cameron, he sees the U.K.’s best allies in the EU as north
European countries. It was these countries that joined Britain
and Germany to push for a budget cut at this month’s EU summit.
Miliband will meet social democratic leaders in each country,
including Danish Prime Minister  Helle Thorning-Schmidt  tomorrow.  “Britain’s future lies in Europe not outside it,”
Miliband said in a statement before his departure. “But with
millions of people out of work across Europe including 1 million
young people in Britain, it’s clear that Europe isn’t working
for its people. I will be talking to allies across Europe about
how we change it to make the EU work for working people and help
us all begin building for the future.”  Two Defeats  Thorning-Schmidt is the daughter-in-law of a previous
Labour leader,  Neil Kinnock . Kinnock, who led the party from
1983 to 1992, was defeated at two elections. He went on to
become a European commissioner from 1995 until 2004.  After Denmark, Miliband flies to Sweden, where he’ll meet
Stefan Loefven, leader of the Swedish Social Democrats on Feb.
19, and then to the Netherlands, where he’ll see  Diederik Samsom , Leader of the Dutch Labour Party, on Feb. 20.  Cameron in 2011 established the “Nordic-Baltic Summit,”
an annual meeting of Northern European nations, more sympathetic
to the British view that the European Union should focus on free
trade, rather than social legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  