-- U.K.’s Osborne Calls for Tax Reforms to Aid Developing Countries
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-17T12:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/u-k-s-osborne-calls-for-tax-reforms-to-aid-developing-countries.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the U.K. will use its Group of Eight presidency to
advance policies on tax evasion, including measures to help
poorer countries collect revenue.  “We are determined to use our presidency to drive a
serious debate on tax evasion and tax avoidance,” he wrote in
the  Observer  newspaper today. “This will include action to help
developing countries collect tax that is due to them.”  Osborne said coordinated action is needed to complement his
bid to boost public finances by clamping down on tax evasion.
Group of 20 finance chiefs ended two days of talks in Moscow
yesterday with a pledge to curb multinational companies’ leeway
to move profits to low-tax countries, endorsing a push
spearheaded by the U.K., France and Germany.  The U.K.’s overseas aid helped Ethiopia increase tax
collection and is also assisting countries including Kenya and
Ghana, Osborne wrote. Britain, which took up its presidency of
G-8 on Jan. 1, will also seek greater transparency and
accountability in oil, gas and mining companies by leading
European Union efforts to push for more financial information on
their operations by country, he wrote.  Osborne’s Conservatives lost ground in opinion polls this
week, according to a ComRes Ltd. survey for the Independent on
Sunday and the Sunday Mirror. Support for the party fell one
point to 31 percent and dropped three points to 8 percent for
the Liberal Democrats, the junior coalition partner. Support for
the opposition Labour party fell one point to 36 percent. ComRes
interviewed 2,002 British adults Feb. 13 to 14. No margin of
error was given.  “It’s certainly possible to make progress” on corporate
tax avoidance, Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said on Sky News
today. “Often international companies play one country against
another, and it’s sensible that governments should cooperate to
deal with abuse.”  Home Secretary  Theresa May  wrote in the Mail on Sunday that
she will introduce legislation that will require the deportation
of foreign nationals who commit serious crimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  