-- UN Envoy Calls on Opposing Syrian Factions to Hold Talks
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-17T15:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/un-envoy-brahimi-calls-on-opposing-syrian-factions-to-hold-talks.html
Lakhdar Brahimi , the United Nations
envoy to Syria, called on the government of President  Bashar al- Assad  to meet opposition leaders for talks to end the conflict.  Brahimi said Syrian opposition leader  Moaz al-Khatib ’s
invitation for talks with the Syrian regime “opened a door”
for solving the Syrian crisis, MENA cited Brahimi as saying
during a press conference in Cairo today. Brahimi called on all
sides of the conflict in Syria, as well as the international and
regional communities, to respond.  More than 60,000 people have died in the conflict that
started in March 2011, according to the UN, as forces loyal to
Assad fight rebels who are seeking an end to his family’s rule.
Electricity rationing has worsened as the fighting disrupts
supplies and prevents repairs to damaged infrastructure, while
fuel is also in short supply.  Assad’s government signaled last week that it’s ready to
meet with the Syrian National Coalition led by al-Moaz. The
opposition leader has requested talks focusing on finding a way
for the president to leave power and halt the violence.  Ali Haidar , Syria’s minister for national reconciliation,
said he is willing to meet al-Khatib, the U.K.-based  Guardian
newspaper  reported on Feb. 11. Information Minister  Omran al- Zoubi  said the government would hold talks if the opposition
abandons weapons and sets no pre-conditions.  Brahimi said if negotiations can begin on UN premises, that
“will be a beginning for getting Syria out of this dark
tunnel,” MENA reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  