-- Tunisia’s Ettakatol Doubtful About Technocrat Government Deal
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-17T16:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/tunisia-s-ettakatol-doubtful-about-technocrat-government-deal.html
One of the three parties ruling
Tunisia voiced doubts that an agreement would be reached on
forming a technocratic government, saying the main Islamic group
seemed more interested in street protests than dialogue.  There are “no positive indications for agreement,” the
Ettakatol Party’s spokesman, Mohamed Bennour, said in an
interview. He said he hopes “the voice of reason and the
interests of Tunisia will win over partisan interests.”  The comments from the party from which President  Moncef Marzouki  hails reflect the divide in the birthplace of the so-
called Arab Spring. Thousands of supporters of Ennahda, the
moderate Islamist party holding the largest bloc of seats in
parliament, massed yesterday in protest against a push by the
premier to replace the current Cabinet with a body of
technocrats in a bid to ease tensions after the assassination of
a leading opposition politician earlier this month.  The Feb. 6 killing of Chukri Beleid in front of his home
plunged Tunisia into the worst political crisis it has endured
since President  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  was ousted in a popular
uprising in 2011, and spotlighted simmering tensions in the
country where the opposition has claimed Ennahda is seeking to
monopolize power and intimidate its critics. Secularists are
also worried the moderate Islamist movement is courting
ultraconservative Salafis who comprise a small and increasingly
vocal bloc intent on imposing Islamic law in the country.  Jbeli Initiative  Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli , faced with mounting
opposition, warned he would quit his post if his bid to form a
new government fails. Jbeli is expected to announce tomorrow
whether the days of discussions have resulted in a compromise.  The prime minister’s initiative is aimed at calming the
political situation in the country, “but Ennahda insists on
going back onto the streets to show its power,” Bennour said.
These marches only serve to “increase tension while the country
needs calm from all,” he said.  Ettakatol’s secretary-general, Mustafa Ben Jaafar, said the
party supports forming a technocratic government that also
includes “qualified” political figures, arguing it was the
only way out of the current political crisis, the state-run TAP
news agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  