-- Vote on Hagel’s Nomination May Come Quickly, McCain Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/vote-on-hagel-s-nomination-may-come-quickly-mccain-says.html
U.S. Senator  John McCain , a vocal
opponent of former Senator  Chuck Hagel ’s nomination as defense
secretary, said yesterday that Republicans shouldn’t delay a
vote any further.  “We will have a vote when we get back” from this week’s
break for the Presidents Day holiday, the Arizona Republican
told NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. Even though the nominee
is “the most unimpressive that I’ve ever seen,” McCain said,
“I’m confident that Senator Hagel will probably have the votes
necessary.”  McCain is a senior member of the Armed Services Committee,
which on a party-line vote last week sent the nomination to the
full Senate for confirmation. He said the vote on Hagel would be
held even though he thinks that the Nebraska Republican’s views
are “far to the left” of the mainstream and that his former
colleague hasn’t explained his policy ideas well enough.  Senate Democrats have scheduled a confirmation vote for
Feb. 26. Republicans blocked a Feb. 14 vote, the first time the
minority party has threatened to filibuster a nominee to head
the Pentagon, because there hadn’t been enough time for the
White House to answer questions about the Sept. 11, 2012, attack
on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, McCain said.  Hagel, 66, who served two terms in the Senate, has faced
challenges from members of his own party because of his past
opposition to unilateral sanctions against Iran, his comment in
2006 about the influence of what he called “the Jewish lobby,”
and his statements against the U.S. troop buildup in 2007 that
hastened the end of the Iraq war.  Graham’s Criticism  Even as McCain predicted Hagel’s confirmation, Republican
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina stepped up his
criticism of the nominee.  “You’re talking about a person whose voting record shows
softness on Iran and antagonism toward Israel beyond belief,”
Graham said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “He’d be the
most antagonistic senator toward the state of Israel in
history.”  Graham, who also serves on the Armed Services Committee,
said on Feb. 11 that he would block confirmation votes for Hagel
and for  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s choice to head
the Central Intelligence Agency, until senators had received
more detailed information about the Benghazi attack, which left
four people dead, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens.  McCain said there were still unanswered questions about
what the president did the night of the attack, as well as why
then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wasn’t aware of how
vulnerable the mission was.  Resolution Soon  Speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” one of three Sunday
news shows on which he appeared, the new White House chief of
staff,  Denis McDonough , expressed confidence that the dispute
over Benghazi would be resolved soon. The administration has
already sent detailed written responses to lawmakers’ questions,
he said. In addition, there have been 20 congressional
briefings, he said, and more than 10,000 pages of documents have
been provided.  “The president is not done with Benghazi,” McDonough
said. “He’s demanded of us, since that night, to find out
exactly what happened, and to make every reform needed to ensure
it does not happen again.”  On another Obama priority, gun control, McCain said that
legislation requiring universal background checks backed by
Senators  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, and  Joe Manchin , a
West Virginia Democrat, may gain enough support in the Senate to
pass.  Their proposal is intended to close the so-called gun-show
loophole. Under current law, purchases at such shows currently
don’t fall under requirements for checks of criminal records or
mental-health histories.  “I applaud their efforts,” McCain said. “We want to do
everything we can to prevent guns from falling into the hands of
people who are mentally unbalanced or criminals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  