-- What I Didn’t Hear at the New York Times
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B o u t o n
-- 2013-02-17T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/what-i-didn-t-hear-at-the-new-york-times.html
After I lost my hearing in one ear,
I did well enough with the hearing in my other one. But as that
ear started to go, in my late 40s, I  floundered .  Hearing loss dominated my waking life. Every time someone
said something to me that I couldn’t follow, every time I
flinched at a loud noise, every time I couldn’t hear at the
movies or the theater, every time I answered the phone and not
only couldn’t tell who was calling but even whether the caller
was male or female, I despaired.  Once I had a conversation on the phone with my son,
thinking it was my husband. Another time my husband himself
called and I took a wild stab that it was someone calling for
him, and asked if he could call back later.  Even in a crisis, my hearing thrust its way forward. After
my husband had cancer surgery, my focus was on hearing the
surgeon to the extent that I missed most of what he said. When
my mother had a medical crisis and the EMS arrived, the
overwhelming issue was hearing their words, not what the words
meant. A transportation glitch, such as a stalled subway or a
grounded plane, isn’t about being delayed or trapped or
claustrophobic. It’s that I can’t hear what’s being said -- not
only announcements but even speculation from fellow passengers.
I am often reduced to tears of frustration, and sometimes I
panic, unable to ask for help -- because I can’t hear the answer
or help myself.  Workplace Panic  Surprisingly, despite this handicap, I managed to work for
22 years in a highly competitive and stressful environment: the
 New York Times . My close colleagues knew I had trouble hearing,
but not how much trouble I had. I was an editor, and I would
arrange to work with writers in person as often as possible, or
via e-mail. For many of those years I could still manage on the
telephone. It wasn’t until my left ear bottomed out, with my
right ear following closely behind, that I ran into true
difficulty.  I’d recently moved from my longtime home base, the New York
Times Magazine, to the daily culture desk. The  culture editor 
knew about my hearing problems and thought we could work around
them. It was a steep learning curve -- an unfamiliar computer
system, a confusing and relentless series of daily deadlines,
new colleagues, new writers, new sources. I often edited four or
five or more stories a day for the next day’s paper, while
assigning more to be written for future days. Even with normal
hearing I’d have been overwhelmed. Half-deaf, I kept my head
barely above water.  Several months into the job, I had the severest drop in my
hearing since the original one, 30 years earlier. It was a
devastating blow, professionally and psychologically. I was just
getting into my stride in the new job, and now was forced to
start over again with an enormous handicap. This time I had to
tell people. Some tried to accommodate me; others seemed to
simply forget.  I improvised. My work life was one long dance around the
fact that I couldn’t hear a single thing. At a meeting I was
leading, with eight or 10 people, I deftly (or so I thought)
asked participants to send me a summary of their suggestions and
I would incorporate them in my report. When someone called on
the phone, I’d say, “I’m really swamped. Could you follow up
with an e-mail?” Unless caller ID told me who the speaker was, I
often couldn’t tell.  The Times building has an  open plan , symbolizing
transparency. It’s beautiful, but the acoustics are terrible.
Sound drifts up through the central atrium, and voices carry
across a vast sea of desks and cubicles. Every morning in our
department we had a 15-minute meeting to set the agenda for the
day. It was held just off the atrium.  Mumblers, Mustaches  No matter where I stood, the one person I really needed to
hear was invariably on the other side of the room. People
mumbled, or looked down at notes as they spoke. There were
mustaches and beards, hands nervously fluttering in front of
mouths. Lip reading was difficult. Generally I only found out
what had been said when the daily schedule came about an hour or
so later.  I left the paper in 2009 when a new boss came into my
department. I delayed telling him about my hearing loss. I
wanted him to get to know me, so that when I told him about the
hearing loss it would be one of many qualities, perhaps even an
incidental one, not the primary one. That was a mistake.  Eventually in an interview I initiated, sensing some
distance on his part, he stunned me by saying that he didn’t
think I was a “team player” and that he didn’t think things were
working out for me in the department. So much for faking it. My
advice to anyone in the workplace with hearing loss is to be
open and upfront about it. If you aren’t, sooner or later it
will backfire.  After I left the Times, I went back to reporting and
writing, this time about hearing loss. I interviewed many
scientists and  researchers , always using a tape recorder. After
each interview, I had only a vague sense of whether the
interview had gone well or not.  I took no notes because I didn’t want to be distracted from
listening as intently as possible, and often I had no idea what
we had actually talked about. When the transcriber sent my
interviews back, I read them with total fascination. They were
full of interesting information, and it was clear that I was
hearing well enough to ask appropriate follow-up questions and
to have a real conversation. But listening that intently took
enormous cognitive effort, and eclipsed my ability to remember
any of it.  ( Katherine Bouton  is a former senior editor at the New York
Times. This is the first of three excerpts from “ Shouting Won’t
Help : Why I -- and 50 Million Other Americans -- Can’t Hear
You,” to be published Feb. 19 by Sarah Crichton Books, an
imprint of Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions expressed are
her own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Katherine Bouton at  katherinebouton@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  