-- Myanmar Telecom Frontier Draw May Make It Costly: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K y a w   T h u   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-17T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/myanmar-telecom-frontier-draw-may-make-it-costly-southeast-asia.html
Myanmar’s promise as a rare
opportunity to tap an undeveloped telecommunications market may
prove to be a costly affair for the license winners.  “It is one of the few markets left in the world with
significant untapped voice and data potential,” said Sachin
Gupta, a Singapore-based senior analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“The opportunity is tremendous, but not without risks either.”  The country of 64 million people will award two licenses by
June, for which it has 91 expressions of interest.  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company,
Malaysia’s  Axiata Group Bhd. , ST Telemedia Pte and Norway’s
Telenor ASA have indicated they may participate.  Myanmar, where 9 percent of the population has a mobile
phone, wants to boost telecom coverage to as much as 80 percent
of the country by 2016. By comparison, Cambodia has a
penetration rate of 70 percent, Laos 87 percent and Thailand
more than 100 percent. The challenge for new operators will be
to recoup the cost of building a network in a country the size
of Texas that is one of Asia’s poorest.  The licenses may last as long as 20 years with an option
for renewal, the government said in a  statement  on Jan. 15. The
91 expressions of interest came from companies in Asia, the
Americas, the Middle East, Europe, Oceania and Africa, including
“some of the largest global telecommunications companies,”
according to a statement posted on the Myanmar Posts and
Telecommunications Ministry  website  on Feb. 15.  Widespread Poverty  Myanmar has one of the lowest per-capita gross domestic
products in Asia, standing at $855 last year compared with
$5,851 for Thailand, according to  International Monetary Fund
estimates . An Asian Development Bank assessment of Myanmar
released in June last year found that a quarter of the
population lives in poverty and about three in four people don’t
have access to electricity.  Mobile phones have been out of reach for most Myanmar
consumers since limited services were first introduced in 2001.
The cost of activating a phone using the global system for
mobile communications standard, or GSM, was initially about 4.5
million kyat ($5,250). That has since fallen to about 200,000
kyat for a GSM chip, according to prices at phone vendors in
Yangon, meaning a handset is still out of reach for most.  Myanmar said last month that the goal is to make
“telecommunications services available to the public at
affordable prices in both urban and rural areas, and to give the
citizens and the enterprises the capability to choose their
telecommunications services.”  Political Risk  Myanmar had 5.44 million mobile-phone subscribers as of
December, equivalent to a 9 percent penetration rate, the
government said last month. About 1.3 percent of the population
has access to fixed-phone lines and 0.03 percent has broadband
Internet, according to estimates from the ADB.  “There are 60 million users there potentially, but that
needs a lot of network investment,” said Nomura’s Gupta, whose
team was ranked first for telecommunications research in Asia by
Institutional Investor last year. “It’s almost building from
scratch when it comes to rolling out towers, access,
transmission and distribution.”  Any investment may also come with political risk, said Ken
Ang, a Singapore-based analyst at Phillip Securities Pte.  “The political scene has improved but there’s still some
areas of uncertainty,” Ang said, noting that a change in
government might lead to different requirements or previous
agreements not being honored. “Should nationalism issues be
brought up, this could see some threats to foreign ownership in
the telecoms sector in Myanmar.”  Selection Process  Rules for the second stage, where bidders eligible for the
third and final stage will be determined, will be provided “in
coming weeks,” according to last week’s statement.  “Having prior emerging market experience should be
beneficial, along with the ability to deploy capital,
relationships with the equipment vendors or handset
procurement,” Gupta said. “Reforms in the telephony sector are
critical for overall development and progress, so they will need
to be mindful of security and social issues too.”  Parliament may approve a draft telecommunications law in
the first half of this year, which will include the creation of
an independent regulator by 2015, the government said last
month.  The winners will be “those that have the financial muscle
to stay in the game for the long-haul,” said Jonathan Koh, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian in Singapore. Southeast Asian bidders
that are backed by telecommunications companies “may have a
better chance,” he said.  Historical Presence  “They would likely favor a country that has an existing
relationship with the Myanmar government, not necessarily” from
Southeast Asia, said Ang at Phillip Securities. “Japan has
quite a lot of business presence in Myanmar, so we cannot rule
out the Japanese.”  Bidders with Myanmar partners may also have an edge, Koh
said. “It’s normally seen as a plus, that the local investors
also benefit from the growth of the country.”  SingTel, which owns Australia’s second-biggest phone
company and holds stakes in wireless operators in countries
including Thailand, the Philippines and India, said last month
it submitted its expression of interest with Myanmar partners.  SingTel wants to focus on wireless services because they
are “more cost effective, a faster solution to provide
communications infrastructure to the masses, particularly in the
rural areas, very quickly,” Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock
Koong said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Feb. 14.  Other contenders are Kuala Lumpur-based Axiata and ST
Telemedia, a unit of Temasek Holdings Pte. Axiata has mobile-
phone interests in countries including India, Indonesia,
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, while  ST Telemedia  controls  StarHub
Ltd. , Singapore’s second-biggest phone company, and holds stakes
in wireless companies in Malaysia and Vietnam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  