-- Yen Weakens After G-20 Refrains From Censuring Japan
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-02-18T16:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-17/yen-weakens-after-suga-calls-for-easing-as-kiwi-advances.html
The yen weakened, extending losses
that have made it the worst-performing major currency in the
past three months, after Group-of-20 nations refrained from
criticizing Japanese policies driving the decline.  Japan’s currency approached the weakest since May 2010
versus the dollar as Morgan Stanley said the final G-20
communique released in Moscow fell short of last week’s Group-
of-Seven statement and means recent trends in currencies may
resume. The pound dropped to a seven-month low after Bank of
England policy maker  Martin Weale  said its decline may bolster
exports. The euro fell as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the economy worsened at the start of this year.  “There’s renewed selling pressure on the yen and it’s a
reaction to the G-20 statement,” said  Adam Myers , head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “Everyone has woken up to the
realization that the G-20 couldn’t criticize Japan when many
other countries are manipulating their own currency.”  The yen fell 0.5 percent to 93.95 per dollar at 4:29 p.m.
London time after depreciating to 94.46 on Feb. 11, the weakest
level since May 5, 2010. Japan’s currency dropped 0.4 percent to
125.41 per euro after sliding 0.7 percent on Feb. 15. The euro
declined 0.1 percent to $1.3350.  The yen has tumbled 13 percent versus the dollar in the
past three months as Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  announced
spending increases and pressured the Bank of Japan to boost
monetary easing. The decline is the most of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg versus the greenback.  Moscow Talks  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers ended two days
of talks in Moscow on Feb. 16 with a statement pledging not to
“target our exchange rates for competitive purposes,” without
singling out Japan.  Japanese officials said they haven’t deliberately sought to
weaken their currency and its decline was a byproduct of efforts
to revive the economy. U.S. Treasury Undersecretary  Lael Brainard  criticized “loose talk about currencies.”  “They basically said that the Japanese can continue to
pursue their policies to reflate their economy, which the G-20
and the G-7 have called for, for a couple of years now,” said
 Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “We’ll see the Japanese
continue to pursue aggressive fiscal easing and monetary easing,
and just not talk about the currency so much.”  Odds Increase  There’s a 54 percent chance the yen will depreciate to 100
per dollar by year-end, according to options data compiled by
Bloomberg. The odds have increased from 25 percent on Jan. 24.
The median prediction of about 80 strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for it to end 2013 at 95 per dollar.  The main focus for the yen now is on who will be appointed
to replace BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , who will step down on
March 19, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Hans Redeker  in London,
wrote in the note to clients published Feb. 16.  Abe is likely to nominate Asian Development Bank President
 Haruhiko Kuroda , who is set to pursue the government’s anti-
deflation course, though if he nominates former BOJ deputy
governor  Toshiro Muto , that may trigger the yen to retrace
losses back to 90 per dollar, Morgan Stanley said.  Abe said in parliament today that the purpose of monetary
easing is to end deflation and he wants to show the government’s
intentions through nominees for BOJ governor and deputies soon.  Pound Falls  The pound fell for the first time in three days versus the
euro on speculation Bank of England minutes to be released this
week will echo those from January, which said sterling’s real
exchange rate was above the level needed to help the economy
rebalance. Futures traders reversed bets the pound would rise,
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  “Investors are struggling to have faith in sterling,”
said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FxPro Group Ltd. in London.
“Investors are seeing an economy which is possibly entering
another recession and is likely to see inflation holding above
target. The central bank is also wanting to see the currency
lower. Weale’s comments were a fresh piece of evidence.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5472 after sliding to
$1.5438, the weakest since July 13. Sterling depreciated 0.2
percent to 86.29 pence per euro.  Sterling has tumbled 4.5 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 0.9 percent and the euro rose 2.2 percent.  The euro approached a three-week low against the dollar
after Draghi told the European Parliament in Brussels that
“available indicators signal further weakness at the beginning
of 2013, with domestic demand remaining dampened.”  The 17-nation currency dropped to $1.3306 on Feb. 15, the
weakest level since Jan. 24.  U.S. financial markets are shut today for the Presidents’
Day holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  