-- H&R Block Misses Estimates on Promotion Costs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/h-r-block-misses-estimates-on-promotion-costs.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, fell 3 percent in extended trading yesterday after the
firm reported a fiscal third-quarter loss as free services to
lure clients curtailed revenue.  Net loss from continuing operations for the three months
ended Jan. 31 was $3.57 million, or 1 cent a share, compared
with a loss of $11 million, or 4 cents, in the same period a
year earlier, the Kansas City, Missouri-based company said in a
statement. The average  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, adjusted for certain items, was for a profit of 7
cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer William C. Cobb, 55, has increased
spending on marketing and offered free services to recapture
market share from competitors such as TurboTax maker  Intuit Inc. (INTU) 
H&R Block spent $121 million on advertising last year, the most
among tax preparers and a 7 percent increase from 2010,
according to Nielsen Holdings NV data, which exclude Internet
and business-to-business marketing.  “Our top priority was to serve more clients through
aggressive marketing and promotional efforts,” Cobb said in a
conference call with analysts. “I’m pleased that these
decisions have worked and we are executing well against our
long-term strategies.”  H&R Block fell 47 cents to $15.40 in extended New York
trading and had dropped as much as 77 cents after the results
were announced. The shares  declined 2.8 percent  this year
through the close of regular trading yesterday.  Refund-Anticipation Loans  The tax preparer grappled with the loss of revenue from
refund-anticipation loans for the second year after U.S.
regulators prompted HSBC Holdings Plc to stop offering the
loans, called RALs, in December 2010. RALs are secured by a
customer’s expected tax refund, with annualized  interest rates 
that may run as high as 124 percent at some firms.  H&R Block, in response to the loss of revenue from RALs,
has promoted similar refund-anticipation checks and offered them
free to some clients through Feb. 4, contributing to a $30.3
million decline in quarterly RAC revenue, according to the
statement. RACs let taxpayers without bank accounts take
advantage of the speed of directly deposited tax refunds through
an account established for the payment.  “With competitors aggressively promoting RALs this year,
we believe offering free RACs was the right decision,” Cobb
said in the conference call.  Total third-quarter revenue fell 2.5 percent to $663.3
million. H&R Block generates most of its annual profit in the
fiscal fourth quarter, which corresponds with the U.S. tax
season ending in mid-April.  Total returns prepared for the fiscal year through Feb. 28
rose 5.1 percent from the same period a year earlier, and
digital filings climbed 13 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  