-- Abbott Laboratories Stent Wins U.S. Approval for Treating Clots in Legs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-07T21:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/abbott-laboratories-stent-wins-u-s-approval-for-treating-clots-in-legs.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Absolute Pro
stent won U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approval to treat
patients with clogged arteries leading to the legs.  The condition, known as peripheral artery disease, develops
when a blockage or narrowing in the vessel reduces the blood
supply to the legs, causing chronic pain and trouble walking.
The stent is threaded into the blockage in the iliac artery that
runs from the hip down the leg, and expanded to clear a path for
blood to resume flowing.  Between 8 million and 12 million American are affected by
the condition, which also affects blood flow to the head, arms
and kidneys, said the Peripheral Arterial Disease Coalition in
Lakewood,  Colorado . Patients who used Absolute Pro had
significantly fewer deaths, heart attacks or repeated procedures
than expected based on previous trials using older stents, the
 Abbott Park , Illinois-based company said in a statement today.  “Iliac artery disease greatly impacts patients’ overall
quality of life,” said study investigator Tony Das, director of
peripheral vascular interventions at Presbyterian Heart
Institute in  Dallas , in a statement. “U.S. physicians now have
an additional option that is proven safe and effective to treat
many patients with this debilitating disease.”  Abbott fell less than 1 percent to $56.26 at the close of
New York trading. The shares rose 16 percent in the past 12
months.  Peripheral  vascular devices, including stents, angioplasty
balloons and synthetic grafts, generated $4.3 billion in global
revenue 2010 and may earn $5.6 billion in 2014, according to
Technavio, a market research firm in Elmhurst,  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  