-- Tablet by Any Other Name Not as Sweet as Apple Calls It ‘IPad’
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/tablet-by-any-other-name-not-as-sweet-as-apple-calls-latest-version-ipad-.html
An iPad is an iPad is an iPad.  That’s the message  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  conveyed yesterday when it
unveiled the third version of its tablet computer, calling it
only...iPad.  After naming the previous version iPad 2, Apple abandoned a
number-based nomenclature, surprising pundits who speculated
that the company might name its new tablet “iPad 3” or “iPad
HD,” referring to its high-definition screen.  Failing to set apart the new tablet by name could lead to
brand confusion for consumers who own the original device, also
called iPad, or for buyers of later versions, said Matt Gordon,
 director of naming and writing  for Landor Associates, a brand
consulting firm based in  San Francisco .  “It does complicate things after the purchase,” he said.
“It’s also confusing with the original iPad, down the road, as
people have multiple generations of this device.”  Sticking with the original name of a device is hardly new
for Cupertino, California-based Apple. The company updated the
iPod multiple times without attaching numbers to the digital
music player. Ditto for MacBook laptops and iMac desktops.  Naming the device iPad 3 “would be so predictable,”  Phil Schiller , Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing,
said in remarks to reporters. “We’ve had many products where
we’ve never used numbers. Sometimes we do, sometimes we don’t.”  The move stands to reinforce Apple’s dominance of the
tablet category, said  Stephen Baker , vice president for industry
analysis at NPD Group. According to market research firm Gartner
Inc., Apple will account for two-thirds of the 103.5 million
tablet devices sold in 2012.  ‘Thumb In Eye’  “It’s more of a thumb in the eye of everyone else, like,
‘We don’t have to put numbers behind our products, because
everyone knows what ours is,’” Baker said.  Apple gets about 20 percent of its  sales  from the iPad,
attracting consumers as well as business users. It outfitted the
newest version with a sharper screen and faster chip designed to
help the company widen its lead over Amazon.com Inc., Microsoft
Corp. and Google Inc. in tablets.  “This move sets up an interesting decision in terms of
branding when a new iteration comes out and the current model
starts to sell at a lower price,” said  Bill Kreher , an analyst
at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , who has a “buy” rating on Apple.
Still, he added, “I appreciate the simplicity of using just the
iPad name.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  