-- AC Milan Ousts Arsenal From European Soccer Champions League; Benfica Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-07T00:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ac-milan-ousts-arsenal-from-european-soccer-champions-league-benfica-wins.html
AC Milan held off an Arsenal
comeback to advance to the  Champions League  soccer
quarterfinals, where the seven-time European champions will be
joined by Benfica.  Arsenal got first-half goals from Laurent Koscielny,  Tomas Rosicky  and  Robin van Persie  in a 3-0 win at London’s Emirates
Stadium last night, falling short of overturning a 4-0 deficit
from the opening game in  Italy . Milan advanced to the final
eight for the first time since winning  Europe ’s elite club
competition in 2007.  “In the end, we qualified, even if the team made me lose
some weight due to stress,” Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri
said at a news conference. “Elimination could have been a
terrible blow.”  Benfica also advanced by a 4-3 aggregate scoreline after a
2-0 home win against Zenit  St. Petersburg  in Lisbon. The victory
sends the two-time European champions to the quarterfinals for
the first time in six years.  “It was a very hard-fought win,” Benfica captain Luisao
said on UEFA’s website. “We have shown that Benfica never give
up. Now we can dare to dream.”  After its worst European loss in the first game on Feb. 15,
Arsenal needed the biggest comeback in Champions League history
to advance.  “The players can be proud to play for this club because
they put everything into it,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
told reporters. “We were very close.”  On the Attack  Arsenal started on the offensive and took the lead after
seven minutes as Koscielny headed in Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s
corner kick. Oxlade-Chamberlain was then stopped by goalkeeper
Christian Abbiati, who also turned away a shot from  van Persie .  Arsenal doubled its lead when Rosicky scored after a poor
clearance from  Thiago Silva . Van Persie scored on a penalty kick
in the 43rd minute to pull Arsenal within one goal over the two
matches.  Milan’s Stephen El Shaarawy missed a chance to increase his
team’s lead as he shot wide after going in alone on goalkeeper
Wojciech Szczesny just before halftime.  Szczesny slid out to beat Zlatan Ibrahimovic to a pass
early in the second half. Abbiati then saved Gervinho’s
deflected shot with his leg and stopped van Persie’s effort on
the rebound.  “The one you would want the chance to fall to was van
Persie,” Wenger said. “Give credit to Abbiati.”  Szczesny’s Scramble  Ibrahimovic shot wide from distance with Szczesny
scrambling back to the open goal. The Arsenal goalkeeper also
went down to stop shots from El Shaarawy and Ibrahimovic, and
saved a shot from Antonio Nocerino with his foot on the goal
line. Arsenal failed to trouble Abbiati again as it pressed for
the goal to send the game to extra time.  “I really don’t know what happened in the first half,”
Milan defender Philippe Mexes said on UEFA’s website. “We
played better in the second half, with less fear, and
fortunately we managed to qualify.”  Benfica continued its European dominance at the Estadio do
Sport Lisboa e Benfica, scoring in stoppage time at the end of
each half to secure its quarterfinal spot.  Maxi Pereira gave Benfica the lead when he took a pass from
Axel Witsel and sent a shot into the lower left corner. Nelson
Oliveira then clinched the victory in the 93rd minute on the
break with a shot that deflected off Tomas Hubocan and over
goalkeeper Vyacheslav Malafeev.  “We needed this victory,” Oliveira said. “Whoever we
draw next, we will be ready.”  Benfica has lost one of its last 20 European home games,
winning 16.  Defending champion Barcelona takes a 3-1 lead into its home
match tonight against  Bayer Leverkusen , while Lyon visits APOEL
Nicosia leading 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at the Emirates Stadium in  London  at   bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  