-- Aflac Hires Meyer for New Post of Investment Operations Chief Out of Tokyo
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-03-07T15:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/aflac-s-kirsch-hires-hong-kong-exchange-s-meyer-for-tokyo-asset-management.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the seller of
supplemental health insurance that gets most of its revenue from
Japan, hired Joseph F. Meyer to the new position of global chief
operating officer in the investments division.  Meyer will join March 12 and work out of the Tokyo office,
reporting to Chief Investment Officer Eric Kirsch, the Columbus,
Georgia-based insurer said today in a statement. The new manager
will oversee support functions, such as technology and
compliance, for investment operations.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos has reshaped Aflac’s
asset-management team after the insurer suffered losses on
investments in European banks. Kirsch, previously  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s global head of insurance asset management, joined
Aflac last year to oversee its $103 billion portfolio. He and
Meyer previously worked together at Deutsche Bank AG.  “ Japan ’s a critical part of our operation,” Kirsch said
in an phone interview today. “Having somebody of his seniority,
that I’ve worked with before, sitting there really completes the
picture.”  At the end of April, the insurer plans to move into a new
7,000-square-foot office on  Wall Street  in New York that will
eventually hold 25 people, Kirsch said. Aflac said last year
that it would be adding staff in the city after Kirsch’s hire.  “New York is a major commitment that we’ve made,” said
Kirsch. “You will see a major build-out in terms of more
resources” as the company undergoes a review of its investment-
management operations, he said.  Meyer was previously the chief administrative officer of
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, according to the statement. He
also served as chief operating officer and managing director in
Deutsche Bank’s insurance asset-management business. He holds a
bachelor of arts degree from Colby College.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  