-- Agfa Gains as IT Sales, Lower Debt Ease Concern: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-03-07T10:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/agfa-gains-as-it-sales-lower-debt-ease-concern-brussels-mover.html
Agfa-Gevaert NV (AGFB) ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of health-care imaging systems, rose the most in five
months in Brussels after a  surprise  increase in health-care
revenue and cash generation eased concern about loan covenants.  Agfa climbed as much as 12 percent on Euronext Brussels,
the most in intraday trading since Sept. 26, and  traded  8 cents
higher at 1.47 euros by 10:52 a.m. local time. The shares have
lost 55 percent in the past 12 months.  The  health-care division  reported the biggest revenue
increase in five quarters, led by rising sales of higher-margin
ORBIS hospital-management software and a recovery in digital-
imaging systems. A reduction in inventories helped Agfa to
generate 96 million euros ($126 million) of  cash  from operations
in the final quarter, cutting net debt to 267 million euros, or
about 1.2 times last year’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortization and one-time items.  “This should take away fears about possible breaches of
debt covenants,”  Nico Melsens , an analyst at KBC Securities NV
in Brussels, wrote in an investor note. “The impact from the
recession on the top line seems more limited than expected and
as a consequence results are not as weak as feared.”  The fourth-quarter  net loss  was 43 million euros, compared
with profit of 32 million euros a year earlier, the Mortsel,
Belgium-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
reorganization costs, operating profit before interest and taxes
fell 43 percent to 43 million euros. Analysts projected
operating profit of 20.5 million euros, according to the average
estimate of three analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Agfa set aside an additional 55 million euros in the fourth
quarter for reorganization costs linked to declining demand for
film products used for X-rays, printed circuit boards and in
printing. Customers are scaling back purchases of film as Agfa
sought to pass on rising costs of silver, a key raw material
used in photographic film.  Assuming no big swings in raw-material prices, Agfa said it
aims to restore its Ebitda margin to at least 10 percent “in
the medium to long term” from 7.2 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  