-- Thai Interest Rates, Foreign Reserves Too High, Thaksin Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-03-07T08:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/thai-interest-rates-foreign-reserves-too-high-thaksin-says.html
Thaksin Shinawatra , who was deposed
as Thailand’s prime minister in 2006, comments on the country’s
economic outlook,  interest rates  and foreign reserves. He spoke
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Seoul  yesterday.  On interest rates:  “The central bank has the committee to consider whether
they are going to raise or bring down the interest rate. They
worry about inflation too much. During this economic slowdown
you should not push the interest rate. That is my opinion. We
have nothing to do with it because it’s their autonomy.”  “I don’t think now we need domestic consumption to drive
growth and drive jobs. The interest rate should be low to help,
yes.”  On the economic outlook:  “In the third quarter of this year the economy in Thailand
will pick up due to money we put in for reconstruction and then
by the end of the year they will do a lot more construction, not
just the flood but infrastructure. We will stimulate the economy
through  government investment  and then we will promote domestic
consumption as well, so that will be helping the economy.”  On the minimum wage:  “The minimum wage is too low in Thailand. It’s long
overdue.  ‘‘Otherwise it’s the labor that subsidizes the production
cost of industry.  ‘‘Let’s don’t sacrifice the human being. Let them have
enough to eat so they can produce in better quality.”  On the call by PTT Plc, Thailand’s biggest energy company, for a
strategic oil reserve:  “It’s under study. The prime minister keeps asking them
what is the business model that we will benefit from having a
strategic stockpile. Should we want to be the energy hub of that
area? Should we want to refine oil to sell to other countries in
the region? We have to have the proper answer before we decide.
The structure is not clear yet because it’s under study. It
might be a private sector investment or foreign reserves from
the central bank if the central bank agrees.”  On creating a sovereign wealth fund:  “The central bank is not interested in this. Sometimes
government officials don’t want to take any risks or
responsibilities. It’s a matter we have to discuss with the
central bank. The government cannot force them to do so.  ‘‘The foreign reserves that are unnecessarily high should
be invested. We prefer in  Thailand . We still have room to
invest, room to grow. There might be some like infrastructure or
restructuring of agricultural production, restructuring of some
industries, that money should go into the big projects that
change the direction of how we produce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  