-- U.S. Sells $6 Billion of AIG Shares at $29 Each
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-03-08T14:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/aig-to-buy-up-to-3-billion-of-its-shares-on-offer-in-6-billion-u-s-sale.html
The U.S. Treasury Department is
selling $6 billion in shares of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the insurer rescued in 2008 after it suffered losses tied
to wrong-way bets on the mortgage market.  AIG plans to purchase as much as $3 billion of the sale,
the Treasury said yesterday in a statement. Orders were received
for all of the shares, which were offered at $29 apiece, and the
books are closed, according to two people with knowledge of the
deal who declined to be identified because the process is
private. The department sold 200 million shares of  New York- 
based AIG in May at $29 each, cutting its stake to 77 percent.  A rebounding economy and climbing stock markets are
allowing Treasury to unwind bailouts from 2008 and 2009 designed
to prevent a collapse of the banking system and protect jobs.
The government still owns a majority stake in Ally Financial
Inc., after divesting holdings in banks including Citigroup Inc.
and lowering its investment in General Motors Co.  “The company is basically going to help the government put
a floor under the stock and then they’re going to sell shares,”
said Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who
has a “market perform” rating on the company. “Maybe this is
the way that they will address the remaining overhang.”  Selling Assets  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, has sold non-U.S.
providers of life coverage, a consumer lender and other
businesses to help repay the taxpayer bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67,
has sought to convince investors of the potential of remaining
units, including global property-casualty and domestic life
insurance operations.  AIG’s shares  surged  27 percent this year to $29.45 as of
yesterday’s close of trading in New York. They slipped to $28.53
today at 9:21 a.m. The company posted a $19.8 billion fourth-
quarter profit tied to a tax benefit and raised $6 billion this
week by selling shares of Hong Kong-based insurer AIA Group Ltd.
The stock in Benmosche’s company closed above the government’s
break-even price of $28.72 on Feb. 28 for the first time since
July. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 7.6 percent
this year.  Bank Managers  The Treasury hired  Citigroup (CUS) , Credit Suisse Group AG and
Morgan Stanley to manage the offering.  Matthew Anderson , a
spokesman for the department, AIG’s Mark Herr, Credit Suisse’s
Jack Grone, Citigroup’s Mark Costiglio and Pen Pendleton of
Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  Underwriters have the option to purchase an additional $900
million of the Treasury’s common stock, AIG said in a separate
statement yesterday.  If the government sells its shares at $29 each and AIG buys
half the offering, the Treasury’s stake will fall by about 206.9
million shares to 1.25 billion, or from 77 percent to about 70
percent.  AIG and the Treasury also announced a plan to repay $8.5
billion in obligations to the government. The insurer will use
$5.6 billion in expected proceeds from the AIA share sale; $1.6
billion from the wind-down of a Federal Reserve-controlled
vehicle; and $1.6 billion in escrowed cash proceeds from the
sale of a unit to  MetLife Inc. (MET)  in 2010.  Treasury’s Investment  Treasury’s outstanding investment will be $41.8 billion
after that transaction, according to the department’s statement.
The total doesn’t take into account proceeds from the share
offering announced yesterday.  “The people of AIG have achieved another significant
milestone,” Benmosche said in the insurer’s statement. “We are
very pleased with our progress to date.”  Results at the company’s largest business by revenue,
property-casualty insurer Chartis, rebounded in the fourth
quarter. The unit was forced to take a charge of more than $4
billion a year earlier after reserves proved insufficient.
After-tax operating income at AIG was $1.56 billion in the three
months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of $2.21 billion a
year earlier, the company said in February.  Benmosche cited improvements at AIG’s units and confidence
in future earnings as part of a determination to record a $17.7
billion tax benefit in the period. Losses in prior years helped
the company accumulate assets that can be used to cut tax bills.  U.S. Recoveries  The Treasury recovered about three-quarters of the $413
billion disbursed under the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
according to an October  report . Aid to GM and Chrysler LLC
helped avert the loss of  more than 1 million jobs , said the
Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told Congress in 2010 that AIG had
to be saved to avoid an “utter collapse” of the global
financial system.  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed after
trading partners demanded payments on derivatives contracts.
After three revisions, the firm’s lifeline included a $60
billion Fed credit facility, a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  The insurer was deemed by the Treasury a “systemically
significant failing institution” and was the only company to
receive bailouts through a facility created for such firms. AIG
had reported the  biggest quarterly loss  in U.S. corporate
history in 2008 and posted almost $100 billion in net losses
that year, fueled by bets on subprime-mortgage securities.  The Treasury received 92 percent of AIG’s common stock, or
1.66 billion shares, in January 2011 in exchange for a preferred
stake. The government’s  cost basis  for the shares was $47.5
billion, excluding unpaid dividends and fees of $1.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  