-- Airbus Attacks Boeing Cargo Dominance by Converting Jet: Freight
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-08T14:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/airbus-attacks-boeing-cargo-dominance-by-converting-jet-freight.html
Airbus SAS (EAD)  research that predicted a
surge in demand for cheaper mid-sized cargo jets presented the
company with a conundrum: it had no model to match  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
offering in the class and faced a steep bill for producing one.  The solution, an alliance with  Singapore Technologies
Engineering Ltd. (STE)  to convert redundant A330 passenger planes for
cargo use, aims to boost Airbus’s efforts to win a bigger slice
of a freighter market dominated by Boeing while limiting the
European company’s exposure to the project’s development costs.  “This makes good sense,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at
Oddo Securities in Paris. “Given the size of its order backlog
Airbus is in no position to do something like this on its own,
so partnering with Singapore Technologies avoids cannibalizing
its own resources. Plus a freighter conversion extends the life
of the A330 passenger model and protects residual values.”  Airbus estimates a need for 2,731 cargo jets through 2030,
according to the company’s first ever market forecast solely for
that sector, published last month and obtained by Bloomberg.
While the mid-size bracket served by its only dedicated
freighter, the $211 million A330 200F, is the biggest with a
predicted 49 percent of sales, the survey says two-thirds of
demand in that division will be for less-costly converted jets.  The European company, the world’s biggest maker of civil
aircraft, is seeking to narrow Boeing’s lead in an air-cargo
market where its rival claims a  90 percent share  of dedicated
capacity, or that provided by new and converted freighters
rather than in the holds of passenger planes. The revamped A330
would compete with converted versions of Boeing’s 767.  Different Markets  Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders , who opted to go
ahead with the project last month following pressure from A330
operators including Qatar Airways Ltd., has said the converted
plane -- known as the A330P2F, or “passenger to freight” --
won’t hurt sales of the new-build A330. Andreas Hermann, who
heads the Toulouse-based company’s freighter unit, reckons the
two models will appeal to very different buyers.  New-build planes tend to be used by carriers with high-
intensity cargo operations and minimal downtime, Hermann said in
a telephone interview, citing a 99.6 percent reliability figure
for the A330F, whereas converted aircraft are generally
preferred by airlines which require lower utilization and
therefore aren’t prepared to pay top dollar for a mint model.  Extra Value  Higher  oil prices  have complicated the equation, with
kerosene that once accounted for 25 percent of airline operating
costs now making up about 50 percent. While that’s accelerating
retirement of cargo stalwarts such as the Boeing 727 and Douglas
DC-10, dating to the 1960s, the A330, which first flew in 1992,
is modern enough for fuel thirst not to be an issue, he said.  “The A330P2F offers an opportunity to provide a modern-
technology, fuel-efficient aircraft at a relatively low price,
while airlines with well-developed networks and high utilization
can afford a new-build A330-200F,” Hermann said.  The plan should also allow airlines to wring extra value
out of the more than 830 A330s operating worldwide today, he
said. Airbus today announced plans to raise A330 production to
11 planes a month from 9 as the passenger model benefits from
slower-than-anticipated deliveries of Boeing’s 787.  The price of so-called feedstock for the conversion program
will vary according to the condition of available planes and
levels of demand, with a 15-year-old A330 likely to cost from
$30 million to $40 million, the executive said.  Behind Boeing  According to the agreement with Singapore Technologies the
Asian company’s ST Aero unit will take the lead in developing
the new model, with EFW, an existing Airbus conversion business
in  Dresden ,  Germany , heading up the industrial phase.  Conversion work will be split between the two, with the
majority being performed at in Germany, Hermann said.  The EFW facility, owned by Airbus parent European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., currently offers conversions of
A300 and A310 planes, which though similar in size to the A330
are 40 and 30 years old respectively and more expensive to fly.  Airbus abandoned plans for a venture with  Russia ’s United
Aircraft Corp. to convert A320-series narrow-body jets to carry
goods last June, saying cargo demand had dropped and that used
jets were being bought for passenger deployment. It also aimed
to build a freighter version of the A380 superjumbo before a
series of delays forced the project’s indefinite postponement.  Boeing offers a far wider range, producing new-build cargo
versions of the 737, 767, 777 and the 747-8, its most recent
model. The Chicago-based company also oversees passenger-to-
freighter conversions in every category of plane, including
defunct types such as the 757 and MD-80.  Qatar Negotiations  There are 1,274 Boeing freighters in service, including
conversions, compared with 263 Airbus planes, according to data
compiled by aviation consultancy Ascend. The U.S. company has
175 outstanding orders and its European rival has 52.  Airbus’s decision to go ahead with A330 project was colored
by Qatar Air CEO Akbar  Al Baker ’s announcement last year that he
planned to switch a batch of the planes to cargo use by 2016 and
would buy converted 767s if the planemaker wouldn’t do the work.  The third-biggest Middle Eastern airline is now in talks
with EFW about the specifics of the project, Al Baker said
yesterday in an interview, adding that he’s pushing for the
installation of a mechanism to allow pallets to be shifted
around under power within the aircraft. While the technology is
available, it would add weight and complexity, he said.  Emirates Doubts  Qatar Air, which is building up its cargo business after
last year buying a 35 percent stake in Luxemburg-based Cargolux
Airlines International SA,  Europe ’s No. 1 freight-only carrier,
is interested in the conversion of as many as 20 A330s and would
contribute an aircraft for certification purposes, the executive
said in an interview in Berlin. The carrier is also looking at
the potential for a converted version of Boeing’s 777-200ER.  “We will not buy new freighters,” he said. “The cost of
ownership is so high that there’s no way we’d make any money.”  Emirates, the biggest international airline, takes the
opposite view and is skeptical about the benefits of using
revamped planes, cargo chief Ram Menen said in an interview in
 Seattle . The Dubai-based carrier is adding nine new 777
freighters through 2014 to double its cargo fleet and will
consider placing an order for 747-8Fs once traffic picks up.  “I’m not too keen on those converted airplanes, especially
when you have oil prices where they are right now,” he said.
“They tend to be a bit more inefficient because they tend to be
heavier, and their payload capabilities are a bit challenged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  