-- Airlines Vie for First Long Washington Flights Since ’04
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-03-08T17:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/airlines-vie-for-first-long-washington-flights-since-04.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and Virgin
America Inc. are poised to jockey for new long-distance flights
at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, the first such
routes added since 2004.  Up for grabs are rights to four round trips for carriers
with limited or no service at  Reagan National , along with four
more earmarked for the largest incumbents at the airport.
Together, they will push daily long-haul departures to 20 in the
coming months, a 67 percent increase.  The extra flight slots will open transcontinental routes
from cities such as  San Francisco  that lacked service to Reagan
National, which is prized by business and government fliers for
its proximity to downtown Washington. It’s the only airport
outside  New York  where regulators control that access, and most
flights are limited to a 1,250-mile (2,011-kilometer) radius.  “Anyone who gets these slots will be ecstatic,” said Ed Faberman, executive director of the Air Carrier Association of
America, a Washington-based group that represents the interests
of small airlines. “It’s going to be a major race because new
slots are so rare. It will create all sorts of new business.”  Airlines face a March 12 deadline to apply for new service.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  is among the four big
airport tenants each getting an extra long-distance flight,
while Southwest, Virgin America and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ’s
Alaska Airlines said they will vie for the new, so-called
beyond-perimeter routes.  Smaller Competitors  They may be joined by  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) ,  Spirit
Airlines Inc. (SAVE) ,  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ’s Frontier unit
and Sun Country Airlines Inc., Faberman said. Spokesmen for
those companies declined to comment on their plans or didn’t
return calls seeking a comment.  Other eligible airlines such as  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. (HA)  and
 Air Canada (AC/B)  didn’t return calls seeking a comment.  WestJet
Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  hasn’t yet decided  whether to apply, Jennifer
Sanford, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  “This is significant, because if you’re traveling on
business and can leave from National you might not have to make
as many connections anymore, or possibly no connections on
certain routes,” said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline
analyst in Stamford, Connecticut.  The new beyond-perimeter slots were authorized by a funding
bill for the Federal Aviation Administration signed into law in
February, and are the first created since 2004, according to
 Bill Mosley , a Transportation Department spokesman.  Perimeter Rule  Regulators added the perimeter rule in the 1960s when noise
from scheduled jet service angered nearby residents. The 1,250-
mile limit for most flights allows nonstop service to cities as
far away as Houston. More-distant cities, such as Las Vegas or
Los Angeles, must have a connection or be operated under a dozen
existing exemptions that allow certain carriers to fly nonstop.  For example,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has the only nonstop
flight from National to Las Vegas and Alaska Airlines is the
only carrier allowed to fly nonstop to Los Angeles.  San Francisco is now the biggest market on the U.S. West
Coast without direct access to Reagan National, according to
Virgin America. The Burlingame, California-based carrier is
seeking two daily round-trip flights between Reagan National and
San Francisco, its hometown and largest base for flights.  About 2,100 passengers fly daily between San Francisco and
Washington’s three airports -- Dulles International, Reagan
National and Baltimore-Washington, according to Virgin America.
Approximately 85 percent of them use Dulles, which can be an
hour or more by car from downtown, the airline estimates. Reagan
National can be only a 15-minute drive from the White House.  Apple, Google  Bay Area technology companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  would benefit if Virgin
America succeeds, Chief Executive Officer David Cush said.  “These are the companies that are driving the economy
right now, and government is a big component of what they do,”
Cush said. “I have no doubt that we could fill two
frequencies” to San Francisco.  Southwest, which flies from Baltimore-Washington and gained
inside-perimeter flights at Reagan National as part of its 2011
purchase of  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI) , declined to say how many
round trips it would seek or where it would use them. The
airline applied separately this month for inside-perimeter slots
to fly between National and Oklahoma City, said  Whitney
Eichinger , a spokeswoman. The flight would continue to Dallas
Love Field, the home airport for the biggest discount carrier.  An Alaska spokeswoman, Bobbie Egan, declined to say what
destinations or how many flights it would seek.  US Airways, United  US Airways is “still evaluating” where to use its new
round-trip flight, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for the
Tempe, Arizona-based airline. Two of its three big peers at
Reagan National are targeting extra California service.  United plans to use its new route to fly from National to
San Francisco starting in May, and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines
will start service to Los Angeles in June, according to
 regulatory filings .  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will add another flight
from National to Salt Lake City in June.  Greater competition on transcontinental routes from Reagan
National to cities such as Los Angeles and United’s plans to
start San Francisco flights make it “crucial” that discount
carriers gain a toehold in nonstop service, said Faberman of the
small-airline trade group.  “Some of these cities will see flights to National for the
very first time, or competition to National for the very first
time,” Faberman said. “The whole industry is paying attention
to this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 