-- Takeda Hid Actos Adverse Effects From Regulators, Suit Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-07T07:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/takeda-hid-actos-linked-heart-failure-cases-whistle-blower-claims-in-suit.html
A U.S. unit of  Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. (4502)  failed to give accurate reports to regulators about hundreds
of congestive heart failure cases associated with its diabetes
drug Actos, a whistle-blower claimed in a lawsuit.  The company failed to classify “non-hospitalized or non-
fatal” congestive heart failure cases as serious from late 2007
to January 2010, former Takeda medical reviewer Helen Ge said in
the complaint in federal court in Boston. Takeda, like other
drugmakers, is required to update the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration ’s Adverse Event Reporting System.  “These events were not properly identified or reported in
the FDA’s safety database,” Ge claimed in the complaint, filed
in June 2010 and recently unsealed. “Takeda’s motivation to
fraudulently report and under-report the serious adverse events
was driven by an economic desire to falsely enhance Actos’s
safety profile and to increase sales,” Ge said.  The case against Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America Inc.,
filed by Ge on the government’s behalf, became public after the
U.S. Justice Department declined to join it on Feb. 22. Twenty-
four U.S. states also declined to join Ge’s complaint, said one
of her attorneys, Michael L. Baum.  Takeda, based in  Osaka ,  Japan , said Feb. 1 that annual
 profit will fall  48 percent to 130 billion yen ($1.6 billion) in
the year ending March 31. Sales of Actos, which generated 27
percent of revenue last fiscal year, declined 19 percent in the
previous nine-month period and will slump more when it faces
competition from generic copies in August, Takeda said.  Takeda Response  “Takeda complies with all laws and regulations regarding
the reporting of adverse events,” Hisashi Tokinoya, a company
spokesman based in  Tokyo , said in an e-mailed response today,
declining to comment on specific allegations because the
lawsuits are pending.  Takeda  dropped  1.6 percent to 3,655 yen at the close in
Tokyo trading, while the benchmark Topix Index fell 0.6 percent.  Ge’s complaint claims that on multiple occasions, Takeda
“improperly instructed” its medical reviewers to “change
their professional opinion regarding adverse event
classifications and assessments.” When she protested, “her
contract was summarily terminated,” according to the complaint.  Takeda wanted to make it appear that Actos was safer than
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia diabetes drug, according to the
complaint.  ‘Systematic Fraud’  Ge sued under the federal  False Claims Act  and similar
state statutes, and seeks to recover damages on behalf of
governments. She would be entitled to between 15 and 30 percent
of any recovery.  “Takeda’s fraud has caused tens of thousands of false
claims to be made on federal and state health care programs,”
causing “hundreds of millions of dollars” in damages,
according to the complaint.  In 2007, the FDA ordered Takeda and Glaxo to place its
strongest warning on the labeling of their drugs about the risk
of congestive heart failure, a condition that occurs when the
heart doesn’t adequately pump blood.  Ge claimed that Takeda’s culture is “riddled with
systematic fraud and deceit,” and that the company downplayed
data suggesting a link between Actos and bladder cancer.  Baum, of Baum, Hedlund, Aristei & Goldman, said he is
undeterred by the  Justice Department ’s decision to not join the
lawsuit after investigating. The U.S. declines to join four out
of five cases filed under the False Claims Act. Companies settle
the vast majority of cases when the U.S. intervenes.  “I believe that the documents we obtain in discovery will
induce the government to come back in,” Baum said. “But
whether they come back in or not, I believe the documents will
show that the company violated the False Claims Act.”  One of Ge’s lawyers is  Michael Sullivan  of The Ashcroft
Group LLC. He is the former U.S. attorney in Boston.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Helen Ge v. Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co., 10-cv-11043, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
( Boston ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 