-- Malaysia Builders Trailing Most Since 2007 Lure CLSA on $16 Billion Plan
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-03-08T09:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/malaysia-builders-trailing-most-since-2007-lure-clsa-on-16-billion-plan.html
Malaysian  construction  stocks are
trailing regional peers by the most since 2007, a buy signal to
CLSA Ltd. and Manulife Asset Management as the government’s $16
billion building plan sends profit estimates to a record.  While the  Bursa Malaysia Construction Index (KLCON)  climbed 6.7
percent this year through February, the gauge lagged behind the
Bloomberg Asia Pacific Engineering & Construction Index by 12
percentage points, the most for any two-month period since
October 2007. The Malaysian gauge has slipped 0.9 percent so far
this month as the regional measure lost 2.8 percent.  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government is selecting
builders for a railway network and a new financial district in
Kuala Lumpur, part of an infrastructure spending plan designed
to boost economic growth.  IJM Corp. (IJM) , Malaysia’s biggest builder
by market value, and  Ahmad Zaki (AZR)  Resources Bhd. won this year’s
first contracts in January. Profits in the Malaysian
construction index will climb 37 percent in the next 12 months,
according to about 90 analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m quite bullish on the sector,” said Loong Chee Wei, a
Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at CLSA, ranked No. 2 for  Malaysia 
research last year by Institutional Investor magazine. “All the
new contract wins will actually drive the upward re-rating of
the stocks.”  Earnings in the Malaysia construction gauge may climb to
21.7 ringgit ($7.17) a share in 12 months, according to
analysts’ forecasts, the highest level since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2006. The index is  valued  at 13.2 times
profit estimates, versus 12.4 times for the Bloomberg Asia
Pacific gauge. The premium on Malaysian builders narrowed to 5.6
percent yesterday from 13 percent as of Dec. 30, the data show.  Biggest Project  The construction measure closed 0.8 percent higher in Kuala
Lumpur, the most since Feb. 17 and its first gain in four days.
The  benchmark   FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index added 0.2 percent.  IJM and Ahmad Zaki won contracts worth 1.74 billion ringgit
to construct parts of the mass railway network in Kuala Lumpur
on Jan. 27. The 156-kilometer (97-mile) railway, the country’s
biggest infrastructure project, will carry 2 million passengers
a day, with the first line scheduled for completion in 2016,
according to the government.  State-owned Mass Rapid Transit Corp. is overseeing the 48
billion-ringgit railway system, which is being jointly managed
by  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM) , a Malaysian builder and property developer, and
MMC Corp., which operates construction and power businesses.  “Given all the global uncertainties, you want to be in
industries that have clarity in earnings, and the big winners
have been stocks like IJM and Gamuda,”  Jason Chong , who helps
oversee about $1 billion at Manulife Asset’s Kuala Lumpur-based
unit, said by phone on March 5. Chong declined to comment on his
holdings.  Relative Value  IJM is valued at 17.5 times estimated 2012 earnings after
the stock climbed 3.7 percent this year, according to the
average of 21 analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Gamuda
trades for 15.7 times projected profit and has gained 5.9
percent this year. Both companies are based in  Petaling Jaya ,
near Kuala Lumpur.  MMC, based in Kuala Lumpur, has a multiple of 19.6 after
climbing 1.8 percent in 2012. Ahmad Zaki, also based in the
capital city, is valued at 10.1 times earnings and the stock has
advanced 37 percent since the end of December, the second-
biggest gain in the Malaysia construction  index .  Building companies need project announcements to fuel stock
gains, according to Bharat Joshi, who helps oversee $5 billion
as an investment manager for Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in
Kuala Lumpur.  “It’s a very news-driven sector,” Joshi said by phone on
March 1. “People are buying ahead of the news, and then sell
off and lock in profits.”  Financial District  Aberdeen holds shares of  Tasek Corp. (TC) , a Kuala Lumpur-based
cement producer, which is valued at 11.3 times estimated 2012
earnings. That’s a 14 percent discount to the Malaysian
construction gauge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Tasek shares have climbed 13 percent this year.  Analysts may boost earnings forecasts for Malaysian
construction companies as the government awards new projects
related to the 26 billion-ringgit Kuala Lumpur International
Financial District, said CLSA’s Loong.  Construction is due to start in the first half of 2012,
according to state-owned  1Malaysia Development Bhd. , which is
developing the financial district with an  investment company 
owned by the Abu Dhabi government.  “There is room to upgrade earnings if new projects are
rolled out,” Loong said.  The government will probably accelerate projects before
elections that Prime Minister Najib must call by June 2013,
according to Manulife’s Chong. Najib said in December that
preparations had begun for the vote.  “With the elections around the corner, there’s a stronger
likelihood that more of these contracts will be announced sooner
rather than later,” Chong said. “For Malaysia, construction
stocks will be the main focus this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  