-- Allergan Wins U.S. Court Order Blocking Sales of Merz’s Botox Competitor
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/allergan-wins-court-ruling-blocking-merz-s-botox-competitor-1-.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of Botox
injections for frown lines, won a court order blocking Merz
Pharma GmbH from selling a rival cosmetic product after Allergan
claimed its  trade secrets  were stolen.  U.S. District Judge Andrew J. Guilford in  Santa Ana ,
California, yesterday issued an injunction against Merz
following a trial without a jury. Guilford, in a ruling from a
bench, said his written findings and conclusions will be
released March 9 with an order that will specify the length and
terms of the injunction.  Guilford cited “dramatic examples of misappropriation” of
Allergan’s proprietary information, saying he was troubled that
some Allergan employees signed contracts with Merz and then
delayed giving final notice to begin e-mailing company data to
themselves.  Allergan, based in  Irvine ,  California , alleges that Merz,
as it prepared to sell Xeomin for the treatment of certain
muscle spasms in 2010, in competition with Botox, targeted
Allergan sales representatives who brought along confidential
materials, including sales figures and customer lists.  Allergan said in a statement that it was pleased with the
immediate injunction.  “For more than 20 years, we have invested millions of
dollars in the research, clinical development and marketing of
Botox and we are pleased that our intellectual property has been
protected by today’s decision,” spokeswoman Heather Katt said
in the statement. “We await the exact details of the injunction
later this week and have no additional comment at this time.”  Trade Secrets  Allergan in 2010 sued the German drugmaker and its U.S.
units as well as former Allergan sales representatives who were
hired by Merz. The commercial introduction of Xeomin for
cosmetic use is scheduled for March 12 at the annual meeting of
the  American Academy  of Dermatology in  San Diego .  Lawyers for Allergan sought a court order blocking the sale
by Merz of any product competing with Botox for one year and
barring the sale of Xeomin to anyone who has been an Allergan
customer. Allergan also seeks the return of trade secrets.  Rick McKnight, an attorney for Merz, said that the judge’s
bench ruling appears to be “encouraging settlement.”  Merz contended in the trial that the materials Allergan
alleges were misappropriated were either not trade secrets,
weren’t confidential, or were never seen or used by Merz
employees.  In his closing argument yesterday, McKnight said the
proposed 12-month ban on Xeomin sales “puts the companies out
of business.”  The case is Allergan v. Merz, 11-00446, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Maurice Possley in federal court in Santa Ana, California, at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  