-- Hamburg Banks Defying Fast Money Mantra Seek Growth From Crisis
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-03-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/hamburg-banks-defying-fast-money-mantra-seek-growth-from-crisis.html
Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. KG,
 Germany ’s oldest private bank, said it has avoided the
restructuring and closures afflicting European peers in the debt
crisis with a manager liability model that limits risk.  Now the company is setting its sights on competitors’
clients and staff as private banks in the port city of Hamburg
plot growth strategies to boost their market share.  Berenberg, whose family portraits greet visitors to
headquarters overlooking Hamburg’s Alster lake, aims to increase
its workforce by about 9 percent this year and is considering
opening offices in  New York  and Amsterdam, Managing Partner
Hendrik Riehmer said in a March 2 interview. Cross-town rival
M.M. Warburg & Co. KGaA, founded in 1798, expects its 1,100-
strong workforce to expand 3 percent to 5 percent this year,
according to spokesman Martin Wehrle.  “We work with a strategic view of 10 to 15 years and don’t
focus just on today’s profit,” said Riehmer, 43, who has spent
22 years at Berenberg and has been a partner for three. “I
still want to have a place to work in 15 years. You cannot get
wealthy very quickly and then simply dash off.”  Warburg, whose top executives also have full liability,
 coped better  with the financial crisis that started in 2008 than
many of its peers because the firm didn’t invest in structured
products or become involved in leveraging, Wehrle said,
referring to the use of financial instruments or borrowed
capital to boost returns.  Market Share  Berenberg’s assets under management rose 2 percent to 26
billion euros ($34 billion) last year as profit fell 8.9 percent
to 56.1 million euros. Its gross earnings jumped 11 percent to
263.8 million euros, driven by a 17 percent increase in net
commission income. Total assets soared 22 percent to 3.95
billion euros as client deposits rose.  Berenberg’s revenue from cash-equities trading increased
about 30 percent in January and February, while the general
market for such business declined 15 percent, Riehmer said. The
bank “gained massive market share in those two months due to
the exit of competitors,” he added.  Warburg’s assets under management rose 12 percent to 36.1
billion euros in 2010, while pretax profit fell 16 percent to
55.2 million euros. It’s scheduled to report 2011 results later
this month.  “We have principals that we stick to, such as knowing your
customers and partners, and knowing who you lend money to and
who you borrow from,” Wehrle said. “But with structured
products nobody knew who the last lender was, hence we didn’t
invest in these products because our questions couldn’t be
answered. Our principles have been tested by history, throughout
time.”  Job Cuts  Hamburg’s private banks are boosting market share as
competitors restructure and close units in the wake of the
global financial crisis, Europe’s debt crisis and amid stricter
capital rules for lenders.  HSH Nordbank AG, the regional German lender based near
Warburg’s headquarters, plans to eliminate more than 1,100, or
one in three, positions by 2014.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic
region’s largest lender, plans to cut 2,000 workers by 2013 to
trim costs and boost profit, while the U.K.’s HSBC Holdings Plc
is cutting 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013. The  number of
employees  at Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender,
dropped 1.6 percent in 2011 and fell 5.7 percent in 2010.  Client Focus  Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  on Nov. 14 quit its western European
equities business, which covered some 400 companies from Munich,
Vienna, Milan and  London . It also plans 7,400 job reductions in
Europe through 2015. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said on
Jan. 12 it will eliminate about 3,500 positions at its
investment-banking unit as it sells or closes unprofitable cash
equities, mergers advisory and equity capital markets divisions.  “When you don’t have any homework or restructuring to do,
you can focus on your clients, which is a massive advantage for
us,” Riehmer said. “If you have four depressed people and one
fun person, who do you chose to go out with?”  Berenberg, which survived the Great Depression, two world
wars and the global financial crisis, traces its roots to 1590
when brothers Hans and Paul Berenberg founded a Hamburg-based
cloth-trading and import and export business. They fled to the
city in the late  16th century  after the Dutch government forced
Protestants to convert to Catholicism or leave the country.  New York Plans  Warburg started out trading currencies and bills of
exchange. Subsidiaries of the bank, whose headquarters have been
in the same building since 1867, include Bankhaus Hallbaum in
Hanover, Bankhaus Loebbecke in Berlin and Bankhaus Plump in
Bremen, providing private-banking services. Family office bank
Marcard, Stein & Co. and real-estate lender Warburg
Hypothekenbank as well as operations in Luxembourg and
 Switzerland  complete its portfolio.  Berenberg, which offers asset management and investment,
private and corporate banking such as real-estate financing,
equity research and transaction advice, has offices in German
cities such as Frankfurt, Munich, and Dusseldorf as well as in
Zurich, Geneva, London, Paris, Luxembourg and  Shanghai .  The bank is considering opening a new office in New York,
following the establishment of operations in  Boston  last year,
as the firm expands its business in  North America , Riehmer said.
The company may hire “a few people” in New York, he said.  While the new office may be opened within the next six
months if Berenberg finds appropriate people, it could also take
as long as three years to set up operations in the city, he
said.  Liability Approach  Berenberg may also open an office in Amsterdam in coming
years to serve clients in  Belgium , the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, Riehmer said.  Large commercial banks could benefit from a similar
approach to liability, Riehmer said.  “If all bank directors had been fully liable -- if the
manager is the first loser -- they wouldn’t have entered all
these risky businesses,” he said. “If I make no money if there
is a loss, it aligns me not to make any operational mistakes.”  Hamburg and its banks owe much of their prosperity to the
city’s  1,000-year history  as a merchant hub.  The city, once a member of the Hanseatic League, is home to
 Europe ’s second-largest container port as well as the Hapag-
Lloyd AG and Hamburg Sued shipping lines. Luxury yachts are
built at the Blohm & Voss shipyards while Airbus SAS, which
employs 11,000 people in the city, assembles and builds
airplanes in Hamburg.  Berenberg, which moved its equity research unit to London
in 2010, employs 70 analysts at the division and aims to have
100 by the end of 2013, Riehmer said. On the client side, the
division is benefiting from the closure of UniCredit’s western
European and parts of RBS’s equity research units, Riehmer said.  Berenberg’s equity research division increased the number
of companies it covers to 400 last year from 190 a year earlier,
according to the bank.  “Our problem is that we can’t stop hiring,” said Riehmer.
“We’re growing all our business areas and see a lot of momentum
and business opportunities. People are knocking on our doors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen in  Frankfurt  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  