-- AMR Offers Pension Freeze to Jump-Start Labor Negotiations
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-07T23:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/amr-s-american-offers-pension-freeze-to-jump-start-labor-negotiations.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  said
today it would switch from terminating pensions to freezing them
for most employees, seeking to hasten agreements on $1.25
billion in concessions sought in bankruptcy.  The  Transport Workers Union , the largest labor group at
American, reached a tentative agreement on the freeze after it
was offered. American said it will seek additional capital to
fund the frozen pensions, without being more specific. The
freeze doesn’t apply to pilots.  American has made little progress in talks with its unions
since proposing concessions on Feb. 1, and has warned the clock
is ticking on securing consensual agreements. Labor givebacks
and work-rule changes are a key part of a plan to cut costs by
$2 billion a year and raise an additional $1 billion in revenue
as parent AMR restructures after filing for Chapter 11 on Nov.
29.  “We believe this solution would remove a major obstacle to
reaching consensual agreements and help to spark needed urgency
at the bargaining table,”  Jeff Brundage , American’s senior vice
president for human resources, said in a letter to employees.
“It’s time to move to the next phase in the restructuring
process.”  The change in  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR’s position was a
collaborative effort among American, the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp. and the unsecured creditors committee in its
bankruptcy, said Bruce Hicks, an American spokesman. He declined
to be more specific.  ‘Drew a Line’  The company won’t increase the $1.25 billion in concessions
it’s seeking from the unions, even with the change to frozen
pensions. Freezing the pensions will cost about $800 million
more than terminating them, American has said.  The TWU, whose members include mechanics, baggage handlers
and other airport ground operations workers, said its
negotiators “drew a line in the sand” when it came to
terminating pensions.  “We would have preferred to keep the existing defined-
benefit plan in place, but that simply was not possible,” Jim Little, TWU International president, said in a statement.
“We’re still discussing how to handle retirement savings going
forward, as well as a very wide range of other issues. We are
not out of the woods.”  Migrating to 401(k)  Freezing benefits would allow employees to keep full
benefits accrued before the date they’re stopped. American would
continue to administer the plan, and its unfunded pension
liabilities would remain on the company’s balance sheet. AMR,
which plans to switch to a 401(k) structure in the future, no
longer would pay into the pension funds.  “Bankruptcy forces tough choices, but that doesn’t mean
pensions must be sacrificed for companies to succeed,” Josh Gotbaum, director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., which
insures pensions, said in a statement. “We will continue to
work with American and the other participants in the bankruptcy
to ensure that success.”  If the pensions are terminated, the PBGC takes over
administration of the plans and retirement payouts are capped at
certain levels. Those caps won’t exist if plans are frozen.  American doesn’t want to freeze pilot pensions because of
an existing lump-sum retirement payout option for pilots.
Freezing the pensions without changing that option could leave
the carrier vulnerable to a large number of pilot retirements in
a short period.  Pilot Options  Mass retirements “would have a severe, detrimental impact
on our operations and is a risk that the company simply cannot
afford to take,” Brundage said in a separate letter to pilots.  The airline is continuing to work on options for pilot
pensions. American has 5,207 pilots over 50 and with at least 10
years of service who are eligible for retirement, the company
said today.  The  Allied Pilots Association  told members today its
advisers had concluded it wouldn’t be possible to preserve the
lump-sum payout option. As a result, affected pilots will vote
on whether to support freezing the “A Plan” and giving up that
option, union President David Bates said.  “By voting to support a freeze, thousands of pilots will
preserve their earned annuity benefits by avoiding plan
termination and the much lower annuities based on PBGC
limitations,” Bates said in a message to pilots.  The  Association of Professional Flight Attendants  was
analyzing the freeze proposal’s effect on its members. Union
President  Laura Glading  called AMR’s offer “a small first step
toward compromise” and said the union was committed to
resolving issues outside of the  bankruptcy court .  If American can’t reach agreements with its unions on
concessions, the company can ask the bankruptcy court judge to
throw out the current contracts and allow it to impose new
terms. AMR’s attorneys are scheduled to update the court on
labor issues at a March 22 hearing.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  