-- Manning Is Released by Colts After Four MVP Awards, Three Neck Surgeries
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-07T17:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/manning-is-released-by-colts-after-four-mvp-awards-three-neck-surgeries.html
Peyton Manning  was cut today by the
 Indianapolis Colts , ending 14 years with the club that included
a  Super Bowl  title, four Most Valuable Player awards and finally
questions over his surgically repaired neck and throwing
strength.  The Colts had until tomorrow to decide whether to keep
Manning and pay him a $28 million bonus and a $7.4 million
salary in 2012, or put their money on Stanford University
quarterback Andrew Luck with the No. 1 pick in next month’s
draft.  Manning, 35, becomes the NFL’s premier free agent, with
 Nevada  oddsmakers saying he’s likely headed to the  Arizona
Cardinals . Former NFL executives say that while he had become an
uninsurable financial liability to the Colts, he might be a
steal in free agency if his contract is structured right.  “I’ve been a Colt for most of my adult life, but I guess
in life, and in sports, we all know that nothing lasts
forever,” Manning said at a press conference. “Times change,
circumstances change. And that’s the reality of playing in the
NFL.”  Manning is coming off neck-fusion surgery that sidelined
him for the 2011 season. Colts doctor Robert Watkins said the
Sept. 9 operation was successful.  Manning said he’s been working out with former teammates.  “I’m doing better, continuing to work hard, and hopefully
will continue to make progress,” he said. “I’m feeling closer.
I still have some work to do.”  Luck Next  Without Manning, the Colts finished 2-14 and gained the
NFL’s No. 1 draft pick, which they have said they will use to
take Luck, the 22-year-old quarterback rated as the top prospect
by ESPN’s Scouts Inc.  Irsay and Manning spoke of “circumstances” during the
press conference as if they had no choice but to part ways.
Manning said it wasn’t a money issue, without saying
specifically that he’d be willing to take a reduction in pay to
remain with the team.  Irsay said a primary reason was that the team is entering a
rebuilding phase and doesn’t have the players to surround
Manning the way it had in past years. If Manning stayed, he
would be playing for a losing team, with a back-up waiting his
turn while the franchise ate up payroll on two top-level passers
instead of spending it on linemen to protect the quarterback and
receivers who could get open.  ‘Best Interest’  “I advised him in terms of what’s in his best interest,”
Irsay said. “I think that as a franchise, where we are right
now, with the salary cap, rebuilding, we’re definitely a few
years away, and I want to see him come back and play great.”  Manning said he hasn’t given any thought to where he plays
next. Both player and owner broke down several times during the
televised press conference as they talked about their shared
memories and many conversations about their parting.  “I’ve been blessed to play here,” Manning said, pausing
to gather himself. “I’ve been blessed to play in the NFL. I go
with a few words left to say.”  He spoke directly the Colts’ fans.  “Thank you very much from the bottom of my heart,”
Manning said. “I truly have enjoyed being your quarterback.”  Manning has a 19 percent chance of signing with the
Cardinals, according to the Cal Neva Resort’s sports book in
Reno, Nevada. The  Miami Dolphins  are second at 16.5 percent,
with the  Washington Redskins  third at 13 percent. A winning $100
bet on Arizona returns that stake plus $250.  No. 1 Pick  Indianapolis was 3-13 in 1997 before making Manning the
league’s No. 1 draft pick out of the  University of Tennessee .
The Colts had the same record in Manning’s rookie year before
going 13-3 in 1999. Indianapolis won the Super Bowl in February
2007.  Manning, a five-time All-Pro, was named the league’s MVP
for the 2003, 2004, 2008 and 2009 campaigns, the most in NFL
history.  His 54,828 yards passing, 4,682 completions and 399
touchdowns are third on the NFL career list, trailing leader
 Brett Favre  and  Dan Marino  in each category. While Favre is also
the NFL’s career leader with 336 interceptions and Marino ranks
eighth with 252, Manning has just 198, placing him 26th.  Three Operations  Manning had at least three operations on his neck over the
last two years.  Sports Illustrated , citing unidentified people
in the NFL, said last month that the quarterback had a fourth
procedure to follow up a May operation for a bulging disk.  Former Redskins General Manager  Charley Casserly , now an
analyst with  CBS Sports , said teams probably will want Manning
to sign an incentive-laden contract with a smaller base salary
and fewer guarantees. Signing bonuses are paid up front and
guaranteed, unlike most base salaries in the NFL.  “You don’t mind paying if the guy plays, but you want to
do it on a game-by-game basis with a minimum salary and then
either a play-time or weekly roster bonus,” Casserly said in a
telephone interview.  Andrew Brandt , a former Green Bay Packers executive now an
NFL business analyst on ESPN, says teams will want to sign
Manning. The competition might shift the risk back onto
Manning’s suitors.  “He’ll have the leverage to get guarantees of millions
plus incentives,” Brandt said.  Manning signed a five-year contract in July that paid a $20
million signing bonus and a base salary of $6.4 million. He sat
out the 2011 NFL season while recovering from the neck injury,
ending a streak of 227 consecutive starts.  $28 Million Bonus  The Colts had until 4 p.m. New York time tomorrow to
exercise the option and keep Manning through 2015. They would
then have owed him the $28 million bonus plus a $7.4 million
salary in 2012, bringing his two-year earnings to $61.8 million,
according to Brandt, president of the  National Football Post ,
who analyzed the contract on his  website .  The Colts probably would pay Luck $15 million in bonus and
salary in the first year. With Manning, that would have meant a
commitment to the team’s top two quarterbacks of more than $50
million next season, Brandt said. Luck guided Stanford to an 11-
1 record and passed for 3,170 yards and 35 touchdowns last
season.  Irsay told the Indianapolis Star on Feb. 14 that Manning
would have to renegotiate his contract to stay with the team.  Uninsurable Contract  Manning probably will be uninsurable to cover his salary
because of his age and injury history, Frank Zuccarello,
executive vice president at  Exceptional Risk Advisors  LLC in
Mahwah,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.  “I can’t imagine anyone even thinking about covering
him,”  Zuccarello  said. “I would think it would be impossible.
It would have to come with exclusions for neck and shoulder.”  Zuccarello said if a policy were sold to a team, the
premiums could be more than 5 percent of the insured amount,
compared with 2 percent for a young, healthy player. With all
the exclusions, it wouldn’t be worth it.  Jeffrey Fischgrund, an orthopedic surgeon and  editor-in-
chief  of the Journal of the  American Academy  of Orthopaedic
Surgeons, said the bones above and below a spinal fusion usually
compensate for the fused bones, allowing the neck to move
normally. He said that 95 percent of people who have the surgery
heal successfully and don’t experience further injuries at that
site.  “Theoretically, he’s at an increased risk,” Fischgrund,
who hasn’t examined Manning, said in an interview. “But not so
much that you’d expect a catastrophic injury.”  The biggest issue is Manning’s arm strength. Fischgrund
said the longer Manning suffers weakness, the longer it will
take to make a full recovery. It usually takes a year before
people know if they are going to get their full strength back,
he said.  “I tell patients, ‘I can’t make you normal, but I can make
you better,’” Fischgrund said. “Whether that’s enough for a
professional athlete, I can’t say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  