-- Manning Leaving Colts Boosts Nike on NFL Jersey Takeover
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-07T20:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/manning-leaving-colts-may-boost-nike-as-no-18-jersey-remains-a-top-seller.html
Peyton Manning’s change of address
is good news for  Nike Inc. (NKE) , which replaces Reebok International
Ltd. next month as the maker of National Football League-branded
apparel and uniforms.  Manning, whose No. 18 jersey has been among the NFL’s top
10 sellers since 2004, was released today by the  Indianapolis
Colts , ending a record-setting era for a quarterback that
resulted in a Super Bowl championship, four Most Valuable Player
awards and at least three neck surgeries.  Having a player of Manning’s ability and popularity
changing uniforms is a boon for Nike, which won’t only sell a
lot of jerseys but utilize the offseason news to remind
consumers of its relationship with the most popular sports
league in the U.S, according to  Matt Arnold , an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres,  Missouri .  “It can’t hurt that the league is getting attention in the
offseason in light of Manning’s move,” said Arnold, who
recommends buying the shares, which he doesn’t own. “It’s a
very, very popular league and he’s a very, very popular
player.”  Financial terms of the league’s five-year apparel contract
with Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike, the largest sporting-goods
maker, weren’t disclosed when it was announced in 2010.
 Advertising Age , citing executives close to the NFL, said the
agreement is worth about $35 million a year. Nike’s revenue
through November was $22.7 billion.  Matt Powell, an analyst with  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based SportsOneSource, a research firm focused on the sporting
goods industry, says Nike will reap about $500 million this year
on the sale of NFL merchandise because retailers allowed their
 Reebok  inventory to wane in anticipation of the company switch.  ‘Fill Their Racks’  “This is a big deal for Nike because retailers are going
to have to fill up their racks again,” Powell said via
telephone. “Add on top of that a player like Manning changing
teams --that’ll help also.”  Manning, 35, joined the Colts in 1998, blossoming into one
of the league’s best and most marketable players. Consumers
rated New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees and Manning last
year as the most marketable players in the NFL, according to the
Marketing Arm’s Celebrity  DBI , an index that quantifies consumer
perceptions of more than 2,800 celebrities. Manning, whose
passing yards, completions and touchdowns are third on the NFL
career list, was rated as the league’s most recognizable player.  Manning has a 19 percent change of signing with the  Arizona
Cardinals , according to the Cal Neva Resort’s sports book in
Reno,  Nevada . The  Miami Dolphins  are second, ahead of the
 Washington Redskins .  Favre Example  Elite players who switch teams usually sell a lot of
jerseys. Brett Favre, whose jersey was the No. 1 seller from
April 2008 to March 2009 following his move to the  New York Jets 
from the  Green Bay Packers , ranked third the previous year,
according to the NFL.  Manning’s jersey ranked 18th among best sellers from April
2011 to February 2012, even though he didn’t play last season
while recovering from neck surgery.  “It’s going to be exciting as a company watcher and
consumer to see what Nike brings to the NFL in terms of
merchandise,” Arnold said.  By cutting Manning today, the Colts avoided having to pay
him a $28 million bonus. Indianapolis, which was 2-14 last
season, has the top pick in the draft and will select Stanford
University quarterback  Andrew Luck .  Reebok, which was acquired by Adidas AG in 2006, held the
NFL license since 2001.  The Nike contract doesn’t include hats, which was part of
the Reebok agreement. NFL-branded hats will be made by New Era
Cap Co. Manning is a Reebok endorser.  Nike shares rose 0.31 percent to $107.67 at 3:06 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  