-- Manning to Be Released by Colts: ESPN
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-07T06:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/manning-losing-to-luck-as-espn-says-colts-won-t-pay-28-million-bonus.html
Peyton Manning ’s football future was
decided by a $28 million bonus, his surgically fused neck and a
highly praised college quarterback, ending a record-setting era
that produced a  Super Bowl  title for the  Indianapolis Colts .  The club where Manning has played his entire career will
release the four-time National Football League Most Valuable
Player without paying him the bonus, ESPN reported last night,
citing unidentified people in the league.  Colts spokesman Avis Roper said in an e-mail that the team
would have a news conference today at noon Indianapolis time. He
did not give details about the news conference, and said he
couldn’t confirm the ESPN report because team owner  Jim Irsay 
was traveling.  Manning and Irsay returned to Indianapolis last night
together on a plane.  “We’ll see y’all tomorrow,” Manning told a small group of
reporters after landing in Indianapolis. “We’re good.
We’ll talk tomorrow. We’ll do it all right tomorrow.”  The 35-year-old Manning would become the NFL’s premier free
agent, with  Nevada  oddsmakers saying he’s headed for the  Arizona
Cardinals .  “He’s going through kind of an emotional time right now,”
Cooper Manning, Peyton’s older brother, told  USA Today . “Until
it was over, he was a Colt through and through.”  Neck-Fusion Surgery  Cooper Manning later said in an e-mail that he had not
meant to confirm his younger brother was leaving the Colts and
merely was reacting to TV “chatter about him being released.”  “I don’t know anything to confirm that,” Cooper Manning
wrote in the e-mail. “I was merely reacting to that news. No
clue if it’s true.”  Peyton Manning is coming off neck-fusion surgery that
sidelined him for the 2011 season. Colts doctor Robert Watkins
said the Sept. 9 operation was successful. Without Manning, the
Colts finished 2-14 and gained the NFL’s No. 1 draft pick, which
they have said they will use to take Andrew Luck, the 22-year-
old Stanford University quarterback rated as the top prospect by
ESPN’s Scouts Inc.  Manning, no matter where he winds up, probably will be
uninsurable to cover his salary because of his age and injury
history, Frank Zuccarello, executive vice president at
 Exceptional Risk Advisors  LLC in Mahwah,  New Jersey , said in a
telephone interview.  Too Expensive  “I can’t imagine anyone even thinking about covering
him,”  Zuccarello  said. “I would think it would be impossible.
It would have to come with exclusions for neck and shoulder.”  Zuccarello said if a policy were sold to a team, the
premiums could be more than 5 percent of the insured amount,
compared with 2 percent for a young, healthy player. With all
the exclusions, it wouldn’t be worth it.  Tom Condon, Manning’s agent, didn’t immediately return a
telephone message seeking comment on the player’s status.
Manning has said he plans to keep playing.  Manning has a 17 percent chance of signing with the
Cardinals, according to the Cal Neva Resort’s sports book in
Reno, Nevada. The  Miami Dolphins  are second at 14.5 percent,
with the  Washington Redskins  third at 11.5 percent. A winning
$100 bet on Arizona returns that stake plus $250.  Indianapolis was 3-13 in 1997 before making Manning the
league’s No. 1 draft pick out of the  University of Tennessee .
The Colts had the same record during Manning’s rookie year
before going 13-3 in 1999. Indianapolis won the Super Bowl in
February 2007.  MVP Record  Manning, a five-time All-Pro, was named the league’s MVP
for the 2003, 2004, 2008 and 2009 campaigns, the most in NFL
history.  His 54,828 yards passing, 4,682 completions and 399
touchdowns are third on the NFL career list, trailing leader
 Brett Favre  and  Dan Marino  in each category. While Favre is also
the NFL’s career leader with 336 interceptions and Marino ranks
eighth with 252, Manning has just 198, placing him 26th.  Manning had at least three operations on his neck over the
last two years.  Sports Illustrated , citing unidentified people
in the NFL, said last month that the quarterback had a fourth
procedure to follow up a May operation for a bulging disk.  Former Redskins General Manager  Charley Casserly , now an
analyst with  CBS Sports , said teams probably will want Manning
to sign an incentive-laden contract with a smaller base salary
and fewer guarantees. Signing bonuses are paid up front and
guaranteed, unlike most base salaries in the NFL.  Contract Structure  “You don’t mind paying if the guy plays, but you want to
do it on a game-by-game basis with a minimum salary and then
either a play-time or weekly roster bonus,” Casserly said in a
telephone interview.  Andrew Brandt , a former Green Bay Packers executive now an
NFL business analyst on ESPN, says teams will want to sign
Manning if he is a free agent. The competition might shift the
risk back onto Manning’s suitors.  “He’ll have the leverage to get guarantees of millions
plus incentives,” Brandt said.  NFL teams aren’t permitted to discuss signing players under
contract elsewhere.  Manning signed a five-year contract in July that paid a $20
million signing bonus and a base salary of $6.4 million. He sat
out the 2011 NFL season while recovering from the neck injury,
ending a streak of 227 consecutive starts.  Bonus Deadline  The Colts have until 4 p.m. New York time tomorrow to
exercise the option and keep Manning through 2015. They would
then owe him the $28 million bonus plus a $7.4 million salary in
2012, bringing his two-year earnings to $61.8 million, according
to Brandt, president of the  National Football Post , who analyzed
the contract on his  website .  The Colts probably would pay Luck $15 million in bonus and
salary in the first year. With Manning, that would have meant a
commitment to the team’s top two quarterbacks to more than $50
million next season, Brandt said. Luck guided Stanford to an 11-
1 record and passed for 3,170 yards and 35 touchdowns last
season.  Irsay told the Indianapolis Star on Feb. 14 that Manning
would have to renegotiate his contract to stay with the team.  “We’d love to have him back here if he can get healthy,
and we can look at doing a contract that reflects the
uncertainty,” he told the newspaper.  Favre Insurance  Brandt said he bought an insurance policy for Favre when
the Pro Bowl quarterback signed an agreement with the Packers in
March 2001. Favre, then 31 and a three-time MVP, was young and
healthy.  Jeffrey Fischgrund, an orthopedic surgeon and  editor-in-
chief  of the Journal of the  American Academy  of Orthopaedic
Surgeons, said the bones above and below a spinal fusion usually
compensate for the fused bones, allowing the neck to move
normally. He said that 95 percent of people who have the surgery
heal successfully and don’t experience further injuries at that
site.  “Theoretically, he’s at an increased risk,” Fischgrund,
who hasn’t examined Manning, said in an interview. “But not so
much that you’d expect a catastrophic injury.”  The biggest issue is Manning’s arm strength. Fischgrund
said the longer Manning suffers weakness, the longer it will
take to make a full recovery. It usually takes a year before
people know if they are going to get their full strength back,
he said.  “I tell patients, ‘I can’t make you normal, but I can make
you better,’” Fischgrund said. “Whether that’s enough for a
professional athlete, I can’t say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  