-- Peyton Manning Would Make New York Jets Formidable Force, Tomlinson Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/manning-s-colts-exit-follows-path-of-quarterbacks-montana-favre-namath.html
Peyton Manning  would make the  New
York Jets  a formidable force in the  National Football League  and
could lead quarterback  Mark Sanchez  to ask to leave the team,
running back  LaDainian Tomlinson  told the NFL Network.  “His resume tells you he’s going to come in and we’re
going to win,” said Tomlinson, who’s set to be a free agent
next week after spending the last two seasons with the Jets.
“When you’re up against that as players, it’s hard to not say
you want a guy like Peyton Manning. He’s one of the greatest
players of all time.”  Manning’s release yesterday by the  Indianapolis Colts  made
the NFL’s four-time Most Valuable Player one of the most
desirable free agents in history. He won 141 games and a Super
Bowl title in Indianapolis, where he helped the Colts become one
of the league’s elite teams with a $720 million stadium.  Reno, Nevada-based Cal Neva sports book gives the Jets a
9.5 percent chance of signing Manning, whose younger brother Eli
plays in  New York  and last season won a second Super Bowl title
with the Giants, one more than Peyton.  The Jets ranked 21st in the league last season with 3,297
yards passing, while Sanchez, who will be entering his fourth
NFL season, was 23rd among quarterbacks with a 78.2 rating. The
previous season, Manning ranked 10th with a 91.9 rating.  “This is a good fit for him,” Tomlinson said of Manning.
“The Jets already have a very good offensive line, a good
receiving corps and they run the ball really well. They get
Peyton Manning in that division, it could be pretty scary.”  Big-Name Quarterbacks  The Jets have gone after big-name quarterbacks before,
trading for  Brett Favre  before the 2008 season, and are
interested in signing Manning, the New York Post said, without
citing the source of its information.  While Manning turns 36 on March 24 and is working his way
back from at least three operations on his neck that kept him
sidelined for all of last season, he said he has no plans to
retire and is excited to play again.  By releasing Manning, the Colts avoided having to pay him a
$28 million bonus today. The team has said it will select
Stanford University quarterback Andrew Luck with the No. 1 pick
in next month’s draft.  “In life and in sports we all know that nothing lasts
forever,” Manning said. “Times change, circumstances change
and that’s the reality of playing in the NFL.”  The  Arizona Cardinals ,  Miami Dolphins  and  Washington
Redskins  are regarded by oddsmakers and NFL analysts as the most
likely teams to sign Manning, whose 54,828 career yards passing
and 399 touchdown passes rank third in league history.  Kolb Contract  Arizona has six-time Pro Bowl receiver Larry Fitzgerald as
a potential target for Manning, yet also acquired quarterback
 Kevin Kolb  from the  Philadelphia Eagles  last year and gave him a
new contract. Kolb, 27, had a 3-6 record as a starter for the
Cardinals, missing seven games because of injury.  Cal Neva gives the Cardinals a 19 percent chance of landing
Manning, followed by the Dolphins at 16.5 percent and Redskins
at 13 percent.  Andrew Brandt, a former Packers executive, said Dolphins
owner Stephen Ross and Redskins owner Dan Snyder have a history
of being “enamored with name brands and willing to pay a
premium for those name brands.”  “The other part is these teams do not have any ties to the
present quarterbacks, either emotionally or financially,”
Brandt, an NFL business analyst for ESPN, said on ESPN Radio.
“That’s why I don’t put them in the same category as a team
like Houston or  Arizona . I think those teams have enough ties to
the quarterback that’s already there that they’re not going to
jump in headfirst like the other two.”  Ross Covets Manning  Ross has told associates privately that he covets Manning,
the Miami Herald said without citing a source. The Redskins will
pursue Manning intently and are fine with the medical risks
associated with signing him, the Washington Post said, citing
unidentified people familiar with the team’s plans.  Manning owns a condominium in South Beach and two weeks ago
spent time in the Miami area throwing passes to Colts receiver
Reggie Wayne, the Herald said.  “I’m throwing it pretty well,” said Manning, whose record
streak of 227 straight starts ended last season, months after he
signed a five-year contract that paid him a $20 million signing
bonus and a $6.4 million base salary. “I’ve still got some work
to do, some progress to make.”  Chiefs Interested  Chiefs coach Romeo Crennel  said  at last month’s NFL
scouting combine that he’d be interested if Manning was a free
agent.  Kansas City  is given a 7.5 percent chance of signing
Manning, according to RJ Bell, the founder of Las Vegas-based
handicapping information service  Pregame.com , followed by the
Seahawks at 6 percent. There’s also a 6 percent chance Manning
retires from the NFL.  The Houston Texans are given a 4 percent chance of being
Manning’s next team, followed by the 49ers and  Denver Broncos  at
3 percent and the  Tennessee Titans  at 1.5 percent.  “Assuming Peyton Manning is healthy, he’ll be on a mission
and he’ll be out to prove to a whole lot of people he’s got a
lot left,” former NFL coach  Jon Gruden , who won a Super Bowl
title in  Tampa Bay , told ESPN. “He’s going to evaluate every
one of his options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  