-- Hanse Golf Design Chosen to Build Brazil’s Olympic Golf Course for 2016
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-07T17:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/hanse-golf-design-chosen-to-build-brazil-s-olympic-golf-course-for-2016.html
Hanse Golf Design was chosen to
build a course for the 2016 Olympics in  Rio de Janeiro , beating
out seven other finalists, including a team of  Jack Nicklaus  and
Annika Sorenstam.  Gil Hanse , 48, has teamed up with LPGA and Golf Hall of
Fame member Amy Alcott for the project, which will serve as the
site for both the men’s and women’s Olympic golf competitions
four years from now.  The duo was chosen over high-profile designers, such as
Nicklaus and Sorenstam, two Hall of Fame golfers with 28 major
titles combined.  “It’s very humbling and we’re incredibly honored,” Hanse
said in a press conference in Miami, site of this week’s U.S.
PGA Tour event. “To be included along with arguably the
greatest player in the history of the game and a cast of others,
we were always happy to just sort of be along for the ride.”  Australia’s  Greg Norman  and Mexico’s Lorena Ochoa, a pair
of golfers who were both previously ranked as the No. 1 players
in the world, also submitted bids, as did three-time Masters
Tournament winner  Gary Player  of  South Africa ; British designer
Martin Hawtree; American designers Tom Doak, and Robert Trent Jones II, who partnered with retired Brazilian pro Mario
Gonzalez, and the team of Peter Thomson, a five-time British
Open champion, and Ross Perrett of Australia.  Return to Games  Golf will return to the Games in 2016 for the first time
since 1904 in  St. Louis . The sport’s Olympic return was boosted
by the support of professional golfers, including 14-time major
winner  Tiger Woods , during the buildup to its selection.  The team of Hanse and Alcott, based in Malvern,
 Pennsylvania , will be paid $300,000 for the design, Olympic
officials said when announcing its finalists. The amount is less
than the typical design fee charged by top golf course
architects.  The course will be built in the Reserva da Marapendi in the
Barra da Tijuca district of Rio, a part of the city where the
largest number of Olympic venues will be located, organizers
said. Construction will begin in October, Hanse said.  During the Games, the golf competition will be 72-hole
men’s and women’s competitions played over four days, with
medals being awarded to the three lowest scorers. It’s the same
format used for most professional tournaments around the world.  In 1904, only the U.S. and  Canada  competed in the Olympics
golf competition, with Canada’s George Lyon defeating H.
Chandler Egan of the U.S. for the gold medal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 