-- Apple Unveils Latest IPad With Sharper Screen in Bid to Widen Tablet Lead
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-03-07T19:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/apple-unveils-latest-ipad-with-sharper-screen-in-bid-to-widen-tablet-lead.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced a new version
of the iPad, beefing up the two-year-old mobile computer with a
sharper screen and faster chip to widen its lead over  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google Inc. in the tablet market.  The device will cost $499 to $829 and include an A5X chip
that enables better graphics, Apple said today at an event in
San Francisco. It will also boast a 9.7-inch screen that has
more pixels than traditional high-definition televisions and run
on so-called long-term evolution, or LTE, wireless networks.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  is making the most
significant upgrade yet to Apple’s tablet months before
Microsoft introduces software that will run on competing
devices. The new version is also aimed at helping the company
fend off competition from Google’s Android operating system, as
well as Amazon.com, whose $199 Kindle Fire is gaining traction
among budget-conscious buyers.  The new iPad will be available March 16, and Apple is
taking orders starting today.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless 
will be the first U.S. wireless carriers to sell the new device.
 Telus Corp. (T) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  BCE Inc. (BCE)  will carry
the new iPad in Canada.  Shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple were little
changed at $531.05 as of 1:55 p.m. in  New York  after the
announcement.  Apple TV  The overhaul will help draw both new customers and existing
owners who want new features, said  Carl Howe , an analyst at
Yankee Group.  Apple gets about 20 percent of its  sales  from the iPad,
attracting consumers as well as business users. With the
device’s mix of touch-screen capabilities and computing power
that puts it on par with some laptops, Apple has created a new
category of consumer-electronics devices.  Cook also unveiled an update of the Apple TV set-top box
with a new user interface and a so-called mirroring function
that lets video from a user’s mobile devices be played on TV.
Photos taken from an iPhone will wirelessly synch using Apple
TV. The device will cost $99 and also go on sale March 16.  According to market research firm Gartner Inc., 103.5
million tablet devices will be sold in 2012, with Apple
accounting for two-thirds of those. The figure will rise to
326.3 million in 2015.  Amazon, Google Gain  The company’s share will drop to 46 percent by 2015 as
Google’s Android gains customers and Microsoft enters the
market.  Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablet, which went on sale in
November, has emerged as Apple’s most credible competitor.
Tablets introduced by  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  haven’t gained much
interest.  “It’s an iPad market, and then there’s everybody else,”
Howe said. “They are going to be selling them as fast as they
can make them.”  Amazon has been able to make some strides in the tablet
market with the Kindle Fire because of its lower price, and
Amazon’s website gives it a sales channel on par with Apple’s
retail stores, said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester
Research Inc. Amazon’s selection of movies, music and
applications also is appealing to customers, she said.  Microsoft’s Answer  “Tablets are about services,” said Rotman Epps. “That’s
why Amazon has succeeded where others have failed.”  A new wave of tablets will be entering the market with
Microsoft’s introduction of Windows 8, a remake of the company’s
flagship operating system intended to work more easily with
smartphones and tablets. Hewlett-Packard has said it will
introduce a tablet using the software, which analysts expect
will be released later this year.  While Windows 8-based products are being completed, Apple
may sell 11.3 million iPads in the quarter ending March 31, more
than double unit sales from a year earlier, according to Brian Marshall, an analyst at ISI Group in  San Francisco . The company
may sell 60 million  iPads  in all of 2012, ISI predicts, about 50
percent more than last year.  Apple is the largest maker of personal computers if the
iPad is included in the count, according to Canalys.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, will eventually
become a strong competitor, though the longer Windows 8 takes to
hit the market, the harder it will be to gain traction with
customers, said Rotman Epps.  Most Valuable Company  The iPad has helped make Apple the world’s most valuable
company, worth  $494 billion  based on yesterday’s $530.26 closing
stock price. Since the device went on sale in April 2010,
Apple’s stock has risen 125 percent and quarterly sales have
almost tripled.  One reason Apple has been able to maintain a dominant share
of the tablet market is that wireless carriers don’t play as
prominent a role in sales as they do with smartphones, Howe
said. Customers visiting a Verizon Wireless or  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  store are often steered to a smartphone running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software instead of an iPhone, he said.  Apple also benefits from its chain of more than 360 retail
stores and the thousands of applications that are tailored
specifically for the iPad, said Forrester’s Rotman Epps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  