-- Apple Unveils IPad With Sharper Screen to Widen Tablet Lead
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-03-08T01:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/apple-unveils-new-version-of-ipad-to-widen-lead-in-tablet-market.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced a new version
of the iPad, beefing up the two-year-old mobile computer with a
sharper screen and faster chip to widen its lead over  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google Inc. in the tablet market.  The device will be called iPad, carry a price tag of $499
to $829 and include a chip that enables better graphics, Apple
said today at an event in San Francisco. It will also boast a
9.7-inch screen that has more pixels than traditional high-
definition televisions and run on so-called long-term evolution,
or LTE, wireless networks, which deliver data faster.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  is making the most
significant upgrade yet to Apple’s tablet months before
Microsoft introduces new software that will run on competing
devices. The new version is also aimed at helping the company
fend off competition from Google’s Android operating system, as
well as Amazon.com, whose $199 Kindle Fire is gaining traction
among budget-conscious buyers.  “This product refresh allows Apple to maintain its
leadership position in the quickly-growing tablet market,” said
 Bill Kreher , an analyst at  Edward Jones  in St. Louis, who has a
“buy” rating on Apple.  The new iPad will be available March 16, and Apple is
taking orders starting today.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless
will be the first U.S. wireless carriers to sell the new device.
 Telus Corp. (T) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  BCE Inc. (BCE)  will carry
the new iPad in  Canada .  Shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple gained less
than 1 percent to $530.69 at the close in  New York .  Faster Chip  The A5X chip, made by Apple, is designed to speed the
performance of the device so users can more quickly jump between
tasks. It would also give applications such as games more
elaborate graphics. The iPad’s display will have four times the
number of pixels as the previous version, making on-screen text,
images and video appear crisper and more realistic.  Apple will sell a $499 base model that has 16 gigabytes of
memory and works only on Wi-Fi networks. At the high end, an
$829 model has 64 gigabytes of memory and works on both Wi-Fi
and the faster LTE networks.  The overhaul will help draw both new customers and existing
owners who want new features, said  Carl Howe , an analyst at
Yankee Group.  Apple gets about 20 percent of its  sales  from the iPad,
attracting consumers as well as business users.  Apple TV  With the device’s mix of touch-screen capabilities and
computing power that puts it on par with some laptops, Apple has
created a new category of consumer-electronics devices.  Cook also unveiled an update of the Apple TV set-top box
with a new interface and a so-called mirroring function that
lets video from a user’s mobile devices be played on TV. Photos
taken from an iPhone will wirelessly synch using Apple TV. The
device will cost $99 and also go on sale March 16.  Apple cut the price on the low end version of its existing
iPad to $399 from $499. That may put a squeeze on the Kindle
Fire, said  Chris Jones , an  analyst  at Canalys, a research firm.  “It will put pressure on those who are trying to undercut
the iPad on price,” said Jones. “The market has changed in the
past few months with the arrival of Amazon.”  Apple has sliced the price of older models to attract
bargain-hunting shoppers when unveiling a  new product  aimed at
the high end, a pincer movement used with success on the most
recent iPhone. When Apple introduced the iPhone 4S in October,
it reduced the iPhone 4 price to $99 and the made the iPhone 3GS
free, with a two-year wireless contract.  Tablet Market Leader  According to market research firm Gartner Inc., 103.5
million tablet devices will be sold in 2012, with Apple
accounting for two-thirds of those. The figure will rise to
326.3 million in 2015.  The company’s share will drop to 46 percent by 2015 as
Google’s Android gains customers and Microsoft enters the
market.  Tablets introduced by  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  haven’t gained much
interest. Amazon’s Kindle Fire, on sale since November, has
lured buyers because of its lower price, and Amazon’s website
gives it a sales channel on par with Apple’s retail stores, said
Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc.
Amazon’s selection of movies, music and applications also is
appealing to customers, she said.  Microsoft’s Lag  “Tablets are about services,” said Rotman Epps. “That’s
why Amazon has succeeded where others have failed.”  A new wave of tablets will be entering the market with
Microsoft’s introduction of Windows 8, a remake of the company’s
flagship operating system intended to work more easily with
smartphones and tablets. Hewlett-Packard has said it will
introduce a tablet using the software, which analysts expect
will be released later this year.  While Windows 8-based products are being completed, Apple
may sell 11.3 million iPads in the quarter ending March 31, more
than double unit sales from a year earlier, according to Brian Marshall, an analyst at ISI Group in  San Francisco .  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , will eventually
become a strong competitor, though the longer Windows 8 takes to
hit the market, the harder it will be to gain traction with
customers, said Rotman Epps.  Apple may sell 60 million  iPads  in all of 2012, ISI
predicts, about 50 percent more than last year. Apple is the
largest maker of personal computers if the iPad is included in
the count, according to Canalys.  ‘Just Getting Started’  The iPad has helped make Apple the world’s most valuable
company, worth  $494.8 billion  based on today’s closing stock
price. Since the device went on sale in April 2010, Apple’s
stock has risen 125 percent and quarterly sales have almost
tripled.  Now that the iPad works on so-called fourth-generation
wireless networks, Apple will probably make the newest version
of the iPhone work on the next-generation system too, said Ben Reitzes, an analyst at  Barclays Capital .  Cook hinted during today’s presentation that more big
announcements are in store from Apple this year.  “We’re just getting started,” Cook said. Customers have “a
lot to look forward to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  