-- Volvo Seen Doubling Sales Helped by Air Bag for Pedestrian: Cars
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-03-07T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/marchionne-sees-fiat-needs-asia-partner-after-gm-peugeot.html
Volvo Car Corp. (175)  showed a five-door
hatchback this week in Geneva featuring the world’s first
pedestrian air bag. The Swedish carmaker is counting on such
innovations to burnish its safety image and help double sales.  The V40, Volvo’s first model designed under owner  Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co (GEELZ) . of  China , has an air bag that ejects
from the hood to protect pedestrians from injury. It also has a
backswept headlight and panoramic glass roof to give it a sporty
look.  Volvo is targeting the hatchback at potential buyers of
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s 1-series, Audi AG’s A3 and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz A-Class as the carmaker tries to push into
the premium market. Volvo will need to fill other gaps in its
product lineup and replace aging vehicles to meet a target of
lifting annual volume to 800,000 by 2020.  Old models and holes in Volvo’s product portfolio highlight
the high development costs in the auto industry and the
difficult choices facing an automaker that is not part of a
larger group. Volvo sold 449,255 cars last year. That compares
with 1.3 million at Audi, itself a unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which
delivered 8.27 million vehicles across all its brands.  The V40 “is an important model for the brand as it further
progresses along the road to making Volvo a more viable premium-
brand competitor,” said  Jonathon Poskitt , head of European
sales forecasting at LMC Automotive in Oxford. “For Volvo to
really take the fight to the likes of Audi and BMW, it will need
to look to roll out this new, sharper styling to the
replacements that come over the next few years.”  Volvo, which will start building the car in May, targets
annual sales of 90,000, mainly in  Europe , where demand is
strongest for small cars in large urban areas. The model won’t
be sold in the U.S.  Luxury Sedan  Volvo dealers are hoping for a vehicle at the other end of
the spectrum for American buyers: a big, luxurious sedan that
can challenge BMW’s 7-series,  Audi (VOW3) ’s A8 and Mercedes S-Class.  “We’re missing that next step up in the luxury line,”
said Randy Pullen, the general manager of a Volvo dealership
outside Atlanta,  Georgia . “We have to create a broader
selection of product.”  Gothenburg-based Volvo is also missing a subcompact car and
facing a growing need to replace aging vehicles. The XC90, its
largest crossover, will be 12 years old when it’s renewed in
2014. The S80, its biggest sedan, will be nine years old when
it’s revamped in 2015.  ‘Core’ Cars  The S40 and V50, Volvo’s smallest sedan and station wagon,
are both eight years old, and the company has yet to announce
when they will be replaced. Volvo last year pulled them from the
U.S. market because of poor sales.  The average lifespan for models in Europe is about seven
years, according to  Michael Tyndall , an auto analyst at  Barclays
Bank  in  London .  “We have not made a decision on whether to go further up
and down” in the various car segments, Chief Executive Officer
 Stefan Jacoby  told reporters March 6 at the Geneva auto show.
Volvo intends to focus in the coming years on “core” cars,
such as the midsize S60 sedan and crossover XC60, its two
bestsellers, he said.  Volvo is talking with other carmakers about sharing
development costs for future compact cars, Jacoby said,
declining to identify the candidates.  China Appeal  In China, Volvo’s fastest-growing market, the Swedish
company needs more cars with an extended wheelbase to appeal to
the chauffeur-driven market, said  Bill Russo , a Beijing-based
senior adviser at Booz & Co. Mercedes, BMW and Audi all offer
models with extended wheelbases in the market.  “If Volvo will significantly grow its business, its next
stage of development has to be to bring a higher level of
localized cars to this market, and I think that’s where they’re
headed,” Russo said.  Volvo makes the longer S80L model for China at a factory
co-owned by former owner  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co. The Swedish carmaker aims to open its own plant
in Chengdu in late 2013, and plans a second factory in Daqing.
The Chinese government must still approve the assembly.  In the U.S., Volvo’s largest market, the company needs more
fuel-efficient cars, which are becoming increasingly important
amid high gasoline prices, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of
industry trends at TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica ,  California ,
which tracks sales and price trends. Volvo should also consider
bringing diesel cars, which have “contributed greatly” to VW’s
growth, to the U.S., Toprak said.  Geely Transformation  Geely bought Volvo Cars from Ford for $1.8 billion two
years ago in the biggest overseas acquisition by a Chinese
automaker. Ford sold Volvo as part of a broader strategy of
exiting European lines, after selling  Aston Martin , Jaguar and
 Land Rover  to focus on its American brands.  Geely later lured Jacoby, who at the time headed VW’s U.S.
operations, to take over as CEO. Volvo’s sales peaked in 2007 at
around 460,000 vehicles before plunging during the financial
crisis and global recession that followed.  Pullen, the dealer near Atlanta, said Volvo’s design has
improved under Geely and new products are being developed faster
than under Ford.  “I think they’re doing a lot of the right things,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  