-- Markets Deserve a Borrowing Rate Banks Can’t Manipulate: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-07T00:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/markets-deserve-a-borrowing-rate-that-libor-banks-can-t-manipulate-view.html
The value of about $360 trillion in
financial contracts, ranging from derivatives to adjustable-rate
mortgages, depends largely on a benchmark -- known as the London
interbank offered rate -- that is demonstrably broken.  Regulators and global banks are trying to figure out how to
fix it. They should be looking for a replacement instead.  Perhaps no financial indicator is more important for global
finance, and less understood by the people it affects, than
Libor. Every weekday morning London time, a panel of the world’s
largest banks reports how much it would cost to borrow from
other banks in various currencies and time periods, ranging from
overnight to a year. An adjusted average of those rates -- the
 three-month  and  six-month  dollar loan rates are the most widely
used -- determines the size of payments on corporate and
mortgage loan worldwide. In times of crisis, Libor also serves
as an indicator of stress in the banking system: The more that
banks are paying for short-term loans, the more trouble they’re
in.  Problem is, banks have powerful incentives to fib about
their borrowing costs -- a flaw that has become the focal point
of numerous civil lawsuits, a criminal investigation by the U.S.
Justice Department and a multinational regulatory inquiry into
possible manipulation of Libor. Troubled banks can make
themselves appear healthier by artificially lowering their
reported borrowing rates, which are made public. Manipulating
Libor can also help banks that are major players in derivatives
markets. Hundreds of millions of dollars can be made on
differences of as little as a quarter of a percentage point.  Skewing Libor  Academic studies suggest that such incentives are skewing
Libor. In one, economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  estimated that, during the financial crisis, the rates
reported by banks in the Libor panel were as much as 0.3
percentage point lower than their actual borrowing rates. A
separate  study  by economists Connan Snider of the  University of
California  at  Los Angeles  and Thomas Youle of the  University of
Minnesota  found that at least one bank’s Libor quotes tended to
err in directions that benefited its positions in derivatives
markets.  The  British Bankers' Association , the trade group that
oversees Libor, attempted to overhaul the benchmark in 2008
after news reports shed light on its flaws. Clearly, it didn’t
work. The chances of success, given another try, are slim. One
major reason is that the BBA is conflicted: Representatives of
the reporting banks, for example, lead the BBA committee
responsible for Libor. Beyond that, it’s difficult to find
actual borrowing rates to verify independently what the banks
are reporting.  Hence, the world needs a new benchmark. Ideally, it would
reflect an actual trading market rather than the “what if”
quotes that underpin Libor. The market should be very active and
used by a wide variety of participants, making it difficult to
manipulate. It should also be useful for banks and other
institutions that want to hedge against changes in  interest
rates .  The leading candidate is the market for so-called general
collateral repo loans -- loans that banks, investors and other
participants take out against good collateral, such as U.S.
Treasuries. The Depository Trust Clearing Corp., owned by a
wide-ranging group of financial institutions, has already
started publishing a daily  index  of the interest rates on
overnight repo loans. Separately, important players in that
market could soon be generating reliable repo rates for longer
terms, such as three months.  Any transition from Libor to a new benchmark will take a
long time. Traders will resist change. And even if all new
contracts are tied to repo rates starting in the near future,
some of the loans that reference Libor will be around for
decades to come. But those are small obstacles in the way of a
change that could have major consequences, not the least of
which would be an honest benchmark for interest rates paid by
millions of corporations and homeowners.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 