-- Armstrong Says There’s ‘No Incentive’ to Agree to Greek Swap
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   M a r k   B a r t o n
-- 2012-03-07T10:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/armstrong-says-there-s-no-incentive-to-agree-to-greek-swap.html
Armstrong Investment Managers LLP, a
London-based  money manager  that oversees about $350 million,
said it won’t participate in Greece’s debt swap because it may
recoup more money by holding out.  There’s no incentive to agree to the debt exchange because
investors are likely to be swept in anyway by so-called
collective action clauses, Managing Director Patrick Armstrong
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. Holders of
Greek bonds that mature this month have a “small window” of
getting paid out at face value if they hold out, he said.  “There is no incentive to participate,” Armstrong said.
“If I do not, most likely, I will end up with the same terms.”  The Greek government, which set a participation rate of 75
percent of private debt holders for proceeding with the swap,
has pledged to use collective-action clauses to force owners of
Greek-law bonds to accept the exchange if it receives sufficient
consent from investors. The swap, which runs through March 8, is
aimed at preventing a disorderly default by reducing the 206
billion euros ($271 billion) of privately held Greek debt by
more than half.  Armstrong’s holdings of Greek bonds are a “very small
trade we put on a year ago,” Armstrong said. The firm hedged
the investment by betting that bank stocks will decline, because
lenders will have to pay out on credit-default swaps they sold
once the debt swap is imposed on all bondholders, he said.  Credit-default swaps are a form of insurance that pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. Analysts have said that CDS payments would be
triggered if  Greece  uses the collective-action clauses.  Forced Losses  The Greek debt swap will require investors to accept net
present value losses of more than 70 percent on their holdings.
Greece expects a sufficient number of investors to accept the
exchange and is prepared to force them to participate if
necessary, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in a
Bloomberg Television interview this week.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  have said they will take part in the swap, joining
Greece’s six largest banks. The lenders are among the biggest
private bondholders of Greece’s sovereign debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Barton  in London at 
 barton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  