-- Marx’s Home Turns Cool With Game Pie, New Chef: London Dining
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/marx-s-old-home-turns-cool-with-pheasant-pie-new-chef-lee-london-dining.html
Jeremy Lee is one of London’s most
popular and respected chefs among his peers, yet he’s flown
under the radar in terms of fame. He doesn’t appear on
television very often and his cooking is unflashy and unfussy.  Worse still in terms of culinary fashion, the cold country
in northern  Europe  from which he emanates is  Scotland , not
Sweden or  Denmark , home to Noma.  Lee has just moved to Quo Vadis after 16 years at the
Blueprint Cafe and his impact has been instant. He’s dumped the
old menu in favor of a single sheet that is printed daily and
features a woodcut illustration and a line on the weather.  The restaurant -- one of London’s oldest -- had looked
tired. Now, it is buzzing and it can be difficult to get a
table. It is filled with diners. Many of them know each other,
giving it the feel of a private club or a staff canteen for the
media and hospitality industries. I feel at home.  You may not want to go to somewhere that’s in with the in
crowd: Cool restaurants can leave me cold and a single snooty
receptionist can turn a warm welcome into so much hot air. The
difference here is that Quo Vadis is built around old-fashioned
generosity and good manners. And the food is good, too.  The establishment was opened in 1926 by an Italian, Pepino
Leoni. During World War II, when Leoni was interned, Indian
restaurateurs took over the space. Leoni returned after the war
and ran Quo Vadis for 30 years. Chef Marco Pierre White and the
artists  Damien Hirst  were among subsequent owners, before
brothers Sam and Eddie Hart moved in, in June 2008.  Marx, Suggs  ( Karl Marx  wrote “Das Kapital” while living on the third
floor. These days, there’s a private club upstairs favored by
friends of the Harts, including the singer Suggs, of Madness.)  On Lee’s menu, there are about half a dozen starters, mains
and desserts, plus a daily pie and snacks such as baked salsify
and parmesan. The lunch/pre-theater menu is 17.50 pounds
($27.65) for two courses and 20 pounds for three.  It’s uncomplicated seasonal fare, well-executed with good
ingredients. Lee is a flamboyant chef who doesn’t confuse
simplicity with timidity. Neither is he one for formality, such
as being respectfully addressed as chef, rather than by his
name. (He told  Restaurant magazine : “If anyone says ‘chef’ in
my kitchen, they get spanked.”) His flavors are as big as his
personality. Watch out for smoked eel & horseradish sandwich;
hare soup; salt mallard & pickled prunes.  The daily pie on one of my visits was generously filled
with pheasant, duck & mallard (14 pound) and another time I went
for the onglet, watercress and pickled walnuts. (While I don’t
think pickled walnuts will catch on, who knows?) Other favorites
are neck of Middle White pork with braised beans and green
sauce; and whole grilled mackerel, cucumber & dill salad.  Marmalade Dessert  Desserts may include shortcake, goat’s curd, lemon curd and
marmalade. I say “may” because the menu really does change
daily, depending on the supplies that arrive. Lee spends the
best part of his day in the kitchen, emerging occasionally to
kiss customers: male and female, he’s equal opportunity.  It’s a strong team at Quo Vadis. The Harts, who also own
Barrafina and Fino, have spent a life in hospitality and it’s
rare not to spot one of them in any of the restaurants: chatting
to customers, taking orders and even clearing tables. Their new
general manager at Quo Vadis is John Spiteri, a veteran of
restaurants such as St John, Bentley’s and Corrigan’s.  The wine list is good value and it’s worth examining
because the Harts put in the time with growers as well as
importers, so it’s less predictable than you might see elsewhere  If you are looking for somewhere ground-breaking, Quo Vadis
may not be for you. Lee tends to marry ingredients that have a
history of getting along rather than trying to create a congress
between exotic bedfellows. If he were Danish, he’d serve you the
best open sandwich, rather than poached sea urchin and powdered
cucumber with frozen cream and dill.  Lee’s cooking is simple without being easy. It’s a perfect
match for Quo Vadis.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Less than 30 pounds a head for food.  Sound level? About 75-80 decibels. Air kissing can be
noisy.  Inside tip? Try for a corner table.  Special feature? Historic setting.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***.  Quo Vadis is at 26-29 Dean Street,  London , W1D 3LL.
Information: +44-20-7437 9585 or  http://www.quovadissoho.co.uk/ .
Tel. +44-20-3189-4850.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 