-- As Pension Crisis Looms, Golden Years Fade to Black: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/as-pension-crisis-looms-golden-years-fade-to-black-clive-crook.html
The resolution of every economic
crisis sows the seeds of the next.  Public pension systems in advanced and emerging economies
alike were already under stress before the Great Recession. The
past few years’ destruction of wealth and the likelihood of
slower growth in the future have weakened them further and will
put some under intolerable pressure.  Getting pension systems to work as they should will be one
of the toughest tests governments face in the next several
decades. It demands something they are notoriously bad at:
thinking ahead.  I’m not saying governments don’t understand the problem.
Many have started to address it. The trouble is, they’re framing
the issue too narrowly, and  adopting fixes  that are unlikely to
stick. Getting on top of this issue will require more radical
thinking. In many countries, options that have been taken off
the table will need to be put back on.  At the moment, governments see pensions almost entirely as
a looming fiscal  emergency  -- which, to be sure, they partly
are. On average,  according  to the  International Monetary Fund ,
aging populations will raise public pension spending in advanced
economies by about four percentage points of GDP over the next
20 years. That is an enormous amount. Rapidly falling fertility
also means that a diminishing base of workers will have to bear
that burden. (The ratio of pensioners to workers in developed
economies is expected to double by 2050.)  Retirement Recedes  Reforms that have already been proposed will subtract about
two and a half percentage points from that four percentage point
increase in cost over the next two decades, mainly by raising
the retirement age and by making pensions less generous. There
are two concerns about this approach. The smaller one is that
such measures only partly solve the fiscal problem. The real
worry is that they won’t be allowed to happen -- and with good
reason.  With  life expectancy  increasing, a rise in the retirement
age does make sense -- but it’s a terrible idea to make public
pensions less generous than they already are. Even if you
disagree, ask yourself how plausible a decrease is. Early
reformers such as Sweden and  Germany  have had to reverse some of
their planned cuts in pension benefits as they began to be
implemented. The same is bound to happen elsewhere.  The crux of the problem, which has barely even begun to be
recognized, is that projected incomes in retirement need to
grow, not fall. Squeezing public pensions is a questionable goal
at the best of times. When private provision for retirement is
under greater stress than ever before, it’s political fantasy.  Relatively generous occupational pensions began
disappearing long before the recession, starting with countries
like the U.S. and the U.K. Defined-contribution saving for
retirement -- in the U.S., through 401(k)s and Individual
Retirement Accounts -- has failed to fill the gap. For workers
approaching retirement, balances in these accounts are typically
far lower than needed to avoid a severe drop in income.  Health costs in retirement are rising rapidly everywhere,
another consequence of increased longevity. Governments are
trying to shift some of this burden off their books as part of
efforts to contain public debt. This will put new strains on
incomes in retirement. Add low  interest rates  (hence meager
returns on the safest forms of saving) and the collapse in  home
equity , which in many countries was a main form of retirement
saving, and the financial prospects for many soon-to-retire
workers are dire.  Wishful Thinking  Against this background, plans to suppress public spending
on pensions are questionable on their merits, and from a fiscal
discipline point of view are just so much wishful thinking. As
life expectancy improves,  working longer  is both financially
desirable and politically feasible. But making public pensions
smaller is neither -- unless it’s part of a larger reform to
raise overall retirement incomes.  What shape could this needed reform take? The short answer
is mandatory private saving -- ideally, so far as rich economies
are concerned, not in place of but in addition to the provision
of public pensions. Take deductions from workers’ pay and invest
them in private accounts. These are not taxes: Workers own their
savings balances, though they would be unable to access them
before retiring.  There are many possible variants. Governments might
subsidize the savings of those on low incomes, set a floor for
payments or guarantee, within limits, minimum rates of return.
Such mandatory private saving is the path taken by many
emerging-market economies, following the example set by  Chile  in
the 1980s. The approach has problems -- in  Chile ’s case,
inadequate coverage and high administrative expenses, which were
addressed in a second big reform in 2008 -- but the basic
principles have been widely adopted. Details matter, and these
programs haven’t matured, so it’s too soon to declare them a
success. But done right, the model looks promising.  In rich countries, one trap to avoid is expecting such
reforms to ease the fiscal burden of public pension systems.
It’s tempting to pay for the introduction of private retirement
accounts by transferring payroll-tax contributions out of the
public system. If governments do this and make up the revenue
through public borrowing rather than by new taxes or spending
cuts, public saving goes down, partly defeating the purpose.
Public pensions need to be made fiscally viable with currently
projected benefits by raising the  retirement age  and, if need
be, by raising taxes. Then supplementary retirement accounts can
be used to bring retirement incomes up to where they need to be.  Especially in the U.S., the politics of pension reform is
toxic.  George W. Bush ’s attempts to partially privatize Social
Security were roundly defeated, and most Democrats still savor
that victory. They see the idea of a mixed public and private
system as anathema. Their suspicions are partly justified:
Private pensions aren’t a way to cut public spending or taxes,
and they shouldn’t be sold on the back of heroic assumptions
about returns to private capital. They should be seen, simply,
as a way to increase saving, as an alternative to poverty in
retirement and/or acute fiscal distress down the road.  I’ll come back next week with how a reform like this might
work in the U.S.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 