-- Las Vegas Monorail Can Seek Bankruptcy Plan Vote, Judge Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/las-vegas-monorail-approved-to-seek-bankruptcy-plan-vote-1-.html
Las Vegas Monorail Co. , which runs a
driverless transport system for casino patrons, won a judge’s
permission to seek a creditor vote on a bankruptcy exit plan
that would pay bondholders $13 million of the $451.4 million
they are owed.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell in  Las Vegas  said
yesterday he would approve a disclosure statement for the plan
that gives creditors details about how their debts will be
handled. Lower-ranking bondholders owed $207.2 million will get
nothing under the proposal.  This is Las Vegas Monorail’s second attempt to win approval
for a reorganization plan. Markell rejected the first plan in
November, finding it wasn’t economically feasible, in part
because it proposed paying bondholders $44.5 million by issuing
new debt.  “We heard what the court said,” Monorail attorney Gerald
Gordon said in court yesterday.  Las Vegas Monorail is trying to get out of bankruptcy and
pursue an expansion plan as Las Vegas recovers from its steepest
gambling and convention decline, casino operators such as  MGM
Resorts International (MGM)  and  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  have said.
Proceeds for casinos on the Strip climbed 5.1 percent last year
and  4.1 percent in 2010, after record declines of more than 9
percent in 2008 and 2009.  Unrealistic Plan  Markell found that the last plan was unrealistic because
Monorail couldn’t afford the debt it was taking on to pay
bondholders, according to court documents. He was also critical
of the 10 percent  interest rate  on that debt.  The new plan pays bondholders with $13 million in new debt
that carries a lower interest rate. Should revenues rise above a
certain level, bondholders would share in the extra money,
according to the proposed plan.  Las Vegas Monorail’s 3.9 mile track runs from near the  Las
Vegas Strip  to the convention center and carries passengers
between gambling resorts. One of those resorts, the Sahara
Hotel, closed last year, causing ridership to drop and a loss of
about $800,000 in fares for the second half of 2011, Monorail
said in court papers.  Airport Link  The company said its new plan may make it eligible to win
grants to upgrade and expand the system, perhaps eventually
linking the Strip with Las Vegas’s McCarran International
Airport.  Markell said he would sign an order allowing the vote after
final, minor wording changes were made. He scheduled an April 30
hearing to decide whether to approve the plan once creditors
vote. Under the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , Markell will take the
tally into consideration.  A revenue bond issued in 2000 for the Las Vegas Monorail
project due in January 2032 traded yesterday at an average of
22.67 cents on the dollar, up from an average of 19.65 cents on
Nov. 21, three days after Markell rejected the first
reorganization plan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail, 10-10464,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  