-- Stocks Rise as Treasuries Retreat on Increase in U.S. Hiring, Greek Swap
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-07T21:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/asian-stocks-drop-for-third-day-as-yen-climbs-on-europe-korean-won-falls.html
Stocks climbed, rebounding from the
worst drop of 2012, while Treasuries fell as a report showed
U.S. companies boosted hiring and more investors agreed to a
Greek debt swap. Natural gas tumbled to a 10-year low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,352.63 at 4 p.m. in New York and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  advanced 78 points. The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities
added 0.7 percent as gasoline, silver and oil rallied. Ten-year
Treasury yields increased three basis points to 1.97 percent.
The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3146 as the shared currency
strengthened against 10 of 16 major peers. The Dollar Index, a
gauge of the currency against six major peers, lost 0.2 percent.  U.S. companies added 216,000 workers last month, according
to data based on payrolls from ADP Employer Services. Investors
with holdings amounting to 58 percent of the Greek bonds
eligible for the nation’s debt swap agreed to participate,
moving the country closer to the biggest sovereign restructuring
in history. Equities  extended gains  on a report the  Federal
Reserve  is discussing a new type of bond-buying program.  “The data coming out of the U.S. is supportive of
growth,” Stephen Kylander, Boston-based senior portfolio
manager at RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc., said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversees $250 billion in assets.
“The valuations aren’t particularly stretched. It’s important
that we have stability in  Europe . We wouldn’t want to have a
significant default in Greece that is not orderly.”  Fed Report  Equities extended gains as the Wall Street Journal reported
that Fed officials are considering a program to buy long-term
mortgage or Treasury bonds by printing new money, then
effectively “sterilize” or tie up the new cash by borrowing it
back for short periods at low rates. The aim would be to relieve
concern about future inflation, the Journal reported.  Treasuries remained  lower  after the report, with the two-
year yield up two basis points at 0.30 percent and the 30-year
yield four basis points higher at 3.12 percent.  “We are paring some of the risk-off trade from yesterday,
with the market clearly focused on PSI and what percentage of
the Greek bondholders agree to the swap,” said Michael Pond,
co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc,
using the acronym for private-sector involvement in the debt
swap. “The Fed’s unlikely to announce something next week, but
they are clearly exploring their options for more accommodation
should the recent economic momentum not continue.”  Retreat Halted  The  S&P 500  halted a three-day, 2.2 percent retreat.
Yesterday’s slide erased more than $1 trillion from global
equities as a report showed Europe’s economy shrank and
investors awaited details on Greece’s swap.  Today’s report from ADP Employer Services came two days
before the Labor Department’s monthly jobs data, which are
forecast to show an increase of 225,000 private jobs and total
non-farm payrolls growth of 210,000. Separate data today showed
consumer borrowing in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
January, capping the biggest three-month gain in more than a
decade. Credit increased by $17.8 billion to $2.51 trillion, Fed
figures showed.  Financial, industrial and consumer-discretionary companies
led gains among nine of the 10 main industry groups in the S&P
500 today, climbing at least 1 percent each.  Bank of America
Corp.  and Citigroup Inc. paced the advance among financial
companies with gains of more than 3.4 percent each. Apple Inc.
ended the session up 0.1 percent, erasing most of a 1.4 percent
advance, after the company introduced the new version of its
iPad tablet computer, which will be available March 16.  Natural Gas Tumbles  Natural gas futures settled at a 10-year low, falling 2.3
percent to $2.302 per million British thermal units, as the
fourth-warmest U.S. winter on record crimped demand for the
heating fuel while record production boosted stockpiles.  Brent crude  gained 1.7 percent to $124.09 a barrel and West
Texas intermediate oil added 1.4 percent to $106.16. Copper
climbed 0.8 percent to $3.767 a pound.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rebounded 0.6 percent after
tumbling 2.7 percent yesterday, its biggest drop since November.
Admiral Group Plc surged 10 percent today as the U.K. insurer
said full-year profit increase 14 percent. Cobham Plc, a
designer of equipment for the  aerospace industry , jumped 13
percent as earnings topped estimates.  Emerging Markets, Oil  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 0.1 percent,
heading for a third consecutive decline and the lowest close
since Feb. 1. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  slid 1.3 percent.  In European bond markets, 10-year Italian yields lost 13
basis points to 4.94 percent and Spanish yields fell six basis
points to 5.09 percent. Ten-year Greek yields were little
changed at 36.55 percent.  Greece ’s largest banks, most of the country’s pension
funds, and more than 30 European banks and insurers including
BNP Paribas SA,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Assicurazioni Generali SpA
have pledged to accept the offer. That brings the total so far
to at least 120 billion euros ($157 billion), based on data
compiled by Bloomberg from company reports and government
statements.  Under the rules of the exchange, investors holding at least
50 percent of the eligible bonds must vote on the swap, and 66
percent of those must agree to amend the bonds to enable the
government to impose the collective action clauses,  Christoph
Rieger , head of fixed income strategy at Commerzbank AG, said in
a note to clients.  The Greek government said it will use collective action
clauses to compel bondholders to accept its debt restructuring
if it receives sufficient consents from investors. The goal of
the exchange that runs through March 8 is to reduce privately
held Greek debt by 53.5 percent, helping to avert a disorderly
default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  