-- Obama to Simulate Cyber Attack on New York Power to Lobby Senate
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-03-07T19:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/at-t-joins-comcast-favoring-incentives-over-cybersecurity-rules.html
The Obama administration will
simulate a cyber attack crippling New York City’s electric
supply during a summer heat wave to drum up support for
cybersecurity legislation.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation, National Security
Agency and  Justice Department  are among agencies in  Washington 
involved today in a Senate briefing on the New York scenario,
said Vincent Morris, a spokesman for Senator Jay Rockefeller, a
West Virginia Democrat. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and  John Brennan , the White House counterterrorism
adviser, are taking part.  Internet-service providers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  opposed new regulations protecting computer networks from
hacker attacks at a House hearing today. The companies said they
prefer voluntary sharing of information about cyber threats.  The demonstration is “intended to provide all senators
with an appreciation for new legislative authorities that would
help the U.S. government prevent and more quickly respond to
cyber attacks,” said Caitlin Hayden, a White House spokeswoman,
in an e-mail today.  The Obama administration is backing a Senate bill
introduced Feb. 14 by Senator Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut
Independent, that directs the Homeland Security Department to
set rules for companies deemed critical to U.S. national and
economic security to improve their computer defenses.  A competing bill from eight Republicans including Senators
John McCain of  Arizona  and Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  would
avoid new regulations while promoting information-sharing
through incentives such as protection from lawsuits.  Critical Networks  U.S. lawmakers are debating cybersecurity legislation
following assaults last year on companies including New York-
based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company.  The attacks have increased concern that critical networks
such as U.S. banks, power grids, and telecommunications systems
may be vulnerable to hacking or viruses that may cause loss of
life or inflict widespread economic damage.  Senior administration officials coordinated by the White
House will give the Senate a classified briefing on a
“hypothetical cyber attack against United States critical
infrastructure networks,” Hayden said, without providing
details of the exercise.  ‘Stifling Effect’  Government-imposed rules could impede innovation, Internet-
service providers said in testimony to a House Energy and
Commerce subcommittee hearing today.  “Such requirements could have an unintended stifling
effect on making real cybersecurity improvements,” Edward Amoroso, chief security officer for Dallas-based AT&T, said in
testimony at the hearing. “Cyber adversaries are dynamic and
increasingly sophisticated, and do not operate under a
laboriously defined set of rules or processes.”  AT&T is the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier.
Philadelphia-based Comcast, the leading U.S. cable provider, and
Monroe, Louisiana-based  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  expressed similar views
in their prepared testimony.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said he wants to bring the Lieberman bill to the chamber’s floor
for a vote as soon as possible, though he hasn’t given a date.
Rockefeller is among co-sponsors of the measure.  The Lieberman bill is S. 2105 and the McCain bill is S.
2151.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Walsh at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  