-- Australian Beef to Compete With Brazil, India as Demand Surges
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-03-07T07:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/australian-beef-to-compete-with-brazil-india-as-demand-surges.html
Australia , the largest beef exporter,
faces “fierce” competition from  Brazil ,  India  and the U.S. to
meet an expected surge in demand, boosted by rising consumption
in emerging markets, said an industry group.  “Demand is set to grow increasingly over the next five
years, vastly outstripping the globe’s capacity to supply,”
said Scott Hansen, managing director of  Meat & Livestock
Australia . Global consumption may climb 24 percent by 2020 from
64.5 million metric tons in 2011, the producer-owned group said
at a conference in Canberra today.  Rising incomes and growing populations in emerging markets
are fueling demand for farm products including proteins, helping
push  global food  costs 1.9 percent higher in January, the most
in 11 months, according to the  United Nations . The Standard &
Poor’s  GSCI Agriculture Index (SPGSAG)  of eight commodities has advanced
1.5 percent this year.  “We expect to continue to see fierce competition from the
likes of Brazil and India, and from the U.S. and  New Zealand  in
some of our more traditional marketplaces,” said Hansen.
“Brazil’s not only well-placed to meet demand growth in South
America, but to increase its presence globally.”  Exports from Brazil this year may top an earlier forecast,
a unit of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday.
Shipments may be 1.394 million tons, up from a USDA estimate of
1.375 million tons, said the Foreign Agricultural Service.  Indian Exports  India is poised to be the third-biggest beef and veal meat
exporter this year after Australia and Brazil, with shipments of
about 1.275 million tons, according to USDA data. Supplies from
the U.S., ranked fourth by the USDA, may increase as more
animals are slaughtered following a drought, Hansen said.  Buffalo meat represented 86 percent of India’s total
animal-product exports in the year ended March 31, 2011,
according to the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export
Development Authority. India exports buffalo meat mainly to
Vietnam,  Malaysia ,  Egypt , Saudi Arabia and the  Philippines .  Demand for U.S. exports will climb in the medium term
because of increasing consumption in emerging markets and the
dollar’s decline, Donnie Smith, the chief executive officer of
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , said Feb. 24. Global demand for protein may
grow 1.8 percent to 2 percent for at least the next five to
seven years, he said.  Cattle futures for April delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$1.26175 per pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange at 3 p.m.
Singapore time. They dropped 2 percent yesterday to settle at
$1.25775, the biggest decline since Dec. 5. Prices have
increased 11 percent in the past year.  Emerging Markets  Australia is seeking to expand sales in emerging markets to
boost overseas shipments as Japan considers easing trade curbs
on U.S. supplies imposed after an outbreak of mad-cow disease.
Japanese imports of U.S. beef shrank to almost zero in 2004,
from 298,039 tons in 2003, after the country joined South Korea
and  China  in banning U.S. supplies after the discovery of bovine
spongiform encephalopathy.  Shipments from Australia to  Japan  may decline 2.4 percent
in 2012-2013 as the country sources supply from the U.S., the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said in a report yesterday. Sales to South Korea may
fall 2.1 percent amid increased competition from U.S. and
Canadian supplies, it said.  Total beef and veal exports from Australia may still
increase 1.6 percent to 970,000 tons in the year starting July 1,
as production gains on heavier carcass weights, the bureau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  