-- Australia GDP Grows at Half the Pace Economists Forecast; Bond Yields Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-07T05:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/australia-s-economy-grew-less-than-forecast-0-4-last-quarter-on-housing.html
Australia ’s economy expanded at half
the pace economists forecast last quarter as a housing slump
deterred  consumer spending , sending bond yields falling and the
local currency to a six-week low.  Gross domestic product  advanced 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months, when it rose a revised
0.8 percent that was weaker than previously reported, a Bureau
of Statistics report showed today in Sydney. The result compared
with the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  for a
0.8 percent gain.  The report covers a period when Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis weighed on Asian demand for commodities that prompted
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  to make back-to-back
interest-rate cuts for the first time since 2009. Investors
increased bets he will lower borrowing costs next month as a
A$456 billion ($481 billion) pipeline of resource projects
driven by companies such as BHP Billiton Ltd. fails to cushion a
slump in manufacturing and tourism hit by a strong currency.  “With GDP growth below trend an argument can be made for a
further rate cut,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist
at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in Sydney. “The slowdown in consumer spending
despite two interest-rate cuts suggests a soft inflation result
this quarter would provide room for a further easing in
financial conditions.”  Market Reaction  The currency fell after the report to as low as $1.0509,
the weakest level since Jan. 25.  Government bonds  advanced, with
yields on 10-year debt falling as low as 3.94 percent, seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, below yesterday’s close.  Traders see about a 36 percent chance the central bank will
cut borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 4 percent
next month, Bloomberg calculations based on interbank cash-rate
futures show, up from 30 percent yesterday after Stevens held.  Today’s report showed  household spending  rose 0.5 percent
in the fourth quarter, the poorest showing since the first
quarter of 2010, adding 0.3 percentage point to GDP growth.
Housing construction declined 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
the worst in almost three years, subtracting 0.2 point from the
expansion, today’s report showed.  Australian  house prices  plunged by the most on record in
2011 as global economic uncertainty and concerns about its
impact at home restrained demand. An index measuring the
weighted average of prices for established houses in eight major
cities slid 4.8 percent from a year earlier, a government report
showed Feb. 1, the biggest calendar-year drop since the data
began in March 2002.  Tourism Slump  Today’s GDP report showed accommodation and food services,
spanning the nation’s tourism industry, fell by 2.2 percent last
quarter as the currency’s strength encouraged Australians to
vacation abroad.  “The high dollar has contributed to a decline in travel to
the traditional domestic holiday destinations, with Australians
traveling overseas in ever increasing numbers,” RBA Deputy
Governor  Philip Lowe  said in a speech earlier today. “This has
created quite difficult conditions for parts of the industry
with, for example, room occupancy rates along the Queensland
coast having fallen over recent years.”  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has strengthened about 3 percent this year as
investors bet the economy will accelerate. It touched a six-
month high of $1.0856 on Feb. 29 after the  European Central Bank 
awarded 529.5 billion euros ($696 billion) in a second round of
three-year loans to banks.  ‘Sub-Trend’  Compared with a  year earlier , the economy expanded 2.3
percent in the fourth quarter, today’s report showed. Economists
forecast a 2.4 percent year-over-year gain. The annual figure
represented a fourth consecutive year of “sub-trend growth,”
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  said in a note to clients today.  “The persistence of sub-trend growth for four consecutive
years is a key reason for current labor market weakness and the
likelihood that unemployment will move higher during 2012,”
wrote economists led by Sydney-based Bill Evans, Westpac’s chief
economist.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , the nation’s largest investment bank,
today released an assessment of floods that have inundated New
South Wales. About 75 percent of Australia’s most populous state
is affected by flooding as rainfall causes rivers to burst their
banks, with 12,900 people forced to leave their homes.  ‘Far More Muted’  The economic impact this time will be “far more muted”
than from floods in the first quarter of 2011 that caused the
economy to contract and boosted inflation,’’ said  Brian Redican ,
senior economist in Sydney at Macquarie.  Australian business profits unexpectedly dropped in the
three months through December by the most in two-and-a-half
years as earnings weakened at mining and financial companies,
reflecting weaker commodity prices and the weakest demand for
home lending since 1977.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
reported a 5.5 percent drop in first-half profit, the first
decline since 2009, as rising costs and lower output and prices
halved base metals earnings. Net income was $9.9 billion in the
six months ended Dec. 31, from $10.5 billion, a year earlier,
the Melbourne-based company said Feb. 8.  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest bank, reported first-
quarter profit that was lower than a year earlier as rising
funding costs squeezed the profitability of its lending.
Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended Dec. 31 were
A$1.5 billion, the Sydney-based bank said Feb. 16. It posted
cash earnings of A$1.55 billion a year earlier.  Rate Pause  The RBA yesterday held its benchmark rate at 4.25 percent
for a second month, while noting it has scope to lower borrowing
costs as  Europe  remains a potential source of shocks “for some
time yet.”  “Housing prices have shown some sign of stabilizing
recently, after having declined for most of 2011, but generally
the housing market remains soft,” Stevens said yesterday.  Government spending  increased 1 percent, adding 0.2 point
to growth, today’s report showed. The nation’s household savings
ratio dropped to 9 percent in the three months through December,
the lowest since the second quarter of 2010, from 9.6 percent in
the third quarter, today’s report showed.  “The sluggish pace of the economy keeps the door open to
another rate cut,” said  Craig James , a senior economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender, in
Sydney. “Not only has data confirmed that the economy is just
chugging along, timelier indicators suggest there has been
little improvement in 2012.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the economy’s performance in the
final three months of last year was “solid given the world was
facing the most dire conditions in the global economy since the
height of the financial crisis” in 2008-09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  