-- Mavericks Spoil Tyson Chandler’s Return to Dallas With Win Against Knicks
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-07T06:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/mavericks-spoil-tyson-chandler-s-return-to-dallas-with-win-against-knicks.html
Tyson Chandler ’s return to Dallas
began with cheers and a standing ovation and ended in
frustration as his  New York  Knicks lost 95-85 to the Mavericks.  Chandler was presented with his National Basketball
Association championship ring by Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban 
before last night’s game, his first appearance at the American
Airlines Center since he left Dallas to join the Knicks in
December. The Mavericks secured their first NBA title last year
by beating the  Miami Heat .  “When you feel that kind of appreciation from not only the
fans here but also from my former teammates, I was really
overwhelmed,” Chandler told reporters. “Obviously you want to
come here and get the win, but that’s a tough team we faced and
they were able to come out and play and we weren’t.”  Dallas ’ second victory in eight games lifted it to 23-17,
while New York dropped to 18-20 with the loss. The Mavericks are
sixth in the Western Conference, eight games behind the Oklahoma
City Thunder. The Knicks are 13 games behind the Eastern
Conference-leading Chicago Bulls in eighth place.  The Knicks scored the first 15 points of the fourth quarter
to take a one-point lead.  “We’re putting our second team in tough situations, trying
to get them to come back in games,” Chandler said. “We’ve got
to get more out of our starting unit.”  Dallas began the fourth quarter leading 77-63 and trailed
78-77 with four minutes, 54 seconds remaining before  Dirk Nowitzki  scored nine of his 28 points in a 14-point run to put
the home team ahead for good.  Legs Went  “Our guys got a little tired, I rode them a little bit,”
Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  told reporters. “We got up one, then
we went down three and their legs looked like they went.”  The win for the Mavericks avenged a 104-97 defeat at New
York’s Madison Square Garden on Feb. 19 that ended a six-game
winning run for the reigning NBA champions.  Amar’e Stoudemire led the Knicks with 26 points as they
lost their third straight road game. Jeremy Lin added 14 points
while keeping his turnovers at two, and  Steve Novak  came off the
bench to score 13 points.  “Our second team has been keeping us in ball games,” Lin
said. “We couldn’t close it out.”  Since winning seven straight games after Lin took over as
the Knicks’ point guard on Feb. 4, New York has gone 3-5
following the reintroduction of Stoudemire and  Carmelo Anthony ,
who missed the Mavericks’ visit last month because of a groin
injury.  “We honestly have to figure out what we want to do, what
we want to try to accomplish this year” Chandler said. “We’re
really up and down, we’re sporadic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey at the American Airlines Center in Dallas as +1-
   dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  