-- Azrieli Chairman Favors U.S. Investment as Israeli Developer Looks Abroad
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-03-07T07:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/azrieli-chairman-favors-u-s-investment-as-israeli-developer-looks-abroad.html
Azrieli Group Ltd. (AZRG) , Israel’s largest
commercial real-estate developer by market value, seeks to add
U.S. assets as the company invests part of its 1.5 billion
shekels ($395 million) in cash, Chairman  David Azrieli  said.  “The U.S. is the best market to expand and that’s where
we’re looking for further investments,” the Canadian
billionaire, 89, said in an interview on the top floor of
Azrieli Center’s circular tower in Tel Aviv. “We have passed
through a number of crises in the economy and the downturns have
created opportunities.”  Azrieli bought three office towers in Houston last year and
has 14 shopping malls and 13 office complexes in operation or
under development, mostly around  Tel Aviv . The company dropped a
plan to buy a shopping-center project in the coastal city of
Netanya in January because it didn’t agree with terms set by the
 Israel Antitrust Authority .  “Due to antitrust regulations, the likelihood that Azrieli
will invest more abroad has grown,” said Noam Pincu, an analyst
at Tel Aviv-based Psagot Investment House Ltd.  Israel, with a population of 7.8 million, has about 60
companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most after the U.S. and
 China . The country, which had one of the fastest recoveries from
the 2008 financial crisis, grew an estimated 4.8 percent last
year, more than triple the average of the world’s developed
economies, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “We are essentially an Israeli company and we want to
remain one and continue to invest in the country,” Azrieli said
in the March 5 interview. “I would be very unhappy if excess
funds flowed out of Israel.”  High Occupancy  The group’s shopping malls are almost fully occupied and
its offices had a vacancy rate of about 5 percent, according to
 Azrieli’s third-quarter financial report . Clothing chains such
as Pittsburgh-based  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  and  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB)  have opened stores across the country since 2010.  Azrieli was listed on the  Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange (TA-25)  in June
2010 after raising 2.5 billion shekels in an initial public
offering and a private placement. The company’s policy is to
distribute 35 percent of its net income as dividends.  “Before we went public, we plowed everything back into the
company,” the chairman said. “We paid a 240 million-shekel
dividend last year and we are going to maintain the same
policy.”  Azrieli, based in Tel Aviv, is the  fifth-largest Israeli
property company by assets . Its shares trade at 7.1 times
earnings, compared with an industry average of 5.8, according to
Bloomberg Data. The  stock has  dropped 11 percent over the last
12 months, less than the 15 percent decline for the benchmark
TA-100 index and the 18 percent slump in the EST-15 real estate
index.  Costly Assets  “Azrieli’s share price has been hit by its stakes in non-
real estate assets,” said Pincu of Psagot. “The company is
worthy of a higher multiple.”  The developer owns about 61 percent of holding company
 Granite Hacarmel Investments Ltd. (GRNT)  and a 4.8 percent stake in
 Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , the country’s largest lender by
assets. Shares of both companies  plunged  34 percent over the
past year and Azrieli booked a third-quarter charge of 236
million shekels on the falling value of its Leumi stake. Net
income in the period fell 26 percent to 179.4 million shekels.  “It is a good bank and I am happy that we are part of
it,” Azrieli said of Leumi. “At the same time it is not within
our plans, at least not now, to increase our share in the
bank.”  In terms of acquiring competitors in the company’s home
market, “we would look to invest in anything in  Israel  that has
synergy and opportunities for our company,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  