-- Banker-Novelist Attacks Traders, Sides With Protests
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/banker-novelist-alex-preston-attacks-ruthless-traders-sides-with-protests.html
It’s shortly after 10 o’clock on a
Monday morning, and banker-turned-novelist Alex Preston is
sipping a latte in a  London  cafe, reflecting on how life has
changed since he quit the City in May 2010.  “I sleep a lot better now,” he says. “There were things
about it that were incredibly attractive besides the money, but
at my core I was pretty miserable because I didn’t get to see
enough of my kids. I was always reading a book inside an annual
report.”  He was also going home and writing each night. His first
novel, “This Bleeding City,” was published while he was global
head of trading in the  Carlyle Group LP’s (CG)  leveraged finance
division.  It tells the story of a hedge fund analyst who forgets he’s
left his baby son locked in a baking car.  “It was sort of spewed,” explains the 33-year-old Oxford
graduate, whose eight-year City career, which included a spell
as an investment banker at ABN Amro Bank NV, began as a two-year
plan to get rich and get out to pursue his true vocation:
literature.  “I’ve always felt a desperate need to write, but of course
you’re dumb and you get sucked in,” he says.  Preston confessed he was tempted by the greed of banking,
too. The ruthless competition was the inspiration for his first
novel.  Killer Traders  “There were a lot of non-fiction books dryly unpicking
asset-backed securities and CDOs etcetera,” he says. “There
didn’t seem to be at the time any story about the people behind
it. It seemed to me that CDOs don’t kill people, traders do.”  His former life also haunts his second novel. “ The
Revelations ” is about four London friends who are drawn into a
charismatic religious movement called “the Course.” When one
of the group vanishes, it takes on a thriller-like cast.  The idea is based on the  Alpha Course , a practical
introduction to Christianity, whose headquarters happen to be
across the road from us in Holy Trinity Brompton. Preston, a
former choirboy who embraced atheism as a student, attended the
course there in 2005, tagging along with a friend.  He was already working in the City, surrounded by people
who were active Alpha members or had at least done the course.
Too cynical to become a believer himself, he nevertheless saw
its appeal.  Attractive Earnings  “It’s massively attractive to bankers,” he says. “I
would think the bankers are pretty attractive to the course,
too, given that they pay their 10 percent of earnings. It’s a
very abstract world, the City. You live in numbers and currency
signs. And it’s a very alienating world. There’s definitely
something cult-like about it.”  When “ This Bleeding City ” was published, he says he was
inundated with letters from the wives and girlfriends of finance
folk, thanking him for opening up their secretive world.  Though he’s wary of becoming known as the guy who writes
about bankers, City types hover throughout “The Revelations.”
Hedge-fund managers loiter after the church service, hoping to
glean tradable tidbits. “Gym-inflated bankers” spill from a
pub and slap a passing woman on her bottom.  The Mercedes-driving preacher is also a former banker,
though Preston says he drew his voice from the world of
politics.  “The priest is based entirely upon  Tony Blair ,” he says.
“I wanted to channel the disappointment of seeing our former
prime minister grubbing around on the floor for five-pound notes
as he’s doing with his life now. And also that sense of style
over substance.”  Occupy London  Preston’s own style is studiedly literary these days, from
his rumpled shirt and cardigan to his heavy-framed spectacles.
He observed the antics of London’s Occupy offshoot with
interest, in particular the decision to set up camp outside St
Paul’s Cathedral.  “It makes a very strong point -- this is what the Church
should have been doing. It’s shameful that they haven’t. Occupy
seemed like a physical manifestation of the City’s conscience
where religion would once have been.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) , he notes,
was founded as a Quaker bank.  Did he find that Alpha helped make his colleagues better
human beings?  “I think there is a form of antinomianism about it,” he
says, “whereby if you say sorry enough on a Sunday, you can do
what you like in the working week. It seemed to me that Alpha
was particularly forgiving of financial misdeeds but then hugely
punitive on sex.”  Speaking of which, “The Revelations” contains lashings of
the stuff. Though his publisher drew the line at a particularly
steamy scene on a boat, Preston has already installed it in his
next novel, a historical tale which he says features not one
banker and unfolds far from London’s counting houses, in  Italy .  Not that he’s fully turned his back on the financial world.
When is it set? Just after the Wall Street Crash of 1929.  “The Revelations” is published by Faber (326 pages, 12.99
pounds). To buy the book in  North America , for $19.57, click
 here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 