-- Bayer Said to Consider Bid for Pfizer Animal-Health Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-03-08T17:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/bayer-is-said-to-consider-making-offer-for-pfizer-s-animal-health-division.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) , the largest German
drugmaker, is weighing a bid for  Pfizer Inc.’s (PFE)  animal-health
unit and discussing how to raise funding with banks, said people
with knowledge of the plans.  Bayer is in the early stages of considering a bid and may
ultimately decide against making one, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the process is confidential.
The Pfizer veterinary business is likely to fetch $14 billion to
$18 billion in a sale, according to research firm Leerink Swann
LLC.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest pharmaceutical
company, may also be interested in the business, people familiar
said.  Bidding for the Pfizer unit would be Bayer’s second major
attempt in three years to bulk up its veterinary-products
operation. The Leverkusen, Germany-based company offered 6
billion euros to 7 billion euros ($9.2 billion) in 2009 for
 Schering (SCH) -Plough Corp.’s Intervet unit, two people with knowledge
of the situation said at the time. Bayer was unable to do that
deal after the sale was scrapped by the owner.  Pfizer’s decision to sell or spin off the unit “will come
down to price,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health strategist and
portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, where he
helps oversee $500 million in assets. The animal-health division
would make sense for either Bayer or Novartis as a way to
supplement their existing animal health lines, he said.  Tax Liabilities  Pfizer has been considering a full or partial sale, or a
spinoff of the unit, since July. The New York-based company
plans to make a decision this year, with a potential transaction
to occur between July 2012 and July 2013, Pfizer said Jan. 31.
Pfizer is likely to pursue a spinoff, as that would be more tax-
efficient than a sale, a person familiar with its plans said.  If Bayer made a bid before a spinoff, it might be asked to
cover the tax liabilities, which could cost Pfizer as much as $5
billion, people with knowledge of the situation said. On the
other hand, waiting to bid until after a spinoff could make the
animal-health unit more expensive, if it performs better than
expected or if other bidders express interest, they said.  Bayer rose 2.5 percent to 54.68 euros in  Frankfurt , giving
the company a market value of about 45.2 billion euros. Pfizer
shares rose 18 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $21.55 at 6:35
p.m. in New York.  Kellogg Precedent  Christian Hartel, a Bayer spokesman, declined to comment on
market speculation. A Pfizer spokeswoman said the company had
not yet decided on a spinoff or sale. A Novartis spokeswoman
said the company doesn’t comment on rumor and speculation.  Paying more to compensate a seller for tax costs isn’t
unprecedented. When  Kellogg Co. (K)  agreed to acquire  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Pringles potato chip business last month, it
offered almost 15 percent more than  Diamond Foods (DMND)  had in a
failed earlier bid. Most of the price differential was to cover
the tax hit, which P&G had avoided in the Diamond transaction
because it was constructed as a reverse merger, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  “Our decision about strategic options will be driven by
value creation for the business and delivering the best after-
tax value for our shareholders,” Joan Campion, a spokeswoman
for Pfizer, said via e-mail.  ‘A Great Business’  Bayer wants to strengthen its health-care unit, Chief
Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said Feb. 28 when the company
reported fourth-quarter earnings. “Pfizer animal health is a
great business,” Dekkers said. “I don’t want to comment on our
interest.”  Novartis recently approached Pfizer about buying the unit,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with
the matter. The preliminary offer, which valued the unit at as
much as $16 billion, was rebuffed, and it’s unclear whether
Novartis will make a new bid, the newspaper said.  “We’re focusing on our previously communicated strategy of
seeking bolt-on acquisitions rather than larger  transactions,”
Beth Calitri, the Novartis spokeswoman, said by phone today.  Pfizer is unlikely to hold talks over a sale of the unit
with any bidder prior to its decision on a spinoff because such
negotiations would undermine the tax benefits of the spinoff.
They could also delay a subsequent deal by at least a year under
U.S. law, according to  Robert Willens , a tax-accounting analyst
in New York who advises investors.  ‘No Chance’  “There’s almost no chance two companies in that situation
would engage in talks before a spinoff,” Willens said. “As
long as there has been no agreement or substantial negotiations,
the acquisition can occur without jeopardizing the tax-free
nature of the spinoff.”  Pfizer is shedding its animal health and nutrition
businesses as part of Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read ’s plan to
focus on developing new  prescription drugs  after losing patent
protection for Lipitor, a cholesterol pill and the world’s best-
selling medicine.  While tax-free spinoffs have the potential to obtain the
greatest value for investors,  Danone SA (BN)  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  are vying
to buy Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition unit, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. The two companies are
working on ways to overcome antitrust hurdles after submitting
preliminary bids of about $10 billion, the people said.  Bayer’s Financing  Pfizer’s veterinary business, the biggest in the industry,
had revenue of  $4.18 billion  last year, up 17 percent from 2010.
Bayer Animal Health’s sales rose 5.9 percent last year to 1.19
billion euros, making it the fifth-largest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. Sales in Bayer’s drug business
declined 0.1 percent last year.  The German company has the means to finance a
“significant” acquisition using debt, equity and its portfolio
assets, Chief Financial Officer Werner Baumann said in an
interview on Feb. 28.  Bayer may consider a sale of its plastics operation known
as Bayer MaterialScience to finance major bids such as an offer
for the Pfizer unit and to protect its  credit rating , two of the
people said. The unit reported almost 10.8 billion euros in
revenue last year, up from 10.1 billion euros in 2010. It may be
valued at 8 billion euros, excluding any takeover premium,
Kepler Capital Markets analyst Fabian Wenner wrote in a note on
Feb. 9.  Three Businesses  Bayer operates three main businesses: Bayer HealthCare,
which includes pharmaceuticals, consumer-health products and
veterinary drugs; Bayer MaterialScience; and an agricultural-
chemical unit called  Bayer CropScience .  The  animal-health unit  manufactures products in Kiel,
 Germany , and Shawnee,  Kansas . The company’s brands include the
Advantage flea- and tick-control products for dogs, and Baytril
to control infectious diseases in livestock and pets.  Dekkers said in September 2010 that the company needed to
decide the future of the animal-health unit in 12 to 18 months.
The business is “relatively small” compared with its
competitors, he said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  