-- Belgium Enters Recession as Car Sales, Weather Soften Blow
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-03-07T15:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/belgian-4th-quarter-gdp-contracts-at-slower-pace-than-estimated.html
Belgium ’s economy contracted less
than initially estimated in the fourth quarter as consumers
brought forward car purchases before incentives expired and
milder-than-usual weather boosted construction.  Gross domestic product in Belgium, the sixth-largest
economy in the euro area, shrank 0.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three-month period, the  National Bank
of Belgium  said today in a statement from Brussels. That
compares with a Feb. 1 preliminary estimate of a 0.2 percent
contraction. The economy expanded 1 percent from the year-
earlier period and grew 1.9 percent in the year.  A recovery in  consumer spending  and construction in the
final months of 2011 may have been temporary as Belgium entered
a recession for the second time in three years. Registrations of
new cars plunged 17 percent in the first two months of this year
and the longest cold spell in 70 years in February probably
affected construction output, which benefited from milder-than-
usual weather in December.  “Interior demand will continue to be weak in the first
half because of fiscal tightening,” Steven Vanneste, an
economist at Fortis Bank NV who forecasts a 0.3 percent
contraction this quarter, said by telephone from Brussels. “We
expect to see some  export-led growth  in the second half again,
which should trickle through into interior demand fairly soon.”
Vanneste forecasts the Belgian economy will stagnate this year.  Exports Shrink  Even as construction output increased 0.7 percent in the
quarter, the services industry contracted for the first time in
more than 2 1/2 years and manufacturing output stagnated
following a 0.3 percent contraction in the preceding three-month
period. Exports shrank for a third consecutive quarter and
corporate investments fell 0.7 percent, the biggest contraction
in seven quarters.  While Belgian  business confidence  has improved for three
straight months because of rising demand prospects,  consumer
sentiment  dropped to the lowest level in almost three years in
February on the outlook for employment and the economy.  National employment fell for the first time in more than
two years in the fourth quarter, with about 4.63 million people
working, the National Bank said today.  The nation’s economy will contract 0.1 percent this year,
the central bank forecast on Feb. 15, and the government is
seeking an additional 2 billion euros of spending cuts or tax
increases to meet its target for a budget deficit of 2.8 percent
of gross domestic product this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  