-- Bernanke Seen Accepting Faster Inflation as Fed Seeks Jobs Boost
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/bernanke-seen-accepting-faster-inflation-as-fed-seeks-to-boost-employment.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  spent six years pushing for an inflation goal. Now that
he has it, some investors are betting he’ll breach the 2 percent
target in the short run to lower unemployment.  The Fed chairman told lawmakers last week that an increase
in energy costs will boost inflation “temporarily while
reducing consumers’ purchasing power.” He also said the central
bank will adopt a “balanced approach” as it pursues its twin
goals of  price stability  and full employment, which it defines
as a jobless rate of between 5.2 percent and 6 percent.  “The chairman seemed to suggest they will tolerate a
misdemeanor on inflation as unemployment continues to fall
toward their goal” over several years, said Mark Spindel, chief
investment officer at Potomac River Capital, a hedge fund that
manages $250 million in Washington.  Policy makers at a March 13 meeting probably won’t deviate
from their commitment to hold the main  interest rate  close to
zero at least through late 2014, even if their forecast shows a
burst of energy-driven inflation, said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .
They’ll probably be more concerned that rising prices will hold
back real spending, impeding growth and improvement in the job
market, he said.  “The chairman said, ‘We think it is transitory, we are
sticking to our guns, we are going to focus on the drag on
income,’” Crandall said. Bernanke explained in his testimony
how under a strategy of flexible inflation targeting, “a
temporary spike in the price indexes can be a reason for the
central bank to be more generous rather than less,” Crandall
said.  Inflation Objective  Crude  oil prices  have risen 32 percent since the end of the
third quarter of 2011 and 6 percent this year. Energy prices
could hold the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s inflation target
benchmark, the personal consumption expenditures price index,
above the Fed’s 2 percent inflation objective for much of 2012,
Crandall said. The PCE rose 2.4 percent for the 12 months ending
in January.  The FOMC will probably acknowledge the increase in energy
costs in its March 13 statement, while noting that long-term
inflation expectations are stable, as they did in March last
year, said Antulio Bomfim, senior managing director at
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in Washington and a former Fed staff
economist.  Higher energy costs “put upward pressure on inflation, but
it is also a tax on consumers,” Bomfim said. “It is not clear
that inflation is going to be their main concern next week.”  Weak Leverage  Also, workers have weak leverage for increasing wages to
compensate for higher costs. Real average weekly earnings have
fallen for 10 consecutive months on a year-over-year basis. As
energy costs eat up more of consumer expenditures, companies
have difficulty raising prices on other goods and services.  “Higher prices have taken a toll on all customers,” W.
Rodney McMullen, president and chief operating officer of
Cincinnati-based Kroger Co., the largest U.S. grocery chain,
said on a March 1 investor call.  Labor’s weak bargaining power partly stems from an
 unemployment rate  that probably didn’t budge last month from the
8.3 percent level of January, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The Labor Department plans to release its
monthly report on employment on March 9.  Bernanke in Feb. 29 testimony in Congress said the Fed’s
emphasis on inflation or employment depends on the “magnitudes
of the deviations” of each goal from the targeted rate and the
time expected before the indicators align with the central
bank’s objectives.  Three-Year Forecast  The FOMC estimated in January that inflation will be at or
below its 2 percent goal for the next three years, according to
the central tendency estimate. Even if energy prices stay at the
current level and push up inflation in the near term, that may
not cause the Fed to revise its forecast of 1.6 percent to 2
percent inflation in 2014, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist
for  North America  at BNP Paribas in  New York .  At the same time, Coronado said, the drag on growth from
costlier energy may slow the 3.1 to 2.3 percentage-point
reduction in the unemployment rate that the Fed believes is
necessary to return the U.S. to full employment, according to
the central tendency estimates of policy makers.  Even if price gains stay above the Fed’s goal for a while,
the central bank may not alter policy because unemployment is
further from its objective, said Mihir Worah, a managing
director at Pacific Investment Management Co. who oversees $105
billion in investments aimed at generating returns higher than
inflation.  ‘No Reaction’  “To the extent that PCE inflation is somewhere around 3
percent while unemployment is still above 8 percent, I think
there will still be no reaction from the Fed,” said Worah,
who’s based in  Newport Beach ,  California .  The expectation among investors that the Fed will allow for
a temporary overshoot on the price goal has been “unambiguously
bullish” for Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, Worah
said.  TIPS have increased 4.2 percent since the end of the third
quarter, compared with a 0.8 percent gain for Treasuries,
according to indexes produced by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Bernanke has previously advocated holding policy steady as
price shocks drove inflation higher.  In September 2007, capacity utilization rose to 81.3
percent, the highest since a recession that ended in November
2001. Unemployment averaged 4.5 percent in the first six months
of the year. Inflation exceeded policy makers’ implicit target,
with the PCE price index’s annual rates averaging 2.5 percent
during the first six months.  Still, the FOMC left the  benchmark lending rate  at 5.25
percent until Sept. 18, when it cut the rate by half a point as
the financial crisis began to unfold.  “Even with the likelihood of a pause next week, key
members of the FOMC seem to want to take out another bit of
growth insurance,” said Spindel of Potomac River Capital. “Now
is not the time to be complacent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  