-- Billionaire Prokhorov to Talk With Kudrin About Party, Aide Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-07T11:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/billionaire-prokhorov-to-talk-with-kudrin-about-party-aide-says.html
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  may invite former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  to
join his new middle-class political party, an adviser said.  “I am sure that Prokhorov will discuss this project with
Kudrin,” Gleb Pavlovsky, who heads the Moscow-based Effective
Policy Foundation and advised the Russian businessman on his
presidential election campaign, said by phone yesterday.  Prokhorov, whose fortune was valued at $18 billion by
Forbes last year, received almost 8 percent of the vote in the
March 4 presidential election, placing him third behind the
winner,  Vladimir Putin , and Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov .  Putin, 59, who faced unprecedented protests in major cities
after allegations of fraud in December parliamentary elections,
is seeking to form a “loyal, liberal opposition” to defuse
opposition to his rule, according to  Sergei Markov , a member of
the ruling United Russia party.  Opposition groups are planning a campaign of rallies and
civil disobedience to press for new parliamentary and
presidential elections. Putin garnered 64 percent of the vote in
an election that was criticized by international observers as
unfair. The Russian leader, who’s been in power for 12 years,
hasn’t ruled out standing again for president in 2018, which
would give him almost a quarter-century at the helm.  Kudrin, who was ousted in September by outgoing President
 Dmitry Medvedev  after opposing increases in military spending,
said last month that he’s trying to form an alliance of pro-
democracy forces. The ex-minister sought to mediate between the
opposition and Putin after the protests erupted in December.  While Kudrin and Prokhorov have backed calls for a new
parliamentary vote, neither has questioned the legitimacy of
Putin’s election to a new Kremlin term.  The billionaire met Putin the day after the election
together with two other losing candidates, later appearing on
stage at an opposition meeting attended by thousands of people
in Moscow. “You want change. I’ll do everything to ensure you
see these changes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  