-- Blatter Calls for Meeting With Brazil President After Dispute
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-07T12:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/blatter-calls-for-meeting-with-brazil-president-after-dispute.html
FIFA President Sepp Blatter has
asked to meet with  Brazil ’s head of state  Dilma Rousseff  “as
soon as possible” as the relationship soured between soccer’s
governing body and the host of the 2014 World Cup.  Brazilian Minister of Sports Aldo Rebelo said March 3 his
country would cease cooperating with  Jerome Valcke , FIFA’s
general secretary and the person responsible for organizing
sport’s most watched event, after the Frenchman a day earlier
used profanity to express his displeasure at Brazil’s lack of
progress.  Blatter’s intervention made yesterday came a day after
Valcke issued a separate apology, in which he said the comments
were translated from French to Portuguese and came out stronger
then he intended. Valcke didn’t explain why the words would’ve
been translated from French given that the comments were made to
reporters in English.  “I am gravely concerned about the deterioration in the
relationship between FIFA and the Brazilian government,”
Blatter said in a letter sent from Dhaka,  Bangladesh . “As FIFA
President and personally, I would like to apologize to all those
-- above all the Brazilian government and President Dilma
Rousseff -- who feel that their honor and pride has been
injured.”  FIFA’s relationship with the Brazilian government has
worsened after delays to construction and legislation promised
when the country was awarded the hosting rights. The biggest
point of disagreement is over Brazil’s failure to pass a special
law containing government guarantees linked to its hosting
offer. FIFA has also complained about delays in building
stadiums and other infrastructure.  Criticism  Critics of the sport’s body in  South America ’s biggest
country, like Romario, a former World Cup winner-turned
politician, have accused it of being heavy handed and putting
FIFA’s commercial needs ahead of the interests of the Brazilian
people. They’ve objected to plans to overturn a ban on the sale
of alcohol in stadiums, ticket sale restrictions and special
measures to promote official sponsors.  In his letter Blatter called for the two sides to try and
avoid any more delays, saying “the sands of time have been
running since 2007.”  “Let us not waste time on entrenching our positions,”
Blatter said. “Let us instead build something great together,
as promised by President Lula during his presidency.”  The FIFA president is on a tour in south  Asia  this week. He
said he’d like to travel to Brazil next week, when Valcke is
also planning to go for a meeting with event organizers.  Valke Comments  “They don’t want me to but I’m still going to go: We have a
World Cup to organize,” Valcke said in an interview moments
after being told Rebelo had called for him to be replaced.  Valcke has faced controversy before. He was the
organization’s marketing director in 2006 when it was fined $60
million by a New York court for violating a sponsorship
agreement with Mastercard Inc. in favor of rival VISA Inc.  Last year he had to write to 2022  World Cup  host Qatar to
clarify an e-mail he sent to a former FIFA vice president in
which he claimed the gas-rich Gulf state “bought” the staging
rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  