-- Boar Hunter Sets Sights on China After MF Global: Commodities
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-03-07T21:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/boar-hunter-sets-sights-on-china-after-mf-global-unit-rescue-commodities.html
Pete Nessler has bagged everything
from a wild boar to a 280-pound white-tailed deer hunting in
 Iowa . He’s now aiming to tap  China ’s need for raw materials.  INTL FCStone Inc., where the 54-year-old Midwesterner is
president of the commodity unit, will hedge part of the $6.7
billion of soybeans that Chinese customers agreed to buy during
Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s visit to the U.S. last month, which
included a stop in Des Moines. The New York-based company wants
to expand the Asia-Pacific region’s share of  revenue  fivefold
from 4.4 percent now, Nessler said, visiting his office on the
52nd floor of a skyscraper overlooking the Strait of Singapore.  “We’ve made this part of the region an integral part of
our thought process and expansion,” said Nessler, whose home is
decorated with the heads of 18 animals from antelope to rams.
“When you had the Chinese vice president going from  Washington 
and bypassed everywhere else and ended up in Iowa, that made
people in Iowa feel very good as it’s a big part of the
agricultural trade with China.”  At stake are the fees that come from serving China, the
biggest consumer of everything from soybeans to pork to cotton
and the  buyer  of $20 billion of U.S. farm goods last year. The
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  is leading what Secretary Tom Vilsack is calling its biggest-ever trade mission to the nation
later this month, seeking to bolster the record $136.3 billion
of agricultural exports made worldwide in 2011.  Soybean Contracts  INTL FCStone hosted about 40 people from the Chinese
delegation during a dinner given by Iowa Governor Terry Branstad
on Feb. 15. The 650 attendees were served a  menu  that included
bacon, lettuce and tomato canapes, bacon-wrapped pork tenderloin
and apple pie cupcakes with maple-syrup frosting.  Three of the Chinese firms in the delegation, existing
customers of FCStone, were among those signing the soybean
agreements reached in Iowa, Nessler said. The company is
advising them on how to hedge prices and manage risk from when
the soybeans are bought to their delivery in China, as well as
controlling freight costs. That includes the use of futures and
options traded in Chicago and on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange .  For INTL FCStone, China is an opportunity to diversify its
business beyond  North America , which represents 73 percent of
revenue. The company had already expanded in  Europe  before
buying the London Metal Exchange unit of MF Global Holdings
Ltd., the broker-dealer that filed for bankruptcy, in November.
Traded on  Nasdaq , where its market capitalization is $420
million, INTL FCStone handled $75 billion of physical trade in
oilseeds, grains, cattle and metals last year, data on its
website show.  Wen Jiabao  The drive to win more business in China comes amid slowing
expansion in the world’s second-biggest economy after the U.S.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  lowered the annual  growth  goal to 7.5 percent
in a state-of-the-nation speech March 5. While that’s the lowest
since 2004, it’s a sign the ruling Communist Party wants to
shift growth toward consumption and away from exports.  China’s  population  of 1.34 billion will consume 27 percent
of the world’s soybeans this year, 22 percent of its corn and 50
percent of its pork, USDA estimates show. Growth of 7.5 percent
would still be more than twice the 3.3 percent anticipated for
the global economy this year by the International Monetary  Fund (IGDYWRLD) .
Soybean futures have climbed 9.9 percent this year in  Chicago ,
and corn is down 1.2 percent.  “It’s a good time for companies to push into China,” said
Nicholas Zhu, head of macro-commodity research for  Asia  at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Shanghai . “Having
a trading unit that can access futures exchanges here is not to
capture the latest pessimistic turn of things, but rather an
investment for the next phase.”  Shanghai Futures  INTL FCStone opened its fourth Asia-Pacific office in
Shanghai last year, trading physical metals as well as
agricultural futures on the Dalian Commodity Exchange. The
company may also get access to the Shanghai Futures Exchange
this year, Nessler said. The bourse is the nation’s second-
largest after Zhengzhou, China Futures Association data show.  The firm, which traces its origins to an egg-selling
venture founded in Chicago in 1924, is expanding at a time when
Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-
largest bank, and Natixis SA, the investment-banking and asset-
management unit of Paris-based Groupe BPCE, plan to cut their
commodity businesses.  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the world’s largest grain
processor, said Feb. 21 it would cut 1,200 jobs as the Decatur,
Illinois-based company reduces costs. Cargill Inc., a
Minneapolis-based grain trader and the largest closely held U.S.
company, said in December it would eliminate 2,000 positions.  West Des Moines  Nessler, based in  West Des Moines  for three decades, became
president of FCStone LLC in October 2010 and oversaw four
acquisitions since then. MF Global’s LME unit, comprising 55
people, was bought for an undisclosed amount and came with a
seat on the trading floor of the world’s biggest metals bourse,
alongside JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and nine others.  INTL FCStone posted a loss of $2.4 million on a marked-to-
market basis in the three months ended Dec. 31, the first
quarterly loss since 2008. The company prefers that measure
rather than generally accepted accounting principles partly
because it reflects changes in the value of commitments to
future commodity transactions. Its shares fell 6.8 percent this
year and were little changed in 2011.  The company has more than 20,000 clients across 100
countries, and trades solely on their behalf, said Nessler. The
number of customers has doubled in two years as the workforce
rose 70 percent to more than 1,000, he said. INTL FCStone may
add rubber trading if it can find the right team, Nessler said.  ‘Millions and Millions’  Among his first clients was Brad Davis, chief executive
officer of Gold-Eagle Cooperative, a firm based in Goldfield,
Iowa, that trades as much as 40 million bushels of corn and
soybeans a year and operates an ethanol plant with annual output
of 60 million gallons.  “You always know where he stands,” Davis said. “Trust is
very important in this business. Millions and millions of
dollars of business that’s conducted verbally, at least
initially, so you need to have tremendous trust in the
individuals and the  company  you are doing your business with.”  Nessler also oversaw the acquisition of Hencorp Becstone
Futures LC, London-based Ambrian Commodities Ltd., and
CoffeeNetwork, a news and analysis website. INTL FCStone said in
December that it was in negotiations to buy London-based TRX
Futures Ltd. About 65 percent of the group’s revenue comes from
commodities. Other areas include foreign exchange and equities.  The Midwesterner’s parents were from Yugoslavia and  Romania 
and came to live in Chicago during World War II. He gained a
degree in agricultural industries from the  University of
Illinois  before trading soybeans at AGRI Industries in West  Des
Moines . He also has a 250-acre non-commercial farm growing corn
and soybeans.  “Agriculture back then wasn’t a very sexy world to get
into,” Nessler said. “I am lucky enough to have the foresight
to realize that at the end of the day, there’s a certain thing
that people couldn’t live without, and that’s food.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  