-- Boeing Tanker Making ‘Excellent Progress,’ Air Force Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-07T22:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/boeing-kc-46-tanker-making-excellent-progress-air-force-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s KC-46 aerial refueling
tanker “continues to make excellent progress,” more than a
year after the company won the contract, the Air Force’s
mobility chief said today.  “We continue to execute the program to cost and schedule
baselines we established, along with Boeing,”  Air Mobility
Command commander General Raymond Johns told a House Armed
Services Committee panel today.  Johns made the comment in testimony on airlift requirements
to meet the Pentagon’s new global strategy presented in January.
The remarks on the tanker were similar to a Feb. 12 letter to
congressional defense committees from Acting Under Secretary for
Acquisition Frank Kendall.  “To date, there have been no major engineering, design,
capability or configuration changes to the KC-46,” Kendall
wrote.  The tanker program is scheduled to undergo a “preliminary
design review” this month intended to ensure the system is
ready to proceed into detailed design and can meet its war-
fighting requirements within its cost and schedule goals.  The review is the second major one since Boeing won a $4.9
billion development job in February 2011, when it beat the
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for the initial
contract to replace the  Air Force  tanker fleet.  Preliminary Design  The preliminary design phase starts in late March and goes
a month, program manager Major General Christopher  Bogdan  said
in an interview. About 270 items will be reviewed in that phase,
he said.  “This review is important because once we give Boeing the
OK to go past” the assessment “they will start the detailed
design and start making the drawings they will pass to their
suppliers for manufacturing,” Bogdan said.  Boeing has agreed to start major assembly of the first
tanker between April and July 1 of 2013, according to the Air
Force.  The Air Force has requested $1.8 billion in fiscal 2013 for
continued research. Procurement spending starts with $1.65
billion in fiscal 2015, increasing to $3.3 billion in 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  