-- Brasil Distressed Seeks Outside Investors for $100 Million to Boost Buying
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-03-07T19:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/brasil-distressed-seeks-outside-investors-for-100-million-to-boost-buying.html
Brasil Distressed, the two-year-old
financial firm also known as BrD, plans to raise as much as $100
million from investors to boost purchases of distressed assets
from mid-sized companies.  Carlos Catraio, partner and managing director of the Sao
Paulo-based company, is on a promotional tour outside  Brazil  to
talk about BrD+10, which was set up to raise the new funds. The
company will start investing when it obtains $10 million,
Catraio, 53, said in an interview.  “International players are more used to dealing with
distressed assets,” said Catraio, who previously worked as a
managing director at  Bank of America Corp.  and Uniao de Bancos
Brasileiros SA. “This is an activity for qualified investors
who can understand this kind of risk.”  Total credit outstanding for Brazilian companies grew about
19 percent in the year ended January, to 548 billion reais ($310
billion) from 462 billion reais, according to Brazil’s central
bank. Loans with payments more than 90 days overdue increased to
20.3 billion reais from 16.6 billion reais.  “We don’t want to grow too much because we want to take a
closer look at each investment we make and try to negotiate with
each company,” he said. Until now, BrD has only invested capital
from the company’s partners.  The goal is to obtain a yield equivalent to 200 percent to
300 percent of the Brazilian  interbank rate , or about 20 percent
to 30 percent a year, said BrD partner and managing director
José Guilherme Lembi de Faria, 66, who previously worked as a
managing director at Banco Bradesco SA before retiring. The
maturity of the investment is 10 years.  BrD only buys credit at a discount of more than 50 percent
of face value and after negotiations with creditors are already
complete, he said. The seller usually is a bank or the company’s
supplier.  “We don’t invest in distressed equity, only credit,” Lembi
de Faria said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  