-- Brazil’s Industrial Output Declined Most Since December 2008 in January
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-03-07T14:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/brazil-industrial-output-falls-faster-than-forecast-drops-most-since-2008.html
Brazil ’s  industrial production  in
January fell the most in more than three years, reinforcing bets
that the central bank will accelerate the pace of  interest-rate 
cuts today to shore up economic growth.  Output fell 2.1 percent from the previous month, more than
twice the median estimate of a 0.8 percent decline from 45
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. From the year earlier,
production fell 3.4 percent, the national statistics agency said
in Rio de Janeiro today.  The 6 percent increase in the real against the dollar this
year has made imports cheaper and exports more expensive,
undermining the international competitiveness of Brazilian
manufacturers. Interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2013 fell for the sixth day out of the past seven as
more investors bet the central bank will cut rates by 75 basis
points today.  “The sectors that compete with imported goods have
suffered more,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “The
result should reinforce the central bank’s view that there is
room to cut rates.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is using stimulus
measures including interest  rate  cuts, tax reductions and looser
bank lending requirements to boost growth.  Traders Split  Traders are split on whether the central bank will cut the
benchmark interest rate by 50 or 75 basis points today,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.
Policy makers have cut the rate by 50 points at each of their
last four meetings, pushing it 10.50 percent.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.92 percent at 10:46
a.m. Brasilia time. The currency declined 0.4 percent to 1.7658
per dollar.  A 31 percent slump in the automotive industry from the
previous month led the decline in January industrial output, as
carmakers scaled back production to reduce stocks.  Car imports surged 30 percent last year, accounting for
23.6 percent of vehicles licensed, compared with 18.8 percent in
2010.  The situation is “alarming,” the National Industry
Confederation said on March 6, after the statistics agency
announced gross domestic product figures showing industrial
output fell 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous
three months.  Production of durable goods fell 7.6 percent in January
from a year earlier, while output of capital goods, a barometer
of investment, declined 13 percent, the statistics agency said
today.  The Brazilian economy grew by 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter after a 0.1 percent contraction in the third quarter.  Economists maintained their estimate for 2012 growth at 3.3
percent in a March 2 central bank survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  