-- Brazil Rate-Futures Yields Drop After Industrial Output Trails Estimates
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-07T16:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/brazil-rate-futures-yields-drop-after-industrial-output-trails-estimates.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell a second day after a report showing
industrial output dropped the most in three years fueled
speculation policy makers will make a deeper cut in benchmark
borrowing costs at today’s monetary policy meeting.  The yield on the contract due in January fell 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.89 percent at 12:52 p.m.
in Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.7 percent to 1.7714 per  U.S.
dollar , from 1.7584 yesterday. It earlier touched 1.7737, the
weakest since Jan. 18.  Futures yields plunged as more traders bet the central bank
may cut the benchmark Selic rate by as much as 75 basis points
today after Brazil’s industrial output fell 3.4 percent in
January from a year ago. Economists had expected a decrease of
1.4 percent, according to the median forecast from 43 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Output fell 2.1 percent from the previous
month, the national statistics agency said today, the biggest
decline since December 2008.  “Definitely the numbers are influencing the drop” in
rate-futures contracts, Alessandra Ribeiro, an economist with
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“It creates the perception that industrial production could
push the Copom to make a bigger cut in the benchmark rate.”  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre Tombini will reduce the Selic rate by as much as 75 basis points
today to 9.75 percent, according to rate futures yields.
Brazilian policy makers trimmed benchmark borrowing costs by 50
basis points in January to 10.5 percent, bringing the rate down
200 basis points since August.  ‘Moderate Adjustments’  While bets on a 75 basis-point cut today have surged in the
past week, most economists are expecting a smaller reduction,
with 59 out of 62 analysts in a Bloomberg survey forecasting
another half-point decrease in line with the bank’s repeated
pledge to deliver “moderate adjustments” to shield Brazil from
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The market is still divided on Copom and at this moment
any information has an impact,” Mauro Schneider, an economist
with Banif Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The real reversed an early gain amid reports the government
may take further steps to weaken the currency.  The government may reduce the maturity of short-term trade
loans backed by export contracts, known as ACC, from 360 days
currently, Valor Economico newspaper reported today, citing
government officials it didn’t identify.  Credit Lines  Some companies are using these credit lines to take
advantage of lower domestic  interest rates , Sao Paulo-based
Valor said. The government may also impose a tax on loans from
companies outside  Brazil  to subsidiaries in the country, Valor
said.  The real has lost 2 percent since the beginning of
February, when the central bank resumed intervening in the
 currency markets  to stem the currency’s gains.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on a conference call
with reporters yesterday that Brazil would maintain a weaker
currency to offset the European debt crisis and slowing global
growth.  “The market is following the price that the central bank
and Mantega want,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , head of  currency trading 
at Treviso Corretora de Cambio, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Mantega said he has an arsenal of measures and he didn’t say
what they were.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  