-- Bulgarian Government Ministers Return Bonuses to Keep Jobs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-07T11:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/bulgarian-government-ministers-return-bonuses-to-keep-jobs-1-.html
Bulgarian ministers, their deputies
and regional governors returned about 604,000 lev ($406,000) in
bonus payments received since they took office in 2009 to keep
their jobs.  The funds will be transferred to charity, Prime Minister
 Boiko Borissov  told reporters in Sofia today. He ordered the
ministers last week to return the bonuses or be fired, after the
opposition Movement for Rights and Freedoms requested Borissov
declare the total amount of bonuses paid out by all government
institutions.  “I can declare that everyone who is in office now has
returned their bonuses,” Borissov said. “When we came to power
we pledged to cut administration spending and eliminate extra
payments. I dare members of previous governments to transfer
their lucrative bonuses for charity.”  Bulgaria  weathered the global crisis without an
international bailout. The European Union’s poorest nation in
terms of per-capita economic output wants to narrow this year’s
budget deficit to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product to
contain the effect of the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Borissov’s minority government kept taxes unchanged at the
lowest level in the 27-nation bloc and froze public-sector wages
in 2010, which ministers and heads of state agencies
circumvented by distributing end-year bonuses to their
employees. The bonuses ranged from one to more than 20 monthly
salaries.  Borrowed Funds  Some of the officials had to borrow funds to return the
bonuses, Presa newspaper reported today, citing unidentified
people. Some lower-level officials, including an Environment
Ministry cabinet chief, haven’t transfered their bonuses to the
special account set by the  Finance Ministry  and will be
dismissed, Borissov said.  The manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, Nely
Nesheva, and the head of the National Registry Office, Violeta
Nikolova, were forced to resign last month after paying out
bonuses to themselves and their deputies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  