-- Cable Attacks U.K.’s ‘Second Division’ Business-Finance Sector
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/cable-attacks-u-k-s-second-division-business-finance-sector.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
there’s a “disconnect” between Britain’s London-based global
finance industry and the rest of the economy, with companies
struggling to raise loans from a “second division” banking
system.  Getting loans to small companies remains a “big headache”
for the government, and previous efforts to “browbeat” the
banks into lending and his own call to transform the part-
nationalized  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  into a business
lending bank have been imperfect, Cable said. The answer is to
get the City of  London  more involved in the rest of the economy,
he said.  “We have a financial-services industry in London that
plays in the  Champions League , with overseas owners to match,
and a British business finance system which struggles in the
second division,” Cable said in a speech to financiers in
London last night, according to remarks released by his office.  Cable said last month his own coalition government lacked a
“compelling vision,” arguing that efforts to narrow the  budget
deficit  don’t amount to an economic plan for the future.  Those comments, made in a leaked letter to Conservative
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg , were published two days ago as Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said this year’s budget will
include no “unfunded giveaways,” reiterating his refusal to
deviate from his austerity plans.  In his letter, Cable also suggested that the government
should use part of RBS to create a business lender to support
exports and industrial projects.  Breedon Report  Cable said last night that a report he commissioned  Legal &
General Group Plc (LGEN)  Chief Executive Officer Tim Breedon to prepare
will propose ways of getting the City to channel money to small
and mid-sized companies in the U.K.  Breedon is exploring how companies can raise money in
capital markets, how rich individuals can invest directly in
businesses, and how companies can finance themselves through
partnerships in their own supply chains.  “A different and longer-term approach to this whole
problem is needed: one that harnesses the positive qualities of
a Premier-League financial sector down to ordinary businesses”
and brings “U.K. business finance up to the higher divisions,”
Cable said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  