-- California Nuclear Backlash Mounts After Japan Meltdown: Energy
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-03-07T17:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/california-nuclear-backlash-mounts-after-japan-meltdown-energy.html
Two nuclear  power plants  perched
near earthquake faults in  California  could struggle to get
relicensed after a cascade of natural and nuclear disasters
across the Pacific Ocean in  Japan  galvanized opposition groups.  Fukushima-inspired concerns have rippled through Orange
County, where the cities of Laguna Beach and San Clemente asked
regulators to decide whether  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre
atomic plant 60 miles (97 kilometers) southeast of  Los Angeles 
could withstand an earthquake and tsunami before extending its
permit to 2042 from 2022. Further north,  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  asked for a
delay in relicensing Diablo Canyon pending seismic studies.  “An accident would be devastating” at San Onofre, Laguna
Beach Mayor Jane Egly said in an interview in her home
overlooking the seaside enclave. “If they don’t do anything to
address our safety concerns, I would support shutting it down.”  Nuclear anxiety in the most populous state, a bellwether
for political and environmental issues nationwide, is echoing in
 New York , Ohio, Virginia and Vermont, where local groups oppose
operators’ efforts to extend the lives of their plants.  Eleven U.S. power companies including Edison, PG&E,  Entergy
Corp. (ETR)  and  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  seek 20-year license extensions
to keep 15 atomic generators running through age 60.  At stake is whether reactors designed in the 1960s and
1970s, the same vintage as those overwhelmed by a 9.0-magnitude
quake and 46-foot (14-meter) tsunami in Fukushima, Japan, should
remain the foundation of a 104-reactor U.S. fleet through mid-
century. The debate over atomic energy, which provides about 20
percent of the nation’s power, extends even into new projects.  ‘Fukushima Never Happened’  Gregory Jaczko , chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, stoked concerns over costs and safety of new
reactors Feb. 9 when he cast the lone vote of the five
commissioners against granting  Southern Co. (SO)  the first reactor
licenses in 30 years.  Jaczko warned the U.S. atomic regulator had proceeded “as
if Fukushima never happened.”  Failure to extend licenses would hurt PG&E and Southern
California Edison, the utility owned by Rosemead, California-
based Edison. San Onofre is among its largest and most valuable
assets, and the 78 percent stake owned is valued at $5.2
billion, according to a regulatory filing.  Shares in Edison have gained about 13 percent since the
March, 11, 2011, atomic disaster in Japan. PG&E has lost 9
percent in the period, while the  Dow Jones Utilities Average
index (UTIL)  has gained 8 percent.  No Nuclear Revival  Since a nuclear revival in the U.S. is at least a decade
away, “one of the biggest concerns for industry and regulators
will be to ensure that important systems, structures and
components” at existing plants function safely for another 20
years, said Chris Gadomski, lead nuclear energy analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  San Francisco. (FRC)   The NRC has extended licenses for 71 reactors since 2000
and has never shut down a plant that sought relicensing,
although it has withheld permits until safety concerns were
satisfied, NRC spokesman David McIntyre, said in an e-mail.  Plant operators don’t think new safety concerns should have
any bearing on relicensing because regulators and the industry
are addressing them separately and continuously,  Steve Kerekes ,
spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, a Washington-based
industry lobbying group, said in a phone interview. “It’s a
rigorous process,” he said.  Older Plant Limitations  Fukushima highlighted the limitations older reactors face
in withstanding unusual events, such as prolonged blackouts or
freak tidal waves, not anticipated by the original designers,
said California seismologist Bruce Gibson. He serves on a state-
appointed panel monitoring a seismic review of the Diablo Canyon
plant on the central California coast.  New reactors, such as the AP1000 from  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
Westinghouse Electric unit that Atlanta-based Southern is
erecting in  Georgia , are designed to safely shut down 72 hours
after a station blackout without any human intervention, Scott
Shaw, a Westinghouse spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “I felt like this was the moment to get something done,”
said Ben Davis, Jr., 58, a semi-retired home health care worker
who leads a state ballot initiative to close the plants. Davis
was emboldened by his previous success in a 1989 drive that led
to shutting down the Rancho Seco nuclear plant near Sacramento.  If Davis gathers 504,760 signatures on his petition by next
month, California voters will be able to vote to close the
plants in November. He wouldn’t say how many he has collected.  More Relicenses Coming  Relicensing is under way for some of the nation’s most
contested plants. In New York, Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo
has vowed to shut down Entergy’s Indian Point reactors, 24 miles
north of New York City.  Also seeking a 20-year extension is  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s
Davis-Besse plant, 21 miles southeast of Toledo, Ohio, which was
shut from 2002 through 2004 because of leaks and reactor
corrosion. Progress Energy is seeking to relicense a unit of its
Crystal River plant, 80 miles north of Tampa,  Florida , even
though the reactor has been closed since 2009 for repairs.  License renewals look at potential environmental impacts
and a plant’s ability to keep decades-old components in good
operating condition, Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, said in an
e-mail. Issues such as seismic risks and blackout precautions
are considered normal operating matters covered by the
regulator’s continuing oversight process.  New Fukushima-related rules, expected to be released by
March 9, likewise “will apply to every operating reactor,
regardless of whether a reactor’s license has been renewed,”
Burnell said. Plant operators will have until 2016 to comply
with the orders, which will cost U.S. utilities about $100
million, according to the Nuclear Energy Institute.  Diablo Delay  Following the Fukushima catastrophe,  San Francisco (FRC) -based
PG&E asked the atomic regulator to hold off relicensing Diablo
Canyon, 190 miles north of Los Angeles, until the company
finishes a new study of the earthquake risks, including a fault
discovered in 2008 that runs 600 meters offshore from Diablo
Canyon’s reactors.  San Onofre and Diablo Canyon are on the ocean in areas
prone to earthquakes. They are the only plants in the U.S. with
geography similar to Fukushima, where three reactors melted down
when the station lost power after unprotected diesel generators
were swamped by the tsunami.  “This plant has been and will be run safely in the
future,” Anthony Earley, Chief Executive Officer of PG&E, said
of Diablo Canyon in a Feb. 23 interview. Edison has told state
regulators its plant could withstand an earthquake and tsunami,
based on updated data, and plans a further study of its seismic
risks.  Equipped For Disaster  Utility officials say California’s reactors are better
equipped for disaster. San Onofre, which rises from a strip of
land between a beach and a freeway, has four back-up generators
stored 30 feet above sea level and a seven-day supply of diesel
fuel in earthquake-fortified underground vaults. Batteries with
eight hours of back-up power are kept 50 feet above sea level,
while the utility has 4.5 million gallons of water on site that
can used to cool the reactors, according to  Southern California
Edison (SCE1) ’s website.  Diablo Canyon is similarly fortified and built atop an 85-
foot cliff, almost three times higher than the greatest
anticipated wave in the area, said James Becker, site vice-
president, in a phone interview.  Southern California Edison will decide this year whether to
ask state regulators to fund renewing San Onofre’s operating
licenses, which expire in 2022, said Stephen Pickett, a
spokesman for the utility. Repairing steam generators after a
small radiation leak shut the plant in January will not affect
the timing of relicensing, Pickett said by telephone.  ‘Open Safety Issues’  “It will be difficult to go before the commission to ask
them to make a decision to pursue relicensing and at the same
time have open safety issues at the plant that have heightened
community concern and introduced the potential for additional
costs,” said Anne Selting, a San Francisco-based credit analyst
for  Standard & Poor’s (SPY) , in a telephone interview.  PG&E’s Earley described Diablo Canyon as a crucial asset to
his company and the state of California, and said he is prepared
to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on safety upgrades, if
needed to keep it running.  Closing the plants abruptly would also have environmental
and consumer consequences: greater smog, rolling blackouts and
higher electricity bills reminiscent of the energy crisis in
2001, according to a November 3, 2011 legislative analyst report
on the nuclear ballot initiative.  Losses to the two utilities could total more than $4
billion, which they would attempt to recoup from customers
through higher rates and from state taxpayers by suing, the
report said.  The San Luis Obispo Mothers For Peace, an anti-nuclear
group, says residents of their community are more concerned by
the economic toll from an accident at Diablo Canyon, 12 miles to
the west.  “No utility or regulator can claim they know the worst-
case scenario,” said Jane Swanson, a board member of the group,
which has opposed the plant since the early 1970s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  