-- Canadian Dollar Appreciates as Central Bank Is Seen Keeping Rates Steady
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-07T22:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/canadian-dollar-hovers-at-parity-before-bank-of-canada-meeting-tomorrow.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced versus its
U.S. counterpart as policy makers prepared for a meeting
tomorrow that economists predict will see interest rates
remaining at 1 percent for a 12th time.  The currency rose against the euro and the majority of its
most-traded peers amid concern  Greece  won’t get sufficient
private-sector participation in a debt swap. Traders will be
watching Canadian and U.S. jobs reports on Feb. 9 for signs that
the North American economic recovery is intact.  “The market was caught long U.S. dollars, so there’s a bit
of a pain trade as we drift back under parity,”  Steve Butler ,
managing director in Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia
Capital unit, said of traders who had to cover bets the U.S.
dollar would rise by buying Canadian dollars.“There’s plenty of
event risk going into Friday’s numbers, so the market isn’t
holding onto positions for very long.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.5 percent to 99.74
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0029 yesterday, the weakest level since Feb. 27. One
Canadian dollar purchases $1.0024.  The  Bank of Canada  will leave its benchmark  interest rate 
at 1 percent, where it’s been for more than a year, according to
all 28 responses in a Bloomberg survey.  Investors are renewing bets for the first time in six
months that Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s next move will
be to raise  borrowing costs  amid signs of an improving U.S.
economy.  ‘More Modest’  The 12-month overnight index swap rate, which is tied to
forecasts for the Bank of Canada’s policy rate, advanced to a
seven-month high of 1.024 percent March 1. That would suggest
odds of a rate increase by October of more than 20 percent,
according to Bloomberg calculations, up from zero probability a
month earlier.  Policy makers led by Carney said after the bank’s most
recent decision on Jan. 17 growth in Canada and the U.S. will be
“more modest” than forecast in October as European leaders
struggle to contain a debt crisis.  The meeting will be a non-event unless Carney “changes the
mantra,” Askari said. “We’ll scour the statement for changes,
such as hints of hikes quicker than anticipated due to the
global crisis subsiding.”  Jobs Reports  Canadian employers added a net 15,000 jobs last month,
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the government
issues the data March 9. Payrolls grew by 2,300 in January.  The U.S. Labor Department may say on the same day that
total payrolls rose by 210,000 last month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It
would mark the strongest three-month stretch in almost a year.
The jobless rate may have held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent.  “We’re waiting for employment on Friday,” said Firas Askari, head currency trader at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in Toronto.
“The U.S. showing signs of stabilizing will be more Canadian-
dollar friendly than anything else.”  Implied volatility for one-month options on Canada’s dollar
versus the greenback increased from the lowest level in almost
five years. It touched 8.39 percent today after reaching 6.90
percent on Feb. 24, the least on an intraday basis since June
2007. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency. The five-year average is 12 percent.  Weekly Gains  The Canadian dollar gained 0.2 percent over the past five
days, while the yen and the U.S. dollar each rose 1.6 percent,
the highest among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Crude for April delivery rose 1.1 percent, to $106.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials declined 0.1
percent after falling 1.6 percent yesterday, paring the year’s
gain to 2.9 percent. The MSCI World Index rose 0.4 percent.  “We’re fairly favorable on commodity currencies,” said
 Neil Mellor , a currency strategist in  London  at  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK)  “I would prefer to hold the Canadian dollar
heading into a period of uncertainty in the  euro zone , than
holding the Australian dollar. The Canadian dollar benefits from
a strengthening U.S. economy.”  Shorter-term  government bonds  fell, pushing benchmark two-
year yields four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, higher
to 1.12 percent. The price of the 0.75 percent bonds due in May
2014 fell 8 cents to C$99.25.  The  difference  in yields between Canadian and U.S. two-year
bonds widened to 81 basis points today, from 72 at the end of
2011, amid increasing expectations Carney will raise rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  