-- Canada January Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-07T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/canada-january-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
January building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The value of building permits fell 12.3% to $6.0 billion in
January, following a 10.5% rise in December. The decline was the
result of decreases in both residential and non-residential
sectors.  Total value of permits  Contractors took out $4.2 billion worth of permits in the
residential sector, down 6.6% following three consecutive
monthly gains. The decrease was largely the result of lower
construction intentions for multi-family dwellings in Ontario.  In the non-residential sector, municipalities issued permits
worth $1.8 billion, down 23.1%, following a 0.3% increase in
December. Non-residential construction intentions declined in
six provinces, with Alberta accounting for most of the decrease.  Residential sector: Intentions down for both multi-family and
single-family dwellings  The value of building permits for multi-family dwellings
decreased 12.4% to $1.7 billion in January, following a 30.8%
advance in December. The monthly decrease came from six
provinces; Ontario led the decline, with  Alberta  a distant
second. The largest increase was posted in British Columbia,
followed by Quebec.  Municipalities issued $2.5 billion worth of permits for
single-family dwellings in January, down 2.2% from December,
following three consecutive monthly gains. Lower construction
intentions in Quebec, British Columbia and Alberta more than
offset advances in the seven other provinces.  Municipalities across  Canada  authorized the construction of
17,961 new dwellings in January, down 6.0% from December. The
decrease came from multi-family dwellings, which fell 9.5% to
10,510 units. The number of single-family dwellings declined
0.7% to 7,451 units.  Value of residential and non-residential building permits  Non-residential sector declines  Building intentions declined in all three components of the
non-residential sector.  In the commercial component, the value of permits declined
22.5% to $1.2 billion, after increasing 1.8% in November and
34.6% in December. The decrease came mostly from Alberta, where
the value of permits for office buildings and warehouses
declined following notable rises the previous month. Declines
were also reported in six other provinces.  In the institutional component, the value of permits
decreased 27.9% to $309 million. This was the third consecutive
monthly decline and the lowest level since January 2005. The
decline was mainly the result of lower construction intentions
for educational institutions in Ontario, Alberta and British
Columbia, and medical facilities in Quebec and British Columbia.
Prince  Edward Island , Manitoba and  Nova Scotia  posted advances.  Industrial building intentions declined for a third
consecutive month, falling 20.1% to $274 million. This was a
result of lower construction intentions for utilities buildings
in Ontario, as well as manufacturing plants in both Quebec and
Ontario. Gains registered in five provinces, led by British
Columbia, were not enough to offset decreases in the other five.  Permits value down in most provinces  The total value of permits declined in six provinces in
January, led by Alberta and Ontario.  Alberta posted the largest decline, which was the result of
lower construction intentions for residential, commercial and
institutional buildings. The decline in Ontario was the result
of lower construction intentions for multi-family dwellings,
which had posted strong gains in December.  Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Newfoundland and Labrador reported
increases. In Manitoba, the advance was mainly the result of
gains in single-family dwellings and in institutional and
industrial buildings.  In Saskatchewan, higher construction intentions for
commercial and industrial buildings and single-family dwellings
were behind the advances, while in Newfoundland and Labrador,
residential and commercial buildings explained the gains.  Value of permits down in more than half of the census
metropolitan areas  In January, the total value of permits fell in 18 of the 34
census metropolitan areas.  The largest decreases were in Calgary, Kitchener-Cambridge-
Waterloo and Toronto. In Calgary, the decline came mainly from
commercial building permits, which had posted a significant
increase in December.  In Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo, the decrease was the result
of a reduced value in permits for multi-family dwellings and
industrial buildings. The decline in Toronto was the result of
lower construction intentions for multi-family dwellings,
institutional buildings and, to a lesser extent, industrial
buildings.  Ottawa and Hamilton posted the largest increases. In Ottawa,
the advance was the result of higher construction intentions for
both the residential and non-residential sectors. In Hamilton,
the increase originated from higher construction intentions for
single-family dwellings and institutional buildings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land values.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan area
of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/ Quebec ) is divided into two areas:
Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference month.  With this release, seasonal adjustments were reviewed to take
into account the most recent data. Revised seasonally adjusted
data for each month in the three previous years are released at
the same time as the annual revision to the unadjusted data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  