-- China’s Stocks Fall for Third Day on Concern Over Global Economic Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-07T08:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/china-s-stocks-drop-for-third-day-on-concern-over-global-economic-slowdown.html
China’s stocks  fell for a third day,
the longest losing streak in almost two months, on concern a
global slowdown will hurt earnings.  Jiangxi Copper Co. paced losses by raw materials producers
after commodity prices slid the most this year.  China Life
Insurance Co. (601628)  slipped to a two-month low after the nation’s
biggest insurer said profit may have fallen as much as 50
percent in 2011. China Eastern Airlines Corp., the nation’s
second-largest carrier, sank 0.7 percent after Chairman Liu Shaoyong said he expects a “big” drop in travel-demand growth.  “Corporate earnings aren’t looking very promising and
expectations about first-quarter profits may be pessimistic amid
the slowdown,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China
Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 15.65 points, or 0.7
percent, to 2,394.79 at the close. The three-day, 2.7 percent
drop is the longest string of declines since a four-day period
ended Jan. 16. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.7 percent to 2,603. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 2.3 percent yesterday
in New York.  China cut its 2012 economic growth target to 7.5 percent on
March 5, down from 8 percent over the past seven years, as the
European debt crisis and sluggish U.S. recovery crimp demand for
goods from the world’s largest exporter.  Stock Valuations  The Shanghai Composite has gained 8.9 percent in 2012
following two years of losses on speculation the central bank
will add to a Feb. 18 cut in  reserve requirements  to halt a
slowdown in economic growth. Stocks in the index trade at 9.9
times estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times
on Jan. 6,  weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said exports rose about 7
percent over the first two months of the year, suggesting that
February’s number will be less than economists had forecast. The
economy of  Europe , China’s biggest trading partner, shrank 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter, data released yesterday showed.
Europe accounts for about 18 percent of China’s exports,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 3.1 percent to 25.61 yuan. Zijin Mining Group Co., the
nation’s largest gold producer, lost 1.6 percent to 4.46 yuan.
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the listed unit of the biggest
maker of the lightweight metal, slid 1.4 percent to 7.23 yuan.  Outbound Shipments  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  commodities 
sank 1.5 percent yesterday in  New York , the biggest loss since
Dec. 14. Copper slid 3.2 percent in New York and gold retreated
1.9 percent.  China’s outbound shipments gained about 7 percent over
January and February combined, while imports rose more than
that, Chen said today during a briefing in Beijing at the annual
meeting of the National People’s Congress. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey compiled before he spoke was for a 32
percent gain in February from a year earlier.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 8.9
percent in the last three months of 2011, the least in 10
quarters. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in January and 5.4
percent in 2011, while the government maintained a goal of 4
percent for this year. The government is scheduled to report
inflation data for February on March 9.  ‘Volatile Trading’  “There’s no big risk of a sharp slowdown in the economy
but there’s no big catalyst either that’ll convince everyone
that the economy will pick up strongly soon,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages about $120 million. “We’ll face
volatile trading going forward.”  China  Life slipped 1.1 percent to 17.50 yuan, its lowest
close since Jan. 9 and extending yesterday’s 3.5 percent
decline. Net income for 2011 may have dropped by 40 percent to
50 percent from a year earlier based on Chinese accounting
standards, the company said in a statement yesterday. The
decrease was due to “the decline in investment yield and the
increase in impairment losses caused by the fluctuation in the
 capital market ,” according to the statement.  American depository receipts of China Life slid 8.5 percent
yesterday in New York, boosting to 5.9 percent the discount to
the insurer’s Hong Kong-listed shares. The  discount  is the
biggest in seven months.  Profit of China Life fell 46 percent in the third quarter,
while Ping An Insurance Group Co. and China Pacific Insurance
Group Co., the nation’s second- and third-biggest insurers, also
reported net income drops for the three months to Sept. 30.  Travel Demand  China Eastern  dropped 0.7 percent to 4.22 yuan. Chairman
Liu said demand for international passenger and cargo flights is
“clearly falling,” predominately because European consumers
are cutting spending, Liu told reporters in Beijing yesterday.
There will also be a “big difference” in full-year travel
growth in 2012 from the previous year, he said.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission will study stock
investment by bank wealth management product funds, the Shanghai
Securities News reported today, citing Assistant Chairman Yan
Qingmin. The regulator may limit the proportion of stock
investment by the funds to control risk, it said.  Legg Mason Global Asset Management is expecting an earnings
“surprise” in China in the second half of this year as the
economy improves, according to Crystal Chan, the firm’s head of
 Hong Kong  and China investments.  Suning Surges  Chinese equities offer “attractive” value and there is
“upside” for stocks in the second half, Chan said at a
briefing in Hong Kong today. Legg Mason is favoring shares of
financial-services companies amid expectations the government
will loosen its monetary policies, she said.  Suning Appliance Co., China’s biggest electronics retailer
by market value, jumped 8.6 percent to 10.10 yuan. The retailer
plans to expand both online and to add physical stores and has
started selling books, daily necessities and other products in
addition to electronics, Chairman Zhang Jindong was cited as
saying by Sina.com.  FAW Car Co., which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, rose 2.8 percent to 11.60 yuan. Sales at
Volkswagen Group China, FAW Car’s German partner, increased 9.5
percent in the first two months of the year, according to the
Xinhua News Agency.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  