-- China’s Output Gains Probably Neared Two-Year Low in Case for Wen Stimulus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-08T02:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/china-output-gains-probably-neared-two-year-low-in-spur-for-wen-stimulus.html
China  may report tomorrow the
slowest  inflation  in 19 months and industrial-production growth
near a two-year low, increasing odds the government will step up
efforts to stimulate the economy.  Consumer prices probably rose 3.4 percent in February from
a year before, after a 4.5 percent increase in January, while
output growth  eased  to 12.5 percent, Bloomberg News surveys of
economists indicate. Commerce Minister Chen Deming yesterday
signaled that export gains were less than analysts forecast.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government this week highlighted plans
from endorsing higher minimum wages to boosting public housing
that reduce risks of the slowdown turning into a so-called hard
landing. Concern over the magnitude of China’s moderation
contributed to Asian stocks surrendering recent gains this week,
with a benchmark  gauge  poised to snap an 11-week winning streak.  “Growth will slide further if the government doesn’t
increase fiscal investment,” said Joy Yang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. who previously
worked at the  International Monetary Fund . The data “will boost
the case for Wen to step up policy measures to bolster growth,”
she said.  The benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific Index snapped the biggest
three-day fall since December, rising 0.6 percent today at 11:02
a.m. in  Tokyo . China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index gained
0.6 percent at 10:03 a.m. local time after dropping 2.7 percent
in three days. The yuan weakened a fourth day against the dollar
to 6.3153.  Options Measure  The cost to protect against losses in China’s biggest
companies is the highest compared with the U.S. since 2008.
Options on the 40-member Hang Seng China Enterprises Index,
which includes PetroChina Co. and China Construction Bank Corp.,
show investors are increasingly bearish on the gauge of Hong
Kong-traded China shares after it surged as much as 46 percent
since October.  The March 9 releases of industrial output, retail sales and
 fixed-asset investment  will be the first this year. The
government hasn’t given data for January in part because the
weeklong Chinese New Year holiday distorts data in the first two
months.  Retail sales  probably cooled to a 17.4 percent gain in
February from 18.1 percent in December, economists’ estimates
show. Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households may have
increased 20.5 percent in January and February combined,
compared with a 24.9 percent gain in the first two months of
2011.  Wen, 69, opening the nation’s annual legislative meeting on
March 5, announced an economic-growth target of 7.5 percent for
2012, after setting an 8 percent goal the previous seven years.
He signaled leaders want to cut reliance on exports and  capital
spending  in favor of consumption.  Export Forecasts  Outbound shipments  gained about 7 percent over January and
Feburary combined, Chen said during a press briefing yesterday.
Nomura Holdings Inc. said the comment indicated exports grew
only 18.7 percent, less than any of the 29 estimates in the
Bloomberg News survey before Chen spoke, and Societe Generale SA
revised its forecast to 18 percent from 30 percent. The
government report is due March 10.  Europe ’s economy  shrank  0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
from the prior three months. Exports to the region fell about 2
percent to 3 percent in the January-February period, Chen said.
“Arduous efforts” will be needed to meet a goal of increasing
China’s trade by 10 percent this year, Chen said. The target is
half of 2011’s expansion.  Before Chen’s comments, economists had forecast China to
report a $5 billion trade  deficit  for February, the first
monthly shortfall in a year and only the third since 2005.
 Societe Generale  changed its estimate to a $30 billion deficit
from $5.3 billion. Estimates ranged from a $33.6 billion deficit
to a $21.6 billion surplus.  Property ‘Drag’  “February data will be mixed, with downside risks due to
the holiday distortion and the drag of property curbs,” said
Zhu Haibin, chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 Hong Kong .  Zhu said the first quarter may mark a trough for growth in
2012 as the government eases policy and the global economy
improves, helping “drive a strong recovery” in the second half.
Chen also said the situation for trade may improve in the second
half.  The People’s Bank of China in February  lowered  banks’
reserve requirements for the second time in three months to
boost lending and sustain growth.  Inflation in February may have slowed to below the
government’s annual target for the first time since June 2010,
partly on easing food costs and the fact that last year’s
Chinese New Year holiday in February boosted spending and prices.
The festival fell in January this year, helping drive a higher-
than-forecast consumer price gain of 4.5 percent.  Inflation Goal  Wen this year set the inflation goal at 4 percent, the same
rate as in 2011, and up from 3 percent in 2010.  Producer-price inflation  may have slowed to 0.1 percent
last month from a year earlier, the lowest since November 2009,
from 0.7 percent in January, according to the median of 32
economist estimates.  “Inflation will be a relatively small issue this year,”
 Li Daokui , an academic adviser to China’s central bank, told
reporters March 6. He forecast annual consumer-price gains of
“around 3 percent.”  Banks in China may have extended 750 billion yuan ($119
billion) of new local-currency loans last month, economists
estimated after lending grew a less-than-forecast 738 billion
yuan in January, the smallest expansion in five years for that
month. M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , may have
 increased  12.9 percent in February, compared with 12.4 percent
in January.  Spending on property and infrastructure may have remained
“sluggish” and cold weather in the first two months of the
year may have hindered public-housing construction, Morgan
Stanley economists led by Helen Qiao said in a March 2 report.  That may weigh on growth prospects for developers and
steelmakers. Zhu Jimin, head of the China Iron and Steel
Association and also the chairman of Shougang Corp., a Beijing-
based steelmaker, this week said nationwide steel output growth
may fall by half this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  