-- China to Buy Corn If Prices Are Right, China Grain Reserve President Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-07T09:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/china-to-buy-corn-if-prices-are-right-china-grain-reserve-president-says.html
China , the second-biggest corn
consumer, will import more of the grain when domestic prices
significantly exceed import costs, said Bao Kexin, president of
China Grain Reserves Corp.  “We will buy if we need to,” Bao said today at the
National People’s Congress in Beijing. Costly transportation and
last year’s high domestic prices and brief plunges in U.S.
prices prompted Sinograin to “seize the windows of
opportunity,” Bao said.  Imports may rise to a record 7 million metric tons in the
2012-2013 marketing year from 4 million tons in 2011-2012,
Rabobank International said Dec. 5. Corn futures rose to the
highest in almost four months this week, spurred by at least
120,000 metric tons of orders from China last week.  “The government is shifting their tone and is having to
admit to reality that the grain trade is changing,” Tommy Xiao,
analyst at  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co., said by phone from
 Shanghai .  China won’t require “large imports” this year as the
country has ample supplies to meet demand, Nie Zhenbang, head of
the State Administration of Grain said yesterday. Farmers in
Heilongjiang Province will continue switching to corn crops from
soybeans this year because of the grain’s better return, Sui
Fengfu, party secretary of state-owned Heilongjiang Beidahuang
Nongken Group, said in Beijing.  “In the future it’ll be a common phenomena to see China
importing and exporting corn,” Bao said. “This is normal, as
we have always said we will use” internal and external markets
as two sources of supply, he said.  “Even the central government has to do its cost
analysis,” he said.  Corn for May delivery was unchanged at $6.54 a bushel by
4:23 p.m. Shanghai time on the Chicago Board of Trade.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  