-- China’s Exports Rose About 7% in First Two Months, Commerce Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-07T06:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/china-s-exports-rose-about-7-in-first-two-months-commerce-minister-says.html
Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said exports rose about 7 percent over the first two
months of the year, suggesting that February’s number will be
below all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.   Outbound shipments gained about 7 percent over January and
February combined, while imports rose more than that, Chen said
today during a briefing in Beijing at the annual meeting of the
National People’s Congress. The median forecast in a survey 
compiled before he spoke was for a 32 percent gain in February
exports from a year earlier, a number due March 10.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said Chen’s commment today indicated
exports grew only 18.7 percent, less than any estimate in the
survey, and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  revised its forecast to 18
percent. Weaker shipments from the world’s largest exporting
nation may undermine confidence in the global recovery as equity
markets sink and  Greece  tries to secure a rescue package.  “Export growth is ‘‘likely to surprise sharply on the
downside,’’ said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura
in  Hong Kong .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.8 percent as of 3:18
p.m. in  Tokyo , falling for a third day, the longest stretch so
far this year.  Chen said that ‘‘arduous efforts’’ will be needed to meet a
goal of increasing China’s trade by 10 percent this year, adding
that the situation may improve in the second half of the year.
Together, imports and exports rose about 7 percent in the first
two months, he said.  Weaker Currency  China  has allowed the yuan to weaken against the dollar
this year, aiding exporters, as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
clouds the outlook for overseas sales. The currency traded at
6.3126 per dollar as of 2:22 p.m. in Shanghai, down about 0.4
percent this year.  Exports fell 0.5 percent in January alone because of
weakness in global demand and the disruption of a weeklong Lunar
New Year holiday. Before that data was released, Chen said in an
interview that the numbers ‘‘cannot make us optimistic.”  Forecasting China’s trade is more difficult in January and
February because of the holiday, which varies in timing from
year to year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  