-- Chinese Replace Europeans Funding New York Properties
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-03-08T14:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/chinese-replacing-europeans-in-new-york-trophy-property-lending-mortgages.html
China’s oldest bank is expanding in
 New York  lending for trophy buildings as  Europe ’s debt crisis
sweeps away the last wave of foreign financiers.  Bank of China Ltd.  increased its loans outstanding on U.S.
properties fivefold to $2.6 billion since 2008, with most of
that growth in New York, according to Trepp LLC, a mortgage data
provider. The bank agreed last month to refinance the Mandarin
Oriental hotel in Columbus Circle owned by Dubai’s Istithmar
World PJSC. The Beijing-based state-backed bank is making
inroads after European lenders including Anglo Irish Bank Corp.,
pulled out of the market,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s real-estate lending
unit stopped competing, and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA pared assets.  Irish, German and French banks have led the retreat from
the world’s most active commercial  property market  as regulators
urge lenders to shrink their balance sheets to meet stricter
capital standards at the same time Europe’s debt crisis roils
credit markets. Replacements, such as  Bank of China , may benefit
as New York property owners have to refinance more than $18
billion of commercial mortgages bundled into bonds in the next
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Right now, commercial real-estate lending is offering a
good risk-adjusted return for lenders,” said  Dan Fasulo ,
managing director at Real Capital Analytics Inc., which tracks
commercial property sales worldwide. “This should be a time
where lending would help your balance sheet, versus  government
bonds , which are not paying anything.”  Bond Levels  Investor confidence in U.S. commercial  real-estate debt  is
at the highest level since May amid signs the economy is
improving, including an  unemployment rate  that declined to 8.3
percent in January from 10 percent in 2009. Relative yields on
top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds have narrowed 75 basis
points this year to 186 basis points, or 1.86 percentage points,
according to a Barclays Plc index.  Bank of China, the country’s third-largest lender by
assets, has accelerated its efforts in the U.S., with eight
loans in the last year totaling almost $1.8 billion, according
to data from Real Capital. Six were on New York properties,
including a $260 million five-year loan on 3 Columbus Circle, a
768,565-square-foot tower (71,402-square meter) a block from
Central Park owned by  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  and the Moinian
Group.  The loan pays 2.1 percentage points above the London
interbank offered rate, a lending benchmark, according to SL
Green, the biggest owner of Manhattan skyscrapers.  Mandarin Oriental Loan  “We’ve developed a very good relationship with the Bank of
China,” said Isaac Zion, co-chief investment officer for SL
Green. “We’ve done a few deals with them and hope to do more.”  The bank last month agreed to lend $175 million to
Istithmar Mandarin Oriental hotel. That repaid a $135 million
obligation arranged in 2007 by Column Financial, the commercial
mortgage lending unit of Credit Suisse Group AG, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Swiss bank said in October it
was pulling out of originating commercial mortgages to be
packaged into bonds.  Bank of  China ’s New York-based first vice president,
Raymond Qiao, who leads its U.S. mortgage lending program,
declined to comment, as did Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit
Suisse.  Moving in the other direction, Irish banks were forced from
the market in 2009 when they were nationalized after real-estate
losses globally.  ‘Temporary Embargo’  Anglo Irish last year sold $9.65 billion of its U.S. real-
estate loans to JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Lone
Star Funds for an average of about 80 cents on the dollar, two
people familiar with the sale said in August. The Dublin-based
lender, which financed the Upper West Side’s Apthorp apartment
complex in 2007 for $360.7 million, was renamed Irish Bank
Resolution Corp. and will be wound down over a decade.  Eurohypo, the real-estate lending unit of Commerzbank, has
placed a “temporary embargo on new business” through June,
according to an e-mailed statement from Gisela Brandhoff, a
spokeswoman for the lender. Its loans to U.S. property owners
have declined by $1 billion to $3.6 billion since the third
quarter of 2009, according to Trepp.  “In line with Commerzbank’s strategy to reduce Eurohypo
assets globally, the bank is also seeking to reduce assets in
the U.S.,” Brandhoff said in the statement. “The European
Banking Authority’s stricter capital requirements for banks
marked a turning point for the financial sector and for us.”  Basel III reforms being implemented are requiring banks to
keep larger reserves against their more speculative investments,
thereby forcing them to be more cautious in foreign markets,
said Steve Collins, managing director of the international
capital group at  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , the world’s second-
biggest publicly traded real estate brokerage.  Sovereign Debt Crisis  Banks are also constrained because of concerns they may
take losses should a European nation default, he said.  Paris-based Societe Generale’s book of U.S. commercial
mortgages has declined by 89 percent in the past two years,
Trepp data show.  France ’s second-largest bank agreed to sell
$600 million of commercial property loans to  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG)  in November.  James Galvin , a New York-based spokesman for
Societe Generale, declined to comment.  One European bank that hasn’t cut back on its U.S. lending
is  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which was lead manager on $6.3 billion of
loans marked for the commercial mortgage-backed  securities
market , beating J.P. Morgan for first place, according to
rankings published Jan. 6 by Commercial Mortgage Alert, a trade
newsletter.  The Frankfurt-based bank in December agreed to a $625
million loan for Sheldon Solow on his 9 West 57th Street office
tower, overlooking Central Park.  Insurance Competition  Those still in the market have to compete with insurers
such as  MetLife Inc. (MET)  that have a cheaper cost of capital, said
Collins.  “The life companies are crushing” European banks, he
said. “They’re not seeking out new business, just maintaining
the status quo.”  Bank of China isn’t the only lender from the region
expanding in the U.S.  Singapore’s  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  increased its U.S.
commercial lending to about $1.1 billion, a 178 percent jump
over two years, Trepp data show.  Zion of SL Green said the Singaporean firm is a
“relationship lender” interested only in specific high-quality
buildings and borrowers. The bank paired with Wells Fargo to
finance the acquisition of the Prada store at 724 Fifth Ave.,
the world’s most expensive shopping street, by an SL Green joint
venture.  The New York branch of Hong-Kong-based  Bank of East Asia
Ltd. (23)  jumped to $1.1 billion of real estate loans outstanding, an
87 percent increase over two years.  “China, despite the global economic turmoil, is still
running a significant surplus and has capital that needs to be
put to work around the world,” said Fasulo. ”It’s actually
opportunistic for the market to have them around. It softens the
blow from the bunch of European lenders that left the market,
and added depth to the Manhattan lending market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub in  Los Angeles  at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  