-- China’s Repo Rate Falls for Ninth Day as PBOC Skips Bill Sales
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-07T08:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/china-s-repo-rate-falls-for-ninth-day-as-pboc-skips-bill-sales.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rates
slid for a ninth day, the longest run of declines since March,
2008, as lower  reserve requirements  boosted the availability of
cash in the banking system.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand today for
bill sales tomorrow, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority assessed
demand for 91-day  repurchase agreements , the trader said.  “The big driver behind the move is a reduction in  reserve
requirements ,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The repo rate also suggests deposits
are coming back to banks and there’s less tension in the
system.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.10 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the repo rate,
decreased four basis points to 3.23 percent, poised for the
lowest close in a month.  Deposits at China’s four biggest banks rose by 300 billion
yuan ($48 billion) in the last three days of February, giving a
monthly increase of 1.1 trillion yuan, 21st Century Business
Herald reported yesterday, citing unidentified people. The
People’s Bank of China reduced the proportion of cash that banks
must set aside by half a percentage point to 20.50 percent from
Feb. 24.  The finance ministry auctioned off 28 billion yuan of
seven-year bonds at a yield of 3.41 percent today, according to
Chinabond, the nation’s biggest bond clearing house website. The
yield was lower than the median estimate of 3.44 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine fixed-income analysts and traders.  The yield on  government bonds  due February, 2022 was little
changed at 3.548 percent, according to the National Interbank
Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  