-- Chinese Venture Seeks Hollywood Partners to Make Movies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-08T02:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/chinese-venture-opens-office-in-hollywood-to-invest-in-movie-projects.html
A Chinese film-investment group is
seeking U.S. partners to co-produce and finance movies designed
to attract audiences in both countries.  China Mainstream National Film Capital Hollywood Group,
backed by state and private funding, is opening an office in
 Beverly Hills ,  California  to develop relationships with U.S.
investors and Hollywood talent, Chairman Yang Bu Ting said
yesterday during a movie finance conference in Los Angeles.  The group is looking for projects that would combine
American talent with stories that have a strong Chinese element,
Yang said in an interview. China Mainstream is especially
interested in using U.S. writers to craft stories in a way that
will keep U.S. audiences engaged.  “For now, we are looking at action films,” Yang said
through a translator. “They have the highest possibility to be
successful.”  A broader objective is to learn U.S. techniques for film
financing, said Yang, who is also chairman of  China  Film
Production International and supervisor of the China Film
Foundation. Typically in China, films have been financed
directly by the production company, he said. U.S. funding
mechanisms spread risk to outside investors.  The group is also interested in collaborating on
distribution and development of visual effects and computer-
generated imagery, he said. Yang outlined the group’s plans at
the Film Finance Forum West presented by Winston Baker in
association with Variety, a trade publication.  “We are in the process of investing in Hollywood,” Wang
Guo Wei, chief executive officer of China Main Stream, said
during a conference session. “We are choosing the best
projects.”  One project the group is considering is a series of films
based on The Tibet Code, a series of novels that have gained
popularity in China, Yang said.  The group has sufficient capital for its goals, Yang said,
without providing specifics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  