-- Citigroup EMI Asset Sale Merits FTC Scrutiny, Group Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-08T00:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/citigroup-emi-asset-sale-merits-close-ftc-scrutiny-group-says.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
should scrutinize carefully whether  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s proposed
sale of  EMI Group (EMIS) ’s music and publishing assets would hurt
competition in the  music industry , an advocacy group said.  The sale of EMI assets would reduce the number of major
record labels from four to three, Washington-based  Public
Knowledge  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
Universal Music Group “would control the emergence of new
distribution options for the entire industry,” the group said
in a letter to the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, which is
reviewing the deal under antitrust laws.  Citigroup agreed in November to sell EMI’s publishing unit
to Sony and its recorded music business to  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
Universal Music Group for a total of $4.1 billion. The proposed
breakup of London-based EMI, the 114-year-old music company that
owns Abbey Road Studios, sells Beatles albums and publishes
songs by the late  Amy Winehouse , ended a nine-month bidding war.  Citigroup, the New York-based lender, seized EMI in
February of last year after investor  Guy Hands , founder of U.K.
private equity firm Terra Ferma Capital Partners, fell out of
compliance with loan covenants.  Citigroup spokeswoman Danielle Romero-Apsilos declined to
comment on the Public Knowledge letter.  Control of Music  The combination of Universal with EMI’s recorded music unit
would create a company that controls about 40 percent of music
sales, according to Public Knowledge, a non-profit group that
advocates for digital rights. The sale of the music publishing
business to Sony would allow it to control 32 percent of
publishing revenues worldwide and give the combined company
publishing rights to 64 of the Billboard Hot 100 titles from
2011, the group said.  “This sort of control would put Universal in a position to
‘make or break’ any new service all by itself, allowing it to
hamper innovation and/or demand exorbitant terms and
conditions,” Public Knowledge said in the letter, which was
also signed by the Media Access Project, a Washington-based
public-interest group that advocates diverse ownership of media
outlets.  Mitch Katz, a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment on
the letter.  ‘Expand the Output’  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for  Universal Music Group 
said by e-mail that the company’s “reinvestment in EMI will
expand the output of new music and create more opportunities for
artists, while supporting digital innovation and consumers’
access to music.”  “We have every business reason to continue licensing our
music to as many digital platforms as possible,” he said.  Four record labels control 90 percent of recorded music
sales in the U.S., led by Universal with a 31 percent share,
according to statistics cited by Public Knowledge in the letter.
Sony is the second largest with 28 percent, while Warner Music
Group is in third place with 20 percent and EMI is in fourth
with 10 percent, Public Knowledge said citing 2010 figures.  The transactions are also being scrutinized by European
authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  