-- Hedge Fund Clear Channel Outdoor Defends $656 Million Transfer to Parent
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-08T00:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/clear-channel-outdoor-defends-656-million-transfer-to-parent.html
A committee representing  Clear
Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO) ’s board has rejected a hedge
fund’s charge that the billboard operator made improper payments
to its parent company and the panel is preparing a response,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Clear Channel Outdoor, based in  San Antonio , formed a
committee of independent directors in December to evaluate
accusations that the company improperly transferred $656 million
to parent Clear Channel Communications Inc., the radio
broadcaster owned by Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP. JHL Capital Group LLC, a $1.5 billion hedge fund based in
 Chicago , said in a Nov. 29 letter that Clear Channel Outdoor’s
board breached its duty to shareholders by paying an “unlawful
dividend” to its parent.  The payments benefit the outdoor advertising firm’s
majority stockholder “to the exclusion of CCO’s minority
shareholders,” and were “obtained in an unfair process and at
an unfair price,” the letter says, according to a person in
possession of it, who asked not to be identified because he
wasn’t authorized to discuss it.  Clear Channel Outdoor is 89 percent owned by Clear Channel
Communications, with the  rest held  by public shareholders.  The committee’s lawyer said in a March 1 response to JHL
Capital that the money transferred between the companies is in
accordance with a “corporate services agreement” made in 2005
and disclosed to investors in Clear Channel Outdoor’s filings
for an initial public offering.  ‘Lacks Standing’  “The money swept by CCU is in fact a loan and not the
payment of a dividend,” the committee said in its letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. It said that
because JHL Capital was not a stockholder at the time of the
IPO, it “lacks standing to challenge the arrangements.”  The committee said in the letter it has almost completed
its review and will send a written response addressing JHL
Capital’s concerns by March 9. The letter was signed by Alan J. Bogdanow, an attorney with Vinson & Elkins LLP, a Houston-based
 law firm  that is legal counsel to the committee.  Bogdanow, a partner in the firm’s Dallas office, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  JHL Capital’s goal is to have Clear Channel Communications’
private equity owners return some of the money to its
subsidiary, which could then be available for shareholder
dividends, according to the person possessing a copy of the
hedge fund’s letter. Bain and Thomas H. Lee bought Clear Channel
Communications in July 2008 for $17.9 billion, before credit
markets froze and the recession caused a drop in advertising
demand.  Trimming Debt  Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Bain, and Matthew Benson, a
spokesman for Thomas H. Lee, declined to comment. Both firms are
based in  Boston .  JHL Capital last year boosted its stake in Clear Channel
Outdoor to 1.6 percent, according to a Dec. 31 filing. If the
hedge fund maintains its holding through March 12, it will
receive $3.95 million as part of a dividend announced last
month.  Wendy Goldberg, a spokeswoman for Clear Channel Outdoor,
declined to comment on the committee’s letter. In an e-mailed
statement today, she said, “We believe that all actions of the
Board have been in accordance with the law and its duties to all
CCOH stockholders.”  Clear Channel Outdoor emerged from a 2005 spinoff that also
created Clear Channel Communications and Live Nation, the events
promoter. Clear Channel Outdoor raised $2.2 billion through
bonds earlier this month to help trim debt. The parent company
is saddled with $1.3 billion in interest payments this year,
according to a Feb. 21 regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  