-- CME to Offer Swaps Users Cash Protection That Beats CFTC Rule
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-07T14:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/cme-plans-to-offer-swaps-users-cash-protection-that-goes-beyond-cftc-rule.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  plans to allow swaps
traders to keep collateral with a third party, offering stronger
protections than U.S. regulators required after MF Global
Holdings Ltd. failed to safeguard $1.6 billion in customer cash.  CME Group, the futures exchange that’s expanding into
clearing interest-rate and credit-default swaps, will give
customers the option of holding their money at a neutral bank,
said  Kim Taylor , president of the Chicago-based company’s
clearinghouse. The unaccounted-for customer funds at MF Global
were within the brokerage’s control, not secured at either a
clearinghouse or a third-party bank.  A Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule passed in
January didn’t require collateral to be held by third parties
and didn’t address misuse or loss of funds held by brokers.
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, Paulson & Co.,  Fidelity
Investments  and Och-Ziff Capital Management Group have pushed
for greater safeguards on the collateral they must provide to
back positions, according to letters filed with the CFTC.  “Some of the larger customers in this market in the bi-
lateral arena already have these third-party arrangements in
place,” Taylor said in a telephone interview, referring to
private trades done in the over-the-counter market between two
parties, typically a bank and an investment firm. “They’d like
to be equally well-protected as they move to the cleared OTC
environment.”  Adapting to Changes  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the $708
trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to
changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act passed by Congress in
2010, including a requirement to process most swaps with a
clearinghouse to cut counterparty risk. The demands for greater
collateral protection were underscored by the $1.6 billion of
customer cash that went missing after MF Global filed the
eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history on Oct. 31.  A group of more than 100 swaps users and service providers
has been meeting to understand the collateral rules passed by
the CFTC and to determine if a better system should be
available, according to three members of the group who asked not
to be named because the discussions are private.  The so-called “segregation working group,” which began
meeting in January, includes representatives from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , BlackRock Inc., Newedge Group
SA, Moore Capital Management LP, Fidelity Investments, Vanguard
Group Inc., and CME Group, among others, according to six people
familiar with the firms’s involvement.  Representatives of the companies declined to comment.  ‘Full Physical Segregation’  As many as 70 from the group met in person for the first
time last week at the Manhattan office of law firm  Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , before a CFTC discussion the same
week on protecting customer money, four of the people said.  Michael Dawley, co-head of futures and derivatives
clearing services at Goldman Sachs and chairman of the Futures
Industry Association, runs the group, four of the people said.
Its next meeting is scheduled for March 9, two members said.  CME’s optional plan, known as “full physical
segregation,” would put the clearinghouse, rather than the
broker, in control of collateral, Taylor said. Only the
clearinghouse, the custody bank or the customer would have the
power to move funds. The broker would only be able to access the
funds if the customer defaulted on its obligations, Taylor said.  The segregation discussions are still preliminary, and no
decisions have been made about recommendations to protecting
client money, the group members said.  Bankruptcy Exemptions  For the CME plan to work, it must exempt customer cash from
bankruptcy proceedings of brokerages to prevent that money from
being pro-rated in the event of a loss, two of the group members
said. In the MF Global case, the bankruptcy trustee overseeing
the liquidation of the broker has returned about 72 cents for
every dollar of customer money, according to a report last
month.  The protections passed by the CFTC leave swaps users with
the risk they won’t recover all their money in a broker
bankruptcy because they continue to allow brokerages to hold
customer assets. If there is a shortfall in those assets
following a broker failure, the U.S. bankruptcy code provides
that customers share the losses.  Any plan to move customer cash to a third party would also
eliminate a brokerage’s ability to invest that money to generate
interest income, a staple of brokerage earnings, four of the
people said.  The cost of CME Group’s plan is “difficult to see” as of
now, Taylor said. “That’s why we think it’s important to have
it be optional rather than required.”  Transfers Balloon  MF Global often moved money between its own accounts and
those of customers in amounts of less than $50 million a day,
replacing the cash by day’s end, according to the trustee
report.  The sizes of those transfers ballooned in the last week of
October, the report shows, when credit-rating downgrades, a
record quarterly loss and revelations about its $6.3 billion
European debt trade unnerved investors and increased cash
demands on the futures broker. Starting Oct. 26, “funds did not
return as anticipated,” the trustee said.  Congress, the CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and
the  Justice Department  are investigating the disappearance of
the customer funds and other events surrounding MF Global’s
collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 