-- Connecticut Treasurer Seeks Votes Against Disney Nominees
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-08T01:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/connecticut-treasurer-seeks-votes-against-disney-board-nominees.html
Connecticut  Treasurer Denise L. Nappier called on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  investors to oppose the
election of directors on the Nominating and Governance Committee
for ending a policy of having an independent chairman.  “It is quite disturbing that Disney has chosen to embrace
a regressive policy that could impair the board’s role to
oversee executive management on behalf of shareholders,”
Nappier said today in a statement.  Connecticut becomes another opponent to the board’s
decision to make Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger Disney’s
chairman as well. The state, with retirement funds holding
642,000 Disney shares valued at about $27 million, joins
Institutional Shareholder Services in opposing the four members
of Disney’s nominating and governance panel.  ISS, which consults on governance issues, recommended
voting against members of the committee over the way they
decided to make the change, without consulting investors in
advance. The group also criticized CEO pay at the Burbank,
California-based company, owner of ESPN and ABC.  The decision to combine the positions was part of a
transition plan that was carefully thought out by the board,
outgoing Chairman John Pepper said today in a statement.  The board “strongly disagrees with Ms. Nappier’s
position,” Pepper said. “Nine out of the ten directors will be
independent, including an independent lead director with duties
and responsibilities that exceed in scope those recommended by
governance advisors.”  Of the 100 biggest companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, 68 percent have a joint chairman and CEO, according to
Pepper. In a filing last week, the company cited long-term stock
gains that outperformed peers since Iger took over.  Disney fell 0.6 percent to $41.75 at the close in  New York .
The stock has  gained  11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  