-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-07T20:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-rises-more-than-forecast-capping-three-month-gain.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in January, capping the biggest three-month
gain in more than a decade, as demand for autos improved and
Americans sought more education.  Credit increased by $17.8 billion to $2.51 trillion,
Federal Reserve figures showed today in  Washington . The gain
topped the $10.5 billion median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. In the three months to January, borrowing
climbed by the most since mid 2000.  Improving finances as hiring strengthens may be allowing
households to take on more debt in order to sustain spending on
big-ticket items like automobiles. Nonetheless, a jobless rate
exceeding 8 percent may be prompting other Americans to pursue
higher education or specialized training to get a leg up in the
job market.  “Consumer borrowing is back, fueled by a healthy interplay
of rising demand for big-ticket items and relaxing credit
standards,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief economist at
Parthenon Group LLC in  Boston . “We appear to be in the early
stages of a virtuous cycle, where credit easing facilitates more
spending.”  The  median forecast  for credit was based on a survey of 38
economists. Estimates ranged from increases of $5 billion to $20
billion. The Fed revised the December gain to $16.3 billion,
down from a previously estimated $19.3 billion increase.  Autos, Schooling  Non-revolving debt , including educational and auto loans
increased by $20.7 billion in January, the biggest gain since
November 2001, today’s report showed. The Fed’s data don’t track
debt secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of
credit.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, dropped by
$2.95 billion, the first decrease since August, according to the
Fed’s statistics.  Consumer confidence  held close to an almost four-year high
at the end of February as pessimism about the performance of the
economy eased, according to a Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.
The gauge was minus 38.8 in the period ended Feb. 26 after
reaching minus 38.4, the highest level since April 2008, in the
previous period.  For the fourth consecutive week, at least half the
respondents viewed their personal finances as positive, a run
that has been matched only once since 2008.  Car Sales  Americans are buying more cars as hiring and the economy
improve. Sales of cars and light trucks rose 4.8 percent in
January from the prior month to reach a 14.1 million annual
pace, according to figures from Ward’s Automotive Group.
Purchases climbed another 6.4 percent last month to a 15 million
rate, the highest reading since February 2008.  Sales for  General Motors Co. (GM) , Chrysler Group LLC and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  all beat the median forecast of analysts surveyed.  Payrolls grew by 210,000 workers in February after rising
by 243,000 the prior month, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a Labor Department
report in two days. The jobless rate probably held at a three-
year low of 8.3 percent, the report may also show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  