-- Continental Appeals ‘Absurd’ Concorde Verdict
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-08T13:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/continental-air-appeals-absurd-french-concorde-manslaughter-conviction.html
Continental Airlines Inc. will ask
an appeals court near Paris to overturn its manslaughter
conviction for the deaths of 113 people in the crash of Air
 France ’s Concorde supersonic jet almost 12 years ago.  Now part of  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s
largest airline, Continental and a maintenance engineer dispute
their December 2010 convictions and will show the court new
evidence the deaths weren’t their fault.  “Neither the company nor its employees were responsible
for the Concorde accident,” Continental said in an e-mailed
statement. “To blame the crash on a small strip of metal from
another aircraft is absurd.”  The Concorde crashed soon after take-off on July 25, 2000,
when a fireball was ignited after the jet ran over a metal strip
that fell from a prior Continental flight, investigators said.
The probe found the strip tore one of the plane’s tires and sent
debris into its fuel tanks. Continental has disputed that
scenario, telling the court the fire began before the jet hit
the strip. The airline said it will present new evidence to the
Versailles appeals court to support its claim.  “The court was mistaken” in holding Continental liable,
the carrier’s lawyer,  Olivier Metzner , said before today’s
hearing began. “The plane was already on fire when it hit this
metal strip -- the accident was unavoidable,” he said, calling
the Concorde a plane of “extreme fragility.”  Prosecution Appeal  Prosecutors also appealed the 2010 verdict by the lower
court, meaning four men who were cleared must again face
manslaughter charges. One of them, a former official at France’s
civil aviation authority named Claude Frantzen, filed a
constitutional challenge arguing they can’t appeal a verdict
that followed the trial prosecutor’s recommendations. The court
will need to consider his challenge “immediately,” said his
lawyer,  Daniel Soulez-Lariviere .  The lower court ordered Continental to pay 1.2 million
euros ($1.6 million) in damages and fines and also held a
mechanic named  John Taylor  responsible, saying he ignored the
risk of using the wrong materials in maintenance. Taylor
received a suspended sentence.  The crash hastened the demise of the Concorde. Flights were
grounded for 16 months afterwards and the plane went back into
service just as demand for  air travel  fell after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks. The Concorde’s last commercial flight
was in 2003.  Air France Response  Air France, now part of  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , is
participating in the appeals process “because Continental
hasn’t stopped arguing it was Air France’s responsibility,”
said the carrier’s lawyer, Fernand Garnault. “Air France wants
to be there to be able to respond.”  Henri Perrier, another defendant cleared by the lower
court, is too ill to attend and will also ask to postpone the
appeal hearings, set to run through May, until he recovers. He
worked at Aerospatiale, the Concorde’s former French
manufacturer that is now part of  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD) ’s Airbus SAS.  Garnault said Perrier was “essential” to the trial
because of his historical knowledge of the aircraft and Metzner
called his absence “obviously regrettable.”  EADS was held “civilly liable” with Continental and the
mechanic, and ordered to pay victims 195,000 euros. The company
has also appealed the civil liability finding.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental merged in
2010 to form Chicago-based United Continental Holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 