-- Default Swaps in U.S. Drop for First Time in Four Days
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-07T22:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-drop-for-first-time-in-four-days.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk eased for the first time in four days after progress on
 Greece ’s debt swap and a report the  Federal Reserve  is
discussing a new type of bond-buying program.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.5 basis point to a mid-price of 97.3 basis points at
5:12 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts
on Citigroup Inc. and American Express Co. also dropped.  The gauge slid as investors with 58 percent of the Greek
bonds eligible for the nation’s debt swap have indicated they’ll
participate, bringing the total to at least 120 billion euros
($157 billion). The swaps index also declined as the Wall Street
Journal reported that Fed officials are considering a program
that would seek to buy long-term mortgage or Treasury bonds
while at the same time effectively tying up the money to limit
concerns it will stoke inflation later.  The market is rallying on the increasing participation rate
in the Greek private-sector-involvement and that “the Fed is
working on other ways to pump money into longer-dated bonds and
mortgages,” according to Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based
hedge fund TF Market Advisors. The program the Fed is discussing
would “definitely help banks make money on their mortgage
inventory, but how much would filter into the real economy
remains a question,” he said.  Highest Level  The default-swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 98.3
basis points yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 22. Credit
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Credit-default swaps on Citigroup declined 12.8 basis
points to 215.9, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Contracts on American Express
decreased 3.2 basis points to 83.6, the data show. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  U.S. companies added 216,000 workers to payrolls in
February after a gain of 173,000 in the previous month,
according to a report today from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The Labor Department may say March 9 U.S.
payrolls increased by 210,000 last month after rising by 243,000
in January, according to the median forecast of 86 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment rate  probably held at
a three-year low of 8.3 percent.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, fell for the first time in three days,
declining 2.32 basis points to 25.08 basis points. The gauge
narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and
widens when they seek the perceived safety of  government
securities .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  