-- Oil Rises in New York on Forecast of U.S. Fuel Supply Drop, Jobs Increase
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-07T13:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/crude-oil-climbs-on-forecasts-of-less-gasoline-more-jobs-in-the-u-s-.html
Oil climbed from the lowest price in
more than two weeks in  New York  on forecasts that gasoline
supplies are falling and employment increasing in the U.S., the
world’s biggest consumer of crude.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent before government
data today that may show motor-fuel inventories slipped by 1.6
million barrels last week. Stockpiles decreased  2.25 million
barrels , the most since November, the industry-funded American
Petroleum Institute said yesterday. U.S. employers probably
added 210,000 jobs in February after gaining 243,000 in January,
according to a Bloomberg survey before a March 9 report.  “U.S. economic figures have been surprisingly good, and
this of course helps commodities,” said  Hannes Loacker , an
analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna who
predicts U.S. crude will average $104 a barrel this quarter.
“So hopefully this will continue.”  Oil for April delivery rose as much as 90 cents to $105.60
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $105.08 at 1:10 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday fell $2.02 to $104.70 a barrel, the lowest
close since Feb. 17. Prices are 6.3 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for April settlement increased 0.5 percent to
$122.59 on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate was at $17.51, up from $17.28 yesterday. It
reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iran Tension  Prices rose even as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  resumed service on a U.S.
crude pipeline earlier than it expected. The company started one
of two Illinois oil lines shut because of an accident, Lorraine
Little, a spokeswoman for Calgary-based Enbridge, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Oil has climbed this year amid concern European and U.S.
sanctions against Iran will lead to military conflict in the
 Persian Gulf , home to more than half the world’s oil.  The European Union has offered to negotiate with Iran on
behalf of  China , France,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S.,
after President Barack Obama called for more time to let
diplomacy and sanctions solve the standoff. Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu this week said he won’t allow his
nation to be threatened by an Iranian nuclear bomb.  Demand Side ‘Cloudy’  “Why is Brent trading above $120? It’s geopolitics,” said
Raiffeisen’s Loacker. “The demand side is still rather cloudy,
especially in Europe but also the U.S. substantially weaker than
last year. The supply side is rather bullish, with production
outages in Yemen, Syria, South Sudan and still the question of
how much of  Iran ’s exports are being sold these days.”  U.S. crude  stockpiles  rose 4.6 million barrels last week to
the highest level in more than five months, according to the
American Petroleum Institute. A report from the Energy
Department today may show inventories gained 1.5 million
barrels, according to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Demand in the U.S. remains weak and speculation resulting
from U.S. and European sanctions on Iran has pushed prices above
levels warranted by demand, Fereidun Fesharaki, chairman of
Facts  Global Energy Inc. (GEYI)  and a former energy adviser to the
Iranian government, said in an interview in Singapore today.  “This year has been one of unprecedented supply increases
in the  Middle East , and demand is the weakest in 15 years
excluding 2009,” said Fesharaki, who sees Brent oil falling to
$110 a barrel in the next two months. “Really, the sanctions
don’t work. They just create tensions in the market and push
prices higher than they ought to be,” he said earlier during an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  