-- Dell Seeks Edge on IPad With Business-Focused Windows Tablet
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 2012-03-08T11:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/dell-seeks-edge-over-apple-s-ipad-with-a-business-friendly-windows-tablet.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
Michael Dell said there’s growing demand for tablet computers
that can run the next version of Windows, which may help his
company siphon away corporate customers from the iPad.  Dell is developing a business-friendly tablet that works
with Windows 8, and the company will start selling computers
running the new  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software “on the exact day” it
becomes available, the CEO said yesterday on the “Bloomberg
West” television show. Windows 8 is due later this year, though
a release date hasn’t been set.  The goal is to entice business customers by running
Microsoft’s Office applications -- something  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s tablet
isn’t designed to do -- and letting the device connect securely
to corporate networks. Dell is seeking an edge over the latest
iPad, unveiled yesterday, which sports a faster processor,
sharper screen and speedier wireless service.  “Having a secure Windows tablet that works with all the
Windows applications -- we’re hearing a lot of demand for that
and we think that will be quite attractive,” Dell said.  Still, the iPad is making its own inroads in the corporate
world. Apple is on pace to sell $10 billion worth of iPads to
businesses this year, according to  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) ,
succeeding in a market that has traditionally been Microsoft’s
strength.  Apple’s Lead  Tablet makers will sell a total of 103.5 million devices
this year, with Apple accounting for two-thirds, Gartner Inc.
predicts. The figure will rise to 326.3 million in 2015.  Shares of Round Rock, Texas-based Dell  rose  1.1 percent to
$17 at the close in  New York  yesterday. The shares have climbed
16 percent this year.  Dell aims to “lead the market” in Windows 8 tablets, Amit Midha, president of Dell’s Asia division, said at a briefing in
 Hong Kong  today. The company will continue to offer tablets and
smartphones based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android technology, he said.  “Both the tablet and the smartphone form factors you’ll
see us participating in, but the tablet side is a much higher
priority for us,” Midha said. He declined to disclose details
about products being planned by Dell.  Dell also will sell a range of personal computers running
Windows 8 as soon as the software debuts.  “We’ll be there right on the very first day that Windows 8
is available,”  Michael Dell  said yesterday. During a conference
call with analysts last month, he said there was “great
excitement” in the corporate market over the new software.  Dell will continue to diversify beyond PCs by investing in
acquisitions and research spending, he said on “Bloomberg
West.”  “You’ll see us continue to be active,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Francisco at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  