-- Delphi Investors Lose Bid to Block Tokio Marine’s $2.7 Billion Takeover
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-07T22:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/delphi-investors-lose-bid-to-block-tokio-marine-s-2-7-billion-takeover.html
Delphi Financial Group Inc. (DFG) 
investors lost a bid to block a $2.7 billion buyout by rival
insurer  Tokio Marine Holdings  Inc. as a judge rejected arguments
that the deal was flawed because it unfairly enriches the
company’s top executive.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock ruled yesterday
that questions about the compensation that Robert Rosenkranz,
Delphi’s chief executive officer, would receive in the buyout
didn’t justify stopping a shareholder vote on the proposed deal.  “I cannot find the balance of equities favors an
injunction over letting stockholders” vote on the deal,
Glasscock said in his 56-page ruling.  Delphi, based in Wilmington, Delaware, sells workers’
compensation and group life insurance. Delphi officials contend
in court papers that the all-cash offer provides a 73 percent
premium to its shareholders.  Bernard J. Kilkelly, a Delphi spokesman, didn’t respond to
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the judge’s ruling.
Naotake Hamada, a spokesman for Tokyo-based  Tokio Marine (8766) , said
the company was pleased that Glasscock’s decision clears the way
for the buyout to proceed.  Closing Deal  “We continue to work on closing the acquisition of Delphi
in accordance with the merger agreement,” Hamada said in an e-
mailed statement. The company anticipates closing the deal in
the second quarter, he said.  Tokio Marine fell 52 yen, or 2.4 percent, to 2100 yen in
 Tokyo . Delphi’s shares rose 23 cents to $44.83 today in New
Stock Exchange composite trading.  While he denied investors’ request to block the deal,
Glasscock said Delphi shareholders may be entitled to recover
damages from Rosenkranz over his actions in negotiating the
buyout.  “We are pleased the court recognized Mr. Rosenkranz’s
overreaching and has unequivocally told him that damages
await,”  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for pension funds who sought to
block the buyout, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Tokio Marine,  Japan ’s second-largest casualty insurer,
agreed in December to pay $44.88 a share for Delphi’s Class A
public shares and $52.88 apiece for its Class B shares. The
proposed sale would be the second time in three years the
insurer bought a U.S. rival. Tokio Marine purchased  Philadelphia
Insurance Cos.  for $4.4 billion in 2008.  ‘Disparate Consideration’  Rosenkranz structured the deal to give himself more per
share for his Class B shares than Class A shareholders will get,
even though “such disparate consideration” is prohibited by
the company’s charter, lawyers for the pension funds said in
court filings.  The funds’ lawyers also said Rosenkranz sought to negotiate
a side deal as part of the buyout that required  Tokio Marine  to
maintain contracts with two firms Rosenkranz owns that do
business with Delphi.  Delphi’s lawyers countered that Rosenkranz only discussed a
sale of the firms with Tokio Marine officials and didn’t reach
any formal agreement. The side-deal allegations also don’t
provide the basis for enjoining the deal, they told Glasscock.  They also argued the charter provision barring disparate
compensation for shareholders was subject to amendment and that
would allow Rosenkranz to receive more for his shares.  Glasscock noted that Rosenkranz, a New York investor who
founded Delphi in 1987, had conflicting roles while negotiating
with Tokio Marine over the buyout offer.  Controlling Shareholder  While he was the lead negotiator in talks aimed at getting
the highest price for Delphi’s shares, Rosenkranz also was
Delphi’s controlling shareholder and served as a Delphi
contractor through his businesses that provide financial advice
to the insurer, the judge noted.  “Rosenkranz knew that he would also be negotiating the
futures of those contracts” with Tokio Marine, the judge said.  While those conflicts may not have tainted the buyout
negotiations, Glasscock said Rosenkranz’s push to receive more
than other Delphi shareholders for his stake in the company may
have run afoul of his legal obligations to other investors.  The judge found the pension funds “are reasonably likely
to be able to demonstrate at trial that in negotiating for
disparate consideration and only agreeing to support the merger
if he received it, Rosenkranz violated duties to stockholders.”  Glasscock said that while the funds’ questions about
Rosenkranz’s dealings weren’t enough to warrant blocking a
shareholder vote over the deal, disgruntled investors can seek
monetary damages in the case.  “Much of the alleged misconduct of which the plaintiffs
complain is remediable by readily ascertainable damages,” the
judge wrote. Glasscock added he could order “disgorgement” of
any improper consideration Rosenkranz reaped from the deal.  The case is In RE Delphi Financial Group Shareholder
Litigation, CA No. 7144, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurchy@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  