-- Kucinich’s ‘Nine Lives’ Political Career Defined by Setbacks
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/dennis-kucinich-s-nine-lives-u-s-political-career-defined-by-adversity.html
U.S. Representative Dennis Kucinich’s exit from Congress is among many setbacks defining
his 42-year political career, dating to a 1978 attempt to recall
him as the “boy mayor” of  Cleveland .  The 65-year-old  Ohio (BEESOH)  Democrat is among the first casualties
in at least 10 contests between House members of the same party
in districts created after the 2010 census. Kucinich lost March
6 to long-time colleague Marcy Kaptur and will leave Congress
after this year.  “Nine lives isn’t even a fair representation,” said Greg
Haas, a Democratic strategist from Columbus who has known
Kucinich since 1977. “Anyone who thinks that Dennis Kucinich’s
career’s over hasn’t been watching him from the very
beginning.”  Elected mayor in 1977 at age 31, Kucinich survived the
recall effort, though he subsequently lost the mayor’s job to
Republican  George Voinovich  in 1979.  Even that wasn’t his first brush with political demise.
After Kucinich was elected to the Cleveland City Council at age
23 in 1969, the council divided his ward four ways in 1971. He
won re-election by moving to a new ward.  “I’ve never had a fear of losing,” Kucinich said in an
interview yesterday. “If a member of Congress conducts himself
or herself from a place of fear, it’s ultimately destructive for
our country.”  Uneasy Relations  Kucinich transformed himself from a Midwestern mayor with
anti-abortion views and uneasy relations with black politicians
to a leader of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, spirited
critic of the U.S. wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  and presidential
candidate.  In the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination race,
Kucinich dropped out after picking up no delegates in the Iowa
caucuses and getting 1 percent of the vote in the New Hampshire
primary.  To avoid this year’s primary against Kaptur, the
congressman explored moving to Washington state, which has a
large base of progressive activists as well as an open seat in a
newly drawn district. Kucinich decided against the move.  “I didn’t feel I should walk away” from the district,
Kucinich said. “I made the effort and now the election’s not
even a day old and I’m really generally not ready to speculate
as to what I might do next.”  Former House Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois
Republican, said Kucinich has a fighting spirit and he isn’t
counting the congressman out of future public service.  ‘Windows Open’  “Sometimes the door shuts and windows open,” Hastert said
in an interview. He recalled Kucinich showing a picture of
himself as a young man on a football team.  “Here’s this little short guy, probably never had a chance
to play,” Hastert said. “But he stuck it out.”  In Congress, Kucinich became a vocal antiwar critic. He was
the only Democratic presidential candidate in 2008 who had voted
against invading  Iraq  in 2002. He refused to visit Iraq during a
2007 trip to the  Middle East .  Kucinich, a member of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, tried to bring articles of impeachment against
former President  George W. Bush  and Vice President  Dick Cheney 
for alleged illegal acts, including  war crimes .  Last year, Kucinich forced a House vote on his resolution
seeking to end U.S. support for North Atlantic Treaty
Organization air strikes in  Libya . In the interview, Kucinich
cited his biggest contributions over his political career as
“exposing the war in Iraq as a lie,” making efforts toward
peace in the Middle East, investigating the subprime mortgage
meltdown and challenging the Patriot Act.  Challenge the Party  “My role has always been to try to challenge the party to
stay focused on establishing real alternatives to what the
Republicans have” and “to say things others wouldn’t want to
say,” said Kucinich.  Back home, Haas said Kucinich is known as a crusader for
his older, working-class constituents, taking on  utility
companies , for instance.  “The war became the national Dennis Kucinich, but it
really wasn’t part of what his core constituency and base was
all about,” Haas said.  The son of a truck driver who was often unemployed,
Kucinich is the oldest of seven children and went to work at age
12 as a shoeshine boy. His family frequently changed residences
within the city.  ‘Terribly Wrenching’  “His life was terribly wrenching,” said Tim Hagan, a
Cuyahoga County commissioner who has known Kucinich since the
1970s. “He is one of those political personalities who made
himself.”  After serving on the Cleveland City Council, Kucinich
became the youngest mayor of a major U.S. city at age 31. The
city was in poor financial health and Kucinich faced a revolt
from bankers who called in their loans after he refused to sell
city-owned properties. He narrowly survived Cleveland’s first
mayoral recall the following year after firing his police chief
on live television.  At the time, Kucinich’s appeal was primarily to white,
working-class and Catholic voters, said Hagan, who worked for
Kucinich’s unsuccessful mayoral opponent, Edward Feighan, in
1977.  “He was anti-Carl Stokes, who was the first black mayor of
Cleveland,” Hagan said. “He evolved into somebody that
Congressman Louis Stokes, the first black member of Congress
from  Ohio , supported.”  Close Friends  Louis Stokes said his late brother, Carl, and Kucinich
became good friends following the early tensions. “When Carl
passed, he and Dennis were very close personal friends” and saw
each other frequently, said Stokes.  “I wouldn’t count Dennis out,” Stokes said. “It wouldn’t
surprise me if he finds some means of continuing his life in
public service.”  After losing the mayor’s office to Voinovich, Kucinich
taught at Cleveland State University and  Case Western Reserve
University , hosted a radio talk show and was a television
reporter. He won an Ohio state Senate seat in 1994.  Since his first election to Congress in 1996, Kucinich has
been an advocate for labor unions, which contributed more than
$114,000, the most of any group, to his 2010 re-election
campaign.  He called for U.S. withdrawal from the  North American Free
Trade Agreement , saying the 1994 treaty with  Canada  and  Mexico 
doesn’t adequately protect U.S. workers’ jobs.  Political Satire  Kucinich has also been the source of political satire. In a
2007 debate hosted by NBC News, Kucinich said actress Shirley MacLaine was accurate when she wrote in her book that he had
sighted an unidentified flying object over her home in
Washington state.  “It’s unidentified. I saw something,” Kucinich said.
“You have to keep in mind that  Jimmy Carter  saw a UFO, and also
that more people in this country have seen UFOs than I think
approve of  George Bush ’s presidency.”  He introduced the Space Preservation Act in 2001 to
“preserve the cooperative, peaceful uses of space for the
benefit of all humankind.” He has also called for a Department
of Peace.  “There’s a part of him that was outside the intellectual
norm,” Hagan said.  On his congressional website, Kucinich has a link for polka
activities, including to Frank Yankovic, the “Polka King,” as
well as to bowling and sausage websites.  Kucinich’s personal life became the source of headlines in
2005 when he married his third wife, Elizabeth Harper, who is 31
years his junior. He and his wife are vegans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  