-- Jain Said to Promote Investment Bankers in Deutsche Bank Management Rejig
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-07T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/deutsche-bank-said-to-name-faissola-unit-head-in-board-shuffle.html
Anshu Jain, who heads  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s corporate and investment bank, is promoting bankers from
his division as he prepares to become co-chief executive
officer, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Changes proposed to the bank’s supervisory board include
naming three management board members, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. Jain
and co-CEO designate Juergen Fitschen plan to replace two board
members with investment bankers and add another executive from
the business, said the person.  Josef Ackermann , who steps down in May after a decade as
CEO of  Germany ’s biggest lender, is using acquisitions in  wealth
management  and retail banking to reduce Deutsche Bank’s
dependence on erratic profits from investment banking. Jain and
Fitschen, in charge of Germany, are striving for balance and to
cement the firm’s position as a so-called universal bank while
promoting bankers with whom they have worked closely, said the
person.  “It was clear Anshu wanted to create a management team in
his own image,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based
banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  “He’s taking the bank to the
next level. This may be seen as positive for the stock.”  Deutsche Bank rose 2 percent to 33.98 euros in Frankfurt
trading yesterday, extending the stock’s gain this year to 15
percent.  Deutsche Bank Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger and Chief
Operating Officer Hermann-Josef Lamberti have been asked to
leave the bank, the person said. German newspaper Die Welt
reported the changes earlier. Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for
the bank, declined to comment on “market speculation” and said
Banziger and Lamberti wouldn’t be available for an interview.  Risk Management  Henry Ritchotte, who was named COO for the global markets
division in 2008, will take over from Lamberti, and William Broeksmit, who is head of risk portfolio optimization at the
corporate and investment bank, will be in charge of risk
management, the person said.  Stephan Leithner, co-head of investment-banking coverage
and advisory, will join as management board member for
personnel, take on the legal division and head regional
management in Europe outside Germany, said the person.  Deutsche Bank’s treasury, which Banziger oversees, would be
passed to Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , the person
said.  Pairing Jain with Fitschen, the bank’s longest-serving
management board member, is an attempt to balance Deutsche
Bank’s dual roles: A global trading house that competes with the
likes of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and gets most of its revenue
abroad, and a German institution with longstanding ties to the
nation’s companies and political establishment.  Executive Committee Expanded  Additional candidates for the top job at Deutsche Bank
included Banziger, consumer-banking head  Rainer Neske , and
Krause, people with knowledge of the deliberations said in July.  “Fitschen probably will not feel he has to appoint someone
to his former role, but he is likely to step aside in two years
and allow Anshu Jain to become sole CEO,” said Wheeler, who has
an “underperform” recommendation on the shares as he deems
Deutsche Bank to be undercapitalized.  The group executive committee will be expanded to 17
members from 12 and David Folkerts-Landau will join in charge of
research, the person said.  The group executive committee is the second-highest ranking
body after the management board and helps coordinate the
businesses and regions, according to the bank.  Colin Fan, the head of credit trading and  emerging markets ,
and Rob Rankin, who leads the Asia-Pacific region, will head the
 investment-banking  unit, known as corporate banking and
securities, the person said.  Asset, Wealth Management  Michele Faissola, who oversees rates and commodities, will
head a combined asset and wealth-management operation, said the
person familiar with the matter. Asset management is headed by
 Kevin Parker  and the private-banking business by Pierre De Weck.  The division Faissola would oversee combines asset and
wealth management and similar businesses that are now part of
the investment bank such as exchange-traded funds, said the
person.  “It makes sense for a change at asset and wealth
management given the performance of the businesses wasn’t
exactly a success story,” said  Georg Kanders , an analyst with
 WestLB AG (WESTLB)  in Dusseldorf who recommends investors buy the stock.
“Asset and wealth management can be consolidated given the
business is getting smaller and the focus is clearly on  Europe 
with some operations being sold,” he said.  Deutsche Bank said last month that it’s holding exclusive
talks to sell part of its asset-management divisions to the U.S.
money manager Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Breaking ‘Eggs’  The negotiations apply to the four businesses that the
Frankfurt-based bank put under review, including its DWS mutual
funds in the Americas, the advisory units for institutional
investors and insurance firms, and its RREEF real-estate and
infrastructure division, the lender said. Deutsche Bank is
keeping its DWS fund unit in Europe and  Asia .  The entire supervisory board needs to approve the personnel
changes at a meeting on March 16, the person said.  “Anshu was always going to have to break a few eggs,”
Wheeler said. “He will have to put up with some disruption,
people may leave if they are unhappy about not getting the
promotions they wanted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  