-- Disabled Vets Say U.S. Breaking Law by Favoring Blind Suppliers
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/disabled-vets-say-u-s-breaking-law-by-favoring-blind-suppliers.html
The U.S. Department of  Veterans
Affairs  is violating a 2006 law that directs the agency to favor
 small businesses  led by disabled veterans, two company owners
said, adding to criticism of the agency’s compliance with the
measure.  The executives, disabled veterans who both run medical-
supply companies, said the VA improperly ordered medical gloves
from suppliers affiliated with a program for the blind without
allowing their businesses to compete for the work.  The Government Accountability Office, Congress’s
investigative arm, ruled in October that the VA disregarded the
law by trying to order griddles and other kitchen supplies from
vendors without researching whether disabled veterans might
provide the same goods. Veteran-owned businesses may benefit
from as much as $3 billion in additional spending if the VA
changes its interpretation of the law, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’ve got nothing against the government helping the
blind, but there’s a law that says veteran businesses are
supposed to be considered first at the VA,” Chet McLendon,
president of Pierce First Medical of Phoenixville,  Pennsylvania ,
said in an interview before a GAO hearing yesterday in
Washington. McLendon, 41, is an Air Force veteran who said he
has had two back surgeries because of service-related injuries.  AbilityOne Program  The VA favors a preselected group of companies that often
offer the government discounts for bulk purchases, before
turning to companies owned by disabled veterans, according to
the department. For some orders, it also gives preference to a
program called AbilityOne, which seeks to boost employment among
the blind and disabled.  The department is allowed to determine how to interpret the
law, Dennis Foley, a VA attorney, said during the hearing. It
prefers veteran-owned companies over other small businesses,
including those owned by women or minorities, when awarding
special contracts reserved for small companies. The work must be
done at a reasonable price, he said.  “We believe we have implemented not only the letter, but
the spirit of the law,” said Foley. The agency awarded more
than $3 billion to companies owned by disabled veterans during
the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, he said.  The law requires the agency to research whether items can
be bought from veteran-owned companies before turning to other
vendors, U.S. Representative  Bill Johnson , an Ohio Republican,
said at a hearing last year.  Glove Order  “With straightforward language such as ‘the Secretary
shall give priority to a small business concern owned and
controlled by veterans,’ it is difficult to understand the VA’s
failure to correctly interpret this law,” Johnson said during a
November joint hearing of two House Veterans’ Affairs
subcommittees.  McLendon and Louis Leon-Guerrero, a 49-year-old disabled
Air Force veteran who owns Alternative Contracting Enterprises
LLC of Tucson,  Arizona , declined an opportunity to comment
during the GAO hearing. Both had protested the VA’s order of
gloves from Bosma Industries for the Blind Inc., an AbilityOne
participant.  The VA spent about $1.6 million in fiscal 2011 with Bosma,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Tricia Leminger, an attorney representing Bosma, asked the
GAO at the hearing to “be mindful of the negative impact” a
change in VA ordering policy might have on the company and “the
111 people who are blind and visually impaired who work there.”  The VA ordered about $76 million in goods and services from
suppliers in the AbilityOne program during the last fiscal year,
Foley, the VA attorney, said during the hearing.  It also spent $3.26 billion last year with so-called
“supply-schedule” vendors, a group of preselected companies
that often provide bulk purchasing discounts, according to an
October department review. About $436 million of those purchases
went to veteran-owned companies that were part of the supply-
schedule program.  The GAO will issue its written decision on the medical-
gloves protest by April 2, said Paula Haurilesko, a  senior
staff attorney for the watchdog agency who led yesterday’s
hearing. The decision is nonbinding and intended to provide
guidance to the VA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in  Washington  at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  