-- Dodd-Frank ‘Lull,’ EU Banker Bonus Limits, FCC Merger Review: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-07T13:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/dodd-frank-lull-banker-bonuses-fcc-merger-review-compliance.html
Less than halfway through the
process of implementing the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the pace of
rule-writing by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has
slowed by about half.  The agency’s five commissioners haven’t met once in the
past four months to approve or propose regulations required
under Dodd-Frank, designed to curb the kind of risky practices
that fueled the 2008 financial crisis.  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro acknowledged the slowdown,
describing it as a “natural lull” after an initial gush of
proposals.  The rule-making holdup is extending a period of uncertainty
for affected firms -- some welcome the delay of unwelcome
regulations, others would prefer clarity. Among the rules in
limbo are the so-called Volcker rule to ban banks’ proprietary
trading, restrictions on asset-backed securities deals, and
forcing firms to disclose whether manufacturing metals were
mined in war-ravaged parts of  Africa .  Enacted in 2010, Dodd-Frank requires U.S. regulators to
write hundreds of new rules to revamp how the financial sector
does business, and more of those rules were assigned to the SEC
than any other agency.  In the first year after the law’s passage, the agency voted
to approve 108 proposals, adoptions and rule concept releases,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, most of them related to
Dodd-Frank. That’s an average of nine per month.  Since the law’s one-year anniversary July 21, the register
has recorded only 39 rulemaking SEC votes, or about 5.3 a month,
the data show.  Much of the recent activity has taken place behind closed
doors, adding to the appearance of a slowdown. Since Oct. 26,
the agency has adopted only nine rules and did so without
holding a single public meeting, conducting the votes by paper
ballot.  Schapiro offered several explanations for the SEC’s slower
pace, including the complexity and high volume of public
comments on recent rules, and the fact that a new commissioner
joined the five-person panel last November.  For more, click here, and see Interviews/Testimony section,
below.  Compliance Policy  Banker Bonus Limits Sought by Lawmakers in EU’s Basel Plan  European Union lawmakers may introduce tougher curbs on
 banker  pay, including a limit on the gap between lenders’
highest and lowest salaries, as part of an overhaul of financial
regulation later this year.  Members of the  European Parliament ’s Socialist and Green
parties have proposed that a draft EU law to bolster bank
capital should include new pay rules, as well as stricter curbs
on risk taking, according to two members of the institution’s
financial affairs committee.  Labor leaders and politicians have criticized bank-bonus
awards as out of touch with economic reality.  Michel Barnier ,
the region’s financial services chief, has said he is
considering proposing extra rules on bonuses in response to
payouts he described as going beyond “morality.” Some
lawmakers would like to move faster and include the measure in a
bill set to become law on Jan. 1, 2013.  Barnier presented the draft law last year to implement an
overhaul of bank rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . National governments and the EU Parliament
lawmakers must agree on the final form of the measures before
they can enter into force. The parliament’s financial affairs
committee is scheduled to vote on the rules by May.  For more, click here.  House Panel Advances Bill to Curb FCC in Reviewing Mergers  A House committee voted to advance a Republican-sponsored
bill to limit concessions the Federal Communications Commission
can require of companies seeking approval to merge.  The 31-16 vote yesterday by the  Energy and Commerce
Committee  sends the bill on for consideration by the full House.
No action has been scheduled for a version introduced in the
Senate.  The bill, H.R. 3309, would prevent the FCC from setting
limits on a merging company’s behavior that aren’t related to
the transaction. It also would require the FCC to identify a
harm to be remedied before adopting rules, and to publish
regulations before it votes upon them.  The bill was sponsored by Representative Greg Walden, an
Oregon Republican, who said “we need to lock in reform.”
Democrats criticized the bill, with Representative Henry Waxman
of  California  saying it would “disable the FCC, not reform
it.”  EU May Seek Tougher Collateral, Oversight Rules for Repos  European Union regulators may impose tougher collateral
requirements on repurchase agreements on concerns that such
trades might lead to unsustainable debt levels that threaten
market stability.  The  European Commission  is weighing the measure as part of
proposals to rein in risky financial activities that take place
outside the regular banking system, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg News. Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial
services commissioner, is scheduled to publish the plans next
week.  Repurchase agreements, contracts where one investor agrees
to sell a security and then buy it back at a future date and a
fixed price, are a “central issue,” according to the document.
The EU is working with global regulators to identify
“regulatory gaps and inconsistency between jurisdictions,”
including for collateral management.  The trades, known as repos, are among several so-called
shadow banking activities being targeted by the Group of 20
nations on concerns they may be used to evade a clamp-down on
excessive risk taking. The Financial Stability Board, which
brings together regulators, G-20 central bankers and finance
ministry officials, said last year that shadow banks may create
“an opportunity for regulatory arbitrage.”  For more, click here.  Covered Bond Group Lobbies to Drop Commission’s Ratings Plan  A  European Commission  plan to force debt issuers to rotate
the firms rating their securities should be ditched because it
will increase costs and complexity, according to a covered bond
industry group.  The  European Covered Bond Council , which represents issuers
in the $3.3 trillion market that banks use to help fund
themselves in the region, complained about the Commission’s
proposals in a paper dated Feb. 28 and distributed to its
members.  The  group  said it’s “not reassured that the Commission’s
proposal to impose rotation will actually achieve its goal of
reducing conflicts of interest,” according to the paper, seen
by Bloomberg News. The plan, put forward in November, “appears
impracticable, implies significant costs on both issuers and
investors and is likely to introduce uncertainty and volatility
to the rating process,” the group said.  Regulators around the world are seeking greater control
over rating firms after the top grades they awarded to bonds
backed by U.S. subprime mortgages lulled investors into a false
sense of security in the run-up to the 2008 financial crisis.
Their proposals are designed to reduce the risk of conflicts of
interest and to boost transparency and quality.  Clearinghouses Should Tell Regulator of Capital Crises, EBA Says  Derivative clearinghouses in the European Union should
alert regulators when the amount of capital they hold dips to
within 10 percent of the minimum required, the region’s top
banking regulator said yesterday.  When the level of capital held by a central counterparty
approaches the minimum allowed, it “should immediately inform
the competent authority and explain which actions it intends to
take to ensure compliance with the  capital requirements ,” the
London-based European Banking Authority said in a proposal on
its website.  “The competent authority could apply restrictive measures
until the capital is fully restored.”  U.S. House Plan Would Ease SEC Rules for Closely Held Companies  U.S.  Senate Democrats  say they want to put their own mark
on House legislation intended to make it easier for closely held
companies to raise money and prepare to go public.  Lawmakers in the Republican-controlled House and
Democratic-controlled Senate say they see the potential for
bipartisan agreement on elements of the plan, which would loosen
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules on such companies.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration yesterday urged the
House to pass its plan and said it will work with Congress
toward a final measure.  Smaller companies have been struggling to raise money amid
regulatory and economic pressure. Secondary markets, where
private shares of companies are bought and sold, have surged as
the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act made
accessing public markets more expensive.  The goal, lawmakers say, is to let companies attract
investors while remaining closely held, giving them an
opportunity to prepare to eventually go public.  The House Republican plan also would provide newly public
companies with less than $1 billion in annual revenue with
exemptions and phase-ins for compliance with some SEC rules,
including a requirement that an outside auditor attest to the
firm’s internal controls.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Libor Links Deleted as U.K. Bank Group Backs Away From Rate  Twenty-six years after helping to design the  London 
interbank offered rate, Britain’s bank lobbyists are distancing
themselves from their creation amid regulatory investigations
and lawsuits.  The British Bankers’ Association, the century-old lobby
group that oversees the rate, last week deleted references from
its  website  referring to its role in setting Libor. This week,
it met regulators and bank executives to review the future of
the benchmark. Under one option, the  Bank of England ’s proposed
Prudential Regulation Authority would take responsibility for
policing the rate, said a person with knowledge of the talks who
asked to remain anonymous because discussions are private. The
BBA says it isn’t seeking to cede oversight to the regulator.  Libor, the basis for $360 trillion of securities worldwide,
has transformed from a talisman of London’s influence in
financial markets to an albatross for the industry. Regulators
worldwide are investigating whether banks routinely lied about
their true borrowing costs to avoid the perception they faced
difficulty raising funds and traders rigged submissions to
benefit their own wagers on derivatives linked to the rate. The
probes have called into question whether banks can be trusted to
set Libor with only minimal regulatory oversight.  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark rates including Libor, the
 Justice Department  said in a letter to a federal judge that was
made public yesterday.  Courts  Stanford Convicted of Defrauding Investors in Ponzi Scheme  Onetime billionaire R. Allen Stanford was convicted of
fraud in what prosecutors said was a $7 billion scheme involving
bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based bank.  A federal jury in Houston yesterday found the financier
guilty of all but one of the 14 counts against him, including
wire and mail fraud and obstructing a federal regulatory
investigation. Stanford, 61, faces as long as 20 years in prison
for each fraud count.  Stanford’s jury, a day after finding the  Texas  financier
guilty, will continue hearing evidence on federal prosecutors’
request that he forfeit $300 million in assets.  Stanford, who was ranked 205 on Forbes magazine’s 2008 list
of the richest Americans with a net worth of $2.2 billion, has
been jailed since being indicted in June 2009 after prosecutors
said he might try to flee. A second trial with the same jury
began yesterday to determine the amount Stanford must forfeit.
Prosecutors are seeking about $300 million in assets.  The founder of Stanford Financial Group, based in Houston,
denied accusations by prosecutors and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that he cheated investors through CDs issued
by Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford was found not guilty of a single wire fraud count
related to bribing an official with Super Bowl tickets.  “We are disappointed in the outcome,” Ali Fazel,
Stanford’s lawyer, said outside the court. “We expect to
appeal.”  Robert Scardino, Stanford’s other lead attorney, said the
defense team will “examine issues for a new trial.” They both
declined to comment further, citing a gag order by Hittner.  Prosecutor Gregg Costa declined to comment, citing the
order.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches/Testimony  Schapiro Says SEC Conflict Mineral Rule ‘In Progress’  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  testified yesterday about her department’s budget and
rules on conflict minerals before a House Appropriations
subcommittee in  Washington .  The agency’s rules for companies to disclose the use of so-
called conflict minerals may not be finished until the middle of
the year, Schapiro said during her testimony.  The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 set an April 2011 deadline for
the rule, which requires public companies to disclose whether
any of four metals in their manufacturing or products came from
central Africa, where mining revenue has funded violent militia
groups. Schapiro told lawmakers at the Washington hearing that
the SEC will need at least “the next couple of months” to
finish because the rule is complex and unusual.  For the video, click here and for more, click here.  Gensler Says Markets Need Confidence That CDS Will Hedge Risk  Financial-market participants need confidence that credit-
default swaps will pay out and provide their promised
protection, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman
Gary Gensler said.  Gensler declined to comment specifically on whether
 Greece ’s bond exchange will trigger a swap payout, or whether
the market has suffered because of authorities’ efforts to avoid
such a credit event. Instead, he spoke broadly about the need
for a functioning CDS market, particularly in the agriculture,
energy and other commodity markets, that gives investors
confidence in the contracts they sign.  Gensler said he has “not been involved in the specifics”
of how the International Swaps and Derivatives Association is
weighing the Greek debt swap.  The bond exchange is a central element of Greece’s efforts
to win 130 billion euros ($171 billion) in international aid.
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said on March 5 that Greece
is ready to force investors to participate if the swap, which
runs through tomorrow, doesn’t draw enough voluntary
participation.  EU’s Basel III Law Should Have Leverage Rule, U.K.’s Hoban Says  U.K. Treasury  Minister Mark Hoban said that the European
Union’s implementation of so-called Basel III bank rules should
include measures to curb bank leverage.  Hoban told a Brussels conference that EU nations must not
be allowed to “unpick” parts of the Basel accord, which sets
global rules for bank capital and liquidity.  Hoban also said he’s “concerned” separate proposals to
revamp the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or
Mifid, may cause barriers to trade.  The proposals contain tough “equivalence” rules that that
no other country would currently meet and may “choke off
opportunities,” he said.  Comings and Goings  Katainen Denies Seeking to Succeed Juncker as Eurogroup Chief  Finland ’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said he’s not
seeking to succeed Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker as head of
the group of euro-area finance ministers.  Katainen said today on Finland’s MTV3 television that he is
not running for the position. Asked if he would take the job if
offered, Katainen didn’t rule out the possibility.  Juncker, whose tenure as eurogroup leader ends this summer,
said on March 2 that he won’t seek another term. Asked if he
would support Katainen as his successor, Juncker said: “It
depends.”  Katainen may have the support of  Austria ’s Finance Minister
Maria Fekter, who said on March 5 that the next leader of the
eurogroup should be a head of government with experience as a
finance minister.  Finland is one of four AAA rated countries in the single-
currency region. Katainen served as finance minister for four
years before becoming prime minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 