-- Don’t Resent the Rich; Fix the Tax Code (Part 3): Robert Shiller
-- B y   R o b e r t   S h i l l e r
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/don-t-resent-the-rich-fix-the-tax-code-part-3-robert-shiller.html
We have ample reason to believe that
financial markets are quite useful. And yet our wonderful
financial infrastructure has not yet brought us the harmonious
society we might consider ideal. There remains the ugliness of
extreme economic inequality, of some who endure hardship while
others are pampered.  While some inequality is actually in many ways a good
thing, for the motivation and stimulation it provides, arbitrary
and extreme inequality poses problems. It is an imperative that
people feel society is basically fair to them.  We see this aversion most clearly today in the worldwide
protests associated with Occupy  Wall Street  and its variants.
Rising inequality is certainly a valid concern, and one that
must be addressed. But financial capitalism does not necessarily
produce unjust wealth distribution.  There is widespread skepticism that those who become
extremely wealthy through financial dealings, or very high
executive-compensation packages, are sufficiently deserving of
their wealth.  World’s Richest People  If we define the field of finance broadly, then most of the
world’s richest people may be classified as connected to it.
Looking at the Forbes 400 list of the wealthiest Americans, you
see that the great majority are in charge of large enterprises
that participate frequently in markets and deal-making. The
Forbes 400 billionaires have usually made use of some kind of
specialized knowledge to achieve their wealth, but they rarely
stand out for important contributions in any intellectual or
creative field. There appear to be no distinguished scientists
on the list, no Nobel Prize winners.  Their wealth comes not solely from their own efforts and
talent, but often from their ability to form and lead huge and
effective organizations composed of many other talented people.
Still, it remains a puzzle that those connected to finance can
become so fabulously rich to the seeming exclusion of everyone
else. Wouldn’t you think that at least one scientist could come
up with a patentable idea that would top all their successes?  Part of the reason for a sense of injustice at the unequal
distribution of wealth is that some of the inequality seems to
be the result of family dynasties, through which the children of
successful businesspeople become rich. Some of these children
( Donald Trump , for example) keep working in the family business.
But, in fact, only about a third of family businesses are
continued by the children of the founders, and only a tenth of
them by the grandchildren. Still, the later generations remain
rich.  The tendency for wealthy families to annoy others by
“showing off” -- by spending extravagantly and wastefully on
themselves -- is also often a cause for resentment. This
tendency toward consumption for show has been dealt with for
centuries, going back to ancient  Greece  and  Rome , by means of
sumptuary laws that forbid specified forms of wasteful
consumption. In seventh-century B.C. Greece, for example, women
were forbidden to wear extravagant clothing or jewelry unless
they were prostitutes.  Progressive Consumption Tax  A modern version of sumptuary laws is the progressive
 consumption tax : one that’s based on the amount one consumes
rather than the amount one earns, with higher rates on higher
levels of consumption. Such a tax was proposed in the  U.S.
Senate  in 1995 by Sam Nunn, a Democrat from  Georgia ; and Pete Domenici, a Republican from  New Mexico .  Switching from a progressive income tax to a similarly
progressive consumption tax might be a good idea, for it would
not penalize one for earning a large income. And it might
encourage saving, philanthropy or both. However, there are
serious implementation problems that make progressive
consumption taxes difficult. It would be hard, for example, not
to effectively reduce taxes on the highest-income people. And it
would be hard to manage withholding on income, since responsible
withholding would have to depend on unknown future consumption.
Neither a sumptuary tax nor a progressive consumption tax is an
easy and obvious solution to the problem of wasteful and
resentment-inducing consumption that announces wealth or social
position.  Estate taxes are one of the most effective ways of
restoring a sense of fairness in society. If they were pursued
aggressively, they would do much to reduce economic inequality.
But, to some, estate taxes can seem extremely onerous.  In late 2010, when a law suspending the federal estate tax
in the U.S. was set to expire, so that the maximum estate tax
rate would rise to 55 percent from 0 percent, stories were told
of elderly people in poor health asking their doctors to cut off
further treatment so they would die before the year ended.  Ideally, estate taxes should be set at some intermediate
level, so that they neither confiscate people’s wealth at death
nor allow it to pass entirely to the next generation. In fact,
most people believe that society should give in somewhat to the
natural desire to make one’s children rich, but limit it. A 1990
survey that Maxim Boycko, Vladimir Korobov and I conducted found
that people in both the U.S. and the  Soviet Union  thought that
the estate tax should take about a third of an estate.  Taxes and Inequality  Another of society’s most important weapons against
economic inequality is the progressive income tax. Higher tax
rates are fixed on higher levels of income, and so revenue is
raised disproportionately from high-income people, and much of
the benefit of the proceeds is directed to, or at least shared
by, the poor. Strangely, though, the income-tax system has never
been designed with the express objective of managing inequality.  In the future, nations would be wise to index their tax
systems to inequality. Under such a system, the government would
not legislate fixed income-tax rates for each tax bracket, but
would instead prescribe a formula that tied tax rates to
statistical measures of pretax inequality. If  income inequality 
were to increase, tax rates would automatically become more
progressive. Inequality indexation could be considered a kind of
insurance -- against worsening inequality.  Leonard Burman , a tax policy expert at  Syracuse University ,
and I did a historical analysis of the possible effects of
inequality indexation, had it been imposed many years ago. We
found that if one had been legislated in 1979, freezing after-
tax income inequality at the then-current level, the marginal
 tax rate  on high-income individuals would have increased to an
extraordinarily high level, more than 75 percent. This indicates
how much economic inequality has worsened since 1979.  Progressive income taxes and estate taxes -- and possibly
also progressive consumption taxes -- are important tools for
dealing with excessive economic inequality. Real public concerns
about inequality have already made some of these taxes common
around the world.  But societies have great trouble dealing with the issue of
inequality in a systematic manner. The principle has never been
articulated that some degree of inequality is a good thing, that
there should be some who are richly rewarded for their business
success (or their parents’ success), but that society should put
some limits on this inequality.  Because that principle has never been established, the
effects of various tax laws are never considered systematically.
Thus the wealthy instinctively oppose any increase in their
taxes, fearing that acquiescing even to a limited extent might
leave them open to a haphazard series of tax increases that, in
combination, could amount to confiscatory taxation.  The inequality indexation scheme may not ultimately prove
to be the right course, but it at least illustrates how more
complex systems of tax rates grounded in risk-management theory
and behavioral economics could work. We could introduce more
responsiveness and nuance into the tax system to help achieve a
better society -- one in which people feel that basic economic
fairness is assured.  ( Robert Shiller  is a  professor  of economics and finance at
 Yale University , where he teaches financial markets in the  Open
Yale Courses  program. He is the author of “ Irrational
Exuberance ” and “The Subprime Solution.” This is the third in
a series of four excerpts from his new book, “ Finance and the
Good Society ,” to be published April 4 by  Princeton University
Press . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part
2  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Shiller at  Robert.Shiller@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 