-- Dow Jones Average Record Rebound Best: Riskless Return
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-03-07T21:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/dow-jones-average-record-rebound-proves-best-since-bottom-riskless-return.html
Record volatility in stocks pushed
investors to the safety of large companies and handed the  Dow (INDU) 
Jones Industrial Average the best risk-adjusted return since the
 bull market  started in 2009, the first time the gauge has led a
comparable recovery.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the 30-stock
Dow rose 5.9 percent from the market low on March 9, 2009,
through yesterday when adjusted for volatility, the highest out
of nine American benchmark equity gauges. Never before has the
measure led a rebound in the three years after a market bottom,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and going back to 1966.  Investors, reeling from the widest price swings in equity
market history in 2008, sacrificed returns for the stability of
large companies such as  Caterpillar (CAT)  Inc. and their global
revenue streams, as selloffs in May 2010 and last August cast
doubt on the recovery and kept  volatility elevated . Options show
investors are betting the Dow will continue to be stable as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, the growing U.S. government debt
and a slowdown in emerging markets overshadow the best stock-
market start since 1998.  “The market is still a little skittish, still a little
worried about events overseas, whether it’s Greek debt or Iran’s
nuclear program,”  John Carey , who helps oversee about $220
billion at Pioneer Investments in Boston, said in a telephone
interview. “In that kind of environment, there will continue to
be an interest in companies that are more stable, better
financed, more internationally recognized.”  Beating Small Caps  The Dow beat the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which
returned a risk-adjusted 5.2 percent in the period, and the  S&P
Midcap 400 Index (MID) , the second-best gauge with a gain of 5.7
percent. While the Dow had only the seventh-highest total return
with 112 percent, its volatility was the lowest over the almost
three years. The index rose 0.6 percent to 12,837.33 today.  The last time stocks recovered from a market bottom, after
the Internet bubble a decade ago, the midcap index had the
highest risk-adjusted return and the Dow was last.  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk.  While the  S&P SmallCap 600 Index (SML)  had the biggest total
return during the three-year bull-market, climbing 150 percent,
the measure’s volatility was 52 percent higher than the Dow’s,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Russell 2000 Index (RTY) 
had the third-highest returns, advancing 139 percent. Its
volatility was the highest out of the nine gauges, making it the
index with the lowest return after taking into account price
swings.  Index Swings  The ranking also included the Russell 1000 and 3000
indexes, as well as the  S&P 1500 Composite Index (SPR)  and the
Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index. The Nasdaq Composite Index and
Nasdaq-100 Index weren’t included because they have weightings
of 50 percent or more in technology shares. None of the gauges
in the analysis gave more than a 24 percent weight to any
industry group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders’ expectations for swings in the Dow versus the
 Russell 2000  during the next three months have fallen to the
lowest in 10 months.  Implied volatility  for three-month options
on the Dow fell to 0.61 times that of the Russell 2000 on March
2, the lowest level since April 2011.  Caterpillar, the largest construction and mining-equipment
maker, surged 343 percent since the bull market began and had
the best-risk adjusted return in the Dow, at 10 percent.
 American Express Co. (AXP)  was next with 9.3 percent as prices of its
shares increased almost fivefold. DuPont Co. was third, posting
gains of 210 percent with a risk-adjusted return of 7.9 percent.
All companies in the 30-stock gauge have posted positive risk-
adjusted returns since March 2009 except Hewlett-Packard Co.,
which fell less than 0.1 percent.  ‘Very Appealing’  “When the bull market started, people were fixated on
global growth and some of the larger names were very
appealing,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage about $24 billion at
Security Global Investors in Irvington,  New York , said in a
telephone interview on Feb. 28. “That helped drive the Dow.”  Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Illinois, got 64
percent of its revenue from outside the U.S. in 2011. That
figure was 30 percent for American Express, 65 percent for
DuPont and 68 percent for  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   In the three years after the Russian financial crisis and
the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management LP, and again
following the end of the dot-com bubble, the midcap index
outperformed the other gauges by risk-adjusted return. It
returned 6 percent in the three years after stocks hit a low in
October 2002. The Dow had the lowest risk-adjusted return during
the period, advancing 3.5 percent.  ‘Less Risky’  The S&P MidCap 400 had the best performance from the start
of the bull market on March 9, 2009 through April 29, 2011,
returning 6.7 percent. In the next four months, the  Federal
Reserve ’s second round of quantitative easing ended, Europe’s
debt crisis intensified, and the U.S. lost its AAA debt rating.  The Dow had the best return from the 2011 peak on April 29
through its low on Oct. 3, as about $13 trillion  was erased  from
global equities.  “Dow companies are less risky than the market,”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage about $5 billion for Alpine Mutual
Funds in Purchase New York, said in a March 1 e-mail. “They are
large and have strong balance sheets. Because of their size and
diversification of products and geography, their earnings are
less volatile.” He said the companies’ global business will
continue to support earnings, and low  interest rates  will draw
investors to their dividends.  Since U.S. equities have recovered from their October lows,
the  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  has posted the highest returns after
taking into account price swings, advancing 1.1 percent.  ‘A Little Weary’  With the Dow up 4.4 percent this year and the  S&P 500 
having gained 6.8 percent, investors may increasingly pay for
growth if the market stabilizes further, according to Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based
Thornburg Investment Management Inc.  “Investors were a little weary of the environment we were
in and they can get some downside protection in the bigger
companies,” Garcia, whose firm oversees about $80 billion, said
in an e-mail on March 1. “The more investors feel comfortable
with the economies of the world, the more they are willing to
take risk in some of the smaller companies.”  Some of the best-known investors have doubts the rally will
continue without hiccups.  Paulson & Co., the $23 billion hedge fund run by  John
Paulson , told clients in its year-end letter last month that
Greece may default and trigger the breakup of the euro, leading
“to a European banking crisis on par or worse than the world
suffered in 2008 when Lehman Brothers failed.”  Klarman’s Hand  Seth Klarman, founder of Boston hedge fund Baupost Group
LLC, told clients that while market swings provide buying
opportunities, investing in 2011 felt like “playing a great
hand of cards in the basement of a condemned building filled
with explosives during an earthquake.”  “We are truly in uncharted territory,” Klarman told
investors in a letter dated Jan. 31. “A crisis erupts, followed
by intervention that staves it off for the moment. Another
crisis, another quick fix, or vague promises of one.”  That lack of direction is helping the Dow. Its average
price intraday swing in 2011 was 0.95 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the S&P 500’s average
of 1.04 percent and Russell 2000’s 1.51 percent, the data show.  Index Components  Seventeen of the 30 largest U.S. stocks are in the Dow. The
115-year-old index’s current members include General Electric
Co., the oldest member of the gauge, Exxon Mobil Corp., the
world’s second-biggest company by value, and International
Business Machines Corp., the member with the highest weight in
the measure.  Cisco Systems Inc. and Travelers Cos. joined the Dow in
2009 as Citigroup Inc. and the predecessor of General Motors Co.
exited. Kraft Foods Inc. replaced American International Group
Inc. in September 2008. Since the index first topped 10,000 a
decade ago, there have been 12 changes to its components.  Dow  profits  are projected by analysts to increase 7.4
percent to $1,043.81 in 2012. The measure’s  valuation  increase
since the equity market’s bottom in March 2009 is one of the
lowest. It’s trading at 13.1 times earnings, 9.9 percent higher
than it was in March 2009. The S&P 500’s valuation rebounded 36
percent in the same period to 13.8 times profit. The Russell
1000’s valuation has climbed 31 percent.  Dividend Yields  Investors may be lured to larger companies that tend to pay
higher dividends, as the 10-year Treasury note’s yield remains
near a record low 1.72 percent, according to Carey and Garcia.
The Dow’s  payout  rate is 2.55 percent, compared to the S&P 500’s
2.03 percent rate and the Russell 2000’s 1.51 percent rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. AT&T Inc. pays the
highest dividend in the Dow with 5.73 percent, followed by
Verizon Communications Inc. at 5.17 percent, the data show.  “The Dow companies are seen as secure blue chips, and
while we’ve had a bull market, it’s also been a period
characterized by a few near-death experiences and sharp
downdrafts,” Carey said. “I can’t really predict one index
performance versus another, but the Dow has proven itself to be
a bad index to bet against.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  