-- Drone Aircraft Move Closer to Flying in U.S. Civilian Airspace
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/drone-aircraft-move-closer-to-flying-in-u-s-civilian-airspace.html
Drone aircraft moved closer to
taking flight in U.S. civilian airspace as regulators issued a
call for advice on establishing test sites.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  said it wants drone
makers and the public to comment on where to locate proving
grounds and their management, according to a filing yesterday in
the U.S. Federal Register’s Public Inspection Desk.  “Unmanned aircraft can help us meet a number of
challenges, from spotting wildfires to assessing natural
disasters,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a
statement. “These test sites will help us ensure that our high
safety standards are maintained as the use of these aircraft
becomes more widespread.”  Drones have been used to kill terrorists and assist U.S.
troops in Iraq and  Afghanistan , and manufacturers have pushed
the government to allow greater domestic use for law enforcement
and businesses. The unmanned aircraft, as large as a commercial
jet or as small as a hummingbird, are made by companies
including  Boeing Co. (BA)  subsidiary  Insitu  and  AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV)  of
Monrovia,  California .  The FAA must establish test sites where drones can fly
among manned aircraft by the end of June, under a provision of a
defense bill signed into law Dec. 31.  FAA Spending  Similar language was contained in a law passed last month
authorizing spending at the FAA. The measure ordered the agency
to complete a “comprehensive plan” on how to integrate
unmanned flights into the aviation system by Sept. 30, 2015.  To fly throughout the skies, drones must be capable of
sensing when they get too close to other aircraft and avoid
collisions -- just as pilots are required to do. While firms
develop needed technology, the FAA has yet to set criteria for
its operation.  The FAA later this year is scheduled to release its first
set of rules allowing commercial operators to fly small drones
without having to obtain special permits, according to the
agency’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  