-- The Fed's Sterilization Plan: The Ticker
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-03-07T20:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/the-fed-s-sterilization-plan-the-ticker.html
According to The Wall Street Journal's John Hilsenrath, the  Federal Reserve 
is considering " sterilized " bond buying. In central-banker-speak, a sterilized
open-market operation is one in which the new money created by purchasing notes
or bonds is canceled out by an offsetting sale. In other words, there is no
effect on the  money supply . The objective of any Fed bond-buying operation, sterilized or not, is to
drive down long-term  interest rates , encourage more risk-taking, and increase
 consumer spending  and business investment, Hilsenrath writes. Ever since its Jan. 25 announcement that it intends to hold the benchmark
rate near zero through the end of 2014, the Fed has sounded as if it has a few
screws loose. Obsessed, is more like it. The history of the last four years
suggests the Fed will do whatever it takes to prevent an economic collapse. We
know and understand this. Really we do. So what's the deal? Surely a 3.9 percent 30-year mortgage rate isn't
deterring anyone from buying a home. Nor are corporate bond yields too onerous
for companies to borrow and invest. I suspect the Fed is being preemptive. With higher gas prices expected to
produce a 0.4 percent increase in the February consumer price index, which is
reported later this month, the Fed wants to ensure that the news doesn't get
reflected in higher bond yields. Just in case traders or investors were thinking about bond sales, the Fed in
effect left what traders call a "good-till-cancelled market order" to buy bonds.
The urge to sell would be dramatically reduced by assurances from the Fed that
it will be as preemptive in the other direction: when it comes time to raise
rates. ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.) For more quick commentary from Bloomberg View, go to  the Ticker .    