-- Melted Legos, $5.8 Million Kline, Hotel Beds: Armory Week Guide
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/melted-legos-5-8-million-kline-hotel-beds-armory-week-guide.html
New York ’s annual art extravaganza,
known as the Armory Week, presents a dozen fairs from 7
exhibitors to 228 and runs through March 12. Orbiting the
various souks are parties, panels, private museum tours and
visits to art-stocked dwellings of art advisers and high-profile
collectors such as Agnes Gund, president emerita of the Museum
of  Modern Art .  Here’s a guide:  The Armory Show  Today at noon, the Armory Show, New York’s largest art
fair, opens to the VIPs. Among those expected are money manager
Glenn Fuhrman, co-founder of MSD Capital LP; Don B. Marron,
chairman of Lightyear Capital LLC; and billionaire
philanthropist  Eli Broad .  The fair, which commands two piers on the  Hudson River , was
redesigned and reduced for its 14th edition. Its modern section
will take over Pier 92, with 71 galleries from nine countries.
Next door at Pier 94, the contemporary section will present 157
exhibitors from 30 countries.  This year’s focus is on Nordic art, with 19 participating
galleries. The highlight is a 40-foot-long light sculpture by
Ragnar Kjartansson, spelling “Scandinavian Pain” in hot-pink
neon tubing. The work was acquired by Swedish contemporary-art
museum Moderna Museet from  i8 gallery  on the eve of the fair’s
opening.  March 8-11 at Twelfth Avenue and 55th Street. Admission is
$30;  http://www.thearmoryshow.com .  Volta  Boston-based artist Sheila Gallagher, who melts plastic
objects -- pill bottles, Legos and a toy dinosaur -- to create
lush garden scenes on armature, will have a solo show at the
booth of  Dodge gallery  during Volta NY art fair.  Dodge is one of 80 exhibitors presenting solo projects by
artists at the Armory Show’s offshoot, located across from the
Empire State Building.  March 8-11 at 7 W. 34th St. Admission is $15. The Armory
Show/Volta NY dual pass is $40;  http://ny.voltashow.com .  ADAA: The Art Show  The Art Show, America’s longest-running fine-art fair,
opens to the public today at the Park Avenue Armory with 72
exhibitors.  Organized by the Art Dealers Association of America, it
presents works by Renoir and Picasso along with cutting-edge
sculptures by Matthew Monahan and installations by  Sarah Sze ,
who was selected to represent the U.S. at the 2013 Venice
Biennale.  First-time exhibitor  Van de Weghe Fine Art  will offer a
1956 canvas by Franz Kline, which once belonged to French
billionaire  Francois Pinault , for $5.8 million. A playful 1946
crayon drawing by Pollock is available for $825,000 at the booth
of Richard L. Feigen & Co.  The Elkon Gallery dedicated its booth to the late artist
John McCracken, with his early box sculptures and a surprising
group of vibrant, meditative mandala drawings and paintings from
the 1970s; prices range from $22,000 to $280,000.  March 7-11 at the 67th Street Park Avenue Armory. Admission
is $20;  http://www.artdealers.org .  Independent  This alternative art fair returns to the former Dia Center
in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea district for the third time. Conceived by
New York dealer Elizabeth Dee and  London ’s Darren Flook, it
features 43 exhibitors, open layout and cool atmosphere.  In addition to trend-setters such as New York’s  Bortolami ,
Glasgow’s  Modern Institute  and Los Angeles-based David
Kordansky, the fair features far-flung newcomers such as The
Third Line from Dubai and Labor from Mexico City.  March 8-11 at 548 W. 22nd St. Admission is free;
 http://www.independentnewyork.com .  Dependent  The hip, one-day Dependent hotel fair began last year as an
alternative to the alternative Independent and a reference to
the Armory Show’s early years at the Gramercy Park Hotel.  The second incarnation will take place at the Comfort Inn
on the Lower East Side. The lineup features downtown galleries
 Canada  and James Fuentes and young artist collectives such as
Regina Rex from Bushwick, Baltimore’s  Nudashank  and Reference
from Richmond, Virginia. Each of the 20 participants will take
over a small room with a giant bed, transforming it into a booth
or art installation.  March 10, 12-8 p.m. at 136 Ludlow St. Admission is free;
 http://thedependentartfair.info   Salon Zurcher  The smallest art fair of the week takes place at downtown
gallery Zurcher Studio. In its third edition, Salon Zurcher
focuses on seven female artists presented by seven galleries
based in New York, Paris and Amsterdam. Don’t miss Polly
Apfelbaum’s humorous 1994 “Jack and Jill” piece, which stars
two clown suits, and Diana Shpungin’s black-and-white drawings
of bandaged limbs, both human and wooden.  March 5-12 at 33 Bleecker St. Admission is free; http://
www.galeriezurcher.com  Scope  For its 11th annual edition in New York,  Scope Art Show 
occupies a 30,000-square-foot pavilion across from the Armory
Show. Its 55 exhibitors hail from as far as China,  South Korea 
and  Brazil . The show opens to VIPs today.  March 8-11 at West 57th Street and Twelfth Avenue.
Admission is $20;  http://www.scope-art.com .  Fountain  Fountain Art Fair , yet another alternative art fair, will
occupy the 69th Regiment Armory, which was the site of the
original 1913 Armory Show, with about 30 exhibitors. The opening
party will star a DJ set by early New York graffiti artist Fab 5
Freddy.  March 9-11 at 68 Lexington Ave. Admission is $10, with a
weekend pass for $15;  http://www.fountainartfair.com .  PooL  Works by more than 60 artists without gallery
representation in New York will be the focus of the PooL Art
Fair at the Flatiron Hotel.  March 9-11 at 9 W. 26th St. Suggested donation is $10;
 http://www.poolartfair.com .  Moving Image  Moving Image: Contemporary Video Art Fair, organized by art
dealers Edward Winkleman and Murat Orozobekov, will feature 31
artists, presenting single-channel videos, sculptures and
installations. Highlights include works by Martha Wilson,
Russian collective AES+F, Estonia’s Jaan Toomik and  China ’s
Zhang Peili.  March 8-11 at Waterfront New York Tunnel, 269 11th Ave.
Admission is free;  http://www.moving-image.info   Korean, Japanese  The Korean Art Show will present about 15 top contemporary
Korean galleries March 8-11 at 82 Mercer St. Admission is free;
 http://koreanartshow.com .  New City Art Fair will focus on post-earthquake art from
 Japan , with 11 galleries from  Tokyo ,  Osaka  and Kyoto. It runs
March 7-11 at Hpgrp Gallery, 529 W. 20th St. Admission is free;
 http://www.newcityartfair.com .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 