-- Emerging-Market Stocks in Deepest Losing Streak of Year on Greek Debt Swap
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-07T22:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/emerging-stocks-fall-to-five-week-low-on-greece-concern-china-life-profit.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
completing the worst three-day slump since November, as concern
Greece’s debt swap won’t get enough investor support and
prospects Chinese exports are dropping damped appetite for
riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated for a third day,
losing 0.3 percent at the close in  New York  to 1,037.71, the
lowest since Feb. 1. The three-day loss is the steepest since
Nov. 23.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  slid to the lowest
this month as  Brazil ’s second-largest steelmaker said fourth-
quarter profit tumbled 84 percent.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
nation’s largest insurer, plunged the most in more than four
months after reporting 2011 net income may drop by as much as 50
percent.  Want Want China Holdings Ltd. (151)  reached the highest-ever
closing price after Citigroup Inc. raised its rating on  China ’s
largest maker of rice cakes.  Greece is stepping up pressure on holders of its bonds to
comply with a debt swap that runs through tomorrow and is viewed
as necessary to avert a default. Investors with at least 58
percent of the eligible debt have agreed to the swap so far.
China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said exports rose about 7
percent in the first two months of 2012, suggesting the reading
for February will be below all forecasts of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  There is “a bit of nervousness” in markets on  Greece ’s
suggestion it will use collective action clauses, which trigger
credit default swaps on the debt, to force bondholders to accept
its debt restructuring,  Benoit Anne , chief emerging-market
strategist at  Societe Generale  SA, said by phone from  London .
“It’s a big test for the global markets, it’s a big event
risk.”  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  rebounded, gaining 1.4 percent from
a three-week low, on speculation Brazilian policy makers will
cut key borrowing costs at a policy meeting today.  Marfrig
Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,  Latin America ’s second-largest beef producer,
jumped 8.4 percent, the biggest gainer on the Bovespa.  Usinas Siderurgicas, known as Usiminas, slipped 2.2 percent
after reporting that net income excluding minority interests
fell 84 percent to 44.6 million reais ($25.4 million) in the
fourth quarter.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  slid 1.3 percent, taking its three-day
decline to 6.5 percent.  China Life fell 6.1 percent in Hong Kong, the most since
Oct. 20.  Shanghai-based Want Want China jumped 7 percent, the
biggest advance since May 2010, after Citigroup raised its
recommendation on the stock to “buy” from “neutral,” citing
the potential for “good sales momentum” in the next few years.  The median forecast for Chinese export growth in February
was for a 32 percent advance from a year earlier, according to a
survey compiled by Bloomberg before Minister Chen spoke. The
data is scheduled to be released on March 10.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said Chen’s comments indicated exports
grew 18.7 percent last month, less than any estimate in the
survey. Societe Generale revised its forecast to 18 percent.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 0.9 percent in  Seoul  and the BSE
India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , slid 0.2 percent in Mumbai.  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  gained 0.7 percent today in Moscow after
sliding 3.9 percent yesterday. The ruble weakened 0.2 percent
against the dollar, its seventh straight daily decline.  German factory orders fell 2.7 percent in January from
December, when they gained 1.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. U.S. companies added 216,000 workers last
month versus a revised 173,000 the previous month, according to
data based on payrolls from ADP Employer Services.  Brazil’s real weakened for a fourth day, falling 0.4
percent to 1.7661 per dollar. Economists expect Brazil’s central
bank to cut the nation’s benchmark interest rate to 10 percent
from 10.5 percent, according to the median of 62 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest mobile-phone operator,
jumped 3 percent in Johannesburg after saying adjusted earnings-
per-share grew to 10.70 rand in 2011 from 7.47 rand a year
earlier.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
rose 1.2 percent to $42.91.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 350 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  