-- Temple to Join Big East in Football in 2012, All Sports in Following Year
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-08T05:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/temple-to-join-big-east-in-football-in-2012-all-sports-from-next-year.html
Temple University  will join the  Big
East  conference for football starting this season and will
become a full member for all sports starting in 2013.  The move is the latest for the Providence, Rhode Island-
based conference, which has added schools after losing members
such as  West Virginia University .  “Today is an exciting day for the  Big East ,” Commissioner
John Marinatto said at a news conference yesterday during the
Big East men’s basketball tournament at  New York ’s Madison
Square Garden. “Now we will take a pause on the expansion
front.”  Since the end of the last football season, the Big East has
added Navy, Boise State and San Diego State for football, as
well as Southern Methodist,  Memphis ,  Central Florida  and Houston
for all sports. All those schools except Navy will join the
conference as football members beginning in 2013, while the
Midshipmen will join the league in 2015.  The addition of Philadelphia-based Temple provides the
conference with an eighth football team for the 2012 season. The
Big East football lineup for this coming season will consist of
Cincinnati,  Connecticut , Louisville, Pittsburgh, Rutgers,
Syracuse, Temple and  South Florida .  Temple’s football team has played in the Mid-American
Conference since 2007, where it never finished worse than fourth
in the seven-team East division. The Owls played football in the
Big East from 1991 to 2004 and competed as an independent prior
to joining the MAC. Temple won 14 conference games in its 14-
year stint in the Big East, where it was unable to compete with
programs with bigger budgets.  $6 Million Exit  In a statement on its website, the MAC announced that
Temple had requested permission to leave the conference without
providing the required two-season’s prior notice and that the
two sides had negotiated a $6 million exit fee.  “We have come to an agreement that is fair to the parties
involved,” MAC Commissioner Jon A. Steinbrecher said in the
statement.  All other Owls athletics teams, including basketball,
participated in the Atlantic-10 this season. Temple would owe
that conference $1 million for providing one year’s notice of
its intention to leave, or $2 million for giving it less notice,
according to ESPN.  The Temple men’s basketball team, which has made the
quarterfinals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament five times since 1988, will join the league in 2013,
helping to make up for the departure of perennial powers
Syracuse and Pittsburgh to the Atlantic Coast Conference. The
move will put Temple and Philadelphia-based rival Villanova in
the same conference.  The Owls are ranked No. 21 by the  Associated Press  and are
the top seed in this week’s Atlantic-10 tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  