-- Enzo Sues Abbott, Becton, Hologic Over Gene-Mapping Patent
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-03-07T19:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/enzo-sues-abbott-becton-hologic-over-gene-mapping-patent.html
An  Enzo Biochem Inc. (ENZ)  unit sued
Abbott Laboratories, Becton Dickinson & Co. and  Hologic Inc. (HOLX)  for
allegedly infringing a patent for gene-mapping in disease
diagnostics.  Enzo Life Sciences Inc., based in Farmingdale, New York, is
asking for a jury trial, unspecified damages and an order to
stop sales of the allegedly infringing products, according to
three complaints filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  If a court order blocking future infringement isn’t
granted, Enzo should be paid “a compulsory ongoing licensing
fee” by the defendants, according to the complaint.  Enzo in February sued Roche Diagnostics Corp.,  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  and  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO)  in the same court claiming
infringement of the same patent.  The technology involves evaluation of DNA sequences to
detect diseases or irregularities such as penicillin resistance
in patients with strep infections, gonorrhea or tuberculosis,
according to patent papers.  “Abbott doesn’t believe its product infringes this patent
and will defend itself accordingly,” said Adelle Infante, a
spokeswoman for Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott, in an e-
mailed statement.  “We’ve received the complaint and are reviewing it,” said
Colleen White, a spokeswoman for  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-
based Becton Dickinson.  Officials at Bedford, Massachusetts-based Hologic weren’t
immediately available to comment on the patent challenge.  The cases are Enzo v.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , 12-cv-00274;
Enzo v. Becton Dickinson, 12-cv-00275; and Enzo v. Hologic, 12-
cv-00276; U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 6,992,180.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  