-- Herb Alpert Blows Horn While Giving Away $100 Million: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/herb-alpert-blows-horn-while-giving-away-100-million-interview.html
Muted trumpet arpeggios echo through
a 5th floor hallway in the Carlyle Hotel on  Manhattan ’s Upper
East Side.  No need to guess which room Herb Alpert is staying in.  At 76, the legendary front-man for the Tijuana Brass (and
co-founder of A&M Records) is touring again, this time with his
wife Lani Hall, the former lead singer of “Sergio Mendes and
Brazil 66.”  Until Saturday, they’re downstairs at the Cafe Carlyle, a
classic New York night club.  Dressed in black sneakers, black pants and a dark green tee
shirt, Alpert greeted me at the door to his suite an hour before
going onstage.  As we talked, Alpert held on to his trumpet, at various
points oiling it or playing phantom notes.  Tarmy: So how different is today from the 1960s?  Alpert: I’m a little older and a little wiser, probably --
I can get more out of the horn for less effort.  And the performances themselves are different: I make sure
that they’re informal. We played at Disney Hall with 5,000
people, and the audience felt comfortable enough to yell
questions at me off the balcony.  Tijuana Taxi  Tarmy: The Cafe Carlyle seats fewer, around 90!  Alpert: Initially, I was reluctant to even think of playing
in small clubs -- I was afraid I’d have all these people yelling
out: “Play the Tijuana Taxi!”  Tarmy: Of all the artists you signed as the co-head of A&M
records, who has demonstrated the greatest staying power?  Alpert: I always knew Sting would stay big. He’s very
smart, very intuitive, and most importantly, he writes a great
song. And if you can write a great song you can hang on.  And  Quincy Jones  -- that’s a career in its own right, too.
Cat Stevens was also just a phenomenal artist -- very, very
special. But he’s gone on his own journey.  Tarmy: After selling A&M, did you stay involved in
business?  Alpert: No, that’s not my strength. I’m a right-brain kind
of guy. So I make sure I have good people around me to deal with
money, and so far I’ve been lucky.  I’m aware of what I’m invested in, though. My wife and I
own nothing that will hurt the environment. We’ve been very
adamant about that.  Modest Means  Tarmy: You spend a lot of time giving your money away --
close to $100 million at this point.  Alpert: Lani and I know about every single recipient our
foundation awards a grant to. We help choose them, and sometimes
we spot an organization that might have the right idea, but
might be on the wrong track, and then our foundation steps in to
try to help them out.  Tarmy: Any you’re particularly proud of?  Alpert: One that really stands out is right here in  New
York  called “Modest Needs.” It helps people who are falling
through the cracks just a little bit: they only need a small
amount of help to get back on their feet again, not a sustained
subsidization.  Tarmy: You’ve also given a huge amount to arts education.  Alpert: I strongly believe in giving kids creative energy
in their formative years. I don’t think that you can have a good
education without some form of creative activity. All too often
schools take imagination away from kids by de-funding arts
education.  Tarmy: You sculpt as well. Does your art come from the same
creative impulse as your music?  Alpert: When I walk in a room and see something beautiful,
or when I see someone and say, “Wow, what a good-looking girl,
or what a good-looking guy,” that’s the element that I try and
go for when I’m sculpting: something that makes me feel good
when I see it.  I don’t over-think it.  Tarmy: Does your art sell?  Alpert: The larger works go for around $250,000; my last
show was around five months ago at the  Ace Gallery  in  Los
Angeles .  Happy Day  Tarmy: Your own taste seems to resonate with a pretty broad
swath of people.  Alpert: I’m not affecting anything -- I’m just trying to be
me. You know, I’m 76 years old now.  All I want to do is play the horn, make some people happy
if I can and call it a day.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 