-- Oman Air’s CEO Puts Search for Allies at Center of Plans
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-03-07T10:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/etihad-deepens-search-for-airline-partners-bucking-trend.html
Oman Air ’s Wayne Pearce, who took
over as chief executive officer two months ago, said he’s
engaged in talks aimed at securing allies for an airline
previously preoccupied with adding planes and routes.  “We’re making up ground and seeking out more potential
partners,” Pearce said in an interview in  London . “We’re in
talks with people and I think something positive will come out
of it. This should bear fruit.”  Oman Air is particularly keen on a tie-up with a U.S.
carrier, said Pearce, with its routes to the Indian subcontinent
the main selling point. The Muscat-based company, which has just
three codeshare partners, including one, BMI, that’s set to
disappear after being bought by British Airways parent IAG, may
also be an attractive ally for a European airline, he said.  Pearce, 60, succeeded Peter Hill on Jan. 3, inheriting a
company that reported a loss of 78 million rials ($203 million)
in its last fiscal year even after boosting passenger numbers 38
percent to 3.3 million as the cost of building a 26-plane fleet
and targeting the luxury long-haul travel market sapped margins.  ‘Better Reason’  Scope for adding destinations is limited by Oman’s aircraft
order book, with the next major increment not due until 2015 and
the arrival of its first  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, plus the long waiting
list for a new generation of short-haul planes, Pearce said.  “I want to do more with what we’ve got,” the executive said
in the interview on March 5. “We want to carry more people,
raise our  load factor  and give business people a better reason
for travelling with us, including frequent-flyer programs.”  Pierce said of BMI, which is being bought by International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA from  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , that
“everything is up for review.” The existing deal allows Oman to
sell through-tickets to Belfast, Edinburgh and Manchester via
London on legs operated by BMI using its own flight code, while
placing the U.K. carrier’s passengers on London-Muscat services.  Oman’s other codeshare partners are  Malaysian Airline
System Bhd. (MAS)  and Emirates of Dubai, the No. 1 international
airline and a rival on inter-continental trips.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, by comparison, has 35
codeshare partners, while even Emirates and Qatar Airways Ltd.,
both seeking to build transfer hubs in competition with most
other major airlines, have nine and 11 respectively.  No IPO Brief  Oman Air may also seek codeshares and interlining deals, in
which passengers travel on itineraries with multiple airlines,
within the Gulf, Pearce said, adding that the carrier is
unlikely to enlist to the Oneworld, Star or SkyTeam groupings.  “I’m not in any rush to join one of the big three
alliances,” he said.  Pearce says he also has no specific brief to prepare Oman
Air for a share sale, and that its state owner is focused more
on attracting visitors to the country rather than on building
Muscat into a transit hub to rival Dubai or  Abu Dhabi .  Given that focus the carrier, which currently serves 41
destinations, is unlikely to have a requirement for planes
bigger than the 787, such as the Airbus A350 or A380, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  