-- EU Governments May Leave Out CO2-Permit Set-Aside in Energy Law
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-07T10:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/eu-governments-may-leave-out-co2-permit-set-aside-in-energy-law.html
Governments in  Europe  intend to
exclude from a planned energy law the option of withholding some
carbon permits from the market, setting up a possible clash with
European Parliament members seeking higher emission prices.  The Danish government, which holds the 27-nation European
Union’s rotating presidency, left out the possibility of setting 
aside carbon-dioxide allowances in its initial version of the
legislation. The European law must be approved by national
governments and the EU Parliament.  “The text that we put on the table takes the viewpoint of
the majority of member states on what should be included in the
energy-efficiency legislation,” Jakob Alvi, a Brussels-based
spokesman for the Danish presidency, said today by phone.  At stake is the cost of CO2 in the world’s biggest
emissions market, which imposes pollution quotas on more than
11,000 facilities including plants owned by  Electricite de 
France SA , Europe’s biggest power generator, and Royal Dutch 
Shell Plc, the region’s largest oil company. A set-aside could 
help carbon prices recover after they lost 47 percent in the 
past year amid an oversupply.  A Parliament committee voted last week to insert in the law
a provision saying the bloc’s regulators should put forward,
“if appropriate,” measures that “may include withholding of
the necessary amount of allowances” from auctions as early as
next year.  The Danish proposal, based on comments received from EU
governments, seeks to strike a balance between the “necessary 
level of ambition” in the law on energy savings and concerns 
voiced in European capitals.  Iron Out Differences  Representatives of the Danish government and of the 754-
seat Parliament will seek to iron out differences over the draft
legislation in the coming weeks. Before that, national officials
will discuss the matter among themselves to agree on their
negotiating stance.  “The set-aside amendment hasn’t been the subject of
discussions among  member states  so far,” Alvi said. “Later on,
when we will prepare for entering the negotiations with the
Parliament, this issue will most likely be debated.”  The outcome may determine the willingness of the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, to seek a temporary curb on
the supply of CO2 permits to be used by energy and manufacturing
companies from 2013 to 2020. While the commission has the right 
to take such an initiative in any case, the conflict over 
including a set-aside option in the energy-efficiency
legislation signals the political forces at play.  Negotiations This Month  “We expect to start negotiations with the Parliament later
this month,” Alvi said. “The aim of the presidency is to
finalize the work on the legislation by the end of June.”  EU diplomats have signaled governments aren't certain
whether the draft energy-efficiency law should refer to the
option of withholding permits. The bloc’s cap-and-trade program
is regulated by a separate legislation on  emissions trading .  EU carbon allowances for December rose 1.6 percent to 8.68
euros a metric ton as of 9:31 a.m. on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London .  European Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said
yesterday that, while the set-aside amendment in the planned
energy law isn’t a “direct instrument,” the EU needs to
“reactivate” its carbon market after prices slumped to a
record in January.  The commission originally floated the idea of withholding
CO2 permits in a 2010 policy paper on  climate change . It has
suggested a temporary set-aside could be created from the pool
of allowances scheduled to be sold to companies by national
governments starting in 2013. Any eventual cancellation of
permits at the end of, or during, the 2013-2020 trading phase
would require a revision of the ETS law in a separate process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 