-- EU’s Barnier Seeks to Bolster Competition in Trade Settlement
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-07T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/eu-s-barnier-seeks-to-bolster-competition-in-trade-settlement.html
The European Union will seek to open
up competition on settling securities trades and impose minimum-
capital rules on companies providing the services to cut costs
and bolster financial stability in the region.  The plans, drawn up by the European Commission, also set
maximum times for these so-called central securities
depositories to settle trades, according to an e-mailed
statement from the regulator. Those failing to meet the
deadlines would be subject to penalties, the commission said.  “Settlement is a crucial process for the securities
markets and the financing of our economy, and as such its safety
and efficiency needs to be ensured,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, said.  Global regulators have  identified  CSDs as systemically
important institutions for the functioning of financial markets.
CSDs, including  Euroclear Bank  and Deutsche Boerse AG’s
 Clearstream  arm, are responsible for completing transactions by
ensuring the delivery of the securities against cash. Such
systems settled transactions worth more than $1,000 trillion in
2010, according to commission data.  Regulators have  warned  that the number of cross-border
trades that aren’t properly settled is higher than domestic
ones, and that such failures may pose a risk to financial
stability. There are more than 30 CSDs currently operating in
the EU, according to the commission.  Under the EU plans, CSDs that meet minimum  capital
requirements  and other “conduct of business” rules would be
allowed to operate across the 27-nation region, the commission
said in the statement.  Securities traded on  stock exchanges  and other regulated
markets would have to be settled within two days for the company
to avoid penalties, it said.  Settlement costs for cross-border trades in the 27-nation
EU can be four times as much as those of trades where both
parties are in the same country, according to the commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  