-- Euro Rallies as Greek Debt-Swap Participation at 58%; Kiwi Pares Advance
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-07T22:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/euro-advances-from-three-week-low-versus-dollar-before-greek-swap-deadline.html
The euro rallied from a two-week low
against the dollar as investors with 58 percent of the Greek
bonds eligible have indicated they’ll participate in the so-
called private-sector involvement of the nation’s bailout.  The dollar rose against the yen after a report that the
 Federal Reserve  is considering sterilized bond purchases.
Brazil’s real tumbled against all of its most-traded
counterparts as the government prepared measures to control
capital inflows and stem currency appreciation.  New Zealand ’s
dollar pared gains after the central bank kept interest rates
unchanged and said the strong currency may reduce need for
increases.  “You can see people positioning for PSI to happen,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “People are not willing to bet on a
very bad event. The PSI debate was just a huge excuse for
profit-taking. If we do not reach the threshold, the dollar will
be bid significantly across the board.”  The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3149 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time. It touched $1.3096, the weakest level since Feb. 16. The
17-nation currency rose 0.5 percent to 106.63 yen.  Yen Weakness  The yen extended losses against the dollar to 0.3 percent
to trade at 81.09 after the Wall Street Journal reported the
U.S. central bank was considering a monetary program that would
also subdue concern about future inflation. The program could
see the Fed borrow an equivalent amount of money that it used to
purchase the bonds, the report said.  “The dollar-yen has moved higher on the back of the Fed
article and the pair typically trades as a function of the U.S.
Treasury curve and short-term yields rose slightly,” said
SocGen’s Galy.  Investors with holding at least 120 billion euros ($158
billion) of the Greek bonds eligible for the nation’s debt swap
have agreed to sign on, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from company reports and government statements. The Greek
government has set a 75 percent participation rate as a
threshold for proceeding with the transaction.  “Investors are still worried about the Greek PSI, the
potential of the CDS being triggered, but at the end of the day
there’s not much to be overly concerned about,” David Woo, head
of global rates and currencies research at Bank of America Corp.
in New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  Greek Debt  The nation has said it will use collective action clauses
to force holders of Greek-law bonds to accept the swap if it
receives sufficient consent from investors.  “We’re telling people to be short euro on some crosses
versus commodity currencies, but be neutral against the
dollar,” said  Greg Anderson , a senior currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. A short position is a bet that an
asset will decline in value. “Risk appetite remains relatively
buoyant compared to yesterday. Our economists believe the CACs
will be triggered.”  New Zealand’s currency was 0.5 percent higher at 81.65 U.S.
cents after rallying as much as 1 percent. The so-called kiwi
pared gains after Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard kept
interest rates at 4.25 percent and said inflation expectations
have fallen due in part to a stronger domestic dollar.  Real falls  Brazil’s real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7661 per dollar. It
touched 1.7737, the weakest since Jan. 18.  The Brazilian government may reduce the maturity of short-
term trade loans backed by export contracts, known as ACC, from
360 days currently, according to the Sao Paulo-based newspaper
Valor Economico. It may also impose a tax on loans from
companies outside  Brazil  to subsidiaries in the country, Valor
said.  The implied volatility of three-month options on G-7
currencies as tracked by the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility (JPMVXYG7)  Index fell
to 10.37 percent, compared to the gauge’s average since August
of 12.29, as options traders scaled back the risk of large
exchange-rate swings. Lower volatility makes investments in
currencies with higher benchmark rates more attractive because
the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent to 79.685 as companies added
216,000 jobs in February, and a revised 173,000 payrolls the
previous month, according to ADP Employer Services. That
compares to an estimated 215,000 additional jobs, according to a
Bloomberg News survey and a previous reading of 170,000.  Norway’s krone rose 1 percent to 5.6523 per dollar as
traders pared bets the central bank will cut  interest rates .
 Norges Bank (CS1YNOR)  is now expected to reduce the benchmark by 14 basis
points in the next 12 months, compared to a forecast 21 basis
points at the beginning of the month, according to a Credit
Suisse index based on swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  