-- Ex-Citigroup Indonesia Banker Dee Sentenced to 8 Years in Jail for Theft
-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-03-07T11:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ex-citigroup-indonesia-banker-dee-sentenced-to-8-years-in-jail-for-theft.html
Inong Malinda Dee, a former
relationship manager at  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Indonesia unit, was
convicted of stealing from clients by a three-judge panel and
sentenced to eight years in jail.  Dee, who denied the charges, was also fined 10 billion
rupiah ($1.1 million), according to a ruling delivered by Judge
Gusrizal at the South Jakarta district court today.  Prosecutors had accused Dee, 49, of wrongfully transferring
more than $5 million from her clients’ accounts from 2007 to
February 2011. Dee made the clients sign blank transfer forms or
forged their signatures, according to prosecutors, who sought a
13-year jail term and a 10 billion rupiah fine.  Dee’s case and a separate probe into the death of a
Citigroup credit card customer at one of its Jakarta offices led
 Indonesia ’s central bank to impose sanctions on the New York-
based bank.  Bank Indonesia (BI)  is also taking steps to improve anti-
fraud measures at lenders in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  “From the time we first identified the suspicious
transactions in our customers’ accounts, we have worked closely
with our regulators and the police to ensure the responsible
persons were held accountable,” Citigroup spokesman Richard Tesvich said. The lender has compensated clients for the related
losses, he said.  Batara Simbolon, one of Dee’s 17 lawyers, said his client
will consider appealing today’s ruling. He said the 8-year jail
term was “fair” as prosecutors had asked for 13 years.  Debt Collectors Case  A panel of three judges at the same court on March 1
cleared two of Citigroup’s external debt collectors of all
charges in the March 29, 2011 death of Irzen Octa, according to
their lawyer Wirawan Adnan. Three other debt collectors were
sentenced to one year in jail for harassment, Adnan said.  While Citigroup and its employees weren’t on trial, the
verdict in that case confirmed there was no physical violence
toward Octa, the bank’s Jakarta-based spokeswoman Mona Monika
said.  Citigroup, banned by  Bank Indonesia  from adding new wealth
management clients and opening new branches for one year,
reported the theft by Dee after a customer complained. Dee, who
joined the lender in 1989, had handled more than 200 accounts of
about 500 million rupiah each while she was at Citigroup. Dee
was also found guilty today of violating Indonesia’s banking
laws and money laundering.  Important Market  “Indonesia is an important market for Citi globally,”
Citigroup’s Tesvich said. “We continually strengthen our
processes and controls to protect customers against fraudulent
activities.”  Police seized four cars from Dee, including a Mercedes E350
Coupe, a Ferrari F430 Scuderia and a Ferrari California. Dee had
owned a condominium next to the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Jakarta,
according to the court files.  Citigroup had said Dee’s annual salary was between $42,000
and $98,000, excluding incentives. She earned at least $200,000
including bonuses, had outside business interests and had total
assets of $7 million, according to her lawyer Simbolon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  