-- Mexican Peso Strengthens as U.S. Jobs Data Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-07T22:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/mexican-peso-strengthens-as-u-s-jobs-data-boosts-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso gained after a private
report showed companies boosted hiring in the U.S., adding to
optimism that a pickup in the world’s biggest economy will fuel
demand for the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso climbed 1 percent to 12.8732 per  U.S. dollar  at 4
p.m. in Mexico City from 13.0011 yesterday, the first advance in
four days. The peso is up 8.3 percent this year.  Companies in the U.S., the destination for about 80 percent
of Mexican exports, added 216,000 workers last month, according
to a report by ADP Employer Services. Latin America’s second-
biggest economy may expand closer to 4 percent this year rather
than 3.5 percent should the  U.S. economy  keep improving, central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens said last month in Mexico City  The U.S. employment number “will help the peso a bit,”
Eduardo Rodriguez, currency trader at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB,
said by phone from Guadalajara, Mexico. “But the situation with
Greece in reality hasn’t been resolved, so it’s going to
continue weighing on the  exchange rate .”  The peso tumbled the most in 12 weeks yesterday after a
report showed  Europe ’s economy shrank while investors awaited
details of Greece’s debt swap.  Investors with 58 percent of the Greek bonds eligible for
the nation’s debt swap have so far indicated they’ll
participate, putting the country on the verge of the biggest
sovereign restructuring in history.  Greece ’s largest banks, most
of the country’s pension funds, and more than 30 European banks
and insurers including BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG and
Assicurazioni Generali SpA have pledged to accept the offer.  Swap’s Goal  The goal of the swap, which runs until March 8, is to
reduce by 53.5 percent the total of privately held Greek
sovereign debt, helping the country avert an uncontrolled
default.  The peso extended gains after the Wall Street Journal
reported that Federal Reserve officials are considering a
program to buy long-term mortgage or Treasury bonds by printing
new money, then effectively “sterilize” or tie up the new
money by borrowing it back for short periods at low rates,
according to Finamex’s Rodriguez. The aim would be to relieve
concern about future inflation, the Journal reported.  “That would help liquidity continue to be very strong on a
global level and obviously benefit higher-yielding currencies,”
Rodriguez said. “If risk is minimized, the peso could still
strengthen a lot more.”  The yield on the country’s peso-denominated debt due in
2024 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.43
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose
0.77 centavo to 131.02 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  