-- MF Global Parent Can Restrict Some Information, Judge Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-07T22:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/mf-global-parent-allowed-to-restrict-some-information-about-brokerage-unit.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . won
permission to implement rules that will restrict the sharing of
confidential information while sharing some other information
from Oct. 17 to Oct. 31 about its failed brokerage.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn approved rules proposed
by  Louis Freeh , the trustee acting for the parent’s estate and
its creditors, according to court papers filed today in
 Manhattan . The first proposal, which limits how a committee of
creditors will share information with customers, drew objections
from customers who questioned  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s role in
deciding whether they can access information about missing
customer funds.  The official creditors committee had agreed to the
protective order on confidential information, and said customers
of the failed brokerage weren’t entitled to the same information
as they were. While the parent company is unwinding to repay
creditors such as JPMorgan, the brokerage, MF Global Inc., is
unwinding to repay former customers under a separate trustee,
James Giddens.  “Creditor demands for information should not be permitted
to compromise the committee’s important role in the cases and be
used as a subterfuge to obtain discovery,” Glenn said. He said
that he also has denied discovery requests by private parties so
that probes by the two trustees can “proceed unimpeded.”  Written Requests  The rules call for Freeh to help the creditors’ committee
identify confidential information. The committee must respond to
written requests to disclose information within 30 days, either
to give access or explain why the information won’t be
disclosed.  Six customers with at least $2.4 million in claims against
the brokerage said the rules will restrict or delay their access
to information about money believed to be missing from customer
accounts. The holding company has the interests of creditors as
its priority, while the brokerage has a duty to customers, the
group said.  The customers also have sued New York-based JPMorgan, the
company’s largest lender, over its role in MF Global’s collapse.
Giddens currently estimates the gap between customer claims and
funds available to pay them at $1.6 billion.  “It is patently unfair for JPMC, a member of the
creditors’ committee and a defendant in several of the class
actions filed on behalf of futures customers, to have a say in
whether customers will have access to information,” according
to the customers’ filing objecting to the confidentiality rules.  Authorized Discovery  Glenn said the rules don’t resolve all issues related to
access to information. His order isn’t “intended to limit or
control discovery that may be authorized by the  bankruptcy court 
or the district courts,” Glenn said.  Glenn also approved an agreement under which MF Global
Holdings Ltd. will share some information about the company’s
final days, which lawyers for Free said were in the “public
interest.” Freeh agreed to waive his privilege for documents,
communications or information on certain subjects from Oct. 17
to Oct. 31, when the company filed for Chapter 11.  Sapere Wealth Management LLC, a customer, had objected,
saying the public interest was broader than the limited
disclosure proposed under the agreement.  “Sapere cites no law in support of its position,” Glenn
wrote in an opinion filed today.  Gold Bars  Glenn also approved a settlement today among HSBC Holdings
Plc, former MF Global customer Jason Fane, and Giddens which
resolves a dispute over the ownership of five gold bars and 15
silver bars. HSBC, which has held the property, had competing
claims from both Fane and Giddens for it. After
negotiations, Giddens said the property didn’t belong to the
general pool for customers, and could be released to Fane.  MF Global Holdings (MFGLQ) , run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
co-chairman  Jon Corzine  until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion trade on its
own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted nations
led to margin calls. Its bankruptcy filing listed assets of $41
billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 