-- Facebook Gets $8 Billion From Credit Line, Bridge Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/facebook-gets-8-billion-from-credit-line.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the operator of the
world’s most popular social-networking website, received an $8
billion package of financing and named 25 new underwriters ahead
of its initial public offering.  The loans include a $5 billion five-year revolving line of
credit and a $3 billion 364-day bridge loan, the  Menlo Park ,
California-based company said yesterday in a regulatory filing.
The new credit facilities were arranged by banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc.  Facebook ’s new underwriters include Citigroup Global
Markets Inc., RBC Capital Markets LLC and  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC . Smaller banks were added as well, such as M.R. Beal & Co.,
Muriel Siebert & Co. and William Blair & Co.  Facebook, which said it could use some of the borrowings
for general corporate purposes, is bolstering finances in
preparation for an IPO that could be the largest Internet
offering on record. The company is seeking to raise $5 billion
in the share sale, and could be valued at $75 billion to $100
billion, people familiar with the matter have said.  The company, which almost doubled  revenue  last year to
$3.71 billion, also disclosed new information on which regions
account for most growth.  Europe  is its largest market for ad
revenue outside the U.S. and  Canada . Fourth-quarter ad sales in
Europe were $306 million, with $95 million coming from  Asia . The
U.S. and Canada contributed $462 million in ad revenue.  Members by Region  Europe also is a key market for users. Facebook said it had
229 million active users in Europe last year, 212 million in
Asia and 179 million in the U.S. and Canada. The social network
has 845 million members worldwide.  The $3 billion bridge loan will be used to fund taxes for
employees who exercise their restricted stock units, according
to the filing. The $5 billion credit line will be used for
working capital and other general corporate purposes, according
to the filing.  The expanded  credit line  will also help Facebook cover the
potential legal costs of patent litigation with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , a
person with knowledge of the situation said last week. Yahoo,
based in Sunnyvale California, has asked Facebook to license
technologies covered by its intellectual property, and
threatened to take legal action if no agreement is reached.  Facebook said in yesterday’s filing that it received a
letter from Yahoo on Feb. 27, alleging that a number of its
products infringe the claims of 13 patents.  Yahoo’s Allegations  “We are still in the process of investigating the
allegation contained in the letter,” Facebook said.  Borrowings under the revolver will pay interest at 1
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
according to the filing. Lenders in the deal will be paid a 10
basis point fee on any unused portions.  Facebook’s new five-year credit line will replace an
existing $2.5 billion revolver. Debt under the bridge loan will
initially pay interest at 1 percent more than Libor, then will
increase to 1.25 percentage points after 180 days.  Facebook will pay more to use its credit line than
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest
computer-services provider. Armonk, New York-based IBM will pay
0.75 percentage point more than Libor if it borrows from its $10
billion credit line, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
IBM’s borrowing costs under the arrangement will rise if its Aa3
 ratings  from Moody’s Investors Service and A+ rating from
 Standard & Poor’s  are cut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  