-- Facebook IPO Beckons Morgan Stanley as Firm Tops Stock Ranking
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-03-07T00:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/facebook-ipo-beckons-morgan-stanley-as-firm-tops-stock-ranking.html
In a boon to investment banks
looking for good news amid tanking markets, a score of Internet
companies went public in 2011. Professional-networking site
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  hit the market in May, offering shares that as of
March had nearly doubled in value. Discount coupon seller
 Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  followed in November, and then game developer  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  joined the parade in December.  Those listings were only a warm-up for 2012.  The initial public offering investors have been waiting for
--  Facebook Inc. (FB)  -- was finally announced by Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  in February. Analysts expect Facebook,
which has 845 million users worldwide, to sell $10 billion in
shares, valuing the company at as much as $100 billion.
Zuckerberg, 27, will retain almost 60 percent of the voting
power, and the IPO could make his holdings worth as much as $28
billion, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  Facebook chose Morgan Stanley as the lead underwriter on
its listing -- a good start for that firm in 2012 after it
scored first place for 2011 equity offerings in Bloomberg
Markets’ annual ranking of the best-paid investment banks. The
ranking is based on the fees banks earned from IPOs and
secondary stock sales. It doesn’t include equity-linked deals.  In topping the ranking,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  pushed aside
JPMorgan, which was No. 1 for 2010 and fell to No. 4 last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘A Huge Thing’  The Facebook listing “is a huge thing for Morgan Stanley,”
says  Reena Aggarwal , a professor at Georgetown University’s
McDonough School of Business. Aggarwal adds that it may not be
hugely profitable. Zuckerberg could pay his bankers as little as
1 percent of the value of the deal, people familiar with the
matter say, compared with a 5.5 percent average for U.S. IPOs in
2011.  Equity sales started strong in 2011, riding the previous
year’s momentum. “Markets were ebullient,’’ says  Raj Dhanda ,
head of global capital markets at Morgan Stanley.  The last quarter of 2010 was the busiest-ever for share
sales, as governments from the U.S. to  Asia  sold businesses to
the public for cash. That momentum carried into 2011 before
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami and unrest in the  Middle East  put
the brakes on transactions.  Deal flow dried up by late summer, as rising concern over
 Europe ’s debt woes spurred market concern and investors’
appetite for risk vanished.  Tentative Market  “We saw the market really get tentative,” says Mary Ann Deignan, head of Americas equity capital markets at  Bank of
America Corp.   Eight of the 10 biggest equity sales happened before
August.  “2011 looked good at first,” says Paul Deninger, a senior
managing director at New York-based investment banking advisory
firm  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  “Then the bottom fell out of the
market, and it all links to Europe. The second half of the year
was really tough.’’  The Groupon and Zynga IPOs late in the year brought some
investors back. More cash was raised in Internet IPOs worldwide
last year -- $7.2 billion -- than in any year since the dot-com
boom of the late 1990s. The biggest deal was Yandex NV, operator
of  Russia ’s biggest search engine, which listed in the U.S. and
raised $1.4 billion in May.  Morgan Stanley led IPOs by  Yandex (YNDX) , LinkedIn, Groupon and
Zynga. It also helped manage 2011’s biggest IPO, commodity
trader  Glencore International (GLEN)  Plc, which raised $10.1 billion in
a dual listing in  London  and  Hong Kong .  News from Greece  Stock sales “declined pretty dramatically” after the first
six months, says Mohit Assomull, global head of equity syndicate
at Morgan Stanley, and didn’t begin to recover until year-end,
when the news from Europe indicated  Greece  might avoid default.  “As we saw the VIX come down and the S&P stabilize, we felt
we could get some deals done again,’’ Assomull says.  After 2011, Morgan Stanley’s Dhanda is not willing to
predict a breakout year.  “We’re planning for a muted environment,’’ he said in late
January. Still, Dhanda says, 2012 is no easier to predict than
was 2011. A boost from  Facebook  may be in store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  