-- Fed Debt-Purchase Approach May Hurt Rather Than Help, RBC’s Cloherty Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-07T21:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/fed-debt-purchase-approach-may-hurt-rather-than-help-rbc-s-cloherty-says.html
A plan reported to be under
discussion by the  Federal Reserve  to spur the economy while
keeping a lid on inflation would drive up short-term  interest
rates , according to Royal Bank of Canada’s  Michael Cloherty .  Fed officials are considering a program in which the
central bank would buy long-term mortgage or Treasury bonds and
effectively tie up the money by borrowing it back for short
periods at low rates, the Wall Street Journal reported without
citing sources. The approach would keep excess money out of the
system and head off inflation, damping criticism by opponents of
earlier Fed efforts to support the economy, the newspaper said.  Such a plan would be “one of the more perplexing policy
steps in this crisis” because it would encourage banks to
invest their reserve balances in the Treasury repurchase-
agreement market, said Cloherty, head of U.S. interest rate
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, one of 21 firms
that trade with the Fed. This would offset much of the benefit
of the low interest rates the Fed has maintained.  “Executing this policy would have a sizable distortions
and open a number of questions that the Fed doesn’t want
opened,” Cloherty said in an interview. The plan “would do
dramatically more harm than good.”  A move to sterilize future asset purchases by tying them up
in reverse-repurchase agreements, or repos, would drive up rates
in the repo market to as much as 27 basis points, or 0.27
percentage point, Cloherty said in a client note today. That
would exceed the Fed’s benchmark  interest rate , which it’s held
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to bolster growth.  Repo Market  Repos are transactions used for short-term funding,
typically involving the sale of U.S. government securities in
exchange for cash, with the debt held as collateral for the
loan. In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  Rates in the $2-trillion-a-day repo market have already
risen amid an influx of collateral as the central bank has
replaced shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-
term debt to cap borrowing costs without increasing its balance
sheet. The $400 billion program, known as Operation Twist, is
due to end in June.  The sterilized-purchase proposal outlined in the newspaper
report echoes an earlier policy debate over cutting interest on
excess reserves, an idea that was eventually scrapped amid
concern it would cause disruptions to the repo market and create
other problems, Cloherty said.  Fed-Futures Contracts  Prices of federal-funds futures contracts traded at the
CME Group in  Chicago  fell following the report. The June 2012
contract price was 99.875, for an implied rate of 0.125 percent,
compared with 0.120 percent yesterday.  The idea of the Fed sterilizing future debt purchases
“certainly put some pressure on the federal-fund futures
contracts,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term
rates trading at Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in
New York.  Forward repo rates also rose, “which reinforces the
perception that repo rates will continue to move higher,”
Silliman said. “After Operation Twist, the Fed has very little
securities in the front end, so sterilizing with reverse repos
or term deposits would be a very logical option.”  The forward rate for borrowing or lending government debt
for one day in the June 30 through December 30 period in the
repurchases agreement market rose by about two basis points to
about 19 basis points, according to TD.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank bought $2.3 billion of securities in two
rounds of  quantitative easing  since 2008 to keep borrowing costs
low, as well as conducting Operation Twist.  While policy makers won’t announce any new easing measures
at their March 13 meeting, “we still feel that the odds
slightly favor more easing,” Cloherty said.  In January, the Fed extended its pledge to keep its
benchmark rate for overnight loan between banks at almost zero
until at least through late 2014.  The decision bolstered speculation that Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will tolerate faster gains in consumer prices. The Fed
set an annual inflation target of 2 percent and policy makers
suggested they may conduct a third round of quantitative easing.  The Fed won’t adopt the sterilization program, Cloherty
predicted.  “The stated benefit would be to control inflation
expectations, but much of the Fed’s policies have been to
increase inflation expectations,” Cloherty said. “If inflation
expectations have you worried, then why would they do any more
easing?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  