-- Finance Chiefs See Pickup in U.S. Hiring
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-07T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/finance-chiefs-see-pickup-in-u-s-hiring-as-confidence-in-economy-improves.html
Companies in the U.S. are poised to
boost employment as confidence in the economy climbed to the
highest level in a year, a quarterly survey of chief financial
officers showed today.  A gauge of executives’ optimism in the world’s largest
economy rose to 59.2 from January through March from 53.3 the
prior period, according to a  report  issued today by Duke
University/CFO Magazine. The managers plan to increase payrolls
by 2.1 percent over the next 12 months, the biggest gain since
mid 2006.  “For the first time since the recession started, there is
good news for the  U.S. economy ,” John Graham, director of the
survey and a finance professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School
of Business, said in an interview. “That is what we have really
been waiting for on the economy -- for employment to pick up.”  A 2.1 percent increase would represent a gain of 2.32
million private payroll jobs, which exclude government agencies,
or about 193,000 a month over the next year. Companies boosted
staff levels by 2.09 million workers in 2011.  A report from the Labor Department in two days may show
companies added 225,000 workers to payrolls in February,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. It would be the third consecutive gain in excess
of 200,000, the best performance in almost a year.  The  jobless rate  last month held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent, the survey also showed.  Less Joblessness  The projected increase in hiring in the survey of CFOs is
about double what is needed to absorb population gains and keep
the  unemployment rate  steady, Graham said. That means, by this
time next year, joblessness may dip as low as 7.5 percent, he
said.  “That is still high, but it’s excellent progress,” said
Graham.  Earnings will grow by 7.5 percent over the next 12 months,
according to the survey. Investment in new plants and equipment
will rise 7.3 percent through the first quarter of 2013, the
survey showed. Both are little changed from the gains projected
last quarter.  One issue that may delay a bigger pickup in hiring is the
inability to find qualified job candidates, the report showed.
About seven out of every 10 managers polled said they are
currently looking for help. Almost half of those surveyed, 48
percent, had difficulty filling a vacancy over the past year.  To attract better-skilled applicants, 60 percent of the
finance chiefs said they will recruit more actively and 55
percent also said they will expand their search area. Thirty-
five percent said they will consider taking on people “too
junior” and train them, while 34 percent indicated they would
be willing to boost salaries.  “It’s not like the floodgates have opened,” Graham said,
“but it does sound like some companies are willing to be a bit
more aggressive” in filling vacancies.  The results are based on responses from 477 U.S. CFOs in a
survey taken from Feb. 21 through March 1.  To contact the report on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story; Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  