-- Fitch Gives Croatia ‘Benefit of Doubt’ in Maintaining Rating
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-03-07T16:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/fitch-gives-croatia-benefit-of-doubt-in-maintaining-rating-1-.html
Croatia’s government must “take
action” to make the country’s labor market and tax system more
favorable to employers and investors or face a possible
downgrade in its BBB- credit assessment,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The administration of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic , which
came to power after December 2011 elections, also needs to stick
to its budget targets and implement growth targets, Michele Napolitano, associate director at Fitch’s Emerging Europe
Sovereign team in  London , said today in a teleconference. Fitch
reaffirmed Croatia’s rating, the lowest investment grade, with a
negative outlook on March 5.  “We have decided to give the new government the benefit of
the doubt, and we believe there are good reasons for doing it,”
Napolitano said. “Fiscal slippage and a lack of reform would
lead to a negative grade. We have no specific timing, but we
would expect to see some action by the government in the first
half of the year.”  Croatia , which is set to become the  European Union’ s 28th
member in 2013, needs to service a growing external debt and
revive its faltering economy. Milanovic said last month that the
economy will grow 0.8 percent in 2012, while central bank
Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said in December the country may
slide into recession this year after a modest recovery in 2011.  The government has proposed to cut spending by 4 billion
kuna ($700 million) through lower subsidies to state companies
and trimming public wages. It also plans to revive investment by
injecting 8 billion kuna from reconstruction banks and EU funds
into infrastructure projects and the  energy industry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  