-- Floods Spread in New South Wales After Most Rain in 38 Years
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-03-08T05:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/floods-spread-in-new-south-wales-after-most-rain-in-38-years.html
Floodwaters spread in New South
 Wales , cutting the town of Forbes in three, as Australia’s most
populous state was hit by the most rain in 38 years last week.  Evacuation orders are in place in Griffith, a town of about
25,000 people 613 kilometers (381 miles) west of Sydney and in
Forbes, a town of 7,000 people, the New South Wales  State
Emergency Service  said. Flooding has swamped agricultural land
and submerged city streets, with television images showing water
lapping at the front doors of residential homes.  La Nina weather conditions, which typically bring higher-
than-normal  rainfall , are affecting Australia’s southeast with
about 12,900 people forced to leave their homes and 75 percent
of New South Wales inundated by flooding. Rainfalls averaged
123.9 millimeters (4.9 inches) last week, matching the record
reached in 1974, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Flood
warnings are also in place in neighboring Victoria state.  “ Australia  is in the throes of two consecutive La Nina
events, which have contributed to heavy rainfall and flooding
affecting much of eastern Australia,” Aaron Coutts-Smith, New
South Wales climate manager for the Bureau of Meteorology, said
in a statement on its  website  yesterday. “It is very rare to
have such persistent, record-breaking rainfall over such large
areas of New South Wales and Victoria.”  Airlines, Cotton Crop  Natural disaster declarations have been issued for 39 local
councils because of the flooding, New South Wales Minister for
Police and  Emergency Services  Michael Gallacher said in a
statement today. Nathalia, a town of about 1,400 people in
northern Victoria, was told to  evacuate  on concerns a levee may
not be able to hold back floodwaters, according to a Victoria
State Emergency Service Statement.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the
nation’s largest carriers, resumed Sydney services after
thunderstorms and high winds caused earlier diversions.
Emergency services issued an evacuation notice warning of a
potential failure today at the Jerrara Dam, near Kiama, south of
Sydney.  Rabobank International cut its forecast for Australian
cotton production 7 percent as a result of the floods. Output
may be 4.25 million bales to 4.52 million bales in 2011-2012,
from 4.57 million bales predicted last month, the bank said
today in a report. A crop of that size would still be a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  