-- France’s Fillon Meets With Religious Leaders Over Food Dispute
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-07T14:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/france-s-fillon-meets-with-religious-leaders-over-food-dispute.html
French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  began meetings with Jewish and Muslim leaders today to
diffuse a dispute about religious dietary codes that has
threatened to dominate France’s presidential elections.  In a direct reference to Kosher and Halal practices of
preparing meat, Fillon said in a radio interview March 5 that
“religions should reflect on dietary rules that don’t have much
to do with the modern state of science, technology and
sanitation.”  Animals killed under Halal and Kosher rules aren’t stunned
before being slaughtered, unlike the usual practice in France.  Fillon’s comments followed statements by both supporters
and opponents of President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that have made Halal
meat a dominant election issue this week, even as unemployment
hovers near 10 percent and  Greece  is in talks with creditors to
avoid a default. The first round of France’s presidential vote
is April 22, with Sarkozy trailing Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  in polls.  Questions about Halal meat took up 30 minutes of a 50
minute press conference yesterday by Sarkozy’s campaign
spokeswoman, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, who said the reaction
to Fillon’s comments was disproportionate.  “The government is particularly attentive to the respect
of secularism and to the respect for religion,” government
spokeswoman Valerie Pecresse said at a press conference today.
“Fillon’s meetings will express the respect that is due all
religions. The Halal issue is closed.”  Chief Rabbi  Fillon met today with Gilles Bernheim, the chief Rabbi of
 France , and Joel Mergui, head of France’s Jewish Consistory, a
body set up under Napoleon two centuries ago to organize Jewish
religious practices in France. He’ll meet tomorrow with the head
of the Paris mosque, Dalil Boubakeur, and Mohammed Moussaoui,
the president of the French Council of Muslim Faith, France’s
largest Muslim organization.  “He explained that nothing he said should put into
question the continuation of the ritual slaughter of animals in
France,” Mergui said after the meeting. “We don’t want this
issue to be a hostage to the election.”  The Halal issue first arose last month when anti-immigrant
candidate Marine Le Pen claimed most of the meat consumed in
Paris was Halal meat, and that many non-Muslims were eating
Halal meat without knowing it. Butchers’ groups denied the
claim.  Halal Meat Labels  Interior Minister Claude Gueant then said several times
last week that foreigners should be denied the vote in local
elections because the city councils they elect might impose
Halal meat in school cafeterias. Sarkozy then suggested last
weekend that all meat on sale in France carry labels saying
whether it was prepared under religious guidelines.  Bernheim says he’s opposed to labeling, which would
stigmatize kosher meat and render more expensive what he called
a religious obligation.  Hollande said during a campaign visit near Paris yesterday
that Sarkozy should show “restraint” on the issue. Some of
Sarkozy’s allies have also distanced themselves. Foreign
Minister  Alain Juppe  said on March 5 that Halal “is a false
problem” and “clashes of civilizations are not my cup of
tea.”  France has both Western Europe’s largest Muslim and Jewish
populations. “We realize that Jews aren’t the target, but we
have become collateral damage,” Bernheim said. “The target is
a certain strain of Islam that scares some people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  