-- Freddie Mac Faulted With FHFA on Loan Servicers Oversight
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-03-07T19:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/freddie-mac-faulted-with-fhfa-for-oversight-of-loan-servicers.html
Freddie Mac and its regulator, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , need to do a better job
supervising financial institutions servicing the company’s
loans, according to the FHFA Office of Inspector General.  FHFA hasn’t implemented regulations governing servicer
oversight or paid enough attention to abuses uncovered by other
federal regulators, Deputy Inspector General Russell A. Rau
wrote today in a report. Five servicers, including  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , last month settled a lawsuit with
state and federal authorities after investigations revealed the
banks didn’t have the proper documents to seize homes.  FHFA, which learned about the practices of Freddie Mac’s
mortgage servicers in 2008, didn’t begin paying attention to
them until August 2010, according to the report.  “Documentation provided by  Freddie Mac  strongly suggests
that weak servicer oversight and risk management played a
significant role in the unsatisfactory performance,” Rau wrote
in the report. “In light of these control deficiencies, FHFA is
not assured that the risk associated with Freddie Mac’s
servicing operations is being sufficiently managed.”  Freddie Mac spokesman  Brad German  noted that the audit
praised the company for working with its servicers to accomplish
a substantial increase in loan modifications.  “This has been
an enormous undertaking, more work needs to be done, and we look
forward to working with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and
our servicers in the months ahead,” German said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Top Priority’  FHFA is taking steps to improve its monitoring of servicing
at Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae , Jon Greenlee, FHFA’s deputy
director of enterprise regulation, said in a written response to
the the report.  “FHFA agrees that mortgage servicing is a critical area
and we have made mortgage servicing a top priority of the
agency,” Greenlee wrote.  Freddie Mac’s four largest mortgage servicers, Wells Fargo,
JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp . and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  handle 60
percent of its loans. While the company rates the performance of
all of its servicers monthly, those with the largest portfolios
are held to more specific goals for preventing foreclosures and
keeping loans current, also known as loss mitigation, according
to the report.  The inspector general recommended that Freddie Mac set loss
mitigation goals for all of its 1,457 servicers.  The number of seriously delinquent loans owned by Freddie
Mac increased 376 percent to 453,000 from the first quarter of
2008 through the fourth quarter of 2010, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  