-- Gates Beats Ellison in Daily Ranking of Tech Billionaires
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-03-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/gates-beats-ellison-in-bloomberg-daily-ranking-of-technology-billionaires.html
Bill Gates , the co-founder of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software company, is
technology’s richest man.  The chairman of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, was
worth $61.3 billion as of the close of U.S. trading yesterday,
down $805.4 million for the day, according to a daily ranking of
the industry’s wealthiest titans compiled by Bloomberg News.
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s Larry Ellison and  Mark Zuckerberg , who runs
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , ranked second and third, respectively.  The ranking, published on  Bloomberg.com , reflects how
changes in markets and the economy affect the executives’ stakes
in publicly traded and closely held companies. Co-founded by
Gates in 1975, Microsoft’s wares run more than 90 percent of the
world’s personal computers. Ellison helped build Oracle into the
No. 3 software maker, while Zuckerberg fashioned the most
popular social network in less than a decade.  “These people are our royalty, because we don’t have
royalty,” said Paul MacManus,  managing director  of the
Institute for Technology Entrepreneurship & Commercialization at
 Boston University (43751MF)  School of Management. “Who better to aspire
to?”  Each net worth figure is updated every business day at 5:30
p.m. in  New York . The valuations are listed in U.S. dollars.  Gates’s fortune has increased 9.2 percent this year,
according to the ranking. About 77 percent of his fortune is
held in Cascade Investment LLC, his personal holding company. A
spokesman for Gates didn’t immediately return call for comment.  Japanese Architecture  Ellison, 67, is co-founder of  Redwood City , California-
based Oracle, the top maker of database software. He is worth
$37.9 billion, down $385.7 million on March 6 and up 15 percent
since the beginning of the year.  An America’s Cup-winning yachtsman known for an extravagant
lifestyle, Ellison has spent hundreds of millions of dollars on
real estate, including a home in Woodside,  California , modeled
on 16th century Japanese feudal architecture.  Zuckerberg, the 27-year-old co-founder of Facebook, is
worth at least $21 billion. Still, based on the roughly $100
billion valuation that the  Menlo Park , California-based company
has fetched in private markets, Zuckerberg’s stake may be worth
about 25 percent less than previous estimates, once Facebook
holds its initial public offering.  The company intends to issue about 500 million shares of
its  Class B stock  at the offering, diluting Zuckerberg’s
ownership to 21 percent after he exercises 120 million options
and sells about 42 million shares to cover the tax bill
associated with the gain from those options.  The combined net worth of technology’s 10 richest people is
$238.3 billion. Ninety percent of the list hails from the U.S.  Google Drops  No. 4 and 5 are Sergey Brin and  Larry Page . The co-founders
of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which controls 66 percent of the U.S. Web-search
market, are each worth $18.7 billion. About 84 percent of their
fortunes are held in Google shares, which have declined 6.3
percent this year. The pair lost a total $560.6 million
yesterday as Google slipped 1.5 percent.  The only person on the ranking not from the U.S. is Indian
Azim Premji, co-founder of Bangalore-based  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,  India ’s
third-largest software exporter.  Premji’s 79 percent stake of Wipro represents about 90
percent of his $18.5 billion net worth. Premji guided his
father’s peanut-oil processing company into software when the
Indian government ejected foreign corporations from the country
in 1977. While Premji initially benefited from the long-revoked
India-first policy, Wipro today derives most of its sales from
the  U.S. and Europe .  Education Foundation  In December 2010, the 66-year-old transferred stock then
worth $2 billion to a foundation that supports education for the
poor. He told Bloomberg News in January that income inequality
should be a topic of conversation at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland.  “We have seen in 2011 what ignoring this aspect can result
in,” Premji said in an e-mail at the time. “If we don’t take
cognizance of it and try to solve this problem, it can create a
chaotic upheaval globally.”  Ranking seventh is  Jeff Bezos , founder of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
the world’s largest online retailer. Bezos, 48, is worth $17.2
billion, up $73 million yesterday. His fortune has grown 4.7
percent this year.  Bezos owns  88 million shares , or 19.3 percent, of Amazon’s
outstanding shares. He also owns space exploration company Blue
Origin, and has more than $1 billion in cash and other
investable assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ballmer, Dell, Allen  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  ranks
eighth, with a net worth of $15.3 billion. About two-thirds of
his fortune is held in the company he was recruited by Bill
Gates to join in the early 1980s. Over his tenure with the
company, he has earned $3.4 billion in stock sales, before
taxes.  After building and selling computers from his dorm room in
college,  Michael Dell  has amassed a net worth of $14.9 billion
through  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s third-largest personal-computer
maker. Dell, who ranks 9th, owns 15.2 percent of the company.
Dell shares closed down 1.8 percent yesterday.  About two thirds of Dell’s fortune is invested through MSD
Capital LP, his personal investment company, which owns stakes
in Domino’s Pizza Inc., Asbury Automotive Group Inc. and
 Blueknight Energy Partners LP. (BKEP)  Dell’s fortune fell $193 million
yesterday, though it’s up 1.3 percent this year.  Paul Allen, who co-founded Microsoft with Gates, ranked
10th, with a net worth of $14.8 billion. Most of the technology
investor’s fortune is held in a mix of private-equity, hedge-
fund and real-estate investments, plus sports franchises and
space-tourism ventures. He is Amazon’s landlord in  Seattle , and
owns an estimated 1.3 percent stake in Microsoft.  His latest investment is a 25 percent stake in  Audience
Inc. (ADNC) , the maker of the integrated chip that powers the Apple
iPhone’s Siri voice command system. Audience is expected to sell
shares to the public soon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  