-- Gensler Urges Global Accord on OTC Derivatives Margin Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-07T10:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/gensler-urges-global-accord-on-otc-derivatives-margin-rules-1-.html
An international agreement is
needed on margin requirements for derivative trades that don’t
pass through clearinghouses, said  Gary Gensler , chairman of the
U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  “This is a critical piece” of work, and a “key issue,”
Gensler told reporters at a briefing in Brussels. “Without it,
it will be harder for banks to have their regulators comfortable
as to how they operate in other markets.”  Global regulators are drafting rules for derivatives
markets after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis. The CFTC and the  Securities and Exchange
Commission  are leading U.S. efforts required under the Dodd
Frank Act, signed into law in 2010.  European Union officials and lawmakers last month brokered
a deal on rules to force trading of some over-the-counter
derivatives through clearinghouses to safeguard financial
markets.  Gensler said EU and U.S. legislation on OTC derivatives
“aligns well.” He also urged the EU regulators to reach a deal
to revamp the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive,
or Mifid, which seeks to push trading in OTC derivatives onto
regulated markets.  ‘Tremendous Cost’  Failure to agree on the measures, proposed last year by EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , would have a
“tremendous cost” to the European public, Gensler said.  Coordinating margin requirements for uncleared trades is an
important additional step, Gensler said, as investors still need
to be able to hedge their risks even when the swap they use to
do so hasn’t been cleared.  Gensler was quizzed by reporters on whether he was
concerned about authorities pushing to stop credit-default swap
contacts being activated on Greek debt as a result of the
country’s bond swap with private investors.  “It’s really critical that hedgers have the ability to use
a contract and know what they are getting,” Gensler said,
without commenting directly on the Greek situation. “As you
know, right now there is some debate about that.”  Gensler said that the CFTC and the Financial Stability
Board would publish proposals to improve the transparency of
financial markets in the “next few days.”  He said the plans would center on assigning so-called legal
entity identifiers that would make it clearer who is conducting
trades.  The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators and
finance ministry officials from the Group of 20 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 