-- German Banks, Insurers Likely to Take Part in Greek Debt Swap
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-03-07T12:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/german-banks-are-likely-to-join-insurers-in-taking-part-in-greek-debt-swap.html
Germany’s biggest banks and insurers
said they plan to take part in the Greek debt swap as the
southern European country tries to avoid a disorderly default.  Fourteen German firms holding more than 19 billion euros
($25 billion) of Greek  government bonds  will take part in the
exchange.  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG and Commerzbank AG, the country’s
biggest lenders,  committed  on March 5, while  Allianz SE , Munich
Re, DZ Bank AG and KfW Group also said they will join. Another
eight financial firms will participate, according to people with
knowledge of the plans who declined to be identified.  Private creditors reached an agreement with Greek and
European officials last month on the biggest sovereign-debt
restructuring in history. The goal of the exchange, which runs
through March 8, is to reduce the 206 billion euros of privately
held Greek debt by 53.5 percent, helping avert a default that
could roil markets and fuel contagion.  “What we are currently seeing is something like the final
stage of a poker game,” said Klaus Fleischer, a professor of
banking and finance at the University of Applied Sciences in
Munich. “In the end, the private sector will give in to prevent
a disorderly default as there simply is too much at stake.”  The Greek government, which set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with the transaction, said it
will use collective action clauses to force holders of Greek-law
bonds to accept the swap if it receives sufficient consent from
investors. A disorderly Greek default may cost the world more
than 1 trillion euros, according to a memo from the  Institute of
International Finance , a banking group that led the swap
negotiations. The memo was posted on the Athens News website.  ‘Positive Signal’  The 43-company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  rose 1.1 percent to 83.51 as of 11:41 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The index yesterday posted its biggest decline in
four months as concern grew  Greece  may fail to garner sufficient
participation in the debt swap.  The restructuring of Greece’s debt “will play a key role
in stabilizing the euro zone,” said Michael Diekmann, chief
executive officer of Allianz, which has Greek sovereign debt
with a nominal value of 1.3 billion euros. “A broad-based
acceptance of the debt restructuring proposal is a positive
signal for Greece and the  capital markets .”  German lenders have the largest amount of total claims on
the Greek public sector, followed by French banks, according to
data from the Bank for International Settlements as of September
2011. DZ Bank AG, the country’s biggest cooperative lender,
Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, and  Germany ’s state-
owned development bank KfW said separately today they will
participate in the swap.  Biggest Contributor  Some of the German financial firms haven’t yet officially
signed off on the exchange and the final number may vary as
holdings may have changed because of bond sales or maturities.  Germany, as Europe’s largest economy, has been the biggest
country contributor to euro-area bailouts during the sovereign
debt crisis.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has led Europe’s response
to the crisis now in its third year. She won the support of 25
of the European Union’s 27 members at last week’s EU summit for
her fiscal pact enforcing tighter debt and deficit limits in a
bid to tackle the root causes of the turmoil.  European officials are pressing investors to swallow net
present value losses of more than 70 percent to avert the even
greater hit that would result from an uncontrolled default. A
second rescue package, a 130 billion-euro bailout, depends on
the success of the debt swap, which is being called voluntary.  Compelling Holdouts  Retail investors in Greek government bonds should reject a
voluntary swap offer aimed at reducing the country’s debt load,
German private investor lobby group  DSW  said on March 5.  Patrick Armstrong , managing partner at Armstrong Investment Managers in
London, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today that he
also wouldn’t participate voluntarily, saying “there is no real
incentive.”  Commerzbank (CBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  likened
the voluntary nature of the Greek debt swap to confessions
extracted by the Spanish Inquisition. Still, Germany’s second-
biggest lender plans to participate, he said.  Greece expects bondholders to accept the offer and is ready
to force them to participate if necessary, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Athens this week. Compelling holdouts to take part in the swap
will likely trigger insurance contracts on the debt known as
credit default swaps, analysts said.  Net notional credit default swaps on Greek government bonds
total $3.2 billion while the gross notional amount of CDS is
more than $69 billion, according to Bloomberg data based on the
DTCC.  Too Complacent  “People are being too complacent about Greek credit
default swaps,” said  Neil Dwane , chief investment officer for
Europe at Allianz Global Investors, which helps manage about 300
billion euros globally. “The focus is on the net exposure, but
if there’s one thing the financial crisis showed us, we should
be looking at gross CDS exposure.”  Twelve members of the creditors’ steering committee that
negotiated the debt swap with Greece will join in the exchange,
according to a March 5 statement from the International
Institute of Finance, which represents more than 450 financial-
services companies globally.  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the Washington, D.C.-based IIF, led negotiations for private
creditors in the debt-swap discussions.  Those firms, which include  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Deutsche Bank
and Commerzbank, hold Greek government bonds with a face value
of at least 40 billion euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from the companies and their reports.  Allianz,  Axa SA (CS) ,  CNP Assurances (CNP)  SA,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias
SA (EUROB) , Greylock Capital Management,  ING Bank (INGA)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  National Bank (ETE)  of Greece and Alpha Bank are the other
members of the creditors’ steering committee that plan to accept
the swap, according to the statement from the IIF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess at   osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  