-- German Coalition Delays Solar-Subsidy Cuts on Investor Pleas
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-07T15:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/german-coalition-delays-solar-subsidy-cuts-on-investor-pleas.html
Germany , the world’s biggest solar-
power market, will delay a plan to cut aid for the industry by
three weeks and give developers of large-scale plants more time
to complete projects, a lawmaker said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and
coalition ally the Free Democratic Party have agreed to postpone
subsidy cuts for rooftop units to April 1 from March 9, and give
developers of ground-mounted  power plants  until June 30 to
finish their projects, lawmakers Michael Kauch and Georg
Nuesslein said today.  “I expect further small adjustment in the parliamentary
process but support for the general direction of the draft,”
Nuesslein, who is also an energy spokesman for the  Christian
Social Union , the Bavarian sister party of the  Christian
Democrats , said today by telephone. The bill is due to be
debated March 9 in the Bundestag, the lower house of parliament.  Germany is seeking to cut the annual pace of solar
installations by half after incentives for the industry pushed
capacity past government targets. The opposition  Green Party ,
the state premier of Saxony-Anhalt and companies including
 Solarworld AG (SWV) , the country’s largest solar-panel maker, have
protested that the cuts are too drastic and too soon.  Delaying the cuts “is but a mere reprieve,”  Carsten Koernig , the head of the BSW Solar lobby, said today in a
statement. It is “key” that the reductions after April 1
aren’t as deep.  Chinese Competition  The draft gives developers of large-scale ground-mounted
plants, including those bigger than 10 megawatts, more time to
finish projects they’ve already started, Kauch, environmental
spokesman of the Free Democrats, said by phone today.  Plants that got preliminary construction approval before
March 1 and start operating by June 30 will receive subsidies
under the previous system, according to the draft. New plants
bigger than 10 megawatts will get no more aid after that.  “History suggests that German installation volumes will
remain robust despite the tariff cuts,” Matthew Yates, an
analyst with Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, said in
a note today, adding that no cap was introduced.  The cuts may add to pressure on companies such as  Q-Cells
SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, German solar manufacturers that are already
struggling with rising competition from  China , where the world’s
three largest panel-makers are based.  The current draft, obtained by Bloomberg News today, would
give the government the power to adjust subsidies without
approval from the Bundesrat, the upper house of parliament, if
installations exceed or fall below government targets.  Kauch said he expects lawmakers to change that clause after
the coalition parties agreed it should be adjusted, but failed
to strike a compromise on the details of the changes.  The draft repeats earlier plans to reduce solar subsidies
by between 20.2 percent and 29 percent and to cut them by 0.15
euro cents per kilowatt-hour every month from May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  