-- German Factory Orders Unexpectedly Fall on Slump in Export Demand: Economy
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-07T12:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/german-factory-orders-unexpectedly-fall-as-demand-from-outside-eu-slumps.html
German factory orders unexpectedly
declined in January as foreign demand for investment goods such
as machinery slumped.  Orders (GRIORTMM) , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, fell
2.7 percent from December, when they gained 1.6 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.6
percent increase, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . From a year ago, orders dropped 4.9
percent when adjusted for work days.  “It’s an ugly number but it was caused by a sharp drop in
big-ticket items so it masks the overall robustness of the
German economy,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “The confidence indicators signal a gradual
recovery.”  The economy, Europe’s largest, contracted in the fourth
quarter of 2011 as the sovereign debt crisis curbed demand for
its exports across the euro region. Still, business, consumer
and investor confidence all jumped last month after  Greece 
clinched a second bailout and the  European Central Bank  flooded
the banking system with a record amount of cash, pushing down
yields on government debt and lifting stock markets.  The euro pared gains after today’s report and the yield on
German 10-year bunds rose one basis point to 1.79 percent.
European stocks advanced, rebounding from yesterday’s biggest
drop since November, as investors awaited a private report that
may show American payrolls increased. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
was up 0.5 percent at 1 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Foreign Orders  Orders from outside the 17-nation euro region plunged 8.6
percent in January after surging 12.1 percent in December, the
report showed. Euro-area orders slipped 0.4 percent after a 6.5
percent decline in December. Domestic orders increased 0.9
percent in January.  The Economy Ministry said sales of big-ticket items were
“strongly below average” in January, with orders for
investment goods down 5.5 percent. Consumer goods orders fell
2.9 percent, with those from the euro region plummeting 11
percent.  Belt-tightening across the euro area is damping growth in
Germany’s biggest export market. The 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.3 percent this year, driven by contractions of 1.3
percent in  Italy  and 1 percent in  Spain , the European Commission
said on Feb. 23.  Euro-area services output shrank more than estimated in
February, a survey of purchasing managers showed March 5.
Spanish industrial production fell for a fifth month in January,
dropping 4.2 percent from a year earlier, another report showed
today.  Debt Crisis  Shares in German steelmaker  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  fell the most in
four months on March 5 after it said Europe’s debt crisis will
make it “challenging” to match 2011 results. The company still
posted a fourfold gain in full-year profit.  The benchmark  DAX share index  is up 13 percent this year,
outperforming its main European counterparts.  Germany’s Bundesbank said on Feb. 20 the outlook for
 Europe ’s largest economy has “improved perceptibly,” even
though “risks relating to the sovereign-debt crisis remain.”
It forecast in December that economic growth will slow to 0.6
percent this year from 3 percent in 2011 before accelerating to
1.8 percent in 2013.  Diminishing concerns over a euro-region meltdown coupled
with rising oil prices may prompt Asia-Pacific central banks to
hold off on adding monetary stimulus this week to preserve
firepower.  U.S. Labor Market  South Korea  and  New Zealand  will hold  interest rates 
tomorrow, according to all economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Indonesia  will keep its key rate at 5.75 percent the same
day after an unexpected cut last month, while Malaysia will
stand pat for a fifth meeting a day later, separate surveys
indicated.  In the U.S., companies added 215,000 workers in February,
after increasing January payrolls by 170,000, ADP Employer
Services may say today. The Labor Department may report non-farm
productivity slowed less than earlier estimated last quarter,
and the  Mortgage Bankers Association  will release data for loan
applications.  The improved global outlook may benefit German companies.
Audi AG, the world’s second-largest maker of luxury vehicles,
said on March 1 it is targeting 2012 profit “on par” with last
year’s record results as higher sales offset increased spending
on new models and factories.  “The German industrial sector is still robust, mainly
driven by a healthy domestic economy and export
diversification,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “Recession is not on the cards.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  