-- Gilead’s Four-in-One AIDS Pill Is Effective in Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-03-07T21:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/gilead-s-experimental-4-in-1-aids-pill-effective-as-current-drug-in-study.html
Gilead Sciences Inc.’s (GILD)  experimental
four-in-one combination pill for AIDS worked as well as its
Atripla drug and didn’t raise cholesterol levels as much, a
company-sponsored study showed.  Eighty-eight percent of patients in the 48-week study who
took Gilead’s Quad drug had no detectable levels of HIV in their
blood compared with 84 percent of those taking the company’s
three-drug combination pill Atripla, according to research
presented today at the  Conference  on Retroviruses and
Opportunistic Infections in Seattle.  The pill’s development is a way for Foster City,
California-based Gilead, the world’s biggest maker of AIDS
drugs, to expand revenue and offer patients a more convenient
medicine with fewer side effects than current treatments, the
company has said. Gilead generated $7 billion from antiviral
drugs in 2011.  “Importantly, the abstract stated that total cholesterol
and LDL increases are significantly lower for Quad,”  Michael
Yee , a San Francisco-based analyst with  RBC Capital Markets ,
said in a March 4 note to clients. Some HIV medicines have been
linked to an increase in cholesterol, which can lead to heart
attacks.  Patients on Quad experienced more nausea than those taking
Atripla, though less dizziness, insomnia, abnormal dreams and
rashes. That could improve “tolerability and compliance, and
subsequently incrementally improve real-world efficacy,” Yee
said today in an e-mail.  The drug is in the final stage of clinical trials generally
required for regulatory approval.  Atripla, approved in 2006, is the most widely used AIDS
medicine. The therapy mixes Gilead’s two-drug medicine Truvada,
approved in 2004, with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s pill Sustiva.
Quad contains four Gilead compounds in a single pill that
patients take once a day.  The FDA may grant Gilead the right to sell Quad on Aug. 27.  Gilead fell less than 1 percent to $45.48 at the close of
trading in  New York . The shares have gained 11 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  