-- Gillard Pledges Support for Flood-Hit Town in Disaster Zone
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-07T09:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/gillard-to-visit-australia-s-wagga-wagga-town-as-floods-force-evacuations.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is
pledging support for the Australian town of Wagga Wagga, where
flooding forced about 8,000 residents from their homes after the
local river peaked at its highest level in 38 years.  The New South Wales town, which has a population of more
than 60,000 people, was declared a disaster zone yesterday as
the Murrumbidgee River threatened to breach a levee. The
waterway rose as high as 10.6 meters (35 feet) overnight, below
the forecast 10.9-meter peak, and the fortifications held,
according to the New South Wales  State Emergency Service .  “As a federal government we’ll keep working with our state
counterparts and local communities to support them during this
difficult time,” Gillard told reporters today in Wagga Wagga,
about 460 kilometers (285 miles) southwest of Sydney. “We’ve
always made the decisions necessary to find the resources to
support communities in need and we will keep taking that
approach.”  About 75 percent of  Australia ’s most populous state is
affected by flooding as rainfall causes rivers to burst their
banks, with 12,900 people forced to leave their homes across New
South Wales, according to the State Emergency Service. The town
of Griffith is expected to be affected, it said.  “The communities of Currawarna, Narrandera, Leeton,
Darlington Point, Carathool and Hay are expected to experience
major flooding as the flood peak moves along the Murrumbidgee
River,” the SES said in a statement issued at 3:30 p.m. local
time. Wagga Wagga residents have been allowed to return to their
homes, it said.  Television images showed muddy water lapping at the roofs
of houses in parts of Wagga Wagga yesterday and farmers rescuing
sheep from inundated fields by boat. Flood warnings are also in
place in neighboring Victoria state. It was too early to
estimate the financial cost of the floods, Gillard said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  