-- Global Logistic Said to Plan $1 Billion IPO of Japan Warehouse Properties
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-03-07T02:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/global-logistic-said-to-plan-1-billion-ipo-of-japan-warehouse-properties.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , a
unit of the Government of Singapore Investment Corp., is
preparing an initial public offering of its Japanese warehouse
assets that may raise about $1 billion, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The company, known as GLP, may list the real estate
investment trust in Tokyo by mid-2012, said two of the people,
who declined to be identified as the process is private. It has
hired  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  to manage the offering, they said.  The IPO may be the largest by a REIT in Japan since Nippon
Commercial Investment Corp. raised 121 billion yen ($1.5
billion) in 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange REIT Index has climbed 12 percent this year, as
optimism about a U.S. recovery bolstered Japanese stocks.  GLP manages 69 logistics facilities throughout Japan with a
combined 2.8 million square meters of floor area, according to
its  website . In December last year, the company teamed up with
China Investment Corp. to buy 15 Japanese warehouses for 122.6
billion yen from LaSalle Investment Management. The proposed IPO
would not include those properties, one of the people said.  In September, GLP said in a statement that it had
considered options including setting up a “real estate
corporation in Japan,” adding that it hadn’t made any decision
on whether to pursue such a move. The release came in response
to a Reuters article saying the company was planning an IPO of
Japanese assets. An outside spokeswoman for GLP referred to the
September statement and declined to comment further.  GLP raised S$3.5 billion ($2.8 billion) in October 2010 in
what was at the time  Singapore ’s biggest IPO since 1993.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  