-- Global Insurers Targeted in Latest U.S. Bid to Expand Sanctions on Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-08T16:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/global-insurers-are-targeted-in-latest-u-s-bid-to-expand-iran-sanctions.html
U.S. lawmakers are targeting global
insurers as they seek to expand sanctions aimed at crippling
Iran’s economy and forcing its leaders to make concessions
involving the country’s disputed nuclear program.  Proposed legislation by Representative  Brad Sherman , a
California Democrat, and Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois
Republican, would penalize underwriters that insure or reinsure
any deals with Iran prohibited under U.S. law, including oil and
gas investments or insurance for companies or banks that are
subject to U.S. sanctions.  The draft, obtained yesterday, may be introduced in the
House this week and offered as an amendment to a Senate Banking
Committee bill involving other Iran sanctions as early as next
week, Sherman said in an e-mail.  The measure would mostly affect Asia-Pacific or Russian
underwriters because European insurance companies have scaled
back or eliminated coverage of Iran-related deals. The European
Union banned insurance and reinsurance to Iranian entities or
their agents in 2010. U.S. insurance companies are banned from
underwriting Iran-related business unless they get a special
license from the U.S. government.  If any EU or U.S. entities are still providing insurance to
non-Iranian entities involved in Iranian deals, “this will be
the nail in the coffin preventing them from doing so,” Nigel
Kushner, chief executive of Whale Rock Legal, a London-based  law
firm  whose clients include companies engaged in legal trade with
Iran, said in a phone interview.  Broadens Scope  The proposed measure “broadens the scope of U.S. sanctions
to target Asian, Russian and other insurance and reinsurance
companies looking to backfill on deals abandoned by their U.S.
and European competitors,”  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of
the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, a Washington
research institute, said in an interview yesterday.  “If you are insuring the sale of Iranian petroleum without
an exception granted to your country under the U.S. central bank
sanctions law, underwriting a major oil or natural gas project
in Iran, or insuring the sale of parts and components for  Iran’s
nuclear program , you could be the target of these new
measures,” said Dubowitz, who has advised members of Congress
and the administration on expanding Iran sanctions.  The U.S. and  Europe  have piled additional economic
sanctions on Iran since a Nov. 8 United Nations atomic
inspectors’ report raised questions about Iran’s nuclear
program. The sanctions are meant to pressure Iran’s leaders to
abandon any weapons-related work and head off conflict in the
Persian Gulf region that holds more than half the world’s oil
reserves.  Squeezing Iran  U.S. officials say those sanctions are crippling Iran’s
ability to export oil and conduct trade, stoking internal
dissent, and have compelled Iran’s leaders to agree to return to
international talks on its nuclear program. The latest sanctions
have targeted banking, shipping, oil transactions, ports, non-
oil trade, gold, petrochemicals and energy ventures,
complicating Iran’s commercial ties to the outside world.  In addition to the insurance measure, Kirk and Sherman are
seeking to expand existing U.S. sanctions to all Iranian banks
and to foreign financial institutions, including foreign central
banks, engaged in non-oil transactions with Iran. Currently,
more than 20 Iranian banks, including its central bank, have
been targeted by the U.S. government.  President  Barack Obama  said March 6 there is a “window of
opportunity” for diplomacy and sanctions to compel Iran to give
up any effort to develop nuclear weapons, before military action
might be needed.  Netanyahu Visit  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , wrapping up a
two-day visit to Washington that included more than three hours
of talks with Obama, told U.S. lawmakers March 6 that sanctions
won’t work.  The U.S. and its allies say Iran is seeking the capability
to make a nuclear bomb. Iran says its program is for civilian
energy and medical research.  The White House meeting with Netanyahu was a high-stakes
encounter for Obama, who’s under pressure in an election year to
forestall military action against  Iran  while blunting attacks
from Republicans who accuse him of not being tough enough.  Current U.S. law prohibits insurance or reinsurance for
refined petroleum sales to Iran. Iran, the second-largest crude
oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has few refineries and imports gasoline. The proposed
measure expands the insurance ban to any sanctioned activity or
entity related to Iran.  ‘Big Deal’  “This is a big deal for non-EU insurers who have dealings
with the U.S. and are legitimately insuring Iran deals,”
Kushner said. The legislation would “allow the U.S. to place
sanctions on non-EU insurers who have stepped into the shoes of
EU companies previously insuring deals involving Iran,”
particularly Japanese, Chinese and Russians, Kushner said.  Japanese insurance company spokesmen said they are
monitoring the possible sanctions.  “Since there might be potential impact, we’ve been
collecting information,” Yuzuru Tsukui of Sompo Japan Insurance
Inc. said.  Naotake Hamada of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance
Co., said the company will “strengthen further information-
gathering.” Toshitsugu Matsuura of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance
Co., said “we are keeping an eye on” the developments.  U.S.-Insured Tanker  An oil tanker covered by the American Club, which says it
is the only U.S.-based shipping insurer, is sailing to Iran’s
largest oil-export terminal, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Mykonos Warrior, capable of hauling 1 million barrels,
was scheduled to arrive today at Kharg Island, George Vakirtzis,
the general manager of Polembros Shipping Ltd., which owns the
vessel said yesterday. It will load under a contract that is
excluded from sanctions agreed to by EU leaders in January, he
said by phone from Piraeus,  Greece , confirming that the tanker
is covered by the American Club.  “The American Club cannot in any circumstances provide
cover except to the extent that is lawful for it to do so,”
Charles Cuccia, the Club’s New York-based compliance officer,
said by phone yesterday. “The American Club’s ability to cover
P&I risks attendant on the shipment of cargoes to and from Iran,
like other insurers, is constrained by various states and
organizations, most notably the  United States  and EU.”  Possible Exclusion  U.S. insurers “tend to be very careful about compliance,”
according to Cari Stinebower, at attorney with Crowell and
Moring LLP in  Washington  who previously worked in the U.S.
Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.  The Mykonos Warrior may be traveling without insurance
coverage if its policy excludes carrying shipments from nations,
such as Iran, that are under existing American sanctions, she
said in an interview. The tanker also may have multiple
insurers, some of them not from the U.S., according to Michael
Zolandz, a partner in Washington with SNR Denton LLP.  The new proposed legislation would also target companies
that provide reinsurance to Iranian protection and indemnity
clubs that protect shippers against marine risks, such as Bimeh
Iran Insurance Co. and Moallem Insurance Co., which have been
designated by the U.S. government for involvement in illicit
activities, according to Dubowitz.  The proposal would compel the president to impose three or
more penalties under the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. Those
include the denial of credit or payments by any U.S. financial
institution and a ban on acquiring, holding or trading any U.S.-
based property.  “For any activity that is subject to sanctions under our
laws, both the company that conducts the transaction, as well as
those that provide any insurance in connection with it, should
be sanctioned to the same extent,” Representative Sherman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  