-- Goldman Takes Lead in M&A List Spurred by Natural-Resource Deals
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-03-08T19:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/goldman-captures-top-spot-in-m-a-ranking-spurred-by-natural-resource-deals.html
(Corrects title of Anthony Armstrong in penultimate
paragraph in story that ran March 7.)  Glencore International Plc’s (GLEN)  $37
billion announced takeover of coal exporter Xstrata Plc in
February -- the biggest mining deal ever -- signals that
natural-resource tie-ups may dominate mergers and acquisitions
again this year after doing so in 2011.  The purchase by Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, the
world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier, will
create a giant with $209 billion in sales and more muscle for
making deals. Last year’s No. 1 tie-up, Kinder Morgan Inc.’s
$37.6 billion agreement to acquire  El Paso Corp. (EP) , and four other
top 10 mergers involved energy, metals and mining companies that
combined to take leading positions in their industries,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  Advisers say the Glencore deal may kick-start M&A in 2012
after the risk of a euro-zone collapse sidelined projects in the
second half of 2011. For the year, deal volume rose by 4 percent
to $2.3 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. M&A
fees were a relative bright spot for bankers in an otherwise
dismal 2011, growing 13 percent to $20.3 billion. Goldman Sachs
earned $1.84 billion in advisory fees, retaining the top spot in
Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking.  “Last year was a bit of a roller coaster,” says Steven Baronoff, global head of M&A at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which ranked fifth on the fees list.
“After a very positive first half, in the third quarter many
companies put deal talks on hold because of the European crisis.
The fourth quarter felt better, and that’s how we feel now.”  Confidence Driving Dealmaking  Dealmaking will pick up as the easing of stock market
volatility gives companies more confidence, says Robert Kindler,
global head of M&A at New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which took
the No. 2 spot in the ranking. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, or  VIX (VIX) , fell more than 60 percent to
18.05 on March 5 from a two-year high on Aug. 8. Multinationals’
cash piles and the push for global expansion will also drive the
M&A business this year.  “All signs point to a good year for  investment banking  and
M&A,” says Kindler, who predicts that volume may expand 10
percent to 15 percent in 2012. “Earnings showed that the  U.S.
economy  is much stronger than people thought. If the market will
be derailed, it will be for reasons that nobody predicted.”  Advisers made money last year on cross-border deals and
corporate spinoffs as well as natural-resource mergers, trends
that are likely to continue in 2012. International mergers
accounted for $1 trillion, or almost half of the total deal
volume in 2011, the data show.  BHP Deal  In the ninth-biggest merger of the year, Melbourne-based
BHP Billiton Ltd. agreed to buy Houston-based Petrohawk Energy
Corp. for $14.9 billion in cash, betting natural-gas demand
would increase in the U.S. Barclays Capital Inc., No. 8 in the
ranking, and Scotia Capital Inc. advised BHP, while Goldman
Sachs guided Petrohawk.  “A lot of M&A activity is driven by companies’ need to
increase their top-line growth through greater exposure to more-
attractive geographies and sectors,” says Piero Novelli, global
co-head of M&A at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc., an Xstrata
adviser on its merger with Glencore.  At the same time, companies are casting off non-essential
businesses to rid themselves of bloat and distraction, Baronoff
says. Dealmakers executed a record 278 spinoffs last year.
Houston-based  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  spun off Marathon Petroleum
Corp. in June to focus on searching for and producing oil and
natural gas.  Marathon’s Performance  The shares of  Marathon Petroleum (MPC) , which refines, transports
and markets petroleum products, gained 28 percent from the
beginning of the year through March 5. Marathon Oil stock
increased 14 percent over that period, beating the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  While the Glencore-Xstrata tie-up gives advisers a shot of
optimism for 2012, economic and political uncertainty may be a
restraint on merger activity. The threat of a default in  Greece 
still looms over global markets, and in the U.S., the outcome of
the presidential election in November may determine whether
taxes -- and business confidence -- go up or down.  “When you have this kind of fiscal and political
uncertainty, it creates a lack of clarity and confidence that
stymies dealmaking,” says Andrew Bednar, founding partner at
Perella Weinberg Partners LP in  New York . “So, right now a lot
of CEOs are thinking about deals, but most are not doing
deals.”  Still, shareholder pressure on companies to put their cash
to work should continue to drive consolidations across
industries and regions, says Anthony Armstrong, co-head of
Americas M&A with Greg Weinberger at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in
New York, which placed fourth in the ranking. Companies in the
 S&P 500 (SPX)  had $2.8 trillion in cash and short-term investments as
of the end of 2011.  “There are reasons for deals, and you can only hold off
for so long,” Armstrong says. “We have a good pipeline, which
makes us cautiously optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  