-- Google, JPMorgan, Viterra, Oshkosh: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-07T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/google-jpmorgan-viterra-bt-oshkosh-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI)  unit were ordered by the U.S. judge presiding over
an Apple Inc. patent lawsuit to turn over information about the
development of Google’s Android operating system.  The Motorola Mobility unit and Google must also hand over
to Apple information about Google’s pending $12.5 billion
acquisition of the mobile-phone maker, U.S. Circuit Judge
Richard A. Posner in  Chicago  ruled March 5.  Posner’s decision came in a patent lawsuit filed in 2010 by
Cupertino, California-based Apple against Motorola Mobility,
which has countersued.  “The Android/Motorola acquisition discovery is highly
relevant to Apple’s claims and defenses,” Apple’s attorneys’
said in a March 2 filing requesting the judge’s order.  Apple, maker of the iPhone, has been waging a global fight
with the former Motorola Inc. unit that sells phones using
Google’s Android operating system.  Posner, a federal appeals court judge who is presiding over
the trial court-level case, has scheduled back-to-back trials
before separate juries starting June 11. The first will address
six Apple patents, and the second will cover three Motorola
patents.  “Motorola shall be expected to obtain full and immediate
compliance by Google with Apple’s liability discovery demands,”
the judge said in a February order.  Motorola Mobility opposed Apple’s request, arguing that
Google, the operator of the world’s most-visited Internet search
portal, isn’t a party to the lawsuit.  “Google’s employees and documents are not within the
‘possession, custody, or control’ of Motorola, and Motorola
cannot force Google to produce documents or witnesses over
Google’s objections,” lawyers for the mobile phone maker said
in a March 5 court filing.  Motorola Mobility was spun off from Motorola Inc. -- now
 Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)   Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for the
Libertyville, Illinois-based company, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman at Google, said in an e-mail
that the company wouldn’t comment beyond what was submitted in
court papers.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  JPMorgan to pay $4.5 Million to Settle LML Infringement Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $4.5 million to take a
license to a disputed patent, ending an infringement case filed
by  LML Payment Systems Inc. (LMLP)   JPMorgan, based in  New York , was one of more than 30
financial institutions named in the 2008 suit in Marshall,
 Texas , and the final remaining defendant, according to LML.  The case has brought in more than $45 million in
settlements, LML said in a statement. The disputed patent --
RE40,0220 -- covers a check-writing point-of-sale system, and
was issued in April 2008.  A second suit was filed against another group of banks in
the same court in June 2009 and closed in October.  Vancouver-
based LML, a provider of financial payments, claimed the
defendants in that case infringed the same patent.  The 2009 case is LML Patent Corp. v. National Bank of
Daingerfield, Texas, 2:09-00180-DF, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Marshall).  The 2008 case is LML Patent Corp. v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
2:08-cv-00448, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Viterra Properly Denied ‘Xceed’ Registration, Court Rules  Viterra Inc. (VT) , a Canadian agricultural supply company, was
properly denied the right to register “Xceed” as a trademark,
a federal appeals court ruled yesterday.  The U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  rejected the
application filed by Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra, saying
“Xceed” was too similar to a mark owned by X-Seed Inc. of
Clear Lake, Minnesota.  X-Seed’s mark was registered for use with “agricultural
seeds,” the same category for which Viterra sought to register
“Xceed.” The court said the patent office correctly determined
that the two names were so similar in pronunciation that any
minor differences “may go undetected by consumers.”  The case is In re Viterra, 11-01354, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ).  Swedish Princess Estelle’s Name Becomes Popular Trademark Choice  The birth of the first royal baby in 30 years has prompted
a rush to the Swedish Patent and Registration Board, the Local,
an English-language Swedish newspaper,  reported .  Following  Princess Estelle’s birth Feb. 24 , companies filed
applications to register the name as a trademark in collection
with makeup, clothing, cutlery, textiles, housewares and
beverages, according to the Local.  One company that sells home furnishings and tableware
online filed applications to register 16 names associated with
female members of the Royal Family as trademarks, according to
the Local.  Vuitton Parody IP Poster Doesn’t Infringe, Penn Law School Says  LMVH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Louis Vuitton unit
objected to a poster used at the University of Pennsylvania’s
law school to promote an upcoming seminar on fashion law.  In a Feb. 29  letter , Michael Pantalony, who heads the
luxury-goods company’s civil trademark-enforcement efforts, said
he thought the Penn Intellectual Property Group  “would
understand the basics of intellectual property law and know
better than to infringe and dilute the famous trademarks of
fashion brands, including the LV trademarks, for a symposium on
fashion law.”  What caused the company’s ire was a design at the top of
the  poster  that it claimed infringed Vuitton’s “toile
monogram” pattern. Pantalony said the use of the design was “a
serious willful infringement” that diluted its trademarks and
“may mislead others into thinking this type of unlawful
activity is somehow ‘legal.’”  In a March 2  letter , Robert F. Firestone of Penn’s Office
of General Counsel said the school disagreed that its poster
infringed. U.S. trademark law “expressly protects a
noncommercial use of a mark and a parody from any claim for
dilution,” he wrote. There was no violation of trademark law
because there was no likelihood that Vuitton sponsored or was
associated with the seminar, Firestone said.  The use of the artwork parody wasn’t intended to identify
goods and services, he said. Instead, it was “designed to evoke
some of the very issues to be discussed at the conference.”
Firestone said he would advise the school group that it could
continue to use the posters and invitations containing the
artwork “without violating any of Louis Vuitton’s legitimate
trademark rights.”  Firestone closed the letter with an invitation to Pantalony
to attend the March 20 event. In-house counsel from other
fashion companies are scheduled to speak on panels at the
symposium “and I am sure the students would welcome your
attendance as well,” Firestone wrote.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  BT, TalkTalk Lose U.K. Appeal Over Government Anti-Piracy Law  BT Group Plc (BT\A) , Britain’s largest fixed-line phone company,
and  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  lost a U.K. appeal to overturn
parts of a digital-piracy law intended to curb illegal file
sharing of music, film and books.  The Court of Appeal in  London  yesterday upheld an April
2011 ruling that the U.K. Digital Economy Act doesn’t violate
European Union law, as the companies claimed, or place unfair
enforcement costs on Internet service providers.  “The judge’s conclusion was soundly based on detailed
evidence,” a panel of three judges said of the lower court’s
ruling in favor of the government.  Courts are increasingly protecting copyright owners against
websites engaged in mass piracy. In February, Sony Corp.’s
British unit and eight other record labels won a trial to help
them force  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and other ISPs to
block access to the Swedish file-sharing site Pirate Bay. A
similar ruling was issued last year against a website known as
Newzbin.  “Now that the court has made its decision, we will look at
the judgment carefully to understand its implications and
consider our next steps,” Dan Thomas, a BT spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The law was created to prevent unlawful downloading of
copyright material by requiring ISPs to block some repeat
offenders. BT and TalkTalk, which sought the so-called judicial
review in 2010 when the law was passed, said enforcing the law
would cost “tens of millions of pounds in new systems and
processes” to monitor Internet users.  The government was supported in the case by the British
Recorded Music Industry and other organizations that support
copyright owners.  In last year’s ruling, the companies won the removal of an
obligation to pay 25 percent of regulator  Ofcom ’s expenses and
the cost of establishing an appeals body for the regulations.  Botched Spider Web Takes Starring Role in ‘Spider-Man’ Battle  Director Julie Taymor traces her March 2011 dismissal from
“Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” to a giant, disobedient spider
web briefly parked high above the seats inside Broadway’s
Foxwoods Theatre.  The $1 million prop for the $75 million musical was
intended “to descend from the ceiling of the theater in a
thrilling flight/fly sequence” at the end of the show, she said
in a filing March 2 in federal court in Manhattan.  Instead, the “coup de theatre” was improperly designed by
a team led by set designer George Tsypin, she said in court
papers.  The malfunctioning web interfered with the rigging
necessary to fly the cast through the auditorium and was removed
the day it was installed, Taymor said.  Tsypin later told the producers that cuts to the second act
suggested by Taymor’s co-writer,  Glen Berger , were “our only
chance to save the show,” according to court papers.  She said in her filing that a streamlined story “appears
to have been conceived as a way to avoid the technical
challenges Tsypin and his team were having with staging the
finale” that she envisioned.  Taymor claimed in a Nov. 8 lawsuit that producers violated
her intellectual-property rights by making changes without her
permission and didn’t pay royalties due her as a co-book writer.  In their January countersuit, the producers accused her of
refusing to make changes and storming out of meetings when
alterations were even hinted at.  Rick Miramontez, a spokesman for the production and lead
producers Michael Cohl and Jeremiah Harris, said March 5 that
Cohl wasn’t available. Harris declined to comment. Chris
Kanarick, a spokesman for Taymor, said she wasn’t available. A
representative for Tsypin, who has designed operas worldwide,
referred inquiries to Miramontez.  The director’s filing accused producers of making her a
scapegoat to appease anxious investors, and portrayed her
onetime collaborators, including Bono and the Edge of U2, as
duplicitous and inept. She said she repeatedly urged Cohl to
address the spider web.  Taymor blamed the web failure for why early previews had an
anticlimactic ending.  The case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Oshkosh Unit Wins Monetary Sanctions Against Ex-Employee  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) ’s  JLG Industries  unit was awarded a monetary
fine against an ex-employee who failed to disclose which
computer files he copied shortly before leaving the
construction-equipment company, the law firm representing JLG
said in a  statement .  JLG sued the ex-employee in Illinois state court within 24
hours of his resignation in September, claiming he would
disclose the company’s proprietary information to a competitor
with whom he was taking a new job. The court issued a temporary
order barring disclosure of the information and destruction of
any evidence.  After hearing testimony on JLG’s behalf from computer
forensic experts, Judge Thomas C. Mueller of the Circuit Court
of Kane County, Illinois, ruled that the ex-employee had copied
the files and violated a court order requiring him to disclose
them or their location.  Mueller said the ex-employee would be subject to a daily
fine as long as he failed to require with the court’s orders.  JLG, based in McConnellsburg, Pennsylvania, is represented
by Chicago’s  Schiff Hardin LLP (1261L) .  Amron Awarded Sanctions in Diving-Equipment Trade Secrets Case  Amron International Diving Supply Inc., a maker of diving
and hyperbarics equipment, was awarded $73,000 in sanctions
against a former employee it accused of destroying evidence in a
trade-secrets case.  U.S. District Judge Marilyn L. Huff said the defendant was
fined because he failed to comply with an earlier order that he
produce computers and storage devices Amron claimed contained
its proprietary information.  The underlying suit was filed in federal court in San Diego
in August. In its complaint, Amron claimed that former employee
Saad Sadik and the company he founded --  Hydrolinx Diving
Communication Inc.  of Carlsbad,  California , took proprietary
information after Sadik’s termination in April 2010.  Forensic analysis indicated that Sadik had copied more than
100,000 of Amron’s files and purged critical files from Amron’s
computer systems, according to court papers. Amron said Sadik
copied many files he wasn’t authorized to access, including
information about vendors and customers, customer quote
information, and non-public technical manuals.  Amron, based in Vista, California, said that some of the
files Sadik deleted from its computer system made it impossible
to support functional changes to its product line “without
having to recreate years of engineering effort.”  The sanctions awarded against Sadik were related to Amron’s
attorney fees and the costs of forensic computer analysis,
according to the court order. The judge denied Sadik’s motion to
represent his company in litigation, noting that he isn’t a
lawyer and Hydrolinx is a corporation, which the law requires to
appear through counsel.  Huff granted Amron’s motion to find Sadik and Hydrolinx in
contempt for violating court orders and refused the defendants’
request to extend other deadlines.  Sadik didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment on the judge’s rulings.  The case is Amron International Diving Supply Inc., v.
Hydrolinx Diving Communication Inc., 3:11-cv-01890-CAB-JMA, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  