-- Libor Links Deleted as U.K. Bank Group Backs Away From Rate
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-07T13:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/libor-links-deleted-as-bank-group-backs-away-from-tarnished-rate.html
Twenty-six years after helping to
design the London interbank offered rate, Britain’s bank
lobbyists are distancing themselves from their creation amid
regulatory investigations and lawsuits.  The British Bankers’ Association, the century-old lobby
group that oversees the rate, last week deleted references from
its  website  referring to its role in setting Libor. This week,
it met regulators and bank executives to review the future of
the benchmark. Under one option, the  Bank of England ’s proposed
Prudential Regulation Authority would take responsibility for
policing the rate, said a person with knowledge of the talks who
asked to remain anonymous because discussions are private. The
BBA says it isn’t seeking to cede oversight to the regulator.  Libor, the basis for $360 trillion of securities worldwide,
has transformed from a talisman of London’s influence in
financial markets to an albatross for the industry. Regulators
worldwide are investigating whether banks routinely lied about
their true borrowing costs to avoid the perception they faced
difficulty raising funds and traders rigged submissions to
benefit their own wagers on derivatives linked to the rate. The
probes have called into question whether banks can be trusted to
set Libor with only minimal regulatory oversight.  “I don’t think Libor can continue to be something which is
policed and monitored by the banks,”  Terry Smith , chief
executive officer of interdealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc, said
in a telephone interview. “There’s been too much of a breakdown
in trust for that.”  U.S. Criminal Probe  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark rates including Libor, the
 Justice Department  said in a letter to a federal judge that was
made public yesterday. The Feb. 27 letter is the first public
acknowledgment by the department of the criminal probe.  Libor is generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the BBA by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  in which
banks are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for 15 different time periods, from overnight to one
year. A predetermined number of quotes are excluded and those
left are averaged and published for individual currencies before
noon.  Representatives from lenders, the BBA, the Bank of  England ,
the Treasury and the Financial Services Authority met on March 5
to discuss the role of regulators in setting the benchmark.
Spokesmen for the FSA and Bank of England declined to comment.  Discussing Options  “The intention of contributors and the BBA is to engage in
a sensible and structured discussion on options for developing
Libor for a changing environment,” the London-based BBA said in
an e-mailed statement. “We and the contributors intend to
undertake this work in a manner that is conducive to market
confidence.”  If the BBA is deemed by authorities to be unable to
effectively police Libor, responsibility could pass to the Bank
of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority, the person with
knowledge said. The PRA will take over responsibility for
regulating banks when the Financial Services Authority is
disbanded later this year.  “There is a serious point regarding the extent to which
regulatory intervention is desirable in what should be a market
function,” said Bob Penn, partner at  Allen & Overy  in  London .
“Any suggestion of public sector involvement beyond policing
Libor would be a worrying development.”  ‘Most Important Number’  The BBA helped to introduce Libor in January 1986 to cement
London’s dominance in the markets for syndicated loans and
interest-rate swaps. The BBA’s name is attached to Libor fixings
in at least 10 currencies, including the British pound, the  U.S.
dollar , the euro and Japanese yen. In a May 21, 2009  press
release , the lobby group called Libor “the world’s most
important number.”  Angela Knight , the former Conservative lawmaker and
Treasury minister who now runs the lobby group, didn’t return
several calls seeking comment yesterday and the day before. She
has previously denied that the group is distancing itself from
Libor, which it licenses and publishes daily.  Questions about the accuracy of Libor were first raised by
the Bank for International Settlements, the central bank for
central banks, in a March 2008 report that indicated lenders
were “wary of revealing” information that could signal they
were struggling to borrow funds.  Justify Discrepancies  Three months later, the BBA increased the number of banks
that contribute to Libor and said it would require lenders to
justify any discrepancies between their rate submissions and
those of competitors, with repeat offenders removed from the
process.  “In revising the scrutiny mechanism for BBA Libor, the BBA
believes that the following key aspects are essential and are
being implemented forthwith,” the group said in a June 10, 2008
paper. The changes were the first made to the rate since 1998.  The BBA started BBA Libor Ltd. in 2009, whose revenue is
derived from licensing the rate. The unit, whose directors
include Knight, Sally Scutt, Knight’s deputy, and former  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  deputy CEO Gordon Pell, had assets of
1.15 million pounds ($1.8 million) and liabilities of 958,824
pounds at the end of 2010, according to a June filing with
 Companies House .  “Libor is not a commercial organization, has a significant
pro bono function and seeks to cover its costs,” the BBA said
in a statement. “The company has a revenue budget to cover
operating costs recharged by the BBA,” the lobby group said.  ‘Inaccurate’ Material  The lobby group last week removed material from its website
that detailed its involvement with setting Libor, including a
statement that it “calculates and produces BBA Libor at the
request of our members for the good of the market.” The group
said in a  blog-post  today the material was “inaccurate.”  Responsibility for setting the rate falls on  Thomson
Reuters , which aggregates submissions from banks and publishes
the numbers daily, said  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the BBA.  “Thomson Reuters continues to calculate and distribute
Libor on behalf of the BBA and in accordance with its governance
procedures,” said Calvin Mitchell, a spokesman for the company.
“We’ll support the BBA should any changes be recommended.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  The BBA has said it has never required banks to erect
Chinese walls between those setting the rate and traders making
bets on the future direction of the measure, leaving it up to
the firms themselves and their regulators.  Internal Controls  Banks’ internal controls have become the focus of
regulatory probes from  Canada  to  Japan  and from London to
Brussels, and may result in a lesser role for the BBA in
overseeing the measure.  In the U.S., District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in
Manhattan cited the Justice Department letter at a March 1
hearing in which she denied a request for documents by investors
suing companies including Credit Suisse Group AG and  Bank of
America Corp.  over claims they artificially suppressed Libor.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by
client assets, filed the lawsuit in August, claiming the banks
manipulated Libor from 2007 in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  “To me, it is simply too much to have them piggyback on
the government’s investigation at this stage,” Buchwald said.  Investigators are now scrutinizing communications between
traders and rate-setters for evidence that traders collaborated
to rig the rate to profit from wagers on future  interest rates ,
people familiar with the inquiry have said.  Canadian Probe  Canada’s Competition Bureau said in court filings that one
bank had confessed to participating in a conspiracy among
employees at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank AG,  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,
JPMorgan, RBS and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to rig the price of derivatives
globally by manipulating Libor. UBS was the bank that alerted
Canadian regulators to the alleged conspiracy in return for
immunity from regulatory penalties for the firm, three people
with knowledge of the inquiry said last month. UBS announced in
July that it was cooperating with investigators and had been
granted conditional immunity from some agencies.  “Regulators on an ever-increasing basis are concluding
that to manage the systemic risk that exists to the financial
system, giving full freedom to the institutions is not something
that is acceptable,” said Chris Roebuck, a visiting professor
at Cass Business School.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 