-- Il Buco Swamps Diners With Bad Service, $16 Sandwiches: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/il-buco-swamps-diners-with-bad-service-16-sandwiches-review.html
I almost walked out of Il Buco
Alimentari e Vineria, a spinoff of the namesake Italian spot a
few blocks away.  After waiting 40 minutes for a seat by the dried pasta and
gelato section (the new Il Buco includes a small market), we
were deposited at a cramped communal table where we waited
another 10 minutes for water and cocktail offerings.  We stared at waiters, busboys and managers. None made eye
contact. No one had offered us food, beverage or  Power Bars 
during the stand-up ordeal.  The place is simply overwhelmed. Our first course, which
didn’t arrive until our second course was underway, was Iberico
ham. The $40 serving tasted precisely like the Iberico at
Tertulia, a more ambitious Spanish spot, where it costs $23.  Such is the unfortunate state of affairs at  Manhattan ’s 13-
syllable  Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria , a Noho Mini-Me of  Mario
Batali ’s Eataly, where the crowds are dense and the pasta as al
dente.  I annoyed my date by ogling a deli counter filled with
white anchovies. Sardines arrive tableside with pickled black
trumpet mushrooms. Order them.  Epic Ribs  Il Buco distinguishes itself from New York’s crowded field
of homey Italian spots by occasionally serving food on par with
very good two-star restaurants.  Short ribs, thickly crusted with black, pink and yellow
peppercorns, have the char of an epic steak and indicates spit-
roasting for hours. Gorgeous.  If only dining at Il Buco weren’t so torturous.  You might be seated on tiny, backless stools, the noise
levels might be deafening and you might have to steal a fork
from a neighboring table to eat your pasta.  Typically, chefs serve ambitious fare at casual, stripped-
down settings like this in exchange for more affordable prices.
But Il Buco’s fare isn’t always cheaper. The short ribs are $2
more than at  Tom Colicchio ’s excellent Craft.  Is Il Buco the right environment for a $16 sandwich? The
porchetta was laced with chewy, under-rendered fat;  better
versions  are available in the East Village for $10.  Sicily Style  Still, the pastas are almost perfect. Curly busiate is
sublime, the twists engineered to trap the sauce of mint,
almonds, capers and anchovies -- Sicily in a bowl.  Pair with a highly perfumed Rainoldi Sauvignon Blanc ($13)
or a dry Saetti Lambrusco ($11). Wines, which might not arrive
until you’re halfway through a course, are almost always poured
without the offer of a pre-purchase taste.  Gnudi get a dose of balsamic at Il Buco to cut the ricotta
richness. But spaghetti with bottarga is overcooked to the point
of mushiness, with none of the mullet roe or assertive brine
flavors that would justify the $21 price.  Fried rabbit, often gristly and bony, seems to have been
bred in the plump style of a Perdue chicken. Honey crusted skin
requires persistent and satisfying finger licking.  Chef Justin Smillie slices foie gras about a quarter-inch
thick and drapes the liver over toast. It looks like a bologna
canape, tastes like Michelin-starred dining. Sea salt and
clementine marmalade makes it taste like an elegant English
muffin.  Salt cod fritters resembling French fries are the right way
to begin a meal; so is raw black bass, cut with the skill of a
sushi chef and paired with Meyer lemon and pine nuts.  It’s almost as good as the mackerel crudo now being served
at the quieter Il Buco flagship on  Bond Street .  Waiter?  Quail is medium-rare and succulent; the $30 branzino is
expertly filleted, with a soft, almost springy texture that
recalls a more expensive Dover sole.  Remember Good Humor’s “ Toasted Almond Bar ”? Il Buco has a
gelato that’s a dead ringer for the nostalgic flavor.  Then you tell the waiter you’d like a biscotto with your
coffee; what he doesn’t tell you is that the brew already comes
with one. Cha-ching. And your bill includes two glasses of wine
you didn’t order. Time to flag down a waiter. Again.  The first Il Buco is a reliable, date-night destination.  The sequel is not.  Rating: * 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Often 85 decibels or higher. My ears hurt.  Date Place: The flagship Il Buco is for dates; this one’s
for masochistic dumping.  Inside Tip: Terrific chocolate pudding for dessert.  Special Feature: Rotisserie Label Rouge chickens for
takeout; call 24 hours ahead to order.  Back on My Own Dime: No  Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria is at 53 Great Jones St.
Information: +1-212-837-2622 or  http://ilbucovineria.com/ .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 