-- India Retailers Drop on Foreign Investment Risk: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-03-07T05:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/india-retailers-drop-on-foreign-investment-risk-mumbai-mover.html
Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF)  led a
decline among Indian retail companies after  India ’s ruling
Congress party failed to win key regional elections, raising
concern that a decision to ease restrictions on foreign
investment would be delayed.  Pantaloon, India’s largest listed retailer, declined as
much as 5.9 percent, and was 3.2 percent lower at 155.4 rupees
at 10:17 a.m. local time.  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  slumped as much as
8.4 percent and  Trent Ltd. (TRENT)  fell as much as 3.3 percent.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s Congress Party will not
play a role in forming the next administration in Uttar Pradesh,
India’s most-populous state, election results announced on March
6 showed. It was also behind in Punjab. The regional Samajwadi
Party, which has opposed foreign direct investment in retail,
gained a majority in  Uttar Pradesh , according to data from the
Election Commission.  India on Dec. 7 suspended a decision to allow as much as 51
percent overseas ownership of multibrand retail stores after
protests by opposition political parties and some allies of the
ruling coalition paralyzed parliament. In an interview in
December, Singh said he would make a bid to revive the retail
proposals after the state elections.  The poll verdict reduces the chances of the Congress-led
government attempting to push through policy changes, including
allowing foreign companies to set up supermarkets, according to
analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Maybe in one year’s time if the equations change, then
probably it can go through, but at least for the next one or two
years I guess its delayed.” Sitaraman Iyer, a Mumbai-based
analyst with Marwadi Share & Finance Ltd. said in a telephone
interview, referring to foreign investment in retail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  