-- India’s Singh Demands Urgent Review of Cotton-Export Ban
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-03-07T13:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/india-s-singh-demands-urgent-review-of-cotton-export-ban-1-.html
India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  asked a group of ministers to “urgently” review a ban on
export of cotton after the farm minister and industry groups
said the curbs may harm the nation’s farmers.  “The prime minister has given directions that a group of
ministers should review this decision urgently on March 9,”
according to an e-mailed statement from Singh’s office today. A
delegation of ruling Congress party workers today met Singh and
demanded immediate removal of the ban, it said.  India, the second-biggest cotton grower, halted exports on
March 5 to ensure domestic supplies after shipments exceeded a
government target. A withdrawal of the ban may accelerate a 58
percent slide in futures in  New York  in the past year and limit
contract disputes with buyers from  China  to  Bangladesh .  “Global prices may fall in the short-term if India decides
to go back on its decision,” said Ajitesh Mullick, head of
agriculture research at Religare Commodities Ltd. “Domestic
prices may gain and that may prompt farmers to not cut down
planting next year.”  Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said yesterday the ban will
lower domestic cotton prices and hurt planting prospects in the
next crop season. His ministry wrote to Singh, seeking the
removal of the ban. Cotton Association of India President Dhiren
Sheth said March 5 “the farmers are going to take the biggest
hit.”  Futures Fall  The May-delivery contract fell as much as 1.8 percent to
89.75 cents a pound today on ICE Futures U.S. Futures surged by
the most in nine months on March 5 after India announced the
ban, prompting the exchange to boost margins by 76 percent.  India banned exports after sales surged to almost 9.5
million bales of 170 kilograms each, more than the surplus of
8.4 million bales estimated by the government. Traders
registered to ship  12 million bales  and the rush to secure
permits with letters of credit being opened between the same
buyers and sellers was “indicative of a tendency of hoarding in
bonded warehouses abroad,” the textiles ministry said.  The surge in shipments has brought down the stockpiles that
may be carried into the 2012-2013 season to 3.6 million bales,
less than the minimum 5 million mandated by a group of
ministers’ meeting in April 2010, the ministry said yesterday.  The Confederation of Indian Textile Industry backed the ban
as exports will lower stockpiles for the next season, the group
said in an e-mailed statement today.  ‘Speculative Contracts’  “Speculative registration of cotton export contracts in
large quantities has been resorted to by some traders and
permitting exports against such contracts would have seriously
affected the fibre security of the textile value chain,” S.V.
Arumugam, chairman of the largest textile group said in the
statement. A minimum of two and a half months consumption has to
be provided at the beginning of the year, he said.  Cotton Corp. of  India , the biggest state-run buyer, has
been asked to purchase the fiber from farmers, according to the
ministry. The government buys cotton at guaranteed prices to
guard farmers against distress sales in the open market.  Futures on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange of
India Ltd. in Mumbai gained for a second day, rebounding from an
8.5 percent decline in February. The April-delivery contract
advanced 2.5 percent to 847 rupees ($16.8) per 20 kilograms in
Mumbai.  The ministers will review the ban, supply and demand in the
domestic market, Kiran Dhingra, textiles secretary, said
yesterday. She ruled out a ban on exports of cotton yarn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  