-- Indonesia to Limit Foreign Ownership in Local Mines to 49%
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-03-07T08:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/indonesia-moves-to-limit-foreign-ownership-of-some-mines-to-stakes-of-49-.html
Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, will limit foreign companies from owning more than 49
percent of some mines, potentially limiting investment in the
world’s largest thermal-coal and tin exporter.  Foreign holders of mining licenses will have to cut their
stakes to 49 percent within 10 years of starting production,
from 80 percent, according to a  decree  signed by President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono on Feb. 21.  The change in regulation may deter overseas investment in
the country that’s also rich in nickel, copper and bauxite.
Indonesia is seeking to increase participation by domestic
investors in mining projects, according to the decree.  “Mining is a long-term and capital-intensive investment,”
said Syahrir Abubakar,  executive director  of the Indonesia
Mining Association, whose members include the local units of
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and  Newmont Mining Corp.
 (NEM) “If they have to divest within 10 years, they are not yet
reaching the break-even point of their investment.”  Foreign miners of coal and minerals will need to sell
shares to the central and regional governments, state-owned
companies or local private companies, according to the decree on
the website of the Directorate General of Coal and Minerals.  Coal mining will be less affected by the shareholding rule
as most of ventures are majority-owned by local investors,
Supriatna Suhala, executive director at the Indonesia Coal
Mining Association, said by telephone.  “The impact will be on minerals, especially on
newcomers,” Suhala said. “Mineral investment will require a
few billion dollars. People with a few hundred million dollars
can invest in coal mining, so this segment doesn’t really need
foreign investors.”  BHP, Freeport, Newmont  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is “reviewing this recent statement by
the President of Indonesia,” Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman at
BHP, said in an e-mail.  The world’s largest mining company holds a 75 percent stake
in the IndoMet Coal project in the Indonesian part of Borneo
island.  PT Adaro Energy (ADRO)  owns the rest.  Freeport operates the Grasberg mine in Papua province,
which accounted for 19 percent of the company’s revenue last
year and contains the world’s largest recoverable copper
reserve, according to the company.  Newmont runs the Batu Hijau copper mine in West Nusa
Tenggara province. The company and its overseas partners
including  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  have sold a 24 percent stake in their
venture to a unit of PT Bumi Resources and three local
administrations. The central government is in the process of
buying another 7 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 