-- Greece Readies Record Debt Swap
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-03-08T16:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/investors-with-39-of-greek-debt-agree-to-join-in-swap-iif-says.html
Greece moved closer to sealing the
biggest sovereign restructuring in history as investors
indicated they’ll participate in the nation’s debt swap.  Holders of about 60 percent of the Greek bonds eligible for
the deal, including Greece’s largest banks, most of the
country’s pension funds and more than 30 European banks and
insurers including  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , have
agreed to the offer so far. That brings the total to about 124
billion euros ($163 billion), based on data compiled by
Bloomberg from company reports and government statements.  The euro and stocks gained on speculation Greece was on the
verge of reaching its participation target by the deadline of 10
p.m. in Athens today. The goal of the exchange is to reduce the
206 billion euros of privately held Greek debt by 53.5 percent
and turn the tide against the debt crisis that has roiled  Europe 
for more than two years.  “A historic process will be completed tonight,” Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told Parliament in  Athens 
today. “If all goes well, tomorrow we can announce that we are
relieving Greeks of 105 billion euros of debt.”  While Greece would prefer a voluntary deal, the government
has said it will use collective action clauses to force holders
of Greek-law bonds into the swap if the so-called private sector
involvement falls short and it gets sufficient approval from
investors to change the bonds’ terms.  No Big Surprise  The swap “will go through” and markets won’t be jarred
should a majority fall short of the targeted amount,  Peter Bofinger , an economic adviser to the German government, said in
an interview from Berlin today with Bloomberg Television.  “The markets are aware of the risk that a majority for
voluntary restructuring is not available,” Bofinger said. “So
I think the surprise won’t be too big if tonight when they
realize the collective action clauses will have to be applied.”  Under the rules of the exchange, investors holding at least
50 percent of the eligible bonds must vote on the swap, and 66
percent of those must agree to amend the bonds to enable the
government to impose the collective action clauses, said
 Christoph Rieger , Commerzbank’s head of fixed-income strategy.  “Adding up the commitments to participate in the Greek
PSI, it is now clear that the CAC hurdles will very likely be
cleared,” Reiger said.  The 17-nation euro rose for a second day against the
dollar, gaining 0.65 percent to $1.3235 as of 4:06 p.m. in
Berlin. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 0.9 percent.  ‘Breathing Space’  “The fact is the markets had a very long time to be
prepared for this,”  Janet Henry , chief European economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“There’s a lot more optimism in markets relative to where we
were at the end of last year.” She cited the “breathing
space” provided by the  European Central Bank ’s liquidity offer
for banks.  In Frankfurt, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said it would be
“completely inappropriate” to comment on the Greek debt swap
since “the operation is unfolding.”  The Greek government has said it wants participation above
90 percent and is seeking a minimum level of 75 percent,
including with use of the collective action clauses.  Greece 
expects holders to accept the offer and is ready to force them
if necessary, Venizelos said in an interview earlier this week.  Participation Rate  Hans Humes, president of Greylock Capital Management,
expects holders of more than 80 percent of Greece’s government
bonds to accede to the swap, he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. Humes is a member of a committee of private
bondholders that negotiated the deal with the government.  Niek Hoek, chief executive officer of Amsterdam-based Delta
Lloyd NV, said today the insurer plans to take part in the swap
deal on condition that the CAC clause applies to all parties.  “We have indicated we will participate if everyone else
does,” he told reporters on a call. “Our base case expectation
is the clause will be declared applicable and that the debt will
be restructured in that fashion.”  Greece’s six largest banks, cumulatively the biggest
private holders of the country’s debt, plan to accept the offer,
the  Finance Ministry  said March 6. Greek pension funds with
about 17 billion euros of bonds will also join, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said on Real FM Radio yesterday.  Banks, Insurers  More than thirty banks and insurers that were on the
private creditor-investor committee for Greece plan to accept
the swap, according to an e-mailed statement from the Institute
of International Finance yesterday. Those investors hold an
aggregate 84 billion euros of bonds, said the Washington-based
IIF, which represents more than 450 financial firms globally.  Some investors are probably still evaluating Greece’s
offer,  Charles Dallara , the IIF’s managing director, told
reporters in  Rio de Janeiro  today. Investors should believe the
Greek government when it says this is the final offer, he said.
He reiterated that he expects a high level of participation,
without giving a specific number.  Investors who participate will get new bonds with a face
value of less than half the previous securities, longer
maturities and reduced interest rates, leading to a net present
value loss of more than 70 percent. The new bonds do come with
warrants that will provide extra income in years when Greek
economic growth exceeds certain thresholds.  Non-Greek Law  The amount of the country’s bonds issued under other than
Greek law totals 29 billion euros, or 14 percent of the amount
eligible for the swap, Frankfurt-based KfW said, citing the swap
invitation memorandum. Those bonds are governed by different
rules and wouldn’t be subject to the collective action clauses
that were retroactively added to the Greek-law securities.  “I do fully expect to be part of the collective action
clause,”  Patrick Armstrong , managing partner at Armstrong
Investment Managers in  London , said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview. He said he wouldn’t voluntarily join in
the swap because of the “minuscule” chance his bond maturing
March 20 will be redeemed at face value.  Compelling holdouts to take part will likely trigger
insurance contracts on the debt known as credit default swaps.  “I can’t see any scenario where people are forced to
participate against their will and they aren’t triggered,”
Armstrong said.  Participating Members  The members of the IIF creditor-investor committee who
agreed to participate are Ageas, Allianz SE, Alpha Bank SA,  Axa
SA (CS) , La Banque Postale, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Bank
of Cyprus, BNP Paribas, CNP Assurances SA,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,
Credit Agricole SA, Credit Foncier, DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Dexia SA, Emporiki Bank of
Greece SA, EFG Eurobank, Generali, Greylock, Groupama SA, HSBC
Holdings Plc, ING Bank,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , KBC Groep NV,
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, Marfin Popular Bank Plc, Metlife
Inc.,  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , Piraeus Bank SA, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Societe Generale SA and UniCredit SpA.  In  Germany ,  Munich Re , DZ Bank AG and KfW Group also said
they will take part in the exchange. FMS Wertmanagement, the bad
bank created to prevent the collapse of German property lender
Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, and Erste Abwicklungsanstalt, the
restructuring unit of state-owned lender WestLB AG, are both
planning to take part in the exchange, according to people
familiar with the matter. The two bad banks together hold as
much as 9.8 billion euros in Greek debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  