-- Lira Double Whammy Hits Banks as Basci Returns to Loan Cuts: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-08T15:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/lira-double-whammy-hits-banks-as-basci-returns-to-loan-cuts-turkey-credit.html
For the first time in three weeks,
Turkish central bank GovernorErdem Basci is restricting the
money available to banks, dealing a double blow to institutions
already suffering from higher  borrowing costs .  The Central Bank of the Republic of  Turkey  cut lending
through its one-week repurchase auctions every day this week,
the longest period of reductions since Feb. 16, as the lira
tumbled the most this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Turkey’s benchmark interbank rate for overnight lending jumped
to 8.32 percent on March 6 from 7.25 percent a week ago, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Basci, 45, is seeking to prevent a repeat of the rout in
2011 when the lira plunged 18 percent on speculation record-low
 interest rates  were fueling the world’s second highest  current-
account deficit . The lira weakened 2.4 percent against the
dollar in the four days to March 6, the most since Dec. 13, as
concerns mounted over the current account with three-year-high
Brent crude prices increasing the cost of oil imports.  “The  central bank  is likely to slow the fast depreciation
and it’s squeezing banks’ liquidity in an attempt to do that,”
Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Repo Lending  The central bank reduced so-called repo lending this week
to 18 billion liras ($10 billion) from 22 billion liras a week
ago,  data compiled  by Bloomberg show. The amount lent yesterday
was 3 billion liras, the least since Feb. 23 and the minimum set
out under a lending program published by the central bank each
fortnight. Basci provided banks 4 billion liras today.  When Basci tightened  monetary policy  last year to fend off
 currency depreciation , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said the policies threatened a recession.
Basci raised his lending rate for banks to as much as 12.5
percent from 5.75 percent on Oct. 28.  That policy reversed this year as the lira rebounded as
much as 7.5 percent in January and February and Basci switched
to lending at the one-week repo rate of 5.75 percent on Jan. 10.
He cut the highest overnight rate to 11.5 percent on Feb. 21.  “Investors are worried the bank could repeat old
mistakes,” Daniel Lenz, chief strategist at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  Bond Yields  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year  government bonds  in lira fell nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.15 percent this week,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield for Turkish dollar bonds over similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries dropped 11 basis points to 310 today,
compared with an average of 346 for emerging markets, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds using five-year
credit-default swaps dropped 6 basis points to 233 yesterday
after rising the most in two months a day earlier, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately-negotiated market. The spread was
188 for  Russia , rated three levels higher by  Standard & Poor’s ,
190 for  Poland  and 164 for  South Africa . The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
foreign debt agreements.  “The central bank policy of tightening in this volatile
environment makes sense,” Hakan Aksoy, Global  Emerging Markets 
and High Yield Portfolio Manager, who helps manage about $2.7
billion in emerging market and high yield debt at Pioneer
Investments in  London , said by telephone yesterday.  Lira Advanced  “I expect capital flows to resume and expect bond yields
to fall to 8.5 percent and possibly 8 percent by the end of the
year. I’d buy lira bonds if the lira weakens past 1.80” against
the dollar, Aksoy said.  The lira advanced for a second day and traded 0.2 percent
stronger at 1.7782 per dollar at 4:55 p.m. in Istanbul today. 
Yields (BENCH)  dropped 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to
9.15 percent, according to a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index of
the securities.  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National  Banks Index (XBANK) , which
includes the 16 largest listed banks in Turkey, fell as much as
4.3 percent this week, paring gains this year to 15.6 percent.  Turkey’s current-account deficit at 10 percent of gross
domestic product is the second highest worldwide after the U.S.,
 according to the International Monetary Fund . The gap surged as
economic growth jumped to 9.6 percent in the first nine months
of last year, the most after  China  among major economies.
 Inflation (TUCPIY)  climbed to 10.5 percent, the highest rate in three
years.  Monetary Policy  The central bank’s “piece-meal strategy” is “falling
short of signaling that it’s fully committed to inflation
targeting and current account rebalancing,”  Manik Narain , the
head of emerging market currency strategy at UBS AG in London,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “If
significant external shocks set in -- in the form of much higher
 oil prices  or significant outflows from emerging markets -- this
strategy won’t work and more conventional tightening will be
needed to anchor confidence.”  Brent oil for April settlement increased $1.37, or 1.1
percent, to $125.49 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange today in its second day of advances.  While the lira is tumbling this week along with most major
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, Turkey’s
current-account deficit makes the economy and banks more
vulnerable than other  developing countries , said Thanasis Petronikolos, who manages $200 million as head of emerging-
market debt at Barings Asset Management in London.  “We are underweight in Turkey because we see better
opportunities elsewhere,” he said. “It’s about the size of the
deficit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  