-- Iran Sanctions May Be Cutting Oil Flow as Ships Cancel Voyages
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-07T15:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/iran-sanctions-may-already-be-cutting-crude-flow-as-ships-cancel-voyages.html
U.S. and European sanctions designed
to pressure  Iran  over its nuclear program may be cutting the
Persian Gulf nation’s oil exports as vessels cancel trips to the
country.  Shipments have declined by 300,000 to 400,000 barrels a day
because sanctions are preventing Iran from selling oil, Amrita Sen, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said today by e-
mail. Half of the tankers booked to load at the country’s
largest terminal last month didn’t complete the voyages,
according to brokers, company officials and ship-tracking data.  Ship owners are avoiding trade with Iran because U.S.
financial sanctions are blocking payments and the main providers
of cover against risks such as oil spills are subject to the
European Union’s ban on the purchase, transportation, financing
and insurance of Iranian oil. While the EU embargo approved Jan.
23 exempts pre-existing contracts until July, it has already
made fewer ships available to carry Iranian crude.  “Iran is finding it increasingly difficult to sell crude,
and their production is sliding,”  Leo Drollas , chief economist
at the London-based  Centre for Global Energy Studies , said today
by phone. “They are suffering, there’s no doubt.”  Iran, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
second-biggest producer, pumped 3.45 million barrels a day last
month, the lowest level since September 2002, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in
2010, accounting for about 50 percent of government revenue and
80 percent of exports, the U.S. Energy Department estimates.  Twenty-two tankers were booked to call at Kharg Island in
February, according to brokers including New York-based Poten &
Partners Inc. Eleven of the ships failed to load cargoes
totaling 1.88 million deadweight tons, or about 13.8 million
barrels, according to ship-tracking data and company officials.  Iranian Oil  New York-based  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG) , Hamilton,
Bermuda-based  Frontline Ltd. (FRO)  and owners controlling more than
100 supertankers said between Feb. 9 and Feb. 11 they would stop
carrying Iranian oil. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and  Nippon Yusen (9101) 
K.K., the world’s two largest owners of the vessels, said they
won’t ship the country’s crude without insurance.  The EU embargo affects 95 percent of the world’s tankers
because they are insured by the 13 members of the London-based
 International Group  of P&I Clubs, according to Andrew Bardot,
its secretary and executive officer. Carrying Iranian oil
invalidates ships’ coverage against risks including spills and
collisions, he said Jan. 26. Asian insurers are also affected
because they buy reinsurance from the International Group.  The Asian Progress II, a supertanker owned by  Mitsui (9104) ,
canceled its trip to Iran, according to Poten & Partners. Akika Hamakawa, a Mitsui spokeswoman, declined to comment in an e-
mail.  An Indian state-owned oil tanker canceled a booking because
it was unable to arrive in time, Sunil Thapar, director of bulk
carriers and tankers at  Shipping Corp. (SCI)  of  India , said March 2.
At the same time, the company was in talks with the vessel’s
insurer about the effect of sanctions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  