-- Northern Irish Freedom Fight Turns Into Taxing Battle for U.K. Government
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/irish-freedom-fight-turns-into-taxing-issue-for-u-k-government.html
For  Belfast  clothing retailer
Michael Hamilton, power is money.  The owner of the  Bureau , a store in downtown Belfast
selling handcrafted Alden leather shoes at 600 pounds ($952) and
designer jeans for 300 pounds, wants Northern Ireland to wrest
control from the U.K. over taxes levied on companies and align
them with Ireland to the south. The 46-year-old reckons it would
attract employers and enrich the local population.  “Trading is brutal,” Hamilton said at his shop on Howard
Street in the Northern Irish capital. “Getting corporation tax
cut and attracting high-end jobs would be brilliant for us. It
would be great if those people were living in Belfast.”  Political wrangling over who controls what within the U.K.
is raising questions about the constitutional future of the
country more than at any time for three centuries as Scotland
pushes for independence. Devolved governments in  Northern
Ireland  and Wales are seeking power over taxation and spending.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  set up a committee last year
to look at demands by the administration in Belfast to opt out
of the U.K.-wide company tax rate of 26 percent. The province
plans to slash it to no more than 12.5 percent, the rate in the
Republic of Ireland, which won sovereignty from Britain in 1922.  “ The recession  has hastened the process of getting
economic autonomy from  London ,”  Mike Smyth , head of economics
at the University of Ulster, said in a telephone interview last
month. “It is inevitable that they will look for further
autonomy. Corporation tax is essential. Attracting the big
multinationals here with a low  corporation tax  rate is key.”  Negotiations  The proposal to cede company tax powers to Belfast was
started in May by Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Owen Paterson and is being examined by a committee at the U.K.
Parliament at Westminster in London.  “We continue to work with U.K. government ministers to
move this work forward as quickly as possible,” the  Finance
Ministry  in Belfast said in an e-mailed statement on March 1. A
report on the proposal to hand company tax powers to Belfast
from London is scheduled for the summer and the U.K. government
will decide whether to approve the plan, the ministry said.  Northern Ireland, whose 1.8 million people make up 2.9
percent of the U.K.’s population, is the region in the country
most dependent on state jobs and  government spending , according
to the  Office for National Statistics .  Almost 28 percent of the workforce is employed by the state
in Northern Ireland, compared with a U.K. average of 20.6
percent, the statistics office said. In  Wales , the proportion is
25.6 percent and 23.7 percent in Scotland.  Cutting Jobs  The U.K. government aims to cut more than 700,000 public-
sector jobs over the next six years as part of austerity
measures aimed at reducing the  budget deficit .  Private employers in Northern Ireland, part of the U.K.
since it was separated from the rest of Ireland in 1921, created
fewer than 3,000 jobs last year, compared with 13,000 in the
Republic of Ireland via multinational companies enticed by the
lower rate, according to data by Invest NI.  The number of unemployed in the province has doubled over
the past three years, said Richard Ramsey, a Belfast-based
economist at Ulster Bank Ltd., part of Royal Bank of  Scotland 
Group Plc. Benefit claimants represent 6.9 percent of the
working population, the second-highest of any region in the
U.K., behind the northeast of  England , he said.  Gap Widens  “The disparity between Northern Ireland and the rest of
the U.K. is widening,” Ramsey said. “The region needs a game
changer, corporation tax would be a big part of that.”  Companies such as Bank of New York Mellon Corp. have 
chosen to base themselves in Dublin’s  International Financial 
Services Centre .  Titanic Quarter , a 185-acre development in 
Belfast opened in 2008 on a dockside development named after 
the ill-fated liner built in a nearby dockyard, has so far 
attracted one client, Citigroup Inc.  Northern Ireland’s power-sharing  assembly  was revived in
2008 as part of a peace deal to end the three decade-long
conflict known as the  Troubles  that claimed 3,500 lives.  While remaining in the U.K., the province now needs more
economic freedom from London to revive the economy, said Nigel Dodds, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, the
biggest in Northern Ireland.  “People aren’t asking about Irish unity, they are asking
about bread and butter issues,” said Dodds.  Partitioned Country  Majority-Protestant Northern Ireland was partitioned from
the rest of Ireland, which is mainly Catholic, following a
three-year war between the  Irish Republican Army  and the
British. In 1969, the  Troubles  began, with the IRA fighting for
a united Ireland in a campaign that wasn’t officially declared
over until 2005.  “Its about time we got corporate tax devolved,” Glyn
Roberts, chief executive officer of the  Northern Ireland
Independent Retail Traders Association , which represents more
than 1,300 businesses in the region, said. “It’s tough times
for businesses here. We could learn some lessons from Dublin
when it comes to attracting the big companies in.”  At the clothing store in Belfast, most of Hamilton’s sales
are online. He longs for the passing trade of Dublin retailers,
100 miles (161 kilometers) across the border where firms from
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  to  Facebook Inc. (FB)  have bases.  “Locally it’s so tough,” Hamilton said last week.
“Corporation tax would bring proper quality jobs into the
country. It would deliver a caliber of customer that we just
don’t have here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  