-- Misled by Myths About Moonlighting in America: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/misled-by-myths-about-moonlighting-in-america-peter-orszag.html
Here’s a quick quiz: Do more people
moonlight today than did in the 1990s? Are workers without a
high-school degree more likely to work a second job than college
graduates? And do immigrants moonlight more often than native-
born Americans?  I’d bet most people would answer yes to all three
questions. If so, they would be wrong on all three -- at least
according to the official data. The surprising reality of second
jobs in America underscores the importance of using real data to
examine the labor market. Casual guesses can be misleading.  As part of its monthly survey of households, the Bureau of
Labor Statistics at the U.S. Department of Labor collects
information about workers who hold more than one job. In January
2012, about 5 percent of workers indicated they worked at least
two jobs. That share is lower than it was during the 1990s. In
January 1997, for example, more than 6 percent of workers had
multiple jobs.  Why the decline? No one seems to know for sure. One
possibility, noted by Larry Katz of  Harvard University , is that
it is a statistical quirk: Workers are now more likely to work
for temp agencies than during the 1990s, and may report only one
“job” even though they work at multiple locations through the
agency. But the rise in temp work is unlikely to be large enough
to explain the change in the moonlighting rate.  Another possibility is that, in the aftermath of the
financial crisis, workers lack the opportunity to work a second
job. Some empirical studies have suggested that moonlighting is
pro-cyclical: It rises in a strong economy and declines in a
weak one. Recently, as Catherine Rampell, an economics reporter
for the New York Times, has observed, the states with the
highest rate of multiple-job holding have been the ones with the
lowest unemployment rates. If that inverse relationship between
moonlighting and joblessness is universal, then the overall rate
may be depressed by the high number of people out of work
nationally.  The problem with the Great Recession explanation, though,
is that the rate of multiple-job holding started to decline in
the late 1990s, and over the past five years it has been
relatively flat.  The percentage of people holding multiple jobs has held
steady for the past few months.  That means it can’t answer
another riddle: Why, in recent months, has the increase in the
number of employed people differed so much according to whom you
ask? The figure reported in the Bureau of Labor Statistics
monthly household survey has been growing more rapidly than the
number reported to the bureau by companies. One reason the two
approaches can differ is that some workers have more than one
job (so businesses count them more than once).  Over the past year, the increase in employment in the
household survey has been 8 percent higher than that in the
survey of companies. In January, the difference was larger
still: Households reported 631,000 added jobs, while businesses
reported only 243,000. (The lower number was better publicized.)
Yet, in that month, the share of people holding multiple jobs
did not change, so it can’t explain the difference.  Even accounting for all the known differences between the
surveys -- for example, the household one counts self-employed
people but the business one doesn’t -- still leaves job growth
in the household survey at 491,000, more than double that in the
other one. This remaining difference suggests that the poll of
businesses may be undercounting job growth, which would be good
news for the labor market. One reason is that new companies are
likely to be under-represented in the business survey as the
economy begins to recover.  The data on moonlighting contain some other surprises, as
well. In 2011, for example, less than 3 percent of workers
without a high-school degree worked multiple jobs, according to
an analysis by Steven Hipple of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
That compared with almost 4 percent of workers who did have a
high-school degree, almost 6 percent of those who had a
bachelor’s degree and more than 7 percent of those with a
doctorate.  Perhaps less surprising are the reasons people give for
working a second or third job: Among those who hadn’t finished
high school, 80 percent said “to meet expenses or pay off debt”
or “to earn extra money.” Among those with a doctorate, by
contrast, less than 25 percent offered those reasons. Almost a
third said “enjoys the second job.”  Hipple also shows that only 3.1 percent of immigrants
worked a second job, compared with 5.3 percent of native-born
Americans. Again, that is not the pattern that might have been
expected (although part of the difference may reflect second
jobs in the gray or informal economy that may not be reported in
surveys).  At least some of the data conform to common perceptions,
however. About a quarter of male firefighters work a second job,
along with a fifth of male paramedics and more than a tenth of
female dental hygienists.  But the biggest take-away from the data on multiple-job
holding is that anecdotes and perceptions can be misleading. So
it is important that we have evidence to check them. The Obama
administration’s budget for fiscal year 2013 includes $618
million for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a modest increase of
$9 million over the current level. Part of the extra money would
finance a supplement to the household survey, which would, among
other things, ask questions about why people hold more than one
job. This would be money very well spent.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  