-- History Blinds Europe to a Germany Worth Emulating: Harold James
-- B y   H a r o l d   J a m e s
-- 2012-03-07T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/history-blinds-europe-to-a-germany-worth-emulating-harold-james.html
A familiar specter is haunting
 Europe : How to live with a powerful Germany that seems to act
according to its own interests, and whose policies are driven by
domestic politics.  Headlines across Europe are stoking old fantasies and
fears. Yet, this time, the appropriate answer to that question
is surprising, even shocking. The best way to deal with a
resurgent Germany is for its partners and neighbors to imitate
the institutional features, including monetary and fiscal
 stability , that have made that country so successful and
powerful.  That will require overcoming a long history of troubled
relations. The so-called German problem dominated European and
world affairs from 1871 -- when the German Empire was proclaimed
by Otto von Bismarck in the Hall of Mirrors in Versailles --
until 1945, when the Nazi regime was defeated.  From 1945 to 1990, the “problem” looked as if it had been
solved because  Germany  was divided and powerless. The Federal
Republic was an economic giant, yet its politicians ensured that
it was a political dwarf.  The question arose again with reunification, in 1990.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl tried to produce a new solution by
adopting a formulation of the great writer Thomas Mann and
promising a European Germany rather than a German Europe.  Alliance With France  The solution for Germany, for both the first postwar West
German chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, and for Kohl, who viewed
himself as Adenauer’s political grandson, relied primarily on a
strong Franco-German relationship. Adenauer’s greatest political
bridge-building occurred with  Charles de Gaulle , who envisioned
a Europe that was driven by German economic strength, guided by
French political will and excluded the U.K. Later, some less
Anglophobic French politicians liked to portray a Europe where
the U.K. and  France  would provide security, with Germany still
in a subservient position; Germany and France, meanwhile, would
provide economic dynamism, compensating for a feeble and
deindustrialized U.K.  It is clear today that the Franco-German relationship alone
is no longer capable of managing the complex and convoluted
political tangle of Europe or of sorting out its economic and
financial mess. That is because the power disparity between the
two nations has become too great, as a result of relative French
weakness.  When  Chancellor Angela Merkel  recently appeared to insert
herself in the French elections by openly backing President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s re-election bid, that support rapidly proved
counterproductive for her French friend. Sarkozy was lampooned
as a puppet of Merkel, the rear end of a strange “Merkozy”
monster.  Sarkozy’s Socialist Party opponent,  Francois Hollande ,
could point out that the incumbent president’s re-election would
be the latest recent instance of a European leader imposed by
German diktat, as some critics claimed was the case for Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  of  Greece , Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
of  Italy , and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  in  Spain . These
politicians are accused of carrying out Germany’s wishes by
subjecting their nations to economic orthodoxy and budgetary
austerity, at the expense of domestic interests.  Merkel has become a new hate figure in Europe, not just in
Greek newspapers that present her as a Nazi reimposing a brutal
German occupation, but also in the U.K.’s financial press, which
portrays her as imposing mindless and costly austerity on Europe
as a way to satisfy the greed of Germany’s powerful  exporting
industries .  Unity of Purpose  This hostility shouldn’t come as a surprise. Europe’s
relative stability in the post-1945 era can be explained not
only by the strength of a Franco-German partnership but also by
the unifying power of what Europeans disliked.  Europeans have always depended on foreign hate figures. For
most of the  Cold War , that threat was the  Soviet Union . In the
2000s, they sneered at President  George W. Bush . These days,
without much of a Russian threat, and an amiable U.S. president,
a new target has emerged: the woman leading the European Union’s
largest and most powerful state.  Germany’s political language has radically evolved, too, as
the country has shown an increasing willingness to assert
itself. On May 19, 2010, Merkel told the German Bundestag: “The
rules must not be oriented toward the weak, but toward the
strong. That is a hard message. But it is an economic necessity.
That must have consequences for the European Union.”  The new tone seems to echo Bismarck’s language on the eve
of German unification, when he spoke about decisions being made
not by speeches and majority decisions but by blood and iron.  Yet in today’s Europe, Germany and Merkel aren’t completely
alone.  The German negotiating stance in the never-ending debt
negotiations -- resistance to the possibility of  perpetual
fiscal transfers  to southern Europe -- is shared, not by France,
but by many of Germany’s smaller neighbors or near neighbors,
such as the Netherlands,  Finland  and Slovakia, which are part of
the common currency, as well as by  Poland  and  Sweden , which
aren’t in the euro area. Last week, 25 of the 27 EU nations
adopted a German-backed fiscal compact that sets enforceable
caps on deficits and gives greater oversight over national
budgets to European authorities. The agreement may be submitted
to the German parliament for ratification this week.  When Poland’s foreign minister recently called for a
stronger Germany that would assert real leadership in Europe,
the speech provided a striking illustration of the shift of
historic relationships. In 1990, Poland was still thinking of
institutional mechanisms in the EU and in NATO that might offer
some protection against German power. Now it needs Germany to
protect it against financial strain and turbulence.  There are some 19th century parallels, but they aren’t
found in Germany’s political plans. The most distinguished
economic commentator of that time was the British journalist
 Walter Bagehot , who wrote in 1869 that there should be “one
Teutonic money and one Latin money; the latter mostly confined
to the West of Europe, and the former circulating through the
world. Such a monetary state would be an immense improvement on
the present.”  He added: “Looking to the commercial activity of the
Teutonic races, and the comparative torpor of the Latin races,
no doubt the Teutonic money would be most frequently
preferred.”  The real attraction of the modern German model shouldn’t be
interpreted in terms of the occasional flourishes of Bismarckian
rhetoric in parliamentary speeches. The appeal of Germany lies
instead in its particular model for generating wealth and
prosperity in a globalized world economy: the development of
dynamic export industries, based on competitive advantage, in a
world of technological progress. That is the model that is now
attracting Germany’s neighbors but also reformers in southern
Europe.  Those German or North and Central European initiatives are
ferociously resisted by a plethora of vested interests, in
Mediterranean Europe and in France. The German model involves
fiscal restraint as an essential condition for private-sector
initiative. That template isn’t a vehicle of German power
politics in a 19th-century sense, but rather a building stone
for economic success.  (Harold James, a professor of history and international
affairs at  Princeton University , is the author, most recently,
of “The Creation and Destruction of Value: The Globalization
Cycle.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Harold James at  hjames@princeton.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  