-- Ithaca Energy Seen Turning Korean With 70% Gain on North Sea Oil: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-07T21:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ithaca-energy-turning-korean-with-70-profit.html
Ithaca Energy Inc. (IAE) ’s shareholders
are poised to secure a 70 percent windfall by enticing companies
from Korea National Oil Corp. to  EnQuest Plc (ENQ)  with the promise of
the cheapest oil in the North Sea.  Shares of Ithaca, which received a non-binding takeover
proposal in January, surged to a  four-year high  last week after
saying it had been approached by more potential buyers. The
Calgary-based company still traded yesterday at 5.45 times
estimates for earnings next year, less than 97 percent of
comparable explorers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ithaca is attracting interest as an embargo of Iranian oil
and stronger global growth pushed  Brent crude  to its highest
price in three years. Casimir Capital projects that Ithaca will
boost  North Sea  output fivefold by 2013 and is worth C$3.75 a
share as an independent company, which traded at C$2.20 before
the January announcement. In a takeover, Korea National Oil,
which expanded in the North Sea after acquiring Dana Petroleum
Plc in 2010, and EnQuest, owner of a well with Ithaca, are among
the most probable buyers,  RBC Capital Markets  said.  Potential acquirers can “buy a company that has done all
the heavy lifting,”  Irwin Michael , a Toronto-based  money
manager  at ABC Funds, which oversees about $1 billion and owns
Ithaca shares, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not easy
operating in the North Sea. It doesn’t take very much to get a
few aggressive acquirers coming in and saying, ‘We like that,’
and suddenly getting a bidding war.”  Today, Ithaca rose 2.6 percent to C$3.16 in Toronto.  Takeover Speculation  Philip Dennis, a spokesman for Ithaca, declined to comment
beyond the company’s statement on March 1.  Ithaca’s board of directors said in the statement that it
is in shareholders’ interest to enter discussions with all
“bona fide interested parties.”  Incorporated in 2004,  Ithaca  explores for oil and gas at
its 12 developments in the North Sea, which lies between the
U.K.,  Norway  and  Denmark . Ithaca’s advance started on Jan. 20,
when takeover speculation began to emerge. Ithaca said on Jan.
23 that it received a confidential, non-binding offer, helping
it post the biggest  two-day gain  in three years.  The stock rose further last week, reaching its highest
price since January 2008, after Ithaca said other potential
bidders expressed interest in the exploration company.  At yesterday’s price of C$3.08 a share, Ithaca was valued
at about 5.45 times analysts’ per-share  earnings estimates  for
2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s a discount of 55
percent to the median multiple for 169 oil and gas exploration
companies with more than $500 million in market capitalization.  Strait of Hormuz  The valuation is underpinned by projections that Ithaca
will earn about C$162 million ($162 million) in  net income  next
year, three times the amount analysts had anticipated for 2011.  Kevin Shaw, a Calgary-based analyst at Casimir Capital,
says Ithaca will produce 15,969 barrels of oil equivalent a day
by the end of 2013, versus 3,102 barrels last year, according to
a report dated Feb. 29.  Based on his estimates for the net asset value of the
company’s  proven and probable reserves  and its debt-adjusted
cash flow this year and next, Ithaca is worth C$3.75 a share, or
C$972 million. That’s a 70 percent premium to its value before
the takeover speculation and 22 percent higher than its price
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ithaca has become more attractive as a takeover candidate,
according to ABC Funds’ Michael, as  Iran  threatened to block oil
shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz  if its own exports are
blocked. The strait is the transit route for about 20 percent of
the world’s globally traded crude.  Iran Premium  Brent oil for April delivery, the European benchmark
contract, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange rose
as high as $128.40 a barrel last week. On an intraday basis, it
was the most expensive since July 2008.  Amrita Sen, a London-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said
March 1 that the fuel may rise to a record $150 a barrel this
year if political tensions stemming from Iran’s nuclear program
increase. Oil demand growth in  Asia  is also rising faster than
current prices indicate, leaving worldwide spare capacity
“extremely thin,” according to Barclays.  “Quarterly averages of $140 per barrel or $150 per barrel
are distinctly possible” in the second half, Sen wrote. “This
is not our current base case, though it does seem to be moving
closer to becoming reality.”  Global economic growth  will accelerate to 4.5 percent in
2013 and then expand at faster rates in each of the next three
years, according to forecasts from the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund .  Potential Acquirers  Korea National Oil,  South Korea ’s state-run oil company,
can acquire Ithaca to help achieve its overseas production
target and expand further in the North Sea, according to James Hosie, an Edinburgh-based analyst at RBC.  South Korea, which imports almost all its oil and natural
gas, plans to increase production at overseas fields to 35
percent of imported volumes by 2020, more than double the
proportion last year. The energy developer, known as KNOC, plans
to spend as much as $4 billion this year on buying overseas oil
assets, Im Hong Geun, an executive vice president at the
company, said in an interview in December.  EnQuest, which aims to boost production to more than 40,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2014, and  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co. (TAQA)  could also acquire Ithaca, Hosie said.  Ithaca and EnQuest already work together in the North Sea,
jointly owning an interest in the Crathes exploration well.  Abu
Dhabi  National Energy, the state-run utility known as Taqa, last
month bought 50 percent stakes in three oil and gas licenses in
the area from Fairfield Energy Ltd.  Relative Value  “An acquirer like KNOC and Taqa and EnQuest is basically
buying a self-funding add-on to their current business that
gives them additional production growth in the near term,”
Hosie said in a telephone interview. “An industry player at
this point is going to place a higher value on the business than
a player in the stock market would.”  Lee Za Kang, a spokesman for Anyang, South Korea-based
Korea National Oil, declined to comment on whether it is
interested in acquiring Ithaca. Conor McClafferty, a spokesman
for London-based EnQuest, and Allan Virtanen of Taqa in Abu
Dhabi said the companies don’t comment on market speculation.  Stephane Foucaud, a London-based analyst at FirstEnergy
Capital Corp., said he doesn’t anticipate an offer higher than
209 pence, or C$3.29 a share, for the company’s London-traded
stock. He used  cash flow  estimates for each of Ithaca’s assets,
the cost of capital and tax losses.  Bidding Contest  The estimate is less than a 7 percent premium to Ithaca’s
current price, which has already more than doubled from a low of
C$1.49 a share in October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We don’t see that much potential for the buyer to pay a
big premium,” Foucaud said in a telephone interview. “The
acquisition premium is already worked in the share price.”  Having multiple parties interested in acquiring Ithaca
increases the chance that  shareholders  will get a higher price,
according to ABC Funds’ Michael.  “In many cases, the stock market is not giving full value
to a lot of the work” that  oil companies  such as Ithaca are
doing, he said. “Hopefully you get a bit of a bidding war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 