-- Ivy Colleges Shunning Bottled Water Jab at $22 Billion Industry
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ivy-colleges-shunning-bottled-water-jab-at-22-billion-industry.html
Bottled water is coming under attack
on college campuses.  More than 90 schools, among them  Brown University  and
 Harvard University  are banning the sale or restricting the use
of plastic water bottles, unnerving the $22 billion retail
packaged-water industry in the U.S. The  University of Vermont  is
the latest to join the movement, announcing in January it would
stop sales early next year.  Freshmen at colleges across the country are being greeted
with stainless-steel bottles in their welcome packs and
encouraged to use hydration stations where free, filtered water
is available. Brown, which used to sell about 320,000 bottles of
water a year in vending machines and campus stores, ended sales
in dining halls in 2010. Harvard and  Dartmouth College  are
installing hydration stations in new buildings to reduce trash.  “The product just doesn’t make common sense,” Sarah
Alexander, 20, an environmental-studies major at Hanover, New
Hampshire-based Dartmouth, said by e-mail. “Companies are
taking something that is freely accessible to everyone on the
Dartmouth campus, packaging it in a non-reusable container and
then selling it under the pretense that it is somehow better
than tap water.”  In response to the growing movement, the water industry
released a video on YouTube last month poking fun at “ Ban the
Bottle ,” an organization that advocates banning one-time-use
plastic water bottles. The spot, which features “ Star Wars ”-
like music and flashbacks of antiwar demonstrations, says
bottled water is a safe, convenient product that is “one of the
healthiest drinks on the shelf” and that its packaging is
recyclable.  ‘Serious Issues’  There “are really serious issues over here, and now you’re
dealing with bottled water?” Joe Doss, president of the
 International Bottled Water Association , based in Alexandria,
 Virginia , said in a phone interview. While “there are anti-
bottled-water groups going from campus to campus,” Doss said he
doesn’t consider it “a big threat” at this point.  More than 9 billion gallons of bottled water were sold in
the U.S. last year, and the industry is growing 5.4 percent a
year, according to Gary Hemphill, senior vice president of the
Beverage Marketing Corp., a New York consulting firm. Sales to
colleges and universities aren’t tracked separately.  The bottling industry may be worried about losing brand
loyalty from college kids, said Eric Meliton, an industry
analyst with  Frost & Sullivan .  “If they lose that access, yeah, you would see a big
dropoff on that demographic,” Meliton said in a phone interview.
College students are “on the go, they’ve got backpacks and they
may not choose to use bottled water.”  Saving Money  Reducing or eliminating plastic bottled water saves
students money and has the environmental benefit of reducing the
need to truck bottles across the country, Niles Barnes, project
coordinator with the Association for the Advancement of
Sustainability in Higher Education, said in a phone interview.  “It’s a really tangible, sustainable activity that
students can get behind,” Barnes said.  Students at Brown, in Providence,  Rhode Island , started a
campaign in 2010 to reduce bottled water consumption and the
school stopped selling it in dining halls that September. Brown
holds about 50,000 bottles in reserve in case of a natural
disaster or to distribute at graduation or other events, Chris
Powell, director of sustainable energy and environmental
initiatives, said in an interview.  “There’s an environmental impact to the waste” of
disposable water bottles, Powell said. “We realized there were
alternatives that we could put in place that everybody was
agreeable to.”  Culture Shift  Dartmouth  is trying to “shift the student culture” about
purchasing bottled water, said Rosi Kerr, the school’s director
of sustainability.  Princeton University , in Princeton,  New
Jersey , promotes a “ Drink Local ” initiative to reduce plastic-
bottle waste.  Some departments at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard
have banned the purchase of bottled water for meetings.  Cornell
University  has a reduction campaign, as does  Yale University .
The  University of Pennsylvania  encourages administrative offices
to use hydration stations rather than bottled water.  Sitting back and “doing nothing” as environmental groups
campaigned to ban bottled water wasn’t an option for the water
industry, the  water association ’s Doss said. His niece, a
student at The College of Charleston, alerted him to an effort
on her campus, and he said there is an “active movement”
across the nation.  More than a dozen U.S. schools have campuswide bans on the
sale of plastic water bottles, according to Barnes.  Sweetened Beverages  Some colleges with a history of activism have rejected bans
on packaged water. The  University of California , Berkeley opted
against the idea on concern it would drive students toward
sweetened beverages, said Trish Ratto, a university health
services official. So did  Columbia University , after students
said they’d buy it elsewhere, according to Nilda Mesa, assistant
vice president of environmental stewardship at the New York-
based college.  Brown philosophy major Terrence George, 21, calls the
university’s policy an “unwarranted assault” on bottled water.  “The bottled water ban is downright absurd,” he said.
“I’m buying apple juice and tea every night instead of water.
Last time I went to the dentist, I have a few more cavities than
usual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  