-- J&J Hip Distributor Drops Sanctions Bid Against Atlanta Firm
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-03-07T18:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/j-j-hip-distributor-drops-sanctions-bid-against-atlanta-law-firm-over-data.html
A distributor of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
hip implants and a former sales representative dropped a request
for court sanctions against an Atlanta law firm that they said
used confidential patient data to solicit clients.  The request stemmed from one of more than 4,500 lawsuits
over the recall by J&J’s DePuy unit of its ASR hips in 2010. The
firm,  Childers, Schlueter & Smith LLC , filed five lawsuits
against the ASR distributor and sales representative on behalf
of patients including Candace and Gordon Hershberger of Georgia.  Candace Hershberger had her hips replaced with ASR devices,
and both need replacement again, according to a February 2011
complaint against DC Medical LLC, an ASR distributor; MJW
Orthopedics, a former ASR sales representative; and Michael J.
Wright, the sole MJW shareholder.  In the pretrial exchange of evidence, the firm got 130,000
pages of documents, including one with patient-identifying
information that the defendants failed to black out. DC Medical
and MJW claimed Childers Schlueter used the information to
solicit new clients, violating federal law protecting patient
privacy. They sought sanctions against the  law firm .  The firm denied the claim at a Feb. 9 hearing in state
court in Decatur, Georgia. On March 2, State Court Judge Alvin
T. Wong signed a consent order saying both sides “resolved all
outstanding issues” and dismissing the sanctions motion.  ‘Above Board’  “We are pleased that the defendants’ motion has been
dismissed,” said attorney C. Andrew Childers in an e-mail.
“The court’s order cements what we have known all along -- that
all of our efforts have been above board and proper.”  An attorney for the DC Medical and MJW, N. Karen Deming of
Troutman Sanders LLP, said in an e-mail, “The motion was
withdrawn only after plaintiff lawyers agreed to return the
documents and not to solicit new clients based on information
they should not have had -- which is the primary relief we had
requested.”  The case is Hershberger v. DC Medical LLC, 11A34982-2,
State Court of DeKalb County,  Georgia  (Decatur).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 