-- Asia’s Expansion Faces Headwinds as Greece Debt Deal Moves Closer: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-08T06:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/japan-posts-record-current-account-deficit-on-energy-costs-1-.html
Australian employers unexpectedly
cut jobs,  South Korea ’s central bank warned of “downside”
risks to growth and Japan reported an increasing reliance on
energy imports that threatens to damp its economic rebound.  Today’s indicators highlighted headwinds for the Asia-
Pacific region’s expansion as policy makers evaluate whether to
add to stimulus implemented in recent months. With inflation
pressures remaining, South Korean,  New Zealand  and Indonesian
officials kept benchmark  interest rates  unchanged.  “Global trade has slowed so Asian countries heavily
reliant on exports are certainly suffering,” said  Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s second-largest bank.
“Interest rates are likely to remain unchanged for now, but the
door is certainly still open for further easing on the basis of
slowing trade and therefore slowing growth.”  In  Australia , the number of people employed fell by 15,400
in February as currency gains hurt tourism and manufacturing, a
statistics bureau report showed. Japan’s current account deficit,
the first since 2009, was a record 437.3 billion yen ($5.4
billion) in January after nuclear plant shutdowns drove up
energy imports. While seasonal factors played a role, the data
pointed to constraints on the nation’s rebound after last year’s
earthquake and economic contraction.  Asian stocks rose for the first time in four days as Greece
moved closer to the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history, a move that would aid the region’s exports by helping
to contain the crisis weighing on European demand. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 1.2 percent as of 3:35 p.m. in  Tokyo . A
debt-swap offer for Greek bondholders ends at 10 p.m. Athens
time.  Shrinking Economy  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank an annualized 0.7
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, the Cabinet Office
said, compared with a preliminary estimate of a 2.3 percent
contraction. Higher-than-estimated  capital spending  was the
biggest factor in the revision, which compared with a median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of a 0.6 percent decline.  South Korea’s central bank said downside risks to growth
are outweighing upside risks. While consumer prices are unlikely
to rise sharply, oil costs add inflation pressures, it said.  Elsewhere around the world today, data in the U.S. may show
that first-time claims for jobless benefits for the week ended
March 3 matched a four-year low, according to the median
forecast in Bloomberg News survey of 51 economists.  The  Bank of England  and the  European Central Bank  are
expected to keep rates on hold, separate surveys show. German
industrial production rose 1.1 percent in January after a 2.9
percent decline the previous month, a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts indicated.  Yen Slides  In  Asia , the yen slipped after the current-account data
underscored concern that a deepening trade gap will erode
 Japan ’s status as the world’s largest creditor nation. With 52
of 54 nuclear reactors shut in the aftermath of the March 11
earthquake and tsunami that triggered meltdowns at the Fukushima
plant, the nation is at risk of summer power shortages that
disrupt production and increase costs for manufacturers.  Weakness in exports also contributed to the shortfall.  “Fuel imports -- for generating electricity -- will remain
high for as long as nuclear power is excluded from Japan’s
energy mix,’” David Rea, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London , said before the data. At the same time, seasonal
factors were “an important cause” of the temporary deficit, he
said.  Wave of Destruction  The yen traded at 81.35 per dollar as of 3:35 p.m. in Tokyo,
down 0.3 percent.  The quake last year, Japan’s strongest on record with a
magnitude of 9, and the resulting tsunami destroyed or damaged
more than 1 million houses and is estimated by the government to
have caused 16.9 trillion yen of damage. More than 19,000 people
were left dead or missing.  The economy may be poised to return to growth this quarter
as reconstruction work kicks in and after monetary easing by the
central bank weakened the yen, aiding exporters such as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Japan’s most recent previous deficit in the current account
was a 133 billion yen shortfall in January 2009, also the record
before today’s figure. While the nation’s income surplus
prevents any immediate swing to becoming a deficit nation,
JPMorgan Securities Japan forecasts that change may come in 2015,
while  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  estimates about 2020.  “When this happens the government will need to look to
overseas creditors to finance its fiscal borrowing needs,” Rea
said. The higher returns that international investors would
require, combined with the existing debt burden, could lead to
public finances reaching “crisis point,” he said.  ‘Becoming Greece’  Japan risks going down the same road as  Greece  as the cost
of funding the world’s largest public debt rises in years ahead,
Takatoshi Ito, a former senior Ministry of Finance official,
said in a March 5 interview in Tokyo.  When local investors reach their limit for funding the
nation’s bonds, the  Bank of Japan  “will either have to monetize
the debt or we will need foreigners to purchase bonds and yields
will jump,” said Ito, who was deputy vice finance minister from
1999 to 2001. “That will be the start of Japan becoming
Greece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  