-- JPMorgan No.1 in Bond Fees as Firms Refinance at Lower Rates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-07T16:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/jpmorgan-no-1-in-bond-fees-as-firms-refinance-at-lower-rates-1-.html
Low  interest rates  proved mightier
than concern about  Europe ’s precarious economics in 2011. The
opportunity to refinance debt at low rates drove $2.9 trillion
in corporate bond sales, the second-highest total on record,
after 2009’s $3.2 trillion.  Corporate and sovereign-bond deals around the world
generated a total of $13.6 billion in fees for bankers, down
from $14.9 billion in 2010, according to data compiled for
Bloomberg Markets’ ranking of the best-paid investment banks.  JPMorgan led the list, taking or sharing the top spot for
the fourth straight year as it earned $1.05 billion, down from
$1.26 billion in 2010.  Barclays Capital  jumped to No. 2 from No.
4 in 2010, after earning $906 million in fees, up from $870
million in 2010, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its April
issue.  As of early March, bond markets were off to a promising
start in 2012, with financial company debt leading the way,
according to Arthur Tetyevsky, a credit strategist at  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF)  in New York. He expects U.S. investment-grade
corporate bonds to return from 4 to 5 percent more than
Treasuries in 2012.  “We are encouraged by the strong demand for credit,”
Tetyevsky says.  Fees fell in 2011 because investors pulled back from the
market in the third quarter as Europe’s financial troubles
deepened. A strong start to the year, spurred by the expectation
that rates would rise, helped stoke demand for high-yield bonds
and spurred corporations to act before borrowing costs
increased.  High-Yield Swoon  “We had a very active first half when the high-yield index
tightened to an all-time low of 6.75 percentage points in May,
which drove issuance in that market,” says Andy O’Brien, global
co-head of debt capital markets at  JPMorgan (JPM) , referring to the
JPMorgan index that measures the average spread of high-yield
bonds against Treasuries. As concern about Europe increased, the
spread widened to 10 percentage points in October, before ending
the year at 8 percentage points, O’Brien says.  Bond issuance slowed dramatically in the second half,
pushing down fees for the year. For the top five banks in the
ranking, fees for high-yield debt issuance, which earns higher
commission rates for firms, dropped 26.3 percent last year
compared with 2010. Investment-grade fees for the five fell 9.5
percent, while commissions from western Europe dropped
21.7 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Wheels Come Off  “The third quarter really took everyone’s wheels off,”
says Richard Zogheb, co-head of capital markets origination for
the Americas at  Citigroup (C) , No. 3 in the bond fee ranking. “It
became very scary that it was possible that the European crisis
could spread beyond  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  and encompass
Italy and  Spain .”  The European crisis led to an increase in the issuance of
bonds denominated in U.S. dollars by banks and companies outside
the country -- debt known as Yankee bonds.  “More than 40 percent of U.S. dollar-denominated deals
came from Yankee issuers last year, and we were a clear
beneficiary of that trend,” says Jim Glascott, head of global
debt capital markets at Barclays Capital.  There was also a rise in issuance of so-called dollar-
covered bonds -- mortgage-backed debt securities of which the
issuing bank keeps a portion on its balance sheet, reducing
risk. About $40 billion in issuance of U.S. dollar covered bonds
helped  Barclays (BARC)  Capital boost fee income last year. The market
saw no volume in the securities in 2009 and $28 billion in 2010,
Glascott said.  “That’s a market that didn’t exist before, and now we’re
the No. 1 bookrunner, so that’s been helpful,” he says.
Issuance of the bonds was led by European and Canadian banks,
with Australian banks entering the market at the end of last
year.  Verizon’s Big Deal  In the corporate sector, the largest dollar-denominated
bond deal of the year was  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s March
sale of $6.25 billion of notes to repay part of the cost of its
$1.74 billion acquisition of Terremark Worldwide Inc.  Debt worldwide from the most-creditworthy companies to the
neediest returned 5.99 percent from the end of November through
yesterday, compared with a 4.86 percent gain in all of 2011,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Corporate & High Yield Index.  “The need for yield continues to exist,” says Jim Casey,
co-head with O’Brien of debt capital markets at JPMorgan.
“Investors can’t satisfy their need for yield away from credit
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net ,
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  