-- Goldman No.1 in Investment Bank Fees Driven by Rising M&A Share
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-03-07T15:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/jpmorgan-no-1-in-bond-fees-as-firms-refinance-at-lower-rates.html
For investment bankers, 2011 started
with a shout and ended with a whimper -- causing fees to shoot
up in the first half, then fizzle at year’s end.  Early on, Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  announced bold plans to acquire competitors
across the Atlantic. Initial public offerings surged in the
first half to levels not seen since before the near collapse of
the U.S. financial system in 2008. Pipeline operator  Kinder
Morgan Inc. (KMI)  went public with a $3.3 billion IPO in February that
raised $1 billion more than projected, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its April issue.  Investor appetite for IPOs was even hotter by May: Shares
of social-networking website  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  surged 109 percent
to $94.25 in their first day of trading.  “Activity continued to build to a crescendo even after the
tragedy in Japan,” says Paul J. Taubman, investment banking
chief at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , speaking of the 9.0 megathrust
earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March.  The high point of the year came in mid-July, when London-
based Apax Partners LLP launched the biggest leveraged buyout
since late 2008 with a $5.7 billion bid for medical-device maker
 Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , in which Morgan Stanley advised Apax and
designed the financing package.  And then investment-banking deals vaporized.  ‘Tale of Two Years’  “No doubt, it was a tale of two years,” Taubman says.
“The deal calendar dried up, and we limped into the end of the
year.”  So far in 2012, the pattern is familiar. The year is
starting strong, with Facebook Inc. announcing it will do an IPO
-- probably in May -- that may value the company at as much as
$100 billion. In February, commodities giant  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  announced a friendly $37 billion bid to take
over mining company  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  Those announcements were
accompanied by strong gains for stock markets around the world,
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up more than 20 percent
from its October low through March 6.  “Our clients feel better about 2012, but they’re still
concerned about the macro risks,” says David Solomon, co-head
of investment banking at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Goldman is No. 1 in the Bloomberg 20, Bloomberg Markets’
eighth annual ranking of the best-paid investment banks by the
fees they earn.  In 2011, total fee revenue at the biggest investment banks
was down, sometimes sharply. Eight of the top 10 banks made less
money in fees in 2011 than in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In the cases of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  &
Co. and Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , it was about $1 billion less.  Total Fees Flat  Total investment banking fees for all financial
institutions in 2011 were $49.1 billion, matching the $49.1
billion from 2010. Total deal volume also matched 2010, at
$6.9 trillion.  Goldman took the top spot in the ranking even as its total
fees fell in 2011 to $3.46 billion from $3.6 billion in 2010.
Goldman is also No. 1 in M&A fees for the eighth consecutive
year.  JPMorgan dropped to No. 3 from No. 1 in the overall
ranking. Morgan Stanley held on to the No. 2 spot, with
$3.26 billion in overall fees, down 11 percent from the prior 12
months.  The falling fees were part of a tumultuous year for the big
banks. Trading revenue also plunged; it fell to $13 billion in
the fourth quarter from $28 billion in the first for the top
five banks in the Bloomberg 20. It was driven down by anxiety
over Europe; by the Volcker rule, which will severely limit
proprietary trading; and by new global capital regulations,
known as Basel III, that limit the amount of leverage banks can
take on by increasing the amount of equity capital they must
hold against illiquid assets.  Job, Pay Cuts  The banks responded to the revenue shortfall by cutting
both jobs and compensation. Globally, more than 230,000 bankers
were let go in 2011. At  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  and
Morgan Stanley, those that survived were handed pay cuts, with
total investment banking compensation falling as much as 30
percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  cut pay by up to 40 percent in
some of its investment-banking divisions and awarded more stock
and less cash in bonuses.  Bankers say they are more cautious today when it comes to
committing assets on their balance sheets to certain deals,
including long-dated derivatives contracts.  “Balance sheet is a much scarcer commodity and a much
dearer resource,” says Hugh “Skip” McGee, head of global
investment banking at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Barclays Capital in  New
York , which is No. 8 in the Bloomberg 20.  M&A Fees Rise  Total merger and acquisition fees rose to $20.3 billion in
2011 from $17.9 billion in 2010. Those numbers, however, were
offset by declines in fees from debt and stock deals. And they
conceal the M&A freeze that took hold in the second half, when
announced M&A volume plunged to $1.03 trillion, a drop of 18
percent from the first half. As a result, total volume was up
just 4 percent from 2010, with $2.3 trillion in announced deals.
That’s a 44 percent drop from the 2007 peak of $4.03 trillion.  The pullback from the deal market started in early July,
when the  International Monetary Fund  authorized a 3.2 billion
euro ($4.2 billion) loan to Greece to prevent it from defaulting
on debt held by European banks. Euro-zone leaders approved
another rescue package of 109 billion euros for the troubled
nation on July 21.  U.S. lawmakers then stoked fears that America could miss
its own debt payments by waiting until Aug. 2 -- when the U.S.
Treasury said its borrowing power would be exhausted -- to adopt
a plan to raise the country’s debt limit. Standard & Poor’s
downgraded the debt of the U.S. to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5.  Deadly Cocktail  “We had a cocktail of the U.S. deficit, the downgrade and
a whole number of issues around the sovereign-debt crisis in
Europe,” says James Amine, global co-head of investment banking
at Zurich-based Credit Suisse, which is No. 6 in the Bloomberg
20, with $2.26 billion in fees. “That story just overwhelmed
the positive start to the year.”  Economists revised growth projections down, and some
predicted a double-dip recession for both the U.S. and Europe.  “It looked like the  U.S. economy  in the third quarter was
grinding to a halt,” Amine says.  While concern about a new U.S. recession has diminished,
bankers say 2012 is fraught with challenges.  “The U.S. feels slightly better, but Europe is still an
issue,” Barclays’ McGee says. “You could see things surprise
to the upside, but that means some of these uncertainties have
to be eliminated.”  Europe Fees Plunge  The drama in Greece has hurt European banks.  At Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest financial services firm, fourth-
quarter profit fell 76 percent as its investment bank posted a
422 million euro loss. Fourth-quarter profit at UBS,
Switzerland’s largest bank, also dropped 76 percent, as its
investment bank recorded a pretax loss of 256 million Swiss
francs ($280 million).  UBS is No. 9 in the Bloomberg 20, with $1.60 billion in
fees, while Deutsche Bank is No. 5, with $2.29 billion.  Goldman Sachs emerged on top of the Bloomberg 20 partly by
taking a bigger share of the M&A market. The bank acted as an
adviser on 23.3 percent of the global M&A deals announced in
2011, up from 19.7 percent the year before. It surged ahead of
the pack by acting as an adviser on a number of big deals
completed in the fourth quarter, including Australian beer maker
 Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) ’s $13.1 billion sale to  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and
Global Crossing Ltd.’s $3.2 billion sale to Level 3
Communications Inc.  Goldman Not Immune  Yet Goldman Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein and his
crew were not immune from the first-half/second-half syndrome.
From January to June, the bank took in $2.7 billion in net
revenue from M&A advice and underwriting; that number dropped to
$1.6 billion for the second half.  Underwriting revenue  at
Goldman plunged 68 percent to $258 million in the third quarter
from $811 million in the second as CEOs and corporations shelved
plans to issue new debt and stock in volatile markets, Goldman
Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said in an Oct. 18 analyst
call.  “Some of the deals that you’ll see get announced in 2012
stem from discussions that started in 2011 but ended up falling
away because the market environment wasn’t great,” says
Solomon, who runs Goldman’s global investment bank with Richard Gnodde and John Weinberg.  Almost half of the banking industry’s M&A volume in 2011,
about $1 trillion, came from cross-border transactions.  ‘Scale is Critical’  “Scale is really critical for our clients to expand their
physical and product reach,” says Jacques Brand, co-head of
investment banking at Deutsche Bank. “A lot of M&A activity is
going to be driven by a desire to diversify geographically.
You’ll see cross-border activity continuing to increase
dramatically.”  As they seek acquisitions abroad, companies are looking to
their investment banks to navigate sharp swings in foreign-
exchange rates and commodities prices, Brand says. For example,
Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. needed to hedge
its foreign currency and other risks when the world’s biggest
retailer paid 16.5 billion South African rand ($2.1 billion) in
June for a 51 percent stake in Massmart Holdings Ltd., South
Africa’s biggest food and general-goods wholesaler, Brand says.  Wal-Mart used JPMorgan and  Rothschild (RLD)  for advice, as
Deutsche Bank guided Massmart in the transaction.  Volatile Markets  “We are in one of the most volatile markets with respect
to foreign exchange, commodity prices and  interest rates ,”
Brand says. “If you don’t integrate risk management into every
dimension of your M&A strategy, that can undermine the strategic
and economic rationale of the transaction.”  Deutsche Bank, among other firms, handled the biggest
announced M&A deal of the year when AT&T proposed to pay $39
billion for T-Mobile USA, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  The
deal fell apart after the U.S. Justice Department sued to block
it on antitrust grounds.  M&A activity in Asia picked up last year, with the region
involved in 40 percent of all cross-border deals versus 37
percent in 2010, even as  China ’s growth fell into single digits.
Purna Saggurti, chairman of Bank of America’s global corporate
investment bank, says his clients saw consumer demand in China
decline toward the end of last year, and the softness has
continued so far in 2012.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  is No. 4 in the Bloomberg 20,
with $2.79 billion in fees.  Cross-Border Deals  About 63 percent of all cross-border deals and the biggest
IPO in 2011 came out of Europe. Glencore launched the year’s
biggest IPO, at $10.1 billion, when it listed itself in  London 
and  Hong Kong . Its proposed takeover of Xstrata this year came
as no surprise, because it already owns 34 percent of
that company.  As 2012 began, confidence was rising among investors that
Europe would contain its debt woes. As of March 6, the Bloomberg
European  500 Index (SPX)  of stocks was up 5.8 percent for the year.  “Our sense is that people are getting a bit more
comfortable with Europe and the risks there,” Barclays’ McGee
says.  “Europe is a challenge,” Deutsche Bank’s Brand says.
“But, having said that, we just advised on a transaction
involving the Polish mobile-operator Polkomtel SA. It was the
largest European LBO transaction since 2007.”  Bank of America’s Saggurti expects the weakness in Europe
to persist. “I don’t think anyone is waiting for deal activity
in Europe to come back anytime soon,” he says. “The economy is
hurting there and will continue to struggle.”  ECB Loans  Still, as of mid-February, companies and investors had
stopped worrying about an imminent euro-zone collapse. The
European Central Bank averted a major banking crisis in December
when it announced a plan to offer three-year loans at 1 percent
to area banks, Taubman and other bankers say.  “Volatility has dropped demonstrably in the marketplace,”
Taubman says. “The  VIX (VIX)  has come down dramatically from its
October highs, which I think is a necessary launch condition for
the equity calendar.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, measures swings in the price of the S&P 500 Index. The VIX
hit a two and a half year high in August and remained elevated
until the ECB plan was announced on Dec. 8.  Credit Suisse’s Amine says many investors and clients think
the U.S. economy could decouple from the European system and
grow by as much as 2.5 percent this year, even if there is a
broad-based recession across the Atlantic. Only drastic change,
such as a “messy” Greek default or the breakup of the euro
zone, is likely to have a major impact, he says.  Decoupling from Europe  “Negative GDP growth in Europe alone shouldn’t be enough
to derail the U.S.,” Amine says. “However, if there is a
default in the financial system and it creates contagion, the
U.S. market would stall.”  Nonfinancial corporations in the U.S. and Europe are on the
whole healthy, bankers say. Valuations on potential acquisition
targets are reasonable, and financing costs for highly rated
corporations are at historically low rates, Barclays’ McGee
says.  “There are reasons to be optimistic, but we’re not
counting on a snapback to ‘06, ‘07 levels anytime soon,”
he says.  What bankers do expect is a healthy debt market.
Corporations issued $2.9 trillion in bonds and debt instruments
last year, the second-highest volume on record, after $3.2
trillion in 2009. Corporations were awash in low-cost funding
options as the  Federal Reserve  kept overnight borrowing rates
close to zero and announced that it plans to keep them there
through 2014.  JPMorgan No. 1 Debt Dealer  Many companies took the opportunity to refinance their debt
at lower rates, says Jim Casey, who runs the debt capital
markets desk for JPMorgan with Andy O’Brien. JPMorgan was No. 1
in debt underwriting for 2011.  About 65 percent of the companies that borrowed in the
markets in the first six months used those funds to refinance
other debt. That flipped in the second half of the year when 61
percent of leveraged loans were used to make acquisitions and
finance buyouts, Casey and O’Brien say.  “There was a fair amount of capital that was committed to
in the first half that didn’t get executed until the second
half,” Casey says. “And in the second half, when markets were
weaker, issuers that just wanted to refinance saw that the
markets were really difficult and backed away.”  Mild Optimism  While bankers are mildly optimistic about 2012, they temper
their predictions with warnings. If the European Union finds a
way to save Greece from default -- and in the process stabilizes
the national finances of Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain --
then Europe could start growing again and the markets could
conceivably take off, they say.  No one, however, is counting on such a felicitous chain of
events.  “We still live in an uncertain environment where investor
confidence can turn on a dime, liquidity can dry up and markets,
even if they’re open, can quickly shut down,” Morgan Stanley’s
Taubman says. “And markets that are closed can open back up
almost overnight. In what is still a volatile, uncertain
environment, I think the right answer is to be cautious.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Dawn Kopecki in New York
at   Dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 