-- Kucinich Beaten by Fellow Democrat Kaptur in Ohio Seat Race
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-03-07T14:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/kaptur-beats-fellow-democrat-kucinich-in-ohio-race.html
Ohio  Representative Marcy Kaptur
defeated her long-time House colleague Dennis Kucinich for the
Democratic nomination to represent Ohio’s redrawn 9th
Congressional District.  Kucinich conceded that he lost the race, the  Associated
Press  reported early today.  With all the district’s precincts reporting, Kaptur had 56
percent of the vote to almost 40 percent for Kucinich, according
to a tally by the AP.  The victory by Kaptur, 65, the longest-serving woman in the
U.S. House, will end Kucinich’s career as an Ohio congressman.
He was first elected in 1996, representing a district including
Cleveland, a city that elected him as mayor in 1977 when he was
31. Kucinich, now also 65, sought the Democratic presidential
nomination in 2004 and 2008.  Another Ohio House member, Republican Jean Schmidt, lost a
four-candidate Republican primary to Brad Wenstrup in the
state’s 2nd Congressional District, the AP reported. With 100
percent of precincts counted, Wenstrup had 48.9 percent of the
vote to 42.8 percent for Schmidt, according to the AP tally.
Schmidt, 60, was seeking the nomination to run for a fourth term
in a district that stretches from the Cincinnati area east along
the  Ohio River .  Congressional Redistricting  The Kucinich-Kaptur race was the first of at least 10
contests this year between House members of the same party as a
result of congressional redistricting following the 2010 census.  Ohio (BEESOH)  lost two congressional seats and the state’s
Republican-controlled legislature redrew the 9th District. It
now stretches along the shore of Lake Erie from Kaptur’s
hometown of Toledo to the west side of Cleveland.  Other races between lawmakers of the same party this year
will include a Democratic contest between Representatives Howard Berman, a former House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman, and
 Brad Sherman  in a reconfigured  California  district.  In  Florida , Representative  John Mica , the chairman of the
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is set to run
against Representative Sandy Adams in a Republican primary to
determine their party’s nomination in a redrawn district.  At the outset of her campaign against Kucinich, Kaptur said
she would emphasize her status on the House Appropriations
Committee as the panel’s second-most senior Democrat. That
seniority gives her the ability to deliver federal assistance to
the district to help “modernize our ports, our railways, our
airports,” she said in a Dec. 28 interview.  Opposing Defense Spending  Kaptur also focused on Kucinich’s record of opposing
defense spending. “I don’t think he’s ever voted for a defense
bill in his career,” she said.  Kucinich sought to highlight his opposition to the  Iraq war 
and U.S. involvement in the Libyan civil war that toppled
 Muammar Qaddafi .  Last year, Kucinich forced a House vote on his resolution
declaring that President  Barack Obama  had violated the War
Powers Resolution by failing to obtain congressional approval
for U.S. support for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization air
strikes in  Libya .  The Democratic leader in the House, Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of California, said in a statement today that both Kaptur
and Kucinich had represented their constituents “with
distinction and dedication” and thanked Kucinich for “his 16
years of service to Ohio.”  ‘Joe the Plumber’  Kaptur’s Republican opponent this fall will be Samuel Wurzelbacher, who gained fame as “Joe the Plumber” during the
2008 election for questioning Obama, then the Democrats’
presidential candidate, about his tax policies.  Wurzelbacher defeated real estate agent Steven Kraus for
the Republican nomination, the AP reported. The district leans
Democratic, with more than 75,000 voting in the party’s primary,
compared with fewer than 30,000 turning out in the Republican
contest.  Former Democratic Representative  Mary Jo Kilroy , who had
served one House term representing a Columbus-area district,
lost her bid for her party’s nomination in a redrawn district,
the AP said. Kilroy, elected in 2008 and defeated two years
later by Republican Steve Stivers, lost the four-candidate
primary to former state Representative Joyce Beatty, the AP
said. With all precincts counted, Beatty had 38 percent of the
vote to 35 percent for Kilroy, according to the AP tally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  