-- Kenyan Shilling Weakens on Dollar Demand, Unchanged Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-03-07T12:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/kenyan-shilling-weakens-on-dollar-demand-unchanged-rate.html
Kenya’s shilling weakened for the
second day this week on increased dollar demand and after the
central bank retained its benchmark rate.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 0.4 percent and was trading 0.2 percent lower at 82.90
to the dollar at 2:29 p.m. in Nairobi. The shilling gained 0.8
percent yesterday.  “The shilling has weakened on increased demand on account
of the gain it made, with businesses seeking to accumulate
dollars,” Jeremiah Kendagor, acting head of trading at Nairobi-
based Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview.  The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at a record 18 percent for the third time yesterday, it said in
an e-mailed statement.  The  inflation rate  declined for a third month to 16.69
percent in February from 18.3 percent in January, the Nairobi-
based  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-mailed
statement on Feb 29.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened for the first day this
month on increased dollar inflows. The currency of the second-
biggest economy in East Africa was last trading 0.3 percent
stronger at 1,595 per dollar.  “We have got some inflows which has supported the
shilling,” Eric Chijoriga, a dealer with National Bank of
Commerce Ltd., ABSA Group’s Tanzanian unit, said today by phone
from Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital.  The Ugandan shilling appreciated for a second day, gaining
as much as 3.8 percent and trading 0.3 percent higher at
2,492.50 per dollar by 1:17 p.m. in Kampala.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam 
Editors: Peter Branton, Alan Purkiss  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  