-- KfW to Take Part in Greek Debt Swap Amid Concern It May Fail
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-07T15:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/kfw-to-take-part-in-greek-debt-swap-amid-concern-it-may-fail.html
KfW Group, Germany’s state-owned
development bank, will take part in the Greek debt swap as it
observes growing market concern the southern European country
may fail to garner sufficient participation.  KfW, which has about 250 million euros ($328 million) in
gross Greek sovereign holdings, will exchange its debt, Chief
Executive Officer  Ulrich Schroeder  told reporters last night in
 Frankfurt . While he expects “big players” to participate, he
said potential holdouts include asset managers, retail investors
and holders of Greek bonds issued under Japanese and U.K. law.  “There is rising skepticism” about the success of the
debt swap, Schroeder said, citing feedback from  capital markets .
“I’d be happy if we’re wrong.”  Private creditors reached an agreement with Greek and
European officials last month on the biggest sovereign-debt
restructuring in history. The goal of the exchange, which runs
through March 8, is to reduce the 206 billion euros of privately
held Greek debt by 53.5 percent, helping avert a disorderly
default that could roil markets and fuel contagion.  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers said they plan to take
part in the Greek debt swap. Fourteen German firms holding more
than 19 billion euros of Greek government bonds will take part
in the exchange, according to company statements and people with
knowledge of the plans who declined to be identified.  Forcing Acceptance  The Greek government, which set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with the transaction, said it
will use collective action clauses to force holders of Greek-law
bonds to accept the swap if it receives sufficient consent from
investors. That would likely be considered a  credit event  and
trigger credit-default swaps, KfW’s Schroeder said.  Schroeder is concerned about CDS on Greek sovereign bonds
because of the “lack of transparency” about who holds the debt
insurance and there may be some financial firms that sold too
many CDS, he said.  Net notional credit default swaps on Greek  government bonds 
total $3.2 billion while the gross notional amount of CDS is
more than $69 billion, according to Bloomberg data based on
DTCC.  The amount of Greek government bonds issued under non-Greek
law total 29 billion euros, or 14 percent of the total 206
billion euros, Frankfurt-based KfW said, citing the swap
invitation memorandum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  