-- Kingfisher Suspended From IATA Clearing House
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-03-07T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/kingfisher-suspended-from-iata-clearing-house-on-payment-delay.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier struggling with a cash shortage, had its account with
the  International Air Transport Association  suspended after it
failed to settle payments on time.  The carrier’s participation in the  IATA  Clearing House will
be reinstated after it meets ICH requirements, the industry
group said in an e-mail yesterday, without giving more
information. The facility allows airlines to settle dues to
other operators for carrying passengers and freight on their
networks.  A freeze on the carrier’s bank accounts by India’s tax
department caused the payment disruption, according to an e-
mailed statement from Kingfisher yesterday. The airline is
working to free its accounts “shortly” and it will resume
payments to ICH once that is done. Passengers can continue to
book flights through its website or travel agents, the statement
said.  Kingfisher’s accounts were blocked by  India ’s tax
authorities after it failed to pay dues.  Shares of the airline  fell  6.7 percent, the most since Nov.
29, to 21.05 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. The airline, controlled
by billionaire Vijay Mallya, earlier this week asked its pilots
to continue working and pledged to pay salaries as soon as
possible.  Kingfisher said Feb. 3 that an “internal system failure”
had disrupted payment and triggered a suspension from ICH. The
carrier said then it had paid all its dues and was expecting a
reversal of the halt.  Yesterday’s IATA statement didn’t say whether the group had
reversed the previous suspension. More than 450 airlines and
associates use ICH, according to the group’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  