-- Krone, Krona, Loonie Poised to Rally Versus Euro, Dollar, Barclays Says
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-07T16:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/krone-krona-loonie-poised-to-rally-versus-euro-dollar-barclays-says.html
Investors should buy the Norwegian
and Swedish currencies against the euro, and  Canada ’s dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart, as the tenders have been oversold
relative to their fair value, according to Barclays Plc.  The three smaller Group-of-10 currencies have slumped
against the euro and dollar so far this month after rallying in
January and February. The drop has outpaced the currencies’
fundamental drivers, according to a Barclays fair-value model,
which analyzes currency moves as a function of interest-rate
differentials, commodity prices, equity-market performance and
global equity prices.  “These rapid sell-offs often open up investment
opportunities as they cause asset prices to deviate from their
fundamental drivers,” Guillermo Felices, head of European
currency strategy in  London  at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a note
to clients. “We favor selling euro-krone and euro-krona and
dollar-Canada dollar on rallies.” Felices couldn’t be reached
for comment.  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0012
per  U.S. dollar  at 11:06 a.m. in New York. It has fallen 1.1
percent against the dollar so far this week after gaining 3.1
percent in the first two months of the year. It should have
depreciated about 0.5 percent this week, according to the
Barclays model.  The krone, which has risen 0.5 percent to 7.4463 per euro
today, has lost 0.6 percent this week, and the Swedish krona
weakened 1.2 percent. The Scandinavian currencies should each
have lost only 0.25 percent against the euro this week,
according to the fair value model.  Australia, New Zealand  While the weakness in the Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars has also outpaced that of the fair-value model, the
antipodean currencies may have more to lose as futures-market
investors sell long positions.  Net  long positions , or bets the Aussie will rise, increased
to 78,201 contracts in the week ended Feb. 28, the most since
July, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.
Net long positions in the  New Zealand dollar  reached 24,211 in
February, the highest since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  