-- N.J. Teachers Union Spent Record $11.3 Million on Ads Criticizing Christie
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-07T19:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/n-j-teachers-union-spent-11-3-million-lobbying-last-year-2-.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s largest teachers union
spent a record $11.3 million on lobbying last year, mostly on
television and radio advertising criticizing Governor  Chris Christie .  The $10.9 million in communications spending by the  New
Jersey Education Association , up from $6.6 million in 2010, was
the most by any lobbyist in New Jersey last year, according to
the state’s Election Law Enforcement Commission. Total lobbying
jumped 11 percent to a high of $73 million, a fourth-straight
annual increase.  The 195,000-member NJEA led the pack. Its leaders have
confronted Christie, a first-term Republican, over his spending
cuts and proposals to change tenure rules, add charter schools
and offer privately funded vouchers to students in low-income
families.  “Lobbyists are depending more and more on mass-media
communications in their effort to influence public policy,”
Jeffrey Brindle, executive director of the election commission,
said in a statement today.  Christie, who took office in January 2010, cut school aid
and urged voters that April to reject budgets in districts where
teachers refused to accept wage freezes. He later accused
educators of using children like “drug mules” to carry union
messages.  ‘Slush Fund’  In an ABC News interview last year, Christie called  New
Jersey  teachers “wonderful public servants” and their union’s
leaders “political thugs.” Last month, he called for the
firing of NJEA Executive Director Vincent Giordano over comments
he made about schoolchildren from poor households.  Christie told reporters today in Trenton that the NJEA’s
record spending “comes as no shock,” and that the union
collects more than $100 million in dues each year that goes into
a “political slush fund.” Giordano and union President Barbara
Keshishian are “abject failures” as leaders, Christie said.  “I feel badly for teachers who pay their dues every year
in order to have that kind of garbage put on the air,” said
Christie, 49. “There’s a desperate need for change in
leadership over there. They should be replaced, but apparently
only a palace coup will do that.”  ‘Fusillade of Untruths’  Steve Wollmer, a union spokesman, said members know how the
union spends dues money and called Christie’s statements a
“fusillade of untruths.” Teachers are forced to use costly
advertising as Christie wields the power of his office to remain
in the media spotlight for free, he said.  The union made an “extraordinary expenditure” in 2011,
three-quarters of which was used to fund a March-June media
campaign in the run-up to passage of Christie’s $29.7 billion
budget, Wollmer said. Since taking office, the governor has
eroded teacher morale as he cut school funding and forced
educators to pay more for pensions, he said.  “Our members wanted us to speak out and we did,” Wollmer
said in an interview. “We have to pay to get our message out by
and large. This advertising was basically designed to level the
playing field.”  The NJEA’s communications expenditures were 15 times as
much as the next-highest lobbyist, the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S.
labor federation, which spent $700,352. They were followed by
the anti-tax group Americans for Prosperity at $564,218; the New
Jersey Association of Realtors with $336,436; and the state
chapter of  AARP , the group formerly called  American Association 
of Retired Persons, with $322,381, according to the report.  Lobbying in other major states also set records, with
spending of $345 million in  Texas , $287 million in  California ,
and $127 million in  Florida , Brindle said. At the federal level,
lobbying expenditures dropped 6.8 percent to $3.27 billion last
year, the first decline in more than a decade, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  