-- Aussie Erases Losses, N.Z. Dollar Rallies on Stocks, U.S. Jobs Prospects
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-03-08T05:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/n-z-dollar-slides-after-reserve-bank-keeps-interest-rates-at-record-low.html
The Australian dollar erased losses
and New Zealand’s rallied as gains in Asian stocks and prospects
for job growth in the U.S. supported demand for higher-yielding
assets.  Both South Pacific currencies fell earlier as data showed a
surprise decline in Australian jobs and the  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand signaled it may leave  interest rates  at a record low for
much of the year. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares snapped
a three-day decline, adding 1.2 percent. U.S. nonfarm payrolls
increased by 210,000 last month after rising 243,000 in January,
according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department data tomorrow.  “If we get a slightly better employment report, we could
see stocks tick higher, and then in turn the Aussie and kiwi
rally on the back of that,” Jeremy Jukes, a foreign-exchange
dealer in Auckland at Velocity Trade Ltd., said about the U.S.
figures. “We have a slight positive bias” for both currencies.  The Australian rose 0.2 percent to $1.0601 as of 4:11 p.m.
in Sydney, erasing a 0.5 percent drop. The so-called Aussie
climbed 0.4 percent to 86.14 yen. The  New Zealand  dollar, known
as the kiwi, strengthened 0.3 percent to 81.89 U.S. cents,
reversing from an earlier decline of 0.3 percent. It rose 0.5
percent to 66.53 yen.  Australia’s government  bonds  were little changed, after the
yield on the 10-year security dropped as much as five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.91 percent, the lowest
since Feb. 7.  U.S. Payrolls  Tomorrow’s Labor Department report follows one by ADP
Employer Services yesterday that showed U.S. companies added
216,000 workers in February, versus 173,000 in January,  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of shares climbed 0.7
percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.6 percent
yesterday.  The number of people employed in  Australia  fell by 15,400
in February, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That
compares with the median estimate for an increase of 5,000 in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The jobless rate rose to
5.2 percent from 5.1 percent.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  Governor Alan Bollard said the
local dollar’s “sustained strength” could diminish the need
for interest-rate increases, following the bank’s decision to
leave its official cash rate at 2.5 percent today.  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March last year to allow the economy to recover after the
nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years in Christchurch, its
second-largest city.  Dovish Statement  New Zealand’s dollar “will probably find it difficult to
get above 82 cents now for the remainder of the day,” said Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland.
“While the market is reading it as a dovish statement, there
are buyers there.”  Citigroup Inc. increased bets on the depreciation of the
euro against the  New Zealand dollar . “We have added to the
long-risk bias in our overlay portfolio this week by increasing
our New Zealand dollar overweight,” the company said in a
research note today. “We believed this was an opportune dip to
buy” New Zealand’s currency given its decline in the past week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  