-- New Zealand Signals Rates on Hold Much of 2012 as Currency Eases Inflation
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-08T04:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/n-z-keeps-record-low-cash-rate-says-strong-currency-eases-rate-rise-need.html
New Zealand ’s central bank signaled
it may leave  interest rates  at a record low for much of 2012 as
a surging currency eases inflation and diminishes the prospect
of higher borrowing costs.  “Sustained strength in the New Zealand dollar would reduce
the need for further increases in the cash rate,” Governor Alan Bollard said at a news conference in Wellington today after
leaving the official cash rate at 2.5 percent. The central
bank’s forecasts “are not inconsistent with a story that would
see that remaining in place for much of this year,” he said.  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 11 percent in the past
year, the best performing Group of 10 currency, reducing the
cost of imports, while weak economic growth is also curbing
inflation. Bollard today forecast consumer prices will rise 1.4
percent in the year ending Sept. 30, the weakest annual pace in
more than 12 years, adding to the case for him to extend a
yearlong rate pause.  Currency strength “creates more of a drag on the
economy,” said Doug Steel, economist at  Bank of New Zealand 
Ltd. in Wellington, who revised his rate forecast after today’s
statement. He now expects the next rate rise in December, after
earlier predicting an increase in September.  “The high value of the  New Zealand dollar  is detrimental
to the tradable sector, undermines GDP growth and inhibits
rebalancing in the New Zealand economy,” Bollard said. The
currency has been boosted by an easing in global monetary policy
and an increase in appetite for riskier assets, he said.  Currency Rebounds  New Zealand’s dollar fell as low as 81.41 U.S. cents after
his comments from 81.95 cents immediately before the statement.
It pared its losses and bought 81.84 cents at 5:20 p.m. in
Wellington as gains in Asian stocks supported demand for high
yielding currencies.  The central bank forecasts the three-month bank bill yield
will be 3 percent in the fourth quarter, down from 3.6 percent
in its December projections, according to the monetary policy
statement also published today. It forecasts 3.3 percent by the
end of 2013, down from a previously projected 4 percent.  The forecasts, which are seen as a guide to the level of
the cash rate, assume the currency will decline on a trade-
weighted basis over the next three years, the central bank said.
Should this not occur, all else equal, there would be less need
to raise  interest rates , it said.  Rate Outlook  There is a 44 percent chance of a quarter-point rate rise
by December, down from 52 percent late yesterday, according to
swaps prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  Deutsche Bank AG today
said it expects the first rate rise in December rather than in
September, according to an e-mailed note from chief New Zealand
economist  Darren Gibbs .  Bollard has left the cash rate unchanged since March last
year to allow the economy to recover after the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years in Christchurch, its second-
largest city, and the surrounding Canterbury province, which
killed 185 people and closed the central city.  The recovery has been slow amid concerns that Europe’s debt
crisis would spill over into weak global demand for exports,
which make up 30 percent of New Zealand’s economy.  Unlike counterparts in  Australia  and elsewhere in  Asia ,
Bollard hasn’t cut borrowing costs because earthquake rebuilding
is expected to boost growth and stoke inflation in coming years.  ‘Signs of Recovery’  “The domestic economy is showing signs of recovery,” he
said. “Household spending appears to have picked up over the
past few months and a recovery in building activity appears to
be under way. That recovery will strengthen as repairs and
reconstruction in Canterbury pick up later in the year.”  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , New Zealand’s biggest building
products maker, last month said profit in the year ending June
30 may fall as much as 14 percent because of weak housing
markets and delays in reconstruction.  Australia’s central bank this week held interest rates for
a second month after two reductions in late 2011, citing a
positive outlook for the Chinese and U.S. economies.  South Korea 
and  Indonesia  will leave borrowing costs unchanged later today,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “Policy actions from a number of central banks have
boosted global confidence,” Bollard said today. Still, “risks
to the global outlook remain,” he said.  Fiscal Policy  Finance Minister  Bill English  last month said the  budget
surplus  forecast to be achieved in 2015 will be smaller than
previously expected because of the affect of  Europe  on export
prices and demand.  New Zealand’s economy is growing at a slower pace than
previously projected, the central bank said in its monetary
policy statement also released today.  The economy will probably grow 1.8 percent in the year
ending March 31, down from 2 percent predicted in the December
policy statement, the central bank said.  Growth will improve to 3.1 percent in the 12 months through
March 2013, faster than the 2.9 percent pace projected in
December, the central bank said. Residential construction is
projected to surge 27 percent.  Inflation in the year through September will be 1.4
percent, the slowest since 1999. Consumer prices will rise 1.7
percent this year, down from 2 percent forecast in December, and
1.9 percent in 2013, the central bank said.  Inflation won’t reach the midpoint of the 1 percent to 3
percent range that Bollard is required to target until the
second half of 2014, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  