-- N.Z. Manufacturing Volumes Post First Gain in Three Quarters
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-07T22:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/n-z-manufacturing-volumes-post-first-gain-in-three-quarters-1-.html
New Zealand  manufacturing volumes
rose for the first time in three quarters on production from
meat and dairy processors.  Manufacturing sales  excluding inflation, a gauge of the
volume of production, gained 1.3 percent in the final three
months of last year from the third quarter, when they fell a
revised 1.7 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington
today. Excluding the volatile meat and dairy industries, volumes
fell 0.7 percent.  A recovery in manufacturing, construction and exports adds
to evidence that the economy posted modest growth in the three
months through December.  Central bank  Governor Alan Bollard
today lowered his forecasts for economic growth in the 12 months
ending March 31, saying the currency’s 11 percent rise in the
past year had made imported goods cheaper, hurting local
manufacturers who compete in the same markets.  “Favorable weather conditions resulted in very strong milk
production,”  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in
Auckland, said in a note on March 5. Excluding meat and dairy,
manufacturing “remained relatively weak,” he said.  New Zealand (ANZ) ’s dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 81.66 U.S. cents at 10:51 a.m. in Wellington.  Meat and dairy processing, which make up 31 percent of
total industry production, rose for the first time in three
quarters, gaining 3.2 percent, today’s report showed. Dairy
exports were a record in the fourth quarter, the statistics
agency said.  Transport Equipment  Seven of the 13 industries showed declines, the statistics
agency said. Transport equipment, machinery and equipment
manufacturing led the falls, decreasing 4.7 percent.  Manufacturing sales values rose 1.2 percent from the third
quarter, when they gained a revised 0.2 percent, today’s report
showed. Excluding meat and dairy, sales values advanced 0.1
percent.  Manufacturing is a key component of gross domestic product,
which will be published on March 22. Reports the past month have
shown construction, export volumes and retail spending also
gained in the fourth quarter.  Bollard, who earlier today held the nation’s benchmark
interest rate at a record-low 2.5 percent, said in a statement
after the announcement that GDP would rise 1.8 percent in the
year ending March 31, down from the 2 percent he predicted in
December. He expected GDP rose 0.6 percent in the fourth
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  