-- Netanyahu Gives Obama a Purim Message to Heed
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-03-07T16:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/netanyahu-gives-obama-a-purim-message-to-heed-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Earlier this week, the Israeli
prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu , visited President
 Barack Obama  in the White House. The two met together with
their national-security advisers for 90 minutes, then had a
30-minute chat alone, then moved to a lunch together with
various high officials of their governments.  Many words were exchanged during these meetings, but
it turns out they all might have been superfluous.
Netanyahu delivered his overriding message quite
efficiently, and almost wordlessly, in the form of a gift
to the president.  The gift he handed Obama was a copy of “Megillah of
Esther,” the scroll that recounts the heroics of Queen
Esther in ancient Persia. Tonight, Jews will read the whole
Megillah -- as the saying goes -- in synagogues across the
globe, to celebrate Purim, the apotheosis of the “They
Tried to Kill Us, They Failed, Let’s Eat” category of
Jewish holidays.  The  scroll  tells the story of the beautiful Esther and
her cousin, the wise Mordechai, and how they plot --
successfully -- to keep the evil vizier Haman from
murdering Persia’s Jews.  The Real Message  The prime minister of Israel is many things, but
subtle is not one of them. The message of Purim is: When
the Jews see a murderous conspiracy forming against them,
they will act to disrupt the plot. A further refinement of
the message is: When the Jews see a plot forming against
them in Persia, they will act to disrupt the plot, even if
Barack Obama wishes that they would wait for permission.  From what I understand about the meeting between the
two leaders, the prime minister stressed  Israel ’s sovereign
right to act against plots forming against it. The
president doesn’t disagree with this, of course -- he has
repeatedly said Israel has the right to act on its own
against the Iranian nuclear program -- but he had another
message for Netanyahu. As Obama put it to me in  an
interview last week , the message is, “I have Israel’s
back.”  In his press conference yesterday, Obama clarified
that he wasn’t signaling to Israel his permission to attack
 Iran , but instead a more general feeling of solidarity. His
words mean something. They don’t, however, mean enough to
stop Netanyahu.  Before the summit between the two leaders, I thought
Netanyahu would probably agree to delay an Israeli attack
against  Iran’s nuclear program  in order to let the
sanctions imposed by Obama -- in concert with much of the
world -- work to convince Tehran that the nuclear path is a
foolish one. But watching Netanyahu’s actions this week,
and listening to his rhetoric, particularly before the
annual meeting of the lobbying group Aipac, I’m more
convinced that his timetable for action against Iran
doesn’t align at all with Obama’s.  Shortly before Netanyahu took office three years ago,
I sat with him in the Knesset and asked him to describe the
Iranian threat. He  described the regime  in the harshest
terms possible, as a “messianic apocalyptic cult” bent on
the destruction of Israel. He was not at all shy about
comparing Iran’s leaders to the Nazis -- in their
intentions, if not yet in their capabilities. In the
intervening three years, he eased up rhetorically just a
bit, perhaps because he was unduly frightening Israelis who
had been actual victims of actual Nazis.  Backed Into Corner  But earlier this week, before Aipac, Netanyahu once
again made an explicit comparison between the Jewish
condition today and the Jewish condition during World War
II. This time, he made it somewhat differently: “My
friends, this is not 1944,” he told Aipac. “Today we have a
state of our own. The purpose of the Jewish state is to
secure the Jewish future. That is why Israel must always
have the ability to defend itself, against any threat.”  And then he added, as if he wasn’t making himself
clear, “We must always remain the masters of our own fate.”  Netanyahu has backed himself into a corner. If Iran is
 Nazi Germany  -- but a Nazi  Germany  that the Jewish people
are actually capable of fighting -- then no argument from
Obama is going to keep Netanyahu from his destiny.  Shortly after the speech, the editor-in-chief of the
Israeli newspaper Haaretz, Aluf Benn,  wrote : “The Holocaust
talk has but one meaning -- forcing Israel to go to war and
strike the Iranians. Arguments against an attack, weighty
as they may be, turn to smoke when put up against the
Warsaw Ghetto, Auschwitz and Treblinka. No amount of
missiles falling on  Tel Aviv , rising oil prices and
economic crises matter when compared to genocide.”  There are only two possible interpretations of
Netanyahu’s words and deeds: Either he is the world’s
greatest bluffer, or he has set himself on a course to
prevent a second Holocaust. Obama has marshaled some very
strong arguments against precipitous action against Iran.
But I hope he understands that, with Netanyahu, the
Megillah was the message.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 