-- Netflix Expands Apple TV Ties in ITunes Billing Alliance
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-07T21:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/netflix-expands-apple-tv-alliance-with-itunes.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  is deepening its ties
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  by allowing owners of Apple TV set-top boxes to
sign up for the video-streaming service directly and pay through
their iTunes accounts.  The change takes effect today in all markets, Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix said today in a blog post. The upgrade
makes it simpler for Apple TV users to sign up and pay,  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, said by telephone.  Netflix is seeking to attract and retain customers by
integrating its $7.99-a-month service with Web-based and pay-
television partners. The company is considering partnerships
with cable operators to offer the service as part of their
premium lineup.  The Apple upgrade will take effect today in the U.S.,
 Canada , Latin America, the U.K. and Ireland. Prospective
customers will no longer be redirected to Netflix’s website to
subscribe, Swasey said. He wouldn’t discuss terms.  Alliances with cable companies would help Netflix reach
more customers and mollify concerns that the service threatens
to cannibalize pay-TV, Hastings suggested at a Feb. 28 Morgan
Stanley conference in  San Francisco .  Netflix has held talks with cable providers, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify.  “It’s not in the short term, but it’s the natural
direction in the long term,” Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  said then.  Netflix is gaining clout to make such deals because it is
offering more exclusive content, following the lead of  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO channel, Hastings said. The biggest hurdle is
how revenue is shared, he said.  Sidestepping Competition  “On one side, it’s a good move for Netflix because it
helps them sidestep some of the coming competition” from pay-TV
players, Tony Wible, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott,
said in an interview. He has a “sell” rating on the stock.
“On the bad side, the cable companies will take a cut of the
revenue.”  Such agreements also could shield Netflix from potential
moves by Internet service providers to switch from flat-rate
monthly data fees to usage-based pricing. Netflix has argued
against usage-based billing in Canada and has asked U.S.
regulators to take a stand against such moves domestically.  Netflix also faces potential competition from online
services planned by pay-TV providers including  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Streampix.  “If we look at potential competitors, if we can share some
of the margin with them and then they’re making money because
they are upselling us through their ecosystem, that’s a good
thing all around,” Hastings said.  Netflix lost 1.8 percent to $105.19 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 52 percent this year.  By the middle of 2013, the company will have five original
series for streaming, according to Ted Sarandos, chief content
officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  