-- Netflix Explores Putting Movie Service on Cable Systems
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-07T16:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/netflix-explores-putting-movie-service-on-cable-systems.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , seeking to expand its
subscription video-streaming business, is considering
partnerships with cable operators to offer its service as part
of their premium lineup.  “It’s not in the short term, but it’s the natural
direction in the long term,” Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said at a Morgan Stanley technology conference last
week in San Francisco.  Alliances would help Netflix reach more customers and
mollify cable operators that see the company’s $7.99 monthly
service as a threat to cannibalize their businesses, Hastings
suggested at the Feb. 28 event. The company, which delivers
films and TV shows over the Web, has held talks with cable
providers, Reuters reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t
identify.  Netflix is gaining clout to make such deals because it is
offering more exclusive content, following the lead of  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO channel, Hastings said. The biggest hurdle is
how revenue is shared.  “There’s no reason that doesn’t make sense for Netflix,
depending on the economics,” Hastings said. “If we look at
potential competitors, if we can share some of the margin with
them and then they’re making money because they are upselling us
through their ecosystem, that’s a good thing all around.”  Such agreements also could shield Netflix from potential
moves by Internet service providers to switch from flat-rate
monthly data fees to usage-based pricing models. Netflix has
argued against usage-based billing in Canada and has asked U.S.
regulators to take a stand against such moves domestically.  Exclusive Content  The first partnership may be tested by year-end, Reuters
reported.  “We meet with cable companies all the time,” said  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for Netflix, who declined to discuss
specifics of talks. “Reed’s comments about future possibilities
stand.”  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for New York-based  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable system, declined to
comment. D’Arcy Rudnay, a spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest cable operator, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, gained 1.7 percent
to $108.90 at 11:36 a.m. New York time. The shares had advanced
55 percent this year before today after declining 61 percent in
2011.  By the middle of 2013, the company will have five original
series for streaming, according to  Ted Sarandos , chief content
officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  