-- NYC Council Cites Complaints About Restaurant Gradings
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-07T23:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/new-york-city-council-cites-complaints-about-mayor-s-restaurant-grading.html
(Corrects restaurant owner’s name in 10th paragraph.)  A  New York City  Council survey of
1,397 restaurants found that even among establishments the
Health Department rates “A” for compliance, owners say
inspectors lack consistency, fairness and expertise.  Council Speaker  Christine Quinn , a Manhattan Democrat, said
today she agreed with Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s policy to assign
and display letter grades showing results of restaurant health
inspections, yet owners’ complaints and  survey  responses show
problems in how the department has run the program.  Scott Rosenberg, co-owner of Sushi Yasuda, said an
inspector destroyed a $10,000 piece of tuna last year after a
chef prepared the fish with bare hands, as chefs have done for
hundreds of years. His restaurant, rated among the city’s best
in several reviews, has consistently received a top “A” grade
from the Health Department,  “There was no listening to any explanation,” Rosenberg
said at a City Hall news conference hosted by Quinn. “It just
goes to their training and education. I’m sure the inspectors
are not getting sufficient training on a consistent level.”  John Kelly , the Health Department’s chief spokesman, said
the council’s survey “seems to serve more as a complaint box”
for the industry. As for preparing sushi with bare hands, Kelly
said, “Doctors perform brain surgery while wearing gloves. We
understand tradition, but our aim is to minimize exposure to
contamination.”  Concern About Jobs  Dining establishments provide jobs for about 190,000 people
in New York City, according to the state Labor Department, part
of a leisure and hospitality industry employing 336,000.
Bloomberg has promoted the industry with an international
marketing campaign aimed at diversifying the city’s economy.  “We cannot engage in governmental behavior that is going
to cost us jobs that are just too hard to create,” Quinn, 46,
said before convening a City Council hearing on the inspections.
The issue, she said, “is how you keep the public safe and
healthy in restaurants but do it in a way that supports
restaurants, not penalizes them.”  The council hearing had been scheduled before Bloomberg
held a news conference yesterday where he credited the letter-
grading system for a 14 percent drop in reported food-borne
illness from salmonella bacteria last year.  The survey found that among participants who received the
highest grade, 66 percent rated the inspection and letter-
grading system “poor,” and 68 percent said it had increased
their cost of doing business.  Less Profit  “Everybody in our industry is taking less profit home,”
said Herb Wetanson, who owns 10 restaurants the department has
rated “A,” including Dallas BBQ. “The workers suffer, we
can’t offer them a raise, but we can’t pass on the cost to the
public one dollar,” he told reporters before the hearing.  The department should consider creating an ombudsman to
whom restaurant owners could complain, and abandoning uniforms
that risk alarming diners, said Quinn, who is organizing for a
possible 2013 campaign for mayor. Periodic meetings between
department policy makers and owners would improve communication,
she said.  The council survey shouldn’t be considered a scientific
document, Quinn said. Instead, it should be used to improve the
system.  “This is about a concept of a system that we in the
council support, but we want to make sure it’s fair, it’s
consistent, it’s honest, it’s truthful and it’s done in a way
that isn’t about revenue generation but about giving the public
information it needs,” Quinn said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  