-- News Corp. Horse Wasn’t Lunch Topic, Ex-Top Cop Tells Judge
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-07T15:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/news-corp-horse-wasn-t-lunch-topic-ex-top-cop-tells-judge-1-.html
London’s police chief during the
first probe of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking scandal said he
doesn’t recall discussing the loan of a police horse to Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch ’s former top U.K. executive.  Rebekah Brooks, who resigned as chief executive officer of
News Corp.’s U.K. unit days before her arrest in July in
investigations of phone hacking and police bribery, asked about
the loan after lunch with then-Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Ian Blair in 2008, the former top cop said at a media-ethics
inquiry today.  “I had absolutely no idea” about the loan, Blair said
today. “It was not until I prepared for this event that someone
raised the horse in legal discussion.” Blair, 58, said he
doesn’t recall discussing the horse at lunch.  The inquiry, triggered by the voice-mail interceptions
scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, is examining
the relationship between U.K. police and the press after a
criminal probe in 2006 failed to uncover the extent of the
practice. An inquiry lawyer, Robert Jay, has said the public
feared the relationship between police and News International
was “at best inappropriately close” and may be corrupt.  Blair led the force from 2005 to 2008, spanning the time
when the News of the World’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire 
and Royal Family reporter  Clive Goodman  were arrested and jailed
for phone-hacking. The probe’s closure, without revealing that
other reporters were involved or the existence of hundreds more
victims, wasn’t a bid to “placate” News Corp., Blair said.  Brooks’s Lunch  The Met’s press officer, Dick Fedorcio, was “telephoned by
Rebekah Brooks” at the time, after she learned of the existence
of the horse-loans arrangement, Blair said today. Fedorcio
“arranged for her to go down and see the inspector in charge of
horses and have a discussion about it.”  Fedorcio gave a witness statement to the inquiry saying the
horse was discussed at Brooks’s lunch with Blair, he said.  “He will say this was discussed at the lunch and I have no
recollection of that,” Blair said.  Brooks, an equestrian whose husband trains race horses,
housed and fed the animal from 2008 to 2010 as part of a program
for horses that are retired from service with mounted officers,
the Met said Feb. 28.  Sun Editor  Brooks edited the now-defunct News of the World tabloid,
where the phone-hacking scandal started, and later edited News
Corp.’s daily Sun newspaper, which is at the center of the
bribery investigation. She has denied wrongdoing and hasn’t been
charged.  Blair told the inquiry his son did a “work experience”
job at the Sun when he was 15 years old. The Met declined to
comment today.  Leveson also heard evidence today about Operation Nigeria,
the Met’s 1999 investigation into private eye Jonathan Rees, who
worked for News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, and other
newspapers. Bob Quick, a former assistant commissioner at the
Met, said the force didn’t investigate newspapers after finding
evidence they used Rees to bribe officers for stories.  “We believed that the journalists that were paying the
bribes were not paying them from their own funds” and possibly
“the newspapers were in some way complicit in those payments,”
Quick said. They chose not to go after the tabloids after
debating “the strength of the evidence and the complexities
related to journalistic privilege,” he said.  Police ‘Obsessed’  Lawyers for victims of media wrongdoing have said police
ignored for years evidence of illegal behavior by newspaper
companies due to a close relationship with journalists and their
power to make the Met look bad. Another former police
commissioner,  Paul Stephenson , told the inquiry this week
commanders were “obsessed” with their portrayal in the press.  Eleven current and former journalists at Murdoch’s Sun have
been arrested in the bribery probe.  Separately, U.K. Attorney General Dominic Grieve said his
office received a complaint about police officers’ testimony at
the inquiry, potentially prejudicing the future criminal cases
of people arrested in probes of wrongdoing by journalists.  Metropolitan Police Service Deputy Assistant Commissioner
Sue Akers, who oversaw the probes, told the inquiry on Feb. 27
that the Sun newspaper had a “culture” of corrupt payments to
public officials involving senior officers at the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  