-- News Corp. Director Met With Pension Funds Over Murdoch Chairman Role
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-07T10:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/news-corp-director-met-with-pension-funds-over-murdoch-chairman-role.html
A group representing Australian
pension funds calling for  Rupert Murdoch  to relinquish the dual
role of chairman and chief executive officer at  News Corp. (NWS)  met
with independent board director  Rod Eddington  to discuss their
concerns.  The meeting last week sought to ensure that interests of
minority shareholders are represented at  News Corp. (NWSA) , said Ann
Byrne, CEO of the Australian Council of Superannuation
Investors, whose members have about A$300 billion ($317 billion)
of investments.  Murdoch, who controls about 40 percent of the company’s
voting stock, has been under pressure from investors since
allegations of phone hacking at News Corp.’s U.K. unit led to
the arrest of journalists and closure of its News of the World
tabloid. The Australian pension funds last year opposed the re-
election of Murdoch’s sons Jamesand Lachlan as directors and
called for an “independent” chairman ahead of the company’s
2011 annual shareholder meeting.  “Most investors understand that in the Australian and the
U.K. market, it’s normal to have those roles separated,” Byrne
said. “Having an independent board is the only way for the
interests of minority investors to be protected.”  Stephen Browning, a spokesman for News Ltd. in Sydney,
declined to comment, referring the request to parent News
Corp.’s New York headquarters.  Arrests  U.K. Police have arrested more than 30 people in three News
Corp. investigations related to phone hacking, computer hacking
and bribery by journalists. The bribery probe spread to the Sun
newspaper, where current and former employees were arrested
since last year.  James Murdoch , News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer,
resigned as executive chairman of the U.K. publishing unit News
International last month and moved to the company’s New York
headquarters.  News Corp. shareholders “are concerned that James’s
judgement was faulty and was faulty for a long period of time
and this has damaged the company’s reputation,” Claire Enders,
CEO of research firm Enders Analysis, said in an interview.
“The company wants to make its major shareholders feel that
it’s dealing absolutely 100 percent with the issues at hand.”  News Corp. may be facing an even larger shareholder revolt
against James Murdoch at its annual meeting as more
revelations about the hacking and bribery scandals at the U.K.
papers come to light, Enders said.  Lawmaker Report  U.K. lawmakers are preparing a report about James Murdoch’s
role in the phone-hacking scandal and may publish their findings
in coming weeks.  James Murdoch had told Parliament last year that he wasn’t
made aware that phone-hacking was widespread at News of the
World before he became head of News International in 2007.  Both former News of the World editor  Colin Myler  and the
tabloid’s lawyer Tom Crone insisted James Murdoch was told about
the message in 2008. Myler in 2008 sent James Murdoch an e-mail,
showing that voice-mail interception went beyond a single
reporter at the tabloid.  James Murdoch wrote to Parliament saying he was confident
he didn’t review the full e-mail at the time.  The scandal also prompted News Corp. to drop a bid for 100
percent control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the pay-
TV company of which James Murdoch is still chairman.  The meeting between Eddington, News Corp.’s lead
independent board member, and the pension funds was reported
earlier today by the Australian Financial Review.  “We had a constructive meeting and will continue to
discuss the issues with News Corp. in the lead up to the
company’s annual general meeting later this year,” Byrne said
by phone from  Melbourne  today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  