-- News Corp. Evidence of Obstruction Mounts Amid James Murdoch’s Resignation
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/news-corp-evidence-of-obstruction-mounts-amid-james-murdoch-s-resignation.html
Before Rebekah Brooks was arrested
last year over her role in the  News Corp. (NWSA)  phone-hacking scandal,
she staved off a police threat of obstruction charges related to
the company unit she headed, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Based on a perceived lack of cooperation last April,
Scotland Yard officials warned they would arrest Ian Burton, the
lawyer Brooks retained to handle all police interactions with
her unit, News International. Brooks, then the unit’s chief
executive, defused the threat by sending two emissaries to Sue Akers, the director in charge of the police probe. They assured
Akers the company would cooperate fully, the people said.  Court records and interviews with people briefed on the
hacking investigation indicate the showdown between Brooks and
Scotland Yard is just one episode in a persistent, five-year
effort to contain the scandal in a manner the police and a U.K.
judge have called obstructive.  “They are to be treated as deliberate destroyers of
evidence,” said High Court Judge Geoffrey Vos at a Jan. 19
hearing in  London  at which the company announced it had settled
36 cases involving hacking victims.  Three months after the April police threat, Brooks was
arrested on suspicion of corruption and conspiring to intercept
communications. At that point, the company mounted an aggressive
campaign to help the police identify any examples of illegal
behavior.  Latest Disclosure  The latest disclosure in a series, made last week, involved
a 2006 e-mail that detailed hacking at News of the World, the
Sunday tabloid the company shut in response to the scandal. It
showed Brooks, while editor of another News Corp. tabloid, The
Sun, had been told by police that hacking victims were more
widespread than the New York-based media company had admitted --
and included Brooks herself.  The e-mail, sent between two News of the World managers,
suggests that from the beginning of the phone-hacking scandal,
there was a conspiracy among senior executives to deceive the
police and a separate, parliamentary probe into phone hacking.  The most significant of the revelations involves  James Murdoch , the former News International executive chairman who,
until last August, was widely considered to be the heir apparent
to his father, Rupert Murdoch, as chief executive of News Corp.  E-Mail Deleted  In January of last year, eight days after police asked a
News International tabloid to turn over any new evidence related
to alleged voice-mail hacking, the company deleted a potentially
incriminating e-mail from James Murdoch’s mailbox.  The younger Murdoch, currently deputy chief operating
officer of News Corp., gave up his title as executive chairman
of News International last week.  According to Linklaters LLP, the London law firm
coordinating the company’s inquiry into alleged criminal
behavior at News International, the deletion of James Murdoch’s
e-mail files was part of a “stablisation and modernisation
programme” put in motion by the company’s information
technology department in January of last year.  The Murdoch e-mail was deleted 11 days before London police
opened a new investigation into phone hacking at News
International, a coincidence reported by The  New York  Times.  News International had asked HCL Technologies, a database
management firm, about the possibility of “truncating a
database” during the same month. HCL said in a letter to
Parliament that it wasn’t able to fulfill the request.  The Plan  News International proceeded with its e-mail
“stabilisation” plan until late January, when the police
opened Operation Weeting, its current probe into phone hacking.
At that point, the company halted its purge, according to a
person briefed on the matter.  Earlier this year, a U.K. newspaper, the Guardian, reported
that News International had sent out a directive on Jan. 12,
2011 -- three days before the deletion -- asking that employees
retain their e-mails. News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to comment on the Guardian report.  A hard copy of the deleted e-mail was subsequently
discovered in the files of former News of the World editor  Colin Myler . The note, from 2008, relayed to James Murdoch a lawyer’s
warning that a union official suing the company was eager for
the opportunity to demonstrate that phone-hacking was “rife”
at News of the World, and not limited to a single “rogue”
reporter, which had been the company’s official position.  Not Aware  Murdoch told Parliament on two occasions last year that he
had never been made aware that phone-hacking was widespread at
News of the World while he was chief executive of News
International from 2007 to 2009.  After the note was discovered in December, Murdoch wrote to
Parliament, saying he was confident he didn’t review the full e-
mail at the time, given his quick response to it and the
likelihood that he had received the message on his BlackBerry.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Parliament may issue a report as early as this month on its
probe into phone-hacking at  Rupert Murdoch ’s U.K. tabloids. Its
last report on the topic, from 2010, expressed exasperation at
what lawmakers described as “collective amnesia” on the part
of News International’s top management.  Based on disclosures since the last report, the forthcoming
one will probably be even more critical of James Murdoch, Brooks
and other senior News International executives who testified
last year before the House of Commons’ select committee on
culture, media and sport.  Other Probes  In addition to the parliamentary inquiry, News
International is the subject of three separate criminal probes
involving phone hacking, bribery of police officers and computer
hacking. News International is also in the process of settling
civil cases brought by celebrities and other public figures who
claim their voice-mail accounts were regularly hacked.  Judge Vos admonished the company in open court in January
over what he described as an intentional effort to delete e-
mails pertaining to phone hacking.  In addition to his accusations about destruction of
evidence, he ordered several laptops that had escaped scrutiny
to be examined. The judge said they might contain clues as to
why so many of the company’s e-mails were deleted as victim
lawsuits against News International piled up.  The company is also center stage in the Leveson Inquiry, a
London tribunal led by Judge Brian Leveson. He is charged with
looking into the ethics of the media in the U.K.  Read Aloud  It was at this inquiry on Feb. 27 that the e-mail about
Brooks’ knowledge of phone hacking in 2006 was read aloud. It
was sent in September of that year by Tom Crone, an in-house
lawyer, to  Andy Coulson , who was at that time editor of News of
the World.  Crone wrote the note a month after the arrest of Clive Goodman, the Royal Family reporter whose arrest for hacking
kicked off the scandal. At the time, the police were trying,
unsuccessfully, to get News International to give them access to
Goodman’s files.  The reporter and  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator who
did contract work for News of the World, were charged with the
illegal interception of voice mails belonging to members of the
Royal Family and their staff.  The e-mail begins: “Here’s [what] Rebekah told me about
info relayed to her by cops.”  Police Plan  According to the e-mail, a police representative had
informed Brooks that phone-hacking victims extended beyond
members of the Royal Family, which was the cause of the original
investigation. The police were intent on bringing the case to
trial, “to demonstrate the scale” of the phone-hacking effort.  Prosecutors never got the opportunity to present “the full
case” because the two men charged, Goodman and Mulcaire,
pleaded guilty.  In December, an outside lawyer who reviewed a cache of e-
mails in 2007 between Goodman and five editors, including
Coulson, expressed surprise at the “active involvement”
displayed by News of the World editors in Goodman’s case.  The lawyer, Lawrence Abramson, who reviewed the e-mails
when he was at the Harbottle & Lewis LLP  law firm , testified at
the Leveson inquiry that Goodman’s editors were “trying to
influence the way the prosecution was being conducted -- or the
way the defense was being conducted.”  “And there is one e-mail that’s been redacted that I
thought would not reflect well on…” Abramson continued, before
being stopped because his testimony was straying into areas
under criminal investigation.  Coulson Blamed  The emergence of evidence suggesting Brooks’ awareness of
the scope of phone-hacking comes at a time when she is under
increased scrutiny.  Until last summer, blame for phone hacking had attached to
Coulson, her successor at News of the World. In 2003, Brooks
became editor of The Sun, which kept her clear of suspicion in
phone hacking issues that arose in 2005 and 2006.  Her position has changed in recent months, as the police
have arrested 10 current and former journalists from The Sun in
connection with the widespread payment of police officers and
other public officials for information.  Cheryl Carter, Brooks’ longtime personal assistant, was
arrested on Jan. 6, on suspicion of attempting to pervert the
course of justice.  At the Leveson inquiry last week, Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Akers testified that Scotland Yard had uncovered a
“network of corrupt officials” who had received payments from
journalists at The Sun.  Culture of Bribes  “There also appears to have been a culture at the Sun of
illegal payments, and systems have been created to facilitate
those payments, whilst hiding the identity of the officials
receiving the money,” Akers added.  David Wilson , Brooks’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the police investigation.  A year ago, Brooks was in charge of the relationship
between News International and Scotland Yard. Beginning in
January 2011, when Operation Weeting was started, she wouldn’t
let Akers or her detectives deal directly with executives at
News International, according to Akers’ testimony before
Parliament last summer. Scotland Yard had to put in requests for
information with BCL Burton Copeland, the outside law firm.  From the start, Akers asked the company to turn over all
internal reports and inquiries related to phone hacking,
according to an executive familiar with the matter. That request
covered some 2,500 e-mails reviewed in 2007 and sent to the law
firm of Harbottle & Lewis.  Missing E-Mails  On March 24, Burton Copeland requested the documents from
Harbottle. A week later, the file was delivered to News
International’s office in Wapping. Brooks’s newly hired deputy,
William Lewis, saw that it contained only about 100 e-mails. He
and another new hire,  Simon Greenberg , asked the IT department
to reconstruct the rest of the package.  Meanwhile, it was clear that the 100 or so e-mails that
News International had in hand were damaging. One was a note
from Coulson, former editor of News of the World, to Goodman,
complaining about the amount of money it would take to bribe a
police official to get a copy of the phone numbers of Royal
Family staff members.  After leaving News International in 2007 because of the
Goodman case, Coulson was hired as a communications adviser to
 David Cameron , who became the U.K.’s prime minister in 2010.  The Threat  On April 14, the police arrested James Weatherup, an editor
from News of the World. Burton Copeland removed some of
Weatherup’s work-related possessions from News International
before the police arrived, transferring them to its own offices.  Akers threatened to arrest Ian Burton, a principal at the
law firm, and bring obstruction of justice charges, according to
two people briefed on the matter, unless News International
began to cooperate.  Brooks dispatched her two deputies, Lewis and Greenberg, to
meet face-to-face with Akers and bear the brunt of her anger,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Akers lectured the men about the importance of dealing
directly with News International executives instead of a law
firm. Lewis and Greenberg assured her that going forward, the
company would cooperate completely.  A few days later, Brooks hosted a videoconference to update
two colleagues at News Corp. headquarters in New York: Lon Jacobs, then the general counsel, and  Joel Klein , chief
executive of News Corp.’s education division, who was advising
News Corp. chief executive Rupert Murdoch on the matter.  James Murdoch attended in London, along with Burton, Dan Tench, a lawyer from the firm Olswang, Lewis and Greenberg.  Scotland Yard  Klein and Jacobs had already heard about Akers’s anger over
the removal of Weatherup’s possessions, according to two
attendees who asked not to be identified. Brooks assured the men
that Lewis and Greenberg had put things right with Scotland Yard
and that Akers was no longer “mad” at News International.  After learning about the Harbottle file and the e-mail
involving Coulson and payments to police officers, Jacobs asked
whether Coulson would be arrested, according to two attendees.
Brooks said that was likely.  Wouldn’t Coulson’s arrest be a problem for the company?
Jacobs asked. Brooks dismissed his concern, saying Coulson’s
arrest was much more likely to be a problem for David Cameron.  Coulson was arrested three months later.  Brooks herself came under fire in early July after the
Guardian revealed that journalists working for her in 2002, when
she was editor of News of the World, had sanctioned the hacking
of a cell phone belonging to a 13-year-old schoolgirl who had
been abducted and murdered.  New Cooperation  Brooks resigned from News International on July 15, a week
after Coulson’s arrest. Two days later, she was arrested,
questioned and released, pending charges.  Following the July 4 revelations about the murdered
schoolgirl, News Corp. committed itself to full cooperation with
the police. Murdoch named Klein, a former Justice Department
prosecutor, to head up a management and standards committee
(MSC), comprised of Lewis, Greenberg and Jeff Palker, general
counsel for the company’s operations in Europe and  Asia .  The committee is answerable to News Corp. headquarters in
New York, and has no formal ties to the U.K. subsidiary. In her
testimony last week, Scotland Yard’s Akers endorsed the
committee’s efforts, as well as its independence.  “The fact that we are dealing with the MSC directly and
not News International I think should make any contention that
it isn’t independent without foundation,” Akers said.  News Corp.’s cooperation with Scotland Yard has come at a
price. Journalists at The Sun have criticized the committee and
complained that its willingness to turn over internal
communications has jeopardized confidential sources.  The level of animosity towards the committee reached such a
point last month that Rupert Murdoch came to London to express
his commitment to the tabloid and its reporters. He spent much
of February in London directing the launch of a new Sunday
edition of The Sun, filling the News of the World void.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  