-- NFLPA Seeks Interviews With New Orleans Saints Over Bounty Program Review
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/nflpa-seeks-interviews-with-new-orleans-saints-over-bounty-program-review.html
The National Football League Players
Association  wants to interview  New Orleans Saints  coaches and
executives as part of an investigation aimed at helping
determine what rule changes are needed to prevent players from
taking inducements to injure opponents.  The Saints, under former defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, paid bounties from 2009-11 to players who hurt
opponents, the  National Football League  said last week. Williams,
who is now with the  St. Louis Rams , admitted to the program and
Saints coach Sean Payton and General Manager Mickey Loomis two
days ago took responsibility for allowing it to go on.  Players were paid $1,500 for a “knockout,” in which an
opposing player was unable to return to the game, and $1,000 for
a “cart-off,” in which rivals were carried off the field.
Payments doubled or tripled during the playoffs.  “If the facts prove that players voluntarily and willingly
participated in conduct that jeopardized health and safety, we
will work with them and the league to put in place additional
safeguards to prevent this in the future,” the NFLPA said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “Dangerous play and acts on the
field by players intended to injure have no place in football.”  Since the revelations, four former Redskins have told the
Washington Post that the team had a similar program when
Williams was defensive coordinator there between 2004 and 2007.  The NFL probe began in 2010 when the league heard that the
Saints had targeted Pro Bowl quarterbacks  Kurt Warner  of the
 Arizona Cardinals  and  Brett Favre  of the  Minnesota Vikings .  The allegations were originally denied and the
investigation, which included a review of 18,000 documents and
an undisclosed number of interviews, was reopened toward the end
of last season.  “We recognize that this investigation was conducted over
the course of many months,” the union said. “Accordingly, we
have requested that the NFL provide us with sufficient time to
complete our internal review as counsel to the players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas as 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  