-- LNG’s Looming Glut Has Qatar Sealing 20-Year Asia Deals
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-03-07T22:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/lng-glut-risk-spurs-qatar-s-20-year-export-deals-to-asia.html
Qatar is seeking contracts to sell
liquefied natural gas to Asia for as many as 20 years as the
prospect of booming supplies from Australia, the U.S. and Africa
raises the likelihood of a slide in prices.  Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co., a venture between
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and the Qatari state that’s the biggest
supplier to  India , agreed last month to boost shipments to South
Korea by 2 million metric tons a year in the next two decades.
The company signed a similar commitment with a Taiwanese buyer
in December. Qatar Liquefied Gas Co., the world’s largest LNG
exporter, said March 1 it’s negotiating a multiyear sale of the
fuel to  Pakistan .  Qatar, which produces more LNG than any other country, is
seeking to complete larger and longer export deals amid a surge
in global supplies that’s encouraging buyers to call for an end
to costing the fuel based on  oil prices . The world may face an
LNG “glut” in the next eight years as production from
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of shale deposits swells
inventories, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in a Feb. 14
report. U.S. gas traded at the lowest level in 10 years on Jan.
23, while  Brent crude  jumped to a 3 1/2-year high on March 1.  “It’s better to lock in oil-indexed prices today than have
competitors from 2019 offering a price based on the U.S. spot
market,” Thierry Bros, a senior analyst at Societe Generale SA
in Paris, said in an e-mail Feb. 29. “Qatar can no longer sell
LNG to the North American market, as was originally planned,
after the U.S. shale-gas revolution.”  Five Times Cheaper  Gas at Henry Hub in  Louisiana  fell to $2.23 per million
British thermal units on Jan. 23, the lowest price since 2002,
and settled 2.3 percent lower at $2.302 today. The U.S.
benchmark price averaged $3.26 per million Btu in December,
about one-fifth of the average Japanese LNG import price that
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brent rose to
$124.12 a barrel today on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange, bringing its gain this year to 16 percent, as the
standoff over Iran’s nuclear program raised concern that supply
will be disrupted.  Qatar typically tries to sign agreements at prices tied to
crude on an energy-equivalent basis, Ibrahim Al Ibrahim, the
Qatari emir’s economic adviser, told reporters at the Feb. 9
RasGas signing in the capital, Doha. Neither RasGas nor its
Asian buyers disclosed the pricing of their new contracts.  “The price is quite good,” Ibrahim said of the Korean
agreement. “It’s way different from the prices in other
markets. The gap is huge between the Far East and Europe and, of
course, if you put in the U.S., it’s even bigger.”  Pressure on Prices  The RasGas agreements, Qatar’s first multi-decade pacts
with Asian buyers since 2008, coincide with a 10 percent cut in
long-term prices by Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
gas producer, to its pipeline customers in Europe.  “What we are hearing is there is pressure on the long-
dated pricing of LNG contracts, and it’s possible that Qatar is
looking at securing long-term offtake in anticipation of reduced
spot prices because of a glut five years down the line,”  Neil Beveridge , a senior analyst at Bernstein in  Hong Kong , said by
phone Feb. 29. “The sense is that the current spot market
remains tight but pricing is coming off on the longer-dated
contracts.”  Global supply of LNG, natural gas chilled to a liquid for
ease of transport, will swell by as much as 250 million tons
during the next eight years from  Australia ,  North America  and
Africa, according to Bernstein. World capacity was 270 million
tons in 2011, according to the International Energy Agency.  Australian Ventures  Qatar raised annual LNG capacity to 77 million tons last
year with the start of its 14th liquefaction plant. The country
originally earmarked as much as one-third of its supplies to
North America before diverting some to Asia.  Australia is developing eight LNG ventures to take
advantage of growing Asian demand for less-polluting
alternatives to coal. The projects will add a combined 70
million tons a year of capacity, according to Beveridge. Chevron
Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,
ConocoPhillips and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  are among those building export
plants to supply countries including  China .  The U.S. will be able to produce about 45 million tons of
LNG a year by 2020, according to BG, the U.K.’s third-largest
producer. The U.S. exported less than 500,000 tons in 2010,
according to U.S. Energy Department data. The U.S. would
overtake Qatar as the world’s top LNG producer if planned
projects are built, Bros said in a report today.  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , India’s biggest natural-gas distributor,
said in December it agreed to import 3.5 million tons from
Cheniere Energy Partners LP in Louisiana.  “U.S. LNG is a game-changer, in that Qatar is effectively
worried that its oil-linked formula could be at risk after
2020,” Bros said last month.  Interest in U.S.  Rising U.S. gas output is attracting Qatari interest in
investing in the resource.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-largest U.S. natural
gas producer after Exxon Mobil Corp., has fielded inquiries this
year from the emirate about investing in onshore North American
gas projects,  Aubrey McClendon , chief executive officer of the
Oklahoma City-based company, said yesterday in an interview.
Qatar Petroleum International, the foreign investment unit of
the state-run energy company, may invest in North American shale
gas with an international oil company, Chief Executive Officer
Nasser al-Jaidah said Dec 7.  Asia Demand  Rising demand in  Asia  may still soak up some of the
additional supply, according to Beveridge.  Japan , the world’s
biggest LNG consumer, bought record volumes in January after
most of its atomic reactors closed following the March 11
disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, forcing power
utilities to increase their dependence on fossil fuels.  Japanese import prices for LNG climbed 51 percent last year
to $16.66 per million Btu at the end of December, according to
 LNG Japan Corp. data  compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. gas futures
declined 32 percent over the same period on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Yemen LNG Co. said last month it has redeployed fuel
exports to Asia amid weaker demand in the U.S. The Sana’a,
Yemen-based company will supply Korea Gas with 20 cargoes a year
through 2014, it said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 18.  “New centers of LNG supplies are emerging with the rise of
unconventional gas and new exploration in North America and East
 Africa , and the world could be faced with a new global LNG glut
by 2018,” Beveridge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  