-- Norway’s Krone Strengthens as Rate-Cut Speculation Diminishes: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-07T14:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/norway-s-krone-strengthens-as-rate-cut-speculation-diminishes-oslo-mover.html
Norway ’s krone jumped, snapping two
days of losses, as rising stocks and speculation the central
bank has finished cutting interest rates fueled gains in the
currency of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter.  The krone, last month’s best performing major currency
against the dollar and the euro, rose 0.3 percent against the
euro to 7.4569 and to 5.6878 per dollar as of 3:36 p.m. in Oslo.
It was the second-best performer today versus the U.S. currency
and the euro after the  New Zealand dollar .  “It appears less likely today than it did a month ago that
the central bank will cut the  interest rate ,” said Ole Andre
Kjennerud, a currency analyst at DNB ASA, Norway’s biggest
lender. “Definitely this adds some fuel to it.”  The economy of the world’s second-wealthiest nation is
withstanding  Europe ’s debt crisis as rising crude oil prices
fuel record petroleum investments. Manufacturing accelerated at
the fastest pace in nine months in February and consumer
confidence improved in the first quarter. Unemployment has
fallen and retail sales have surged. The rebound may prompt the
central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen to refrain from cutting the
1.75 percent benchmark rate next week, DNB estimates.  “If you look at the Norwegian economy in isolation from
the world then I am sure it could handle even higher interest
rates,” Kjennerud said.  Stocks Gain  The country’s central bank in December lowered its  main
rate  by half a percentage point, its biggest cut since May 2009,
to guard against the fallout on the economy of Europe’s debt
crisis and to avoid excessive krone gains. Norway, which boasts
the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation, has emerged
as a haven from the crisis. The country’s statistics office
estimates Norway’s economy, excluding income from oil and
shipping, will grow 2.7 percent this year, versus a European
Commission estimate for a 0.3 percent contraction in the euro
area.  The country’s benchmark stock index, the OBX Index, rose
1.1 percent to 383.460 by 2:52 pm in Oslo today. That’s
supporting krone gains, according to Erica Blomgren, chief
strategist for Norway at SEB AB. “The krone has weakened over
the past days so we’re now seeing a small correction with
improving risk appetite,” she said.  The central bank will meet on March 14 to decide on
interest rates. The krona slid 0.8 percent against the euro
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  