-- Nuclear Powers Prepare Demands to Present to Iran After IAEA Stops Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-07T13:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/nuclear-powers-prepare-iran-demands-after-iaea-calls-off-meeting.html
Nuclear powers will present  Iran 
with demands as early as tomorrow that, if fulfilled, may damp
an international stand-off over the Persian Gulf nation’s atomic
work.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 35-member board
called off a scheduled meeting today in Vienna to give nations
time to prepare the demands. Chinese, French, German, Russian,
U.K. and U.S. diplomats are expected to issue a statement
tomorrow, after it has been cleared by leaders in their
capitals, three officials told Bloomberg News on condition of
anonymity because the information isn’t public.  “We have put forward an international framework that is
applying unprecedented pressure,” President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday at a press conference in  Washington . “The Iranians
just stated that they are willing to return to the negotiating
table, and we’ve got the opportunity, even as we maintain that
pressure, to see how it plays out.”  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano appealed for guidance on
Feb. 5 after two rounds of talks between the agency’s inspectors
with Iranian officials in Tehran failed to produce any result.
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said
yesterday that world powers are ready to resume talks with Iran
over its disputed nuclear work.  In addition to criticizing Iran’s failure to comply with
United Nations Security Council resolutions ordering the country
to suspend  uranium enrichment  and allow wider access to nuclear
inspectors, diplomats are seeking agreement on how to support
the IAEA’s oversight, the officials said.  Intensified Talks  The IAEA has intensified its talks with Iran since November
and is seeking advice from its board on how to continue, Amano
said on March 5 in Vienna.  While IAEA inspectors and Iran agreed to begin clearing up
nuclear-weapons allegations by June, they remained divided over
how to reach the goal, according to five-page document
circulated this week in the Austrian capital. The document shows
points of contention between Iran and the agency.  The U.S. and the EU have ratcheted up economic sanctions
against Iran over concerns that the government in Tehran is
pursuing nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for
peaceful purposes.  EU foreign ministers agreed to ban Iranian oil imports from
July and freeze the country’s central bank assets.  The IAEA will resume its quarterly meeting at 11:00 a.m.
tomorrow in the Austrian capital with statements about Iran
expected to begin in the afternoon, according to the agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  