-- NYC Transit May Benefit From U.S. House Highway Bill Revision
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-07T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/nyc-transit-may-benefit-from-u-s-house-highway-bill-revision.html
U.S. House Republican leaders are
giving up an effort to end guaranteed federal funding for mass
transit, bowing to party members in the Northeast whose
districts depend on the money.  Opposition from about a dozen Republicans representing
urban and suburban districts, including Representative  Peter King  of New York, persuaded House Speaker  John Boehner  and his
leadership team to drop a proposal to end the designated use of
2.86 cents of the 18.4 cent gasoline tax for mass transit and
other air-quality and highway-congestion projects.  The language won’t be included in a revamped version of a
five-year, $260 billion bill authorizing funding for the
nation’s roads, trains and bridges, Representatives Bill Shuster
of  Pennsylvania  and  Fred Upton  of Michigan said today in
Washington.  “Suburban Republicans, urban Republicans, that’s very
important to them,” Shuster told reporters.  King, whose Long Island district includes a large
population of commuters, and other Republicans said the change
would have crippled transit including the  New York City (KSU)  subway
system and the Long Island Railroad.  King said last month he would oppose the transportation
bill unless the mass transit funding change was taken out
because “that’s the only program where  New York  gets more money
back” than it pays in gas taxes.  $40 Billion  Republican leaders had proposed replacing the automatic
funding mechanism for mass transit with $40 billion in general
funds. Shuster said the decision to drop that proposal is the
most significant change Republican leaders are making to the
transportation bill.  House Republican leaders abandoned plans to bring an
earlier version of the highway bill to the floor last month
after members objected for reasons including its price tag.  Almost all House minority Democrats oppose the measure,
which would reauthorize the 18.4-cent federal gasoline tax and
set maximum spending levels for roads, bridges and mass transit
for five years. The current highway law, which expires March 31,
is the eighth temporary extension since a $244 billion, four-
year plan ended in 2009.  Boehner of  Ohio  told fellow House Republicans at a closed-
door meeting today that if they can’t agree on their five-year
highway bill they may have to accept the Senate’s two-year
version, Shuster, Upton and Steven LaTourette of Ohio told
reporters.  Senate Proposal  The Senate is working on its $109.8 billion highway bill.
Many House Republicans say that bill is inadequate and doesn’t
include changes they are seeking.  “We’re back to the five-year bill,” said Shuster, who
House leaders have tapped to help gain votes for the bill.
“There’s still some concerns out there, but we’re going to try
to work through it and build the vote to 218,” the number of
votes needed for House passage.  House Republicans ’ proposal would eliminate a program to
fund bicycle trails and other transportation-related
improvements that anti-tax lawmakers say are wasteful. It would
expand offshore drilling to provide royalties for highway
spending, and raise funds by requiring federal workers to
contribute more to their pensions.  Shuster said the House may consider a 30 to 45-day highway
funding extension if lawmakers need time to resolve differences
between the House and Senate bills.  Representative  Allen West , a Florida Republican, said a
five-year bill was far preferable to a shorter-term measure.  “We want to be able to provide certainty for people,”
West said. “I talk to folks down in our district, in the
 construction industry , and they want that certainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  