-- President Obama Plays Down Iran War Talk in Bid to Avert Israel Strike
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-07T14:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/obama-downplays-iran-military-action-talk-in-bid-to-avert-israeli-strikes.html
President  Barack Obama  said there is
a “window of opportunity” for diplomacy and sanctions to
compel Iran to give up any effort to develop nuclear weapons,
while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told U.S.
lawmakers those efforts won’t work.  Their divergent comments -- Obama at a news conference
yesterday and Netanyahu on  Capitol Hill  -- highlighted the
differences that persist between the two leaders over the need
for military action against Iran a day after they presented a
unified front at the White House.  Obama may have bought more time for diplomacy and sanctions
by reassuring Netanyahu that a nuclear-armed Iran would be as
great a threat to the U.S. as it would be to  Israel , said
current and former U.S. officials. Netanyahu, though, made it
clear that Israel’s patience is limited and that he’s prepared
to order an attack on Iran if it doesn’t abandon its suspected
nuclear weapons development.  “We’ve waited for diplomacy to work. We’ve waited for
sanctions to work. None of us can afford to wait much longer,”
Netanyahu told the American Israel Political Action Committee
March 5.  The meeting with Netanyahu was a high-stakes encounter for
Obama, who’s under pressure in an election year to forestall
military action while blunting attacks from Republicans who
accuse him of providing tepid support to Israel. The U.S. and
 Europe  have tightened economic sanctions on Iran in an effort to
force it to end any weapons-related nuclear work and head off
conflict and a possible nuclear arms race in the Persian Gulf
region that holds more than half the world’s oil reserves.  Demands on Iran  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, said yesterday that world powers are ready to resume
talks with Iran over its disputed nuclear work.  Chinese, French, German, Russian, U.K. and U.S. diplomats
are expected to issue a statement tomorrow, after it is cleared
by leaders in their capitals, presenting Iran with demands
intended to damp the international stand-off if fulfilled,
according to three officials who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information isn’t public.  ‘Red Lines’  “Neither a green light, nor a red light was given” from
Obama to Netanyahu in their talks for an Israeli strike on
Iran’s nuclear program, an aide to the prime minister said
today. “An additional element entered the discussion, and that
is the question of not only what will be the price of Israeli
action, but also the price of Israeli inaction,” said Liran
Dan, Netanyahu’s director of communications, in an interview
with Israel’s  Army Radio .  Obama and Netanyahu “share the same objective: that you
can’t live with an Iran that has nuclear weapons,” Dennis Ross,
Obama’s former chief adviser on Iran, said in an interview.
“Both have a preference for diplomatic means. The question is
how much time you give diplomacy.”  More than three hours of talks at the White House March 5
didn’t set a deadline for diplomacy, and the two leaders didn’t
discuss their respective “red lines” for military action
against Iran, said U.S. and Israeli officials, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the talks were private.  Obama yesterday stressed there’s a “window of opportunity
where this can still be resolved diplomatically.” While he told
reporters at the White House he will do whatever is needed to
prevent  Iran  from getting a nuclear weapon, Obama also warned
that there could be dangerous consequences for the U.S. and
Israel if military “action is taken prematurely.”  ‘Zone of Immunity’  Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and other Israeli officials
have warned that Iran may be only months away from reaching a
“zone of immunity” where its nuclear activities in deep
underground facilities would be invulnerable to Israeli air
strikes.  “This notion that somehow we have a choice to make in the
next week or two weeks or month or two months is not borne out
by the facts,” Obama said, without explaining why he chose
those time frames.  The European Union announced yesterday that the U.S.,
 China ,  Russia , Britain,  France  and  Germany  are prepared to
restart stalled talks with Iran to achieve a “negotiated, long-
term solution which restores international confidence in the
exclusively peaceful nature of  Iran’s nuclear program .” The EU
set no deadlines for the start or conclusion of talks.  Netanyahu yesterday told U.S. lawmakers that he doesn’t
think talks and sanctions will force Iran to back down, said
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican
who met with the Israeli leader.  Perils of Striking  Sandy Berger, who as national security adviser to President
Bill Clinton discussed the Iranian nuclear issue with Netanyahu,
said in an interview before the leaders met that Obama needed to
talk to the Israeli leader about “the risks of a strike.” The
perils, he said, include a violent backlash targeting Israel and
the U.S., as well as “the effect on oil supply, spiking of  oil
prices , damage to the global economy, inflaming the region
during the Arab Spring at a time when so much is in flux.”  Berger said he hoped the president was able to convince
Netanyahu that “sanctions are beginning to have a serious
impact in Iran” and may still force Iran into an acceptable
negotiated settlement.  ‘Loose Talk’  On March 4, Obama told Aipac, the largest pro-Israel group
in the U.S., that “loose talk of war” is benefiting Iran, the
second-largest crude producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, by driving up the price of oil.  Oil had risen 41 percent as of March 5 from a 12-month low
on Oct. 4, partly on concerns of a possible war in the  Middle
East . Yesterday, after the EU offered to restart negotiations
with Iran, crude dropped to a two-week low in  New York . The
Middle East is the source of 30 percent of the world’s crude.  Crude for April delivery rose 0.7 percent to $105.38 a
barrel at 10:20 a.m. in  London . Futures are up 6.7 percent this
year.  Ross, now counselor at the  Washington  Institute for Near
East Policy, said that a return to negotiations must not simply
buy time for the Persian Gulf nation. Ross said it’s his
understanding that Israel’s leaders think any important
concessions by Iran need “to happen before the end of this
year.”  A U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
intelligence is classified said U.S. agencies monitor Iran’s
nuclear activities and would be able detect any moves by Iran to
build a nuclear weapon. The official said Iran would need about
a year to create a weapon from the time it decided to do so,
allowing a window for negotiations and sanctions to work, while
preserving the option to strike if needed.  Self-Defense  In his address to Aipac, Obama emphasized that Israel has
the sovereign right to do what it thinks it must to preserve its
security. “Israel must always have the ability to defend
itself, by itself, against any threat,” he said.  Speaking to reporters in the Oval Office before his talks
with Obama March 5, Netanyahu said his “supreme responsibility
as prime minister of Israel is to ensure that Israel remains the
master of its fate.”  Netanyahu, who has criticized Obama’s position on Iran and
the Palestinian peace process to American visitors, made a
public show of unity. In Iran’s mind, “we are you and you are
us. We’re together,” Netanyahu said at the White House.  More Clarity  “There’s more clarity now,” Israeli National Security
Adviser Yaakov Amidror told reporters. “Both sides know where
the other is coming from.”  Obama needed to “reassure the Israelis that he’s open to a
military option at some point, without giving the Israelis an
ironclad guarantee that the U.S. will strike or green-lighting
an Israeli military attack,” Aaron David Miller, who worked on
Middle East policy in several U.S. administrations, said in an
interview.  Miller, an analyst at the Woodrow Wilson Center for
International Scholars in Washington, said Obama “probably
gained a fair amount of time to continue to try sanctions,
political pressure, even diplomacy.”  Two U.S. intelligence officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity said while surveillance of Iran’s nuclear program is
good, it’s far from perfect. Neither the U.S. nor its allies
know the intentions of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the officials said, because they’re known only to a
small circle of insiders.  Limits of Surveillance  Yukiya Amano, director general of the International Atomic
Energy Agency, said March 5 the UN body “continues to have
serious concerns regarding possible military dimensions” of
Iran’s program. While Iran’s declared nuclear facilities are
under IAEA surveillance, the country has declined to open its
military bases to full inspection. Iran says its nuclear program
is for civilian energy and medical research.  Since a Nov. 8 IAEA report cited “credible” intelligence
suggesting possible military aspects of Iran’s program, the U.S.
and the European Union have imposed an array of new sanctions,
imperiling tens of billions of dollars of Iran’s annual revenue.  David Makovsky , a fellow at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy, said differences between the U.S. and Israel
include whether Iran must be stopped sooner or later -- before
it has the technical capability to make a nuclear weapon, or
before it starts building one.  “It seems to me we’ve not seen a narrowing of that gap,”
he said.  In the longer term, any peaceful resolution of the issue
will depend on whether and how quickly Iran’s leaders are
willing to make meaningful concessions, said Martin Indyk, who
served as U.S. ambassador to Israel while Netanyahu was prime
minister in the late 1990s.  “The fact that Obama has taken the containment option off
the table indicates that the choice is fast becoming a binary
one for U.S. policy -- either Iran gives up its bomb-making
capabilities or it will sooner or later be bombed,” Indyk, who
is director of foreign policy at the  Brookings Institution , a
research center in Washington, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  