-- Obama’s Corporate Framework May Create Double Tax, Camp Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-07T20:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/obama-s-corporate-framework-may-lead-to-double-tax-camp-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s suggestion
that businesses reporting income on individual returns could be
taxed more like corporations amounts to a “double tax,” House
Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  said.  Camp, a  Michigan  Republican, made the comments today at a
committee hearing in  Washington  that focused on how closely held
businesses should be treated in a U.S. tax code overhaul. These
firms pass through their income to the owner’s individual tax
return, allowing them to pay taxes on that income at the
individual rate instead of the corporate rate.  In Obama’s  proposed  corporate tax revisions, which the
administration released on Feb. 22, he said large companies are
“increasingly avoiding corporate tax liability by organizing
themselves as pass-through businesses.” Republicans maintain
that such businesses are often small and should be protected.
The tax treatment of these businesses will be an important
element of any tax code overhaul in Congress.  “Isn’t it better to have fewer business entities subject
to double taxation?” Camp said at today’s hearing.  Obama’s hasn’t proposed a threshold at which pass-through
businesses should be taxed in a way that would be similar to
corporations.  Republican Concerns  Camp’s objection to taxing pass-through businesses more
like corporations reflects the longstanding concern among
Republicans that corporate income is taxed twice. Income is
taxed first, they emphasize, at the corporate level and again
when it is distributed in the form of dividends.  Mark Smetana, the chief financial officer of Naperville,
Illinois-based Eby-Brown Co., which is a pass-through business,
said Obama’s suggested changes would hurt his company.  “That would decrease our opportunities in terms of
reinvestment and growth,” he told the panel today.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the committee’s
top Democrat, said the characteristics of pass-through
businesses have evolved over the years and warrant scrutiny.  “It used to be that pass-throughs were a reasonable proxy
for small businesses,” he said. “This identity is breaking
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  