-- Obama Says Modest Measures Needed to Trim Budget Deficit
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/obama-says-modest-measures-needed-to-trim-u-s-budget-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  told a group
of business executives that the U.S. can avoid extreme measures
to trim the deficit while still meeting the nation’s need to
bolster education and rebuild infrastructure.  Addressing members of the  Business Roundtable  in Washington
yesterday, Obama said “modest” increases in tax revenue and
cuts in spending will bring the  budget shortfall  into line
without jeopardizing a still fragile recovery.  “This is not a situation that’s analogous to Greece, we
don’t have to cut by 25 percent, raise taxes by 25 percent,
that’s not the situation we find ourselves in,” Obama said to
the group of about 100 chief executive officers. “These are
relatively modest adjustments that can stabilize our economy,
give you the kind of business confidence you need to invest.”  The association, whose members are top executives from
large U.S. companies including  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , convened in Washington to discuss a report
it is releasing today called “Taking Action for America: A CEO
Plan for Jobs and Economic Growth.”  Obama, who has worked to repair his relationship with the
business community, gave opening remarks with reporters present
then met privately with the executives for about an hour.
Business leaders in attendance at yesterday’s meeting included
PepsiCo Inc. CEO Indra Nooyi and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon.  Obama said the U.S. must focus on its “core strengths” in
 manufacturing , innovation and education to maintain its edge in
the global economy. He repeated his call for investments in
energy and infrastructure, and said that at the same time
health-care costs for an aging population must also be cut.  Doubling Exports  Obama said U.S. exports are on track to reach his goal of
doubling by 2015 largely because of bipartisan trade agreements.
He repeated his call on Congress to reauthorize the Export-
Import Bank.  “I think I’ve shown that I will go anywhere in the world
to open new markets for American goods,” he said. “When the
playing field is level American companies will win, American
workers will win and this country will win.”  Last month, the president announced plans for Export-Import
Bank financing for U.S. companies for domestic as well as
overseas sales to match foreign competitors’ source of official
funding.  The last time Obama addressed executives from the Business
Roundtable, a Washington-based association of chief executive
officers at large companies that backs lower taxes on overseas
profits, was in February 2010.  Roundtable Report  The group’s report is scheduled to be released today by
 Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer  James McNerney , who is also
chairman of the Business Roundtable, chairman of the president’s
export council, and a member of the president’s jobs council;
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  CEO  Andrew Liveris ; and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
CEO Bob McDonald.  The report will offer recommendations to boost the economy
and jobs by taking steps in such areas as fiscal policy,
regulation, taxation, open markets for trade and investment,
energy, cybersecurity, skilled workers, health care and
retirement policies, the group said in a statement.  It follows a Jan. 17 report by Obama’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness on helping the U.S. recover its global economic
edge. The council’s recommendations included: broadening the
U.S. tax base and lower rates; extracting more coal, oil and
natural gas; boosting government research and development;
easing small business rules; overhauling export controls; and
increasing government purchases of alternative-fuel vehicles.  Business Roundtable members represent companies with more
than $6 trillion in total annual revenues and more than 14
million employees, according to the group’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  