-- Obama Stand on Iran Seen Bolstering Strength With Jewish Voters
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-07T16:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/obama-s-tough-iran-stance-seen-bolstering-strength-with-u-s-jewish-voters.html
President  Barack Obama  probably
bolstered his strength with U.S. Jewish voters and the Israeli
government with his pronouncement that he’ll use military force
if needed to stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons.  “He sounded tougher and therefore probably helped himself
with American Jewish voters,” said  Elliott Abrams , who was
deputy national security adviser to President  George W. Bush .  “The question really is, did he help himself in a way
that’s going to last more than a week?” said Abrams, now a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington.
“I’m not so sure of that.”  The confrontation with Iran dominated Obama’s agenda for
the past three days as he met with Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and addressed the biggest pro-Israel lobby
group. It also has emerged as the top foreign policy issue in
the presidential campaign.  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent of Jewish voters,
according to national exit polls. This year the three leading
Republican contenders, seeking to undermine that support, accuse
Obama of failing to back Israel as he’s argued for more time for
sanctions to derail Iran’s ambitions.  Obama challenged his critics at a news conference
yesterday, saying they were engaging in “a lot of bluster and a
lot of big talk” and exhibited a “casualness” about
committing U.S. troops to the battlefield.  Ruling Out Containment  Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes and
has refused to halt its  uranium enrichment .  The  International
Atomic Energy Agency ’s 35-member board called off a scheduled
meeting today in Vienna to give Chinese, French, German,
Russian, British and U.S. diplomats time to develop a set of
demands on Iran, which could come as soon as tomorrow.  Obama’s declaration that he will act militarily if
sanctions and pressure don’t work may have bought the president
time with Israel and U.S. voters, said Robert Wexler, a former
Democratic congressman, Obama supporter, and president of the
Washington-based S. Daniel Abraham Center for Middle East Peace.  “The events of the last week have helped the president
enormously in a political sense,” Wexler said.  Netanyahu, visiting members of Congress yesterday, said
he’ll return home “feeling that we have great friends in
 Washington .” A day earlier, at a White House meeting with Obama
and in a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee,
Netanyahu emphasized areas of agreement while also reserving
Israel’s right to act on its own.  More Clarity  Netanyahu’s national security adviser, Yaakov Amidror said
“there’s more clarity now” about the U.S. position, giving
Israel a greater comfort level.  Abrams cautioned that goodwill toward Obama at home and
abroad may be undercut by Iran’s behavior in a new round of
negotiations; Obama’s temptation to use a “nastier” partisan
tone with Republican presidential rivals; a history of frosty
relations between Obama and Netanyahu, and Israel’s greater
sense of urgency about stopping  Iran ’s nuclear capabilities.  The president’s drive to clarify his Iran stance began with
an interview published March 2 in the Atlantic magazine. That
was followed by Obama’s March 4 speech to Aipac and a March 5
meeting at the White House with Netanyahu.  Yesterday’s news conference, on the same day the Republican
candidates competed in nominating contests in 11 states, also
coincided with end of the annual Aipac policy conference in
Washington.  Urging Stronger Steps  Republican presidential contenders,  Mitt Romney ,  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich , addressed Aipac earlier in the day,
accusing Obama of not taking strong enough steps to stop Iran
from developing nuclear weapons.  If they think the U.S. should take military action, “they
should say so,” Obama said.  “When you actually ask them specifically what they would
do, it turns out they repeat the things that we’ve been doing
over the last three years,” he said without naming his critics.
“That’s more about politics than actually trying to solve a
difficult problem.”  Obama said the steps he’s taken to isolate Iran, hobble its
economy and bring international pressure on the government in
Tehran is the right course.  He repeated that the U.S. wants to give ever-tightening
sanctions more time to work in the standoff with Iran and there
is a “window of opportunity” for a diplomatic solution. He
also said the U.S. “will not countenance Iran getting a nuclear
weapon.”  Reassurance  Wexler said that approach was reassuring.  “The vast majority of Jewish Americans do not want a
chest-thumping president that is creating more anxiety than need
be,” he said. “They want to see a sober president with a
deliberate plan to stop the Iranian nuclear quest, and that is
precisely what President Obama outlined.”  Representative Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat who also
met with Netanyahu last month, said the Israeli leader may have
been concerned that the U.S. was moving toward accepting
containment of Iran.  “He’ll probably be less concerned about that now,” he
said.  Nadler said several constituents from his district told him
at the Aipac conference that “they felt reassured” by Obama.
“And they should.”  Standing Ovation  Obama’s Aipac offensive included other officials. United
Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  quoted a biblical passage in
Hebrew about brotherhood to a room full of clergy at the Aipac
conference before a private question-and-answer session, said
Rabbi Jack Moline of the Agudas Achim Congregation in
Alexandria,  Virginia , a Conservative congregation.  Moline, who is director of public policy for the Rabbinical
Assembly, a professional association for Conservative rabbis,
said it’s too soon to say how Obama’s effort reassures American
Jews and Israelis.  At Aipac, Moline said, the rabbis gave Rice a standing
ovation and later sang to her. “When rabbis sing it’s a good
thing; when they chant it’s not,” he said.  Representative  Peter King , a New York Republican, said
that, for now, “the president is holding his own” on Iran and
that the verdict “is going to depend on what happens in the
next few months.”  Bipartisan Support  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who met
with Netanyahu in  Israel  last month, said Obama’s “statement
about containing a nuclear-armed Iran was good. There will be a
lot of bipartisan support for that concept.”  Sanctions are more effective “if the Iranians believe
military force could be a reality,” he said.  The timing of any Israeli strike against Iran, Graham said,
was largely beyond the president’s control.  “Politically, here’s the problem: I don’t think any prime
minister of Israel -- right, left or center -- would let the
window close on their ability militarily to author their own
destiny,” Graham said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  