-- Obama to Propose Tax Credits for Alternative Fuel Vehicles
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-07T18:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/obama-to-propose-tax-credits-grants-for-alternative-fuel-vehicles.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed
expanded tax credits and community research grants to make
alternative-energy cars and trucks more attractive to buyers, as
he pitched his energy agenda in the battleground state of  North
Carolina .  Electric, natural gas and hydrogen-powered vehicles would
be covered by the plan, which Obama said is part of his strategy
to buffer the U.S. against rising oil costs.  “Both you and I know there are no quick fixes to this
problem,” Obama told his audience at a Daimler Trucks North
America plant in Mount Holly, North Carolina. “We’ve got to
continually develop new sources of energy.”  Obama has been focusing on energy in public appearances and
speeches over the past two weeks as rising gasoline prices
threaten to impede the recovery and the issue is being raised by
the Republicans seeking to run against him in November.  The  average retail price  for a gallon of regular gasoline
was $3.76 as of yesterday, according to the American Automobile
Association. That’s up from $3.51 a year ago. The increase has
been a sour note among positive economic news as data from
homebuilding to car sales to jobless claims have beat forecasts.  “We’re not going to be able to just drill our way out” of
higher energy costs, Obama said, repeating a message he’s been
delivering to counter Republican criticism of his policies.  Factory Tour  Before speaking, Obama toured the factory, which has begun
hiring more than 500 workers to meet demand for heavy-duty
trucks, a sign of economic recovery. The plant, near  Charlotte ,
makes Freightliner heavy-duty trucks as well as hybrid and
natural gas trucks.  Daimler Trucks North America, a unit of  Daimler AG (DAI) , is a
partner in an Energy Department program focused on increasing
the fuel efficiency of long haul, 18-wheel trucks by 50 percent
by 2015. Those trucks, about 4 percent of the on-road vehicles
in the U.S., account for almost 20 percent of the nation’s fuel
consumption, according to the White House.  Obama is asking Congress to make two changes in tax law to
coax drivers into less-polluting vehicles. One would raise the
tax credit to $10,000 from $7,500 for the purchase of a so-
called advanced vehicle. The credit would be applied instantly
at the dealership, according to a White House fact sheet.  Commercial Trucks  The second tax change would target buyers of electric and
natural gas powered commercial trucks, including semi-tractor
trailers. Those vehicles would qualify for a 50 percent tax
credit for half the additional cost over a conventional truck,
to help overcome the initial upfront cost.  Obama also offered a new, $1 billion program to as many as
15 U.S. cities to finance investments in clean-vehicle
infrastructure, such as charging stations, which would require
congressional approval. The administration is highlighting an
existing research program on how to cut the cost of electric
vehicles and increase their range. Action by lawmakers isn’t
required, though the administration is asking for an additional
$650 million for the year that begins Oct. 1.  Obama’s $1 billion plan for clean-vehicle infrastructure
follows a General Motors Co. announcement that it was halting
production of the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid for five weeks
because sales haven’t met goals.  Republican Criticism  Republicans have accused Obama of wasting tax money on
alternative energy programs.  “The president likes to talk about fairness,” Senate
Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said in a Senate speech today.
“The American people don’t think it’s particularly fair that at
a time when they’re struggling to fill up the tank, their own
tax dollars are being used to subsidize failing solar companies
of the president’s choosing.”  McConnell said Obama “can’t claim” to have a
comprehensive  energy policy  “and any time he says he does, the
American people should remember one word: Keystone,” a
reference to the administration’s decision to delay a permit for
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s oil pipeline.  Obama won North Carolina in 2008 by 0.3 percent, or 14,177
votes, the first Democrat to capture the Tar Heel state since
 Jimmy Carter  in 1976. North Carolina is also tied with  Florida 
as having the fifth highest  unemployment rate  at 9.9 percent in
December, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Only
 Nevada ,  California ,  Rhode Island  and  Mississippi  are worse.  ‘Bad’ Numbers  “We’ve had a real hit” said Andy Taylor, a political
science professor at  North Carolina State University  in Raleigh.
“Those headline numbers have been bad and haven’t helped the
administration.”  The manufacturing sector, which accounts for one of five
jobs in the state, suffered during the recession, with job
losses in transportation, food and textiles among others. The
state has lost about 110,000 jobs since Obama took office,
government figures show.  Obama’s visit to North Carolina, the 13th of his
presidency, follows an appearance by first Lady Michele Obama on
March 2. By the end of last week, the campaign had opened
offices in Winston-Salem and Asheville, bringing to nine the
total in the state, The News & Observer reported.  “We’re looking forward to getting a lot of attention,”
Taylor said. “The race will be very, very close.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  