-- Ohio Vote Shows Romney Labors to Close Deal With Party Base (1))
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-07T21:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ohio-vote-shows-romney-labors-to-close-deal-with-republican-base.html
Mitt Romney’s razor-thin victory in
 Ohio ’s presidential primary underscores his struggle to build a
broad coalition of Republican voters and overcome doubts among
the party’s base about his candidacy.  Romney, a onetime Massachusetts governor, beat former U.S.
Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  by less than 1 percentage
point, losing 69 of the 88 counties in Ohio, a state that’s
crucial to Republican hopes of defeating President  Barack Obama .
He pulled out a statewide victory only by winning big in
population centers such as Cuyahoga County, which includes
 Cleveland , that tend to vote Democratic in presidential
elections.  Romney ran poorly among voters who described themselves as
evangelical or born-again Christians, according to an  exit poll 
of 2,728 Republican voters. He lost to Santorum by 17 points
among evangelicals, many of them motivated by opposition to
abortion and same-sex marriage. Their turnout in 2004 in Ohio
helped President  George W. Bush  win re-election.  Exit polls show Romney won the Catholic vote, and the
difference in the race may have been the Catholics in Ohio’s
three largest urban counties, said  John Green , a political
science professor at the University of Akron who specializes in
religion and American politics.  Still, Romney fell short with middle-income Republicans,
losing to Santorum by 8 percentage points among voters who
reported a  family income  of less than $100,000 per year.  Making a Connection  While many middle-income and evangelical conservatives may
prefer Romney to Obama in the general election, Romney must work
to get their votes, said Mark Caleb Smith, director of the
Center for Political Studies at Cedarville University in  Ohio (BEESOH) .  “He just can’t seem to seal the deal with those voters,
and I think that could be a problem,” Smith said. “He just
doesn’t seem to be able to make that connection to regular
people.”  Though Romney failed to win a majority of the vote in any
Ohio county, he won the state by earning pluralities in populous
areas that offset his poor showing in lightly populated rural
counties.  He was ahead by 16,029 votes in Cuyahoga County, more than
his  statewide margin  of 10,508, according to complete yet
unofficial results from the county. In Hamilton County, which
includes Cincinnati, Romney led by 15,653 votes and by more than
4,405 in Franklin County, which takes in the state capital of
Columbus, according to the unofficial tallies. These counties
voted for Obama in the 2008 election.  Must Win Ohio  Romney prevailed in Butler and Warren Counties, which are
fast-growing suburbs of Cincinnati, and in Delaware County, a
suburb of Columbus that has the state’s highest median household
income.  No Republican has ever been elected president without
winning Ohio.  Santorum did well in rural counties in the northwestern
part of the state and in a swath of southeastern Ohio not far
from his home state of  Pennsylvania (BEESPA) . He took a statewide high of
59 percent in Paulding County, which sits on Ohio’s border with
 Indiana , and got 58 percent in Jefferson County in eastern Ohio.
Jefferson County includes Steubenville, where Santorum addressed
supporters last night before the final tally was announced.  Limited Appeal  Even with his victory, it wasn’t a good night for Romney
because the Ohio race exposed his weakness among middle-class
and working-class voters, said Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Santorum supporter. DeWine said he thinks Santorum
would have won Ohio had former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
not been on the ballot.  “My belief that Santorum has the best chance to appeal to
average Ohioans I think was vindicated last night,” DeWine said
in a telephone interview. “Romney appeals to a limited number
of people.”  Romney ran strong among well-educated, upper-income voters,
who see him as the strongest opponent for Obama, according to
the exit poll. These groups propelled him to wins in most early-
voting states, including  New Hampshire  and  Florida  in January
and in  Michigan  last week.  In Ohio, 42 percent of Republicans said defeating Obama was
the most important quality in a candidate, according to the exit
poll. Romney won 52 percent of those voters.  Romney will attract voters in the general election that he
didn’t win yesterday if he’s the nominee, said Curt Steiner, a
Columbus Republican consultant and Romney supporter who was
chief of staff for former Ohio Governor  George Voinovich .  They’ll Come Around  “It’s going to be a close race in the fall, and just
because a lot of conservative voters chose to vote for somebody
other than Romney doesn’t mean they won’t vote for him in the
fall,” Steiner said in a telephone interview. “They will.”  Even so, just 22 percent of Ohio Republicans said Romney
best understands the problems of average Americans, the exit
poll showed. That compares with the 34 percent who said the same
of Santorum, 19 percent for Gingrich and 15 percent for
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  Romney “has a problem striking a chord with working-class
and middle, middle-class voters,” Peter A. Brown, assistant
director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said in
a telephone interview. “That’s something that he clearly for
November, if he’s the nominee, will need to improve on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  