-- Oil Producers See Untapped, Unconventional Fields Meeting Demand
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-03-07T05:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/oil-producers-see-untapped-unconventional-fields-meeting-demand.html
Total SA (FP)  and  Petroleos Mexicanos 
executives said still-untapped global fields and new methods for
extracting fuel from shale rock and deep water will help meet
demand for oil and natural gas.  Undeveloped fields will produce 1 million barrels a day of
oil by 2025, Yves-Louis Darricarrere, president of exploration
and production for Paris-based Total, said yesterday on the
first of five days of CERAWeek, an annual conference in Houston
held by IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  New production methods, such as hydraulic fracturing to
free natural gas from shale formations, have made previously
impenetrable resources accessible, said  Daniel Yergin , IHS CERA
chairman. The technology is spreading from North America to
other nations seeking to increase production.  “We’re hearing about Kurdistan, about the unconventional
oil in the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  is talking about shale gas,”
Yergin said in an interview yesterday. “There’s a sense that
there’s a bigger menu than people thought in 2008.”  Global oil reserves rose to a record 1.38 trillion barrels
in 2010 as technological advances unlocked production from once
impenetrable shale formations and deep-water reserves, according
to  BP Plc. (BP/)  In the U.S., the amount of gas produced and sold in
2010 rose to the highest in 37 years, according to the Energy
Department.  World energy demand is expected to increase by one-third by
2035, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Iraq’s Kurdistan region will export 75,000 barrels of oil a
day this year and 1 million barrels a day by 2015, said  Ashti Hawrami , the region’s Minister of Natural Resources. Offshore
 Mexico  may hold another 25 billion barrels of oil, said  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel , chief executive officer of Petroleos
Mexicanos, known as Pemex.  Tremendous Innovation  “We’ve seen tremendous technological innovation with shale
development, also with deep-water exploration, and they’re
chomping at the bit a little to get their hands onto the Arctic
offshore,” Charles Dewhurst, head of the global energy practice
for BDO USA LLP, an accounting and consulting firm, said in an
interview at the conference.  Energy producers from all over the world are looking to the
U.S. for lessons on how to exploit shale formations, Bill Sanderson, vice president of IHS Purvin & Gertz, said in a
conference presentation.  “If I go to China or  India , the thing everyone wants to
talk about is shale oil in  North America ,” said Sanderson.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. plans to pursue unconventional gas,
such as that tapped from shale basins in the U.S., to feed power
and chemical plants, Amin Nasser, senior vice president for
upstream operations, said at the conference. The company also
plans to begin domestic deep-water drilling by year’s end, he
said.  International Shale Development  “I thought by having someone from  Saudi Aramco  on the
panel we’d at least have someone who wouldn’t talk about
unconventional,” said David Hobbs, chief energy strategist for
IHS. “It tells us how things are moving.”  International shale development faces many obstacles
including bans on hydraulic fracturing, the drilling technique
used to unlock oil and gas from dense rock formations. The
method, which involves injecting water, chemicals and sand
underground, has been prohibited in  France  and is under review
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for potential water
contamination.  Some of the biggest hurdles to increasing fracking
operations outside the U.S. are the lack of trained workers and
basic infrastructure, Marcus Rowland, CEO for FTS International
LLC, told reporters at CERA. The company provides fracking
services.  “Most of these plays that are going to produce gas don’t
have gas gathering or transportation of the gas into the
markets,” Rowland said. “So you start, really, at a very basic
level, which is you don’t have anything and you’ve got to start
from scratch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in Houston at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Houston at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  