-- Oil Rises for a Second Day on Signs Sanctions Against Iran Cutting Supply
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-08T07:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-as-u-s-economy-counters-rising-stockpiles.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on signs that sanctions on Iran are succeeding in cutting
the nation’s crude exports.  Futures climbed as much as 0.4 percent after gaining 1.4
percent yesterday. U.S. lawmakers proposed new sanctions against
 Iran’s nuclear program , while  Barclays Capital  said shipments
from the Persian Gulf nation have dropped by 300,000 to 400,000
barrels a day. London-traded Brent’s premium to New York crude
rose to the widest in almost a month. U.S. gasoline demand
weakened and crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , climbed to
the highest level since July.  “We’ve seen that differential between Brent and West Texas
blow out again and that’s further evidence to suggest that there
are supply concerns” because of  Iran , said  Michael McCarthy , a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in
Sydney. “The demand picture is certainly looking weaker.”  Oil for April delivery gained as much as 37 cents to
$106.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $106.44 at 3:34 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract yesterday increased $1.46 to $106.16 a
barrel, the highest close since March 5. Prices are 7.7 percent
higher this year.  Brent oil for April settlement was at $124.44, up 32 cents
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate was at $18. It advanced to $17.96 yesterday, the
widest gap based on closing prices since Feb. 10.  Iranian Tension  Oil has climbed this year amid concern European and U.S.
sanctions against Iran will lead to military conflict in the
 Middle East , home to more than half the world’s oil.  Shipments from Iran have declined because sanctions are
preventing the Islamic Republic from selling oil, Amrita Sen, an
analyst at Barclays Capital in  London , said yesterday by e-mail.
Half of the tankers booked to load at the country’s largest
terminal last month didn’t complete the voyages, according to
brokers, company officials and ship-tracking data.  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a day
last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in
2010, accounting for about 50 percent of government revenue and
80 percent of exports, the U.S. Energy Department estimates.  Saudi Arabia  is the biggest OPEC producer, with output of
9.7 million barrels a day last month.  Draft Legislation  Proposed legislation by U.S. Representative Brad Sherman, a
California Democrat, and Senator Mark Kirk, an Illinois
Republican, would penalize underwriters that insure or reinsure
any deals with Iran banned under U.S. law, including oil and gas
investments. The draft bill, obtained yesterday, would mostly
affect Asia-Pacific or Russian underwriters as European insurers
have scaled back coverage of Iran-related deals.  U.S. crude oil stockpiles  gained 832,000 barrels  last week,
data from the Energy Department showed. They were forecast to
increase 1.5 million barrels, according to the median of 10
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Supplies at
Cushing, the delivery point for New York-traded oil, rose 2.4
million barrels to 36.2 million.  Gasoline supplied by refiners, a proxy for demand, fell 1.2
percent to 8.3 million barrels a day, the Energy Department
report showed. Inventories of the motor fuel decreased 396,000
barrels, compared with a forecast drop of 1.6 million.
Distillate supplies, which include heating oil and diesel,
declined 1.94 million barrels. They were estimated to fall 1.65
million barrels.  Oil may decline in the second quarter on weakening seasonal
demand, an economic slowdown in  China  and an easing in Middle
East tension, according to  Gordon Kwan , Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd.’s head of energy research in  Hong Kong . Brent will average
$115 this year, he said. Kwan was the most accurate forecaster
of New York crude out of 26 analysts ranked by Bloomberg in the
eight quarters ended June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  