-- Tokyo Quake May Risk 650,000 Fires as Defenses Seen Lacking
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-03-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/tokyo-preparation-for-major-quake-still-lacking.html
Tokyo ’s preparedness for dealing
with a major earthquake after last year’s record temblor in
northeast Japan that left more than 19,000 dead or missing may
not significantly cut deaths or damage, says Kazuchika Asano,
who has studied the city’s emergency procedures for two decades.  A magnitude-7.3 quake in north Tokyo Bay may kill 11,000,
injure 210,000 people and cause 112 trillion yen ($1.4 trillion)
in damage, Japan’s  cabinet office  estimates. Since the disaster
on March 11 last year, the city has upgraded plans to house
commuters and is urging citizens and companies to stock
emergency supplies, while the national government plans to boost
Tokyo Bay’s tsunami defenses. Authorities haven’t done much to
prevent the building collapses and fires that would cause the
most casualties and damage, according to Asano.  “There hasn’t been a lot of progress,” Asano, a senior
consultant at  Nomura Research Institute  in Tokyo, said in an
interview. “Unless there’s a fundamental change, casualties
aren’t going to be reduced.”  A magnitude-7.3 quake in Tokyo, the world’s largest
 metropolis  with more than 35 million people, could start fires
in about 650,000 buildings, causing 6,100 deaths, according to
the cabinet office. Another 150,000 buildings may collapse,
killing 3,100 people.  The quake last year,  Japan ’s strongest on record with a
magnitude of 9, and the resulting tsunami destroyed or damaged
more than 1 million houses and is estimated by the government to
have caused 16.9 trillion yen of damage.  Earthquake-Proofing  A 2009  survey  by Nomura Research Institute showed that 45
percent of Japanese people thought their homes needed to be made
more earthquake-resistant. Of those, 57 percent said they hadn’t
done anything about it because of the cost.  Efforts to strengthen buildings remain inadequate, said
Asano.  “There’s no system for rewarding people who make their
houses more earthquake-resistant,” he said. “The government
subsidizes the cost of reinforcing homes, but homeowners still
have to pay.”  Last hit directly by a major earthquake in 1923, Tokyo has
a 70 percent chance of being struck by a magnitude-7 temblor in
the next 30 years, according to the government.  A magnitude-9 quake is 355 times stronger than a magnitude-
7.3 in terms of energy released, according to the website of the
 U.S. Geological Survey . Aside from aftershocks that continue to
rattle Tokyo, last year’s disaster neither increased nor
decreased the risk of subsequent large quakes, according to the
USGS.  Capital Chaos  The March 11 quake nonetheless highlighted the prospect of
chaos gripping the capital. Fearing panic, top officials kept
quiet about discussions of a worst-case scenario in which Tokyo
would have to be evacuated due to radiation from the crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant. Then-Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  revealed
the discussions in interviews in September, after stepping down.  “If we made it public, some people could have overreacted,
even though it was an unrealistic scenario,”  Goshi Hosono , now
the minister in charge of the crisis and at the time a special
adviser to Kan, said in a Feb. 23 interview. “It would have
created unrest.”  Even as the March 11 earthquake struck  373 kilometers  (232
miles) from Tokyo, off Japan’s northeast coast, the city ground
to a halt. Phone networks were overloaded, trains stopped, roads
were jammed and highways closed. The temblor hit on a Friday
afternoon, prompting workers to pour out of offices and onto the
streets to make their way home, many forced to walk for hours.  ‘Huge Traffic Jams’  “People tried different ways to get home such as walking,
or taking buses and cars, which led to huge traffic jams,” said
Kunio Takatsuka, a manager in charge of disaster information at
Tokyo’s  metropolitan government .  Since then, the local government has developed plans to
accommodate stranded commuters in train stations, with help from
railroad companies.  The national government predicts about 6.5 million people,
or about a third of the 21 million people at work on a weekday
in the Tokyo area, may be unable to walk home should a
magnitude-7.3 quake strike in the middle of a business day.
Streets would be overcrowded and increase the time needed to get
home.  Train-Station Drills  On a cold morning last month, about 10,000 people gathered
at three of the city’s busiest train stations for a practice
drill. At Tokyo station, facing the Marunouchi business
district, railway workers handed out water and emergency
blankets as station operator  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  tried to
assess how many people it could house.  JR East , the largest railroad operator in the Tokyo area,
has prepared 30,000 blankets and 60,000 bottles of water to
distribute to passengers, spread across 30 stations, said
Satohiko Asakura, a spokesman for the company.  Tokyo’s metropolitan government is also urging companies to
prepare facilities and supplies to let workers stay overnight,
after a survey showed only 21 percent of offices distributed
food and water to employees during the March 11 disaster.  “It’s usually safer to stay in your office than walk
home,” said Takatsuka of the metropolitan government. “We’re
trying to get places to store enough food for three days.”  Enabling people to stay put will also help keep roads open
for emergency traffic, Takatsuka said.  Three Days  At the Marunouchi Building, situated between Tokyo station
and the Imperial Palace, operator  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802)  has
stockpiled bottled water to last three days. The office
building, completed in 2002, has its own generators in the
basement, a well that can pump water for toilets and washing,
and dampers that limit its movement.  Mitsubishi Estate accommodated 3,500 people in its
buildings during the March 11 disaster, said Seitaro Tsuji, a
general manager in the company’s property-management division.  Demand for shelter in the buildings could be as high as
400,000 people, “so it’s still short by a factor of 10,” he
said. “We still need to work with authorities on how to provide
shelter.”  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s biggest mobile-phone company, is
promoting its message board for emergencies when users can’t get
through on the phone. The system allows users to leave a message
confirming their safety, which can then be seen by other people
by typing the person’s phone number into the phone.  Loop Roads  “Unless people can confirm their family is safe, they’re
likely to try and get home to check even if they’re asked to
stay put,” said Takatsuka of the metropolitan government.
“Instead of getting people to return home, we’re trying to find
ways to confirm their safety.”  Three loop roads  are also being built in and around Tokyo
to enable smoother flow of traffic and alternative routes, and
the city government is studying how to ensure materials and land
are available for emergency housing, it said in a  report  last
year.  The  Tokyo metropolitan government  plans to use public
housing, build temporary dwellings and rent private
accommodation to house the homeless, it said in the report.  In September, a panel of the national transportation and
infrastructure ministry began working on a plan to boost tsunami
defenses in Tokyo Bay,  Kyodo News  reported last month.  Water Tanks  Tokyo’s waterworks bureau is also studying how to upgrade
generators after power cuts following the March 11 earthquake
meant some facilities couldn’t pump water, said Gen Ozeki, a
director at the bureau.  The city has a network of water tanks and stations, built
over three decades starting in the 1960s, to ensure no resident
is more than a 2-kilometer walk from emergency water supplies,
Ozeki said. The tanks, fed from the main water supply, are built
to withstand a major quake and hold enough water to supply each
citizen with 3 liters a day, he said.  The wards, cities, towns and villages that make up the
Tokyo metropolitan region have about 15.8 million meals stored
for emergencies, according to the local government’s report.  Japan lies on the so-called “Ring of Fire,” an arc of
volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the Pacific Basin, and
sits at the meeting point of three tectonic plates, the North
American, Eurasian and Philippine Sea plates.  The country is one of the world’s most earthquake-prone
countries, with more than a fifth of the largest temblors,
according to the cabinet office.  Kobe Quake  A 7.3 earthquake in  Kobe , western Japan, in 1995 killed
about 6,400 people and caused 9.6 trillion yen of damage,
according to the government, while the magnitude-7.9 Great Kanto
Quake of 1923 destroyed about 293,000 structures and killed an
estimated  105,000 people , according to the Japanese government.  “The two most important things to remember are to take
cover when an earthquake strikes,” said Takahashi Tamio, a
disaster broadcaster at radio station  Nippon Cultural
Broadcasting Inc. (NCBZ) , who has worked there for 40 years. “Then,
ensure you open doors to secure an escape route.”  The metropolitan government is also urging private citizens
to stock emergency supplies in their homes. Panic buying after
the March 11 disaster caused supermarkets to run out of goods
including bottled water, pasta and cooking-gas canisters, its
report said.  Individual preparedness is critical, said Asano of the
Nomura Research Institute.  “A lot of people say, ‘I think I’ll be OK,’ without
anything to support their reasoning,” he said. “People need to
think about what they would do if an earthquake hits -- where
they would escape to, what would happen if their house was
damaged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  