-- Holder’s Terrorism Talk Leaves U.S. in the Dark on Drones: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-07T00:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/holder-s-terrorism-talk-leaves-the-u-s-in-the-dark-on-drone-strikes-view.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder’s
 address  on Monday outlining the administration’s
counterterrorism policies accomplished a rare feat: uniting
critics on the left and right, who said he broke no new ground.  Actually, his speech was important and useful for two
reasons.  First, coming from the nation’s top law-enforcement
officer, such a comprehensive overview of the White House policy
on the detainment and targeted killing of terrorism suspects
will make for a far more productive public and legislative
debate on some of the most controversial policies of the post-
Sept. 11 era.  Second, it was notable -- and promising -- that Holder, who
has long championed the use of civilian courts to try terrorism
suspects, adamantly defended the military commission system in
place at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as a complement to criminal
trials.  The much-derided military system has been gradually refined
over the last decade, Holder noted, making it a legitimate forum
for justice in the age of terrorism. It also seems to work. The
latest example was the Feb. 29 guilty plea to five  war crimes  by
Majid Khan, a Pakistani al-Qaeda operative who attended high
school in Baltimore.  The tribunals are inherently controversial. There is no
jury, and hearsay evidence is allowed, with certain judicious
restrictions. But the system is necessary to achieving a broader
goal: closing the prison at Guantanamo. Because Congress refuses
to allow President  Barack Obama  the option of bringing suspects
held there into the U.S. for civilian trials, military justice
is the only way to clear the backlog.  It would be far better, of course, if Congress would relent
and allow Guantanamo inmates to be handled by the domestic
criminal system, which has proved effective at ensuring justice
without sacrificing national security. (The four consecutive
life sentences received last month by  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab ,
who tried to blow up an airliner over  Detroit  on Christmas Day
2009, should put to rest arguments that the civilian court
system is too “soft” for terrorism cases.)  Holder also served notice to Congress on other issues: that
the president stands by his waiver, issued when he signed the
defense reauthorization act last year, of a law mandating that
certain terrorism suspects be given over to military custody;
and that lawmakers must quickly move to reauthorize vital
aspects of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which
allows the government to conduct wiretapping abroad.  Though the speech brought clarity to a murky world, it also
left exposed a gaping hole in the administration’s
counterterrorism policy: the justification for targeted
killings. Holder reiterated that such attacks can be undertaken
only if there is “imminent threat of violent attack” and that
“collateral damage must not be excessive.” How were these
criteria applied in the September 2011 drone attack on an
American citizen, Anwar al-Awlaki, in Yemen? As we have argued,
that killing was legal and justified, but the administration has
never made a convincing case that al-Awlaki presented an
imminent threat, or that the death of his teenage son in the
attack was unavoidable.  Life-and-death issues demand consistency and openness.
Holder’s vague and elastic justification won’t do. The
administration should quickly release the legal analysis by the
 Justice Department  that provides the basis for its policy on
targeted killings.  This is the long war. To win it, it must be
a legal war -- in appearance as well as fact.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 