-- Olympus, Former Executives Indicted by Japan Prosecutors Over Hidden Loss
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-03-07T06:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/olympus-3-former-executives-indicted-for-falsifying-securities-reports.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera
and endoscope maker that admitted a 13-year accounting fraud,
and six individuals were indicted by prosecutors for falsifying
securities reports, increasing concern the  probe  may widen.  Former chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, former executive vice
president Hisashi Mori and ex-auditing officer Hideo Yamada,
were prosecuted, according to a faxed statement from the Tokyo
District Public Prosecutor’s office today. The three were
arrested last month for suspected violation of  Japan ’s Financial
Instruments and Exchange Act.  The endoscope maker’s market value has tumbled 48 percent
since the Oct. 14 dismissal of former chief executive officer
 Michael Woodford , who had challenged Kikukawa and the board over
inflated takeover payments. Olympus’s Tokyo headquarters and its
affiliated offices were raided in December by prosecutors after
the company said the three former officials colluded to hide
investment losses from the 1990s.  “The company’s indictment could lead to more concerns that
the fraud was organizational,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. in Tokyo. “Investors won’t be wanting to buy a stock like
this.”  Indictment  Olympus fell as much as 2.3 percent to 1,270 yen and
changed hands at 1,285 yen as of 2:03 p.m. in Tokyo. Three of
the four analysts  covering  the company’s shares recommend
investors “sell” the stock while one advises a “hold,”
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange in January allowed Olympus to keep
its stock market listing by fining the company 10 million yen
($123,800) and telling it to submit reports on efforts to
improve management. The exchange put Olympus on a watchlist last
year after the company admitted to inflating fees to advisers on
the $2.1 billion acquisition of London-listed Gyrus Group Plc in
2008 and overpaying for three Japanese companies.  The company is unlikely to be delisted from the stock
exchange, Akino said.  “We take the indictment seriously and will try to
strengthen our  corporate governance ,” the company said in a
statement today. The company’s shareholders are due to meet next
month to select a new management.  Advisory Fees  Woodford went public with queries he raised with Kikukawa
and Mori over $687 million in advisory fees in the  acquisition 
of medical company Gyrus, as well as writedowns of stakes in
three other  takeovers .  The prosecutors also indicted Akio Nakagawa, Nobumasa Yokoo
-- both cited in a December panel report as having aided Olympus
in structuring its loss-hiding proposals -- and Taku Hada, who
was arrested last month.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to its website. The
company controls 75 percent of the global market for endoscopes,
instruments doctors use to look inside the body’s cavities to
help detect disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  