-- Honda Looks to Dealers to Boost Natural Gas Station Network
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-07T21:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/honda-looks-to-u-s-dealers-to-boost-natural-gas-station-network.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the only automaker
selling compressed natural gas-powered cars to U.S. drivers,
wants some of its dealers to also install pumps to sell the fuel
as its seeks to double sales of CNG vehicles.  Boosting sales of Indiana-built Civic Natural Gas sedans
requires more fuel stations, Steve Center, U.S. vice president
for environmental business development, said in an interview.
Honda is negotiating with regulators in California, the biggest
U.S. market for CNG vehicles, seeking to have pumps placed at
two or more Honda dealerships this year, he said yesterday.  “If the dealer had a fueling station, it would really
reduce some of that concern for the customer,” Center said at
Honda’s U.S. headquarters in Torrance, California. “It’s not
our place to create infrastructure, but it’s a chicken-and-egg
situation and we’re going to have to nurse that egg along.”  Honda’s strategy of marketing autos powered by natural gas,
a domestically sourced fuel that’s cheaper than gasoline and
emits less tailpipe exhaust, comes as U.S.-based competitors
plan their own CNG models.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC this week both said they’re readying pickups that will run
on the fuel.  The U.S. yesterday raised its forecast for natural gas
output in 2012 by 0.4 percent and lowered its outlook for
prices. Marketed gas production will average 67.91 billion cubic
feet a day in 2012, up from 67.64 billion estimated in February,
the Energy Department said in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook, released in  Washington .  Unanswered Questions  The equivalent of a gallon of compressed natural  gas cost
an average of $2.13  in January, compared with $3.37 for regular
gasoline, according to the Energy Department.  The International Association for Natural Gas Vehicles says
on its  website  there were 1,000 stations and 112,000 natural gas
vehicles in the U.S. as of December 2010.  “We’re adding stations rapidly,” said Richard Kolodziej,
president of NGV America, a Washington-based trade group that
lobbies for natural gas vehicles. “ If you are in an area where
there aren’t any fueling stations, this is a great option,” he
said of Honda’s plan.  Currently, 270 U.S. Honda dealers plan to sell the Civic
Natural Gas, a revamped version of the Civic GX compact sold
since the 1990s. The Tokyo-based carmaker’s initial goal is to
sell “4,000 to 5,000” CNG vehicles annually, double the
previous rate, Center said. Honda builds the model at its
Greensburg, Indiana, plant.  ‘Fill in Holes’  Details such as the cost of a CNG station at a dealership,
how many vehicles it could serve a day and how many such
facilities may be established are still being studied, Center
said. Honda can work with dealers to obtain needed permits,
apply for public incentives and provide financing, he said.  “Something like this helps fill in holes,” Center said.
“We want to select a couple of test cases and walk through
it.”  Honda hasn’t determined how many such dealer fuel stations
may be opened in  California  and other states, he said. Center,
whose previous assignments at Honda included managing U.S.
advertising and Acura sales, said part of his new job includes
finding uses for environmentally friendly technologies developed
by the company.  The Civic Natural Gas sedan costs $26,155, or $2,100 more
than a hybrid version of the compact model. The car was named
2012 Green Car of the Year at the Los Angeles auto show in
November.  The car averages 31 miles per gallon equivalent of fuel,
and holds the equivalent of 8 gallons of compressed gas.
Incentives for owners in California include a permit allowing a
driver without passengers to use highway carpool lanes.  Honda’s American depositary receipts rose 1.8 percent to
$37.06 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  