-- London Olympic Officials Face Questions Over Ticket Distribution
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-07T09:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/london-olympic-officials-face-questions-over-ticket-distribution.html
London politicians will question the
organizers of the  Olympics  today about the lack of tickets
available to the public for popular events including track and
field finals.  “These were supposed to be the ‘people’s games’ but now we
find out that only a third of the seats for the 100-meter final
will be available for the public,” John Biggs, Olympics
spokesman for the Labour party on the London Assembly, said in
an e-mailed statement. “I find it offensive that only a third
of the 80,000 tickets for this event will go to the public, with
59,000 going to corporate sponsors.”  Sebastian Coe, chairman of the London 2012 organizing
committee, as well as its Chief Executive Officer Paul Deighton
will appear today before the  London Assembly , the 25-member
elected body that investigates “issues that are important to
the capital,” according to its website.  London Olympics organizers were criticized by U.K. consumer
groups last year for the way the event’s 8.8 million tickets
were sold. Only 700,000 people were successful in a first-round
public ballot, with 1.2 million missing out. Another sale
allowed some of those to subsequently gain tickets. Organizers
are selling about 8 percent of the total ticket allocation to
sponsors.  In January, Games officials said a “human error” was to
blame for selling 10,000 tickets too many for the synchronized
swimming competition. Some 3,000 people have been contacted and
offered tickets for different sports, including swimming and
athletics. Shortly after, the London 2012 ticket resale website
was suspended for eleven days because of computer issues.  Last month, London mayor  Boris Johnson  called the Olympic
ticket sale process “the cruel engine of disappointment” when
he spoke to the London Assembly. He called for more transparency
from organizers.  In a letter last month sent to Dee Doocey, chairwoman of
the Economy, Culture and Sport Committee at the London Assembly,
officials said the Games are “firmly committed to providing 75
percent of the total number of tickets to the British public,
and if we deliver more than this, we will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  