-- London Olympics Criticized for ‘Obsessive Secrecy’ Over Tickets
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-07T15:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/london-olympics-criticized-for-obsessive-secrecy-over-tickets.html
London Olympics  organizers were
criticized for “obsessive secrecy” after declining to give
local politicians a breakdown of the number of tickets sold at
what price until the Games are over.  The London organizing committee, or Locog, has sold 7
million tickets for the Olympic and  Paralympic Games , with
another 4 million tickets left to sell before the July 27
opening ceremony.  “Locog is doing a superb job, and I believe you will run
the best Games we’ve ever had,” Dee Doocey, chairwoman of the
 London Assembly ’s Economy, Culture and Sport Committee, told
local organizers who were questioned today by the Assembly.
“But I am endlessly frustrated at this obsessive secrecy
surrounding the amount of tickets you’ve sold.”  Locog would be giving out “incomplete numbers” if it
published the information at this stage partly because 11
temporary Games venues for sports including fencing and
volleyball still had to be built, Chairman Sebastian Coe told
the Assembly.  “It’s a complicated process, one of perpetual motion,”
Coe said. He said Locog would disclose the sales process once
the Games are over.  Doocey, a Liberal Democrat, went on to say that the
organizer’s refusal to provide a detailed breakdown of the
Olympic ticket distribution until after the Games was
“shameful” and that there was “no reason at all” why it
couldn’t do so now.  Proof  “I can’t prove to you we are making our commitments
because it depends on what we sell in the entirety but I can
confirm there will be 2.5 million tickets at 20 pounds ($31) or
under,” Locog Chief Executive Officer Paul Deighton told the
Assembly.  Locog had not “indulged in what airlines would call yield
management,” Deighton said. “The demand has been incredible.
But we are not pushing the prices up.”  Deighton and Coe, a former middle distance double Olympic
champion, refuted a statement by John Biggs, Olympics spokesman
for the Labour party on the Assembly, that only 36 percent of
the 80,000 Olympic stadium seats for the 100-meter final would
end up in the hands of the British public.  After seating for the media, athletes, and international
Olympic executives, only 58,500 tickets will be available for
the track and field event, Deighton said. Two giant television
screens block about 3,000 seats that won’t be sold, he said.  Ticket Sales  Local organizers were criticized by U.K. consumer groups
last year for the way the 8.8 million tickets available were
sold. Only 700,000 people were successful in a first-round
public ballot, with 1.2 million missing out. Another sale
allowed some of those to subsequently gain tickets. Organizers
are selling about 8 percent of the total ticket allocation to
sponsors.  In January, Games officials said a “human error” was to
blame for selling 10,000 tickets too many for the synchronized
swimming competition. Some 3,000 people have been contacted and
offered tickets for different sports, including swimming and
athletics. Shortly after, the London 2012 ticket resale website
was suspended for eleven days because of computer issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  