-- Mongolia Delays $3 Billion Coal IPO to Retain Hong Kong Plan
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-03-07T12:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/mongolia-delays-3-billion-coal-ipo-to-retain-hong-kong-plan-1-.html
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, the Mongolian
coal miner planning a $3 billion initial public offering, said
it delayed the foreign part of the deal by at least two months
to September to help win listings in  London  and Hong Kong.  The state-run miner may list locally first as part of the
government program to give citizens stock in the company and
then pursue a sale overseas, Chief Executive Officer Baasangombo
Enebish said today in an interview in the nation’s capital,  Ulan
Bator . Prime Minister Sukhbataar Batbold’s government had aimed
to complete the IPO before June elections.  Mining companies  have lost 27 percent of their market value
since April last year, the Bloomberg World Mining Index shows,
as global economic volatility curbed demand for resources. The
IPO will mark Mongolia’s first listing of a state-run miner
overseas as the country seeks to use its mineral riches to
support an economy that grew by a record 17.3 percent last year.  “Ideally, we’d like to go to  Hong Kong  and London
together,” Enebish said, adding that Hong Kong law currently
restricts accepting Mongolia as a jurisdiction for listed
companies. “And first we need to clarify what percentage we can
actually sell in the IPO.”  Mongolia’s parliament is due to vote on a new  securities
law  that should allow entities registered in the country to be
accepted by the Hong Kong stock exchange, Enebish said. Erdenes
TT, as the company is known, would list shares or depositary
receipts in Hong Kong. The London listing would be of global
depositary receipts, he said.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, BNP Paribas SA
and Macquarie Group Ltd. have been hired as financial advisers,
Otgonbat Sedbazar, an adviser to the nation’s Resources
Ministry, said in November.  Erdenes TT is developing the East Tsankhi part of the 6
billion-metric-ton Tavan Tolgoi coal deposit, one of the world’s
biggest untapped sources of the fuel until mining began last
year. The IPO may raise more than $3 billion, Mongolian cabinet
office chief Khurelbaatar Chimed said in September.  The Mongolian government has pledged to distribute as much
as 20 percent of the Erdenes TT shares to citizens as a way of
fulfilling past election promises of spreading the country’s
growing wealth. A third of Mongolians live below the poverty
line, according to the  World Bank .  Rail, Power  The coal company is also considering a sale of convertible
bonds before listing, Mongolia’s Minerals and Energy Minister
Dashdorj Zorigt said in a March 5 interview. The government
won’t press Erdenes TT to complete the IPO before a
parliamentary election in June, allowing the timing and place of
sale to be decided on a “commercial” basis, he said.  Erdenes TT is due to start rail, road and power generation
facility construction this spring and summer which will help to
expand output, Enebish said. Delaying the international share
sale will help the company “add in value,” he said.  Erdenes TT produced almost 1 million tons of coal last year
and targets 3 million tons this year. The company is due to
build a coal-washing facility this year so that it can offer
higher-value products.  The state-owned miner also owns the license to the West
Tsankhi coal area next to its operating site. Mongolia last year
started a tender with foreign companies including  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU)  to offer the rights to develop that deposit. The winners
would pay Erdenes TT royalty fees.  A “clarification” of the situation around the tender will
also help Erdenes TT’s IPO, Enebish said, saying that the
process is being managed by the Mongolian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  