-- Monti Second Term Best for Italy: Rutelli
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-03-07T09:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/monti-second-term-best-for-italy-rutelli.html
Unelected Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
serving a second term is the best way to finish overhauling the
economy and resolve issues that have “paralyzed” the nation,
said Francesco Rutelli, head of the Alliance for Italy party.  “This isn’t just a government serving out the last 15
months of the current legislature,” Rutelli, a former mayor of
Rome, said yesterday in a phone interview. “Monti staying on is
the only way out, so that the government is in the hands of an
absolutely competent personality, who is up to the task.”  Rutelli, who as the center-left’s candidate for premier
lost to  Silvio Berlusconi  in 2001, is the latest politician to
openly call for Monti to stay on after elections due before May
of next year. Former Premier Berlusconi, whose resignation in
November paved the way for Monti’s appointment, said on March 1
that he was open to a post-vote alliance that may back Monti,
who will hold talks today with the heads of the main parties.  While  Italy  has had so-called technical governments in the
past, none lasted more than about a year. Monti’s Cabinet of
non-politicians took over on Nov. 16 as Italy’s borrowing costs
hovered at record highs. They’re now near six-month lows after
he pushed through measures to balance the budget, spark growth
and cut bureaucracy, and the  European Central Bank  boosted
demand for sovereign debt by offering unlimited loans to banks.  Won’t be Asked  In a Feb. 29 interview in Rome, Monti told Bloomberg News
that he was kick-starting a “generational change” in Italy’s
economic culture that can’t be completed during his limited time
in office. “If I do with my colleagues in government our job
very well, I don’t think it’s very likely that I will be asked”
to serve another term, he said.  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond was little
changed at 5.07 percent at 10:15 a.m. in  Rome , compared with 7
percent when Monti took over. The difference with similar
maturity German bunds fell 1 basis point to 332 basis points,
down from a euro-era high of 552 basis points on Nov. 9.  Monti’s approval rating increased 2 percentage points to 59
percent in a Feb. 28 poll by IPR Marketing. In a survey released
yesterday, IPR said that a hypothetical party led by Monti, in
the next elections would win 22 percent of the vote, matching
the Democratic Party and topping all the other groups.  Broad Support  Monti’s government has so far been backed by Italy’s two
biggest blocs, Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or PDL, and the
Democratic Party led by Pier Luigi Bersani.  The strongest support for Monti has come from the Third
Way, an alliance that includes Rutelli’s API; the Future and
Liberty for Italy party of former Berlusconi ally Gianfranco Fini; and the Union of Centrists led by Pier Ferdinando Casini,
who has also called for an alliance with the larger parties to
back Monti.  Monti will host a meeting with Casini, Bersani and PDL
leader  Angelino Alfano  starting at 7:30 p.m. in Rome, the
government said in a statement on its website. They “will talk
about everything,” Maurizio Gasparri, a senator for the PDL,
told reporters in Rome yesterday, without offering details.  Monti, 68, an economist and former European Union
competition commissioner, is unlikely to run as a candidate in
the next elections, Rutelli said yesterday. The most probable
scenario would be that after the vote, the leading parties pool
their support and ask Monti, who is also a senator-for-life in
the upper house of Parliament, to lead a new government.  Monti Won’t Run  “Monti will bring us to the elections, but he won’t
participate in the elections,” Rutelli said. “After the
election, we will count the votes and we will see what the
results look like, and I think at that point, Parliament would
give Monti a new mandate,” he said.  Bersani has shied away from endorsing any post-election
alliance. His  Democratic Party , heirs of the Italian Communist
Party, led in yesterday’s IPR poll with 28 percent support of
the vote when excluding a hypothetical group led by Monti.  “After the elections, an alliance between the Democratic
Party with the Third Way and the PDL will be inevitable,”
Rutelli said. “Until then, I’m afraid they will be compelled to
cultivate this hypocrisy and continue to rule out a national-
unity government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  