-- Moody’s Bad Loan Warning Stops Lenders’ Default-Swap Rally: India Credit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-03-07T09:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/moody-s-bad-loan-warning-stops-lenders-default-swap-rally-india-credit.html
The warning from Moody’s Investors
Service that India’s state-owned banks face ratings cuts because
of rising bad loans has halted a two-month rally in bond
insurance costs.  Credit default-swaps on four lenders rose to an average of
320 basis points on March 6, after falling to an almost four-
month low of 287.2 on Feb. 22, according to CMA. Swaps on  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , Export-Import Bank of India, Bank of India and
 IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  dropped 105 basis points in January and February,
the biggest two-month decline since the period ended May 2009,
the data show. Contracts on 48 lenders in the Asia-Pacific
region fell 70 basis points in the past two months.  The central bank’s record monetary tightening in the last
two years has slowed  economic growth  and strained finances of
companies as earnings dropped an average 12 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The risk of ratings downgrades has increased after the nation’s
top court last month rescinded phone licenses of operators owing
$2 billion in debt, Moody’s said in a statement Feb. 27.  “State-run banks have a higher level of bad loans and are
in a more difficult position than their private-sector peers,”
Vineet Gupta, vice president at Moody’s, said in a telephone
interview from  Singapore  yesterday. “The cancellation of the
telephone licenses is the latest in a row of concerns that will
increase bad loans and keep the ratings of lenders under
pressure.”  ‘Significant’ Exposure  Among the banks rated by Moody’s,  State Bank ,  Canara Bank ,
IDBI and Punjab National Bank are the state-owned lenders with
“significant” exposure to the telecommunication-license loans,
according to the report.  “The banks most at risk of a downgrade are those that
feature insufficient earnings and capital buffers to withstand
their combined exposures to troubled borrowers,” according to
the report.  India’s  Supreme Court  on Feb. 2 canceled 122 mobile-phone
permits, whose sale in 2008 sparked the nation’s biggest
corruption investigation and led to the jailing of a former
minister. Judges G.S. Singhvi and A.K. Ganguly scrapped the
licenses and ordered operators to pay as much as 50 million
rupees ($987,167) as a penalty.  The country’s auditor said in a 2010 report the sale of the
airwaves lacked transparency and ineligible bidders bought them
at “unbelievably low” prices, depriving the treasury as much
as $31 billion.  Bank of India  Moody’s today cut its financial strength rating on Bank of
India, the nation’s fourth-largest state-run lender, to D from
D+, citing increasing bad loans and low  capital ratio .  “Economic slowdown, high  interest rates  and high
inflation” may cause bad loans at the lender to worsen, the
credit assessor said in an e-mailed statement. Soured loans at
Bank of India increased to 2.7 percent in December from 2.2
percent in March last year.  Credit-default swap contracts on State Bank, the nation’s
biggest by assets, advanced 31 basis points over the past two
weeks to 312, according to data provider CMA.  Contracts on IDBI Bank increased 35 basis points in the
same period to 335, following eight weeks of declines, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Swaps, Yields  “The comparatively higher level of bad loans at the state-
run banks is getting reflected in the bond yields and credit
default swap prices,”  Brian Hunsaker , a banking analyst at
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Asia, said in a telephone interview from
 Hong Kong  yesterday. “It could take at least six months before
bad loans can come down.”  State Bank had the highest level of bad loans, at 4.6
percent of total assets, as of December among the public-sector
lenders rated by Moody’s, according to the report. It was
followed by Central  Bank of India (BOI) , with 3.7 percent, and then
 Union Bank of India , with a ratio of 3.3 percent.  State Bank Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri and Chief Financial
Officer Diwakar Gupta could not be reached on their mobile
phones yesterday for comments.  “Whether or not monetary policy is relaxed, easier
availability of funds in the economy is the key for the bad
loans to be reduced,” R.K. Bansal,  executive director  of IDBI
Bank, said in a telephone interview from Mumbai yesterday.  Benchmark Rate  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Jan. 24 left the benchmark
repurchase rate at 8.5 percent for a second month, after raising
it 13 times since March 2010 to cool inflation. On the same day
it lowered the growth forecast to 7 percent in the year through
March from the 7.6 percent predicted in October.  Elsewhere in  India ’s credit markets, the yield on 10-year
 government bonds  was little changed at 8.24 percent today in
Mumbai. The rupee weakened to the lowest in six weeks on concern
growth is slowing in the region after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
set an economic growth target of 7.5 percent for 2012, from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005.  The currency declined 0.3 percent today to 50.56, the
lowest since Jan. 18, and the worst performance among Asian
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Three-month  offshore  non-deliverable forward contracts
traded at 51.56 a dollar today, compared with 51.65 on March 6.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  Bank Bonds  IDBI Bank’s 10 billion rupees of March 2026 securities
declined to 96.33, pushing up the yield to 9.89 percent, the
highest since Jan. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields on  Bank of Baroda ’s notes maturing in July 2014 rose to
the most since November, the data show.  The average yield on global bank bonds fell 95 basis points
to 3.86 percent this year, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  “Bank bond yields are reflecting the difficulties lenders
face and the developments in the economy in the past few
quarters,” Rajiv Kumar Bakshi, executive director at  Bank of
Baroda (BOB) , said in a telephone interview from Mumbai yesterday.
“Respite is unlikely in the short term.” He declined to
comment on the Moody’s report.  The credit assessor downgraded the outlook for India’s
banking system to “negative,” in November saying a domestic
economic slowdown and the surge in borrowing costs will boost
bad loans.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will present the budget
on March 16 for the financial year starting April 1. The
government is expected to announce policy measures to boost
growth and improve the quality of India’s infrastructure, R.K.
Gupta, Delhi-based managing director of Taurus Asset Management,
which has $1 billion under investment, said in a telephone
interview on March 5.  “A further spike in bad loans can occur if no policy
reforms are announced in the budget,” said Gupta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  