-- Orascom Telecom Surges to Two-Year High on Djezzy: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-03-07T13:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/orascom-telecom-holding-shares-surge-6-7-in-cairo.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  climbed
to the highest level in almost two years as investors bet
 Algeria  may be close to completing acquisition of the company’s
Djezzy unit.  Shares of the North Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company
surged 5.5 percent to 4.39 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m.
close in Cairo, the highest level since April 2010. The
benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  advanced 0.4 percent.  “People are speculating Djezzy will be valued at around $6
billion as was leaked a few months ago and as the process nears
completion,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales
at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities. “The overhang will
remain whether the government agrees to pay that much.”  The valuation of Djezzy, Orascom Telecom Holding’s biggest
revenue generator, is expected to be completed by the end of
this month, Reuters reported yesterday, citing Algeria’s
Telecommunications Minister Moussa Benhamadi. Orascom Telecom
said it had “no material developments” to report after the
stock market suspended the shares from trading.  Orascom Telecom founder  Naguib Sawiris  said in January he
expected Algeria to make a “fair offer” for Djezzy. Algeria
and  Vimpelcom Ltd. (VIP) , which bought 51.7 percent of Orascom Telecom
last year, signed a memorandum of understanding on Jan. 9 for
the government to conduct the due diligence.  Orascom Telecom shares have climbed 154 percent this year,
leading gains on the benchmark measure, which gained 51 percent
over the same period. Algeria’s government has been locked in an
ownership dispute with Orascom over Djezzy since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  