-- FTSE Stocks Advance as U.S. Employers Add Jobs; Admiral, Cobham Lead Rally
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-07T17:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/most-u-k-stocks-advance-before-u-s-private-payrolls-report-cobham-gains.html
U.K. stocks  gained for the first
time in four days, with the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index rebounding from the
biggest drop this year, as a report showed U.S. companies added
more jobs last month.  Admiral Group Plc rallied the most since 2008 as the U.K.’s
second-biggest motor insurer said earnings increased and bodily-
injury claims declined.  Cobham Plc (COB)  jumped 13 percent, the
largest increase on record, as the designer of equipment for the
 aerospace industry  reported net income that surpassed the
average analyst estimate.  The FTSE 100 advanced 25.61, or 0.4 percent, to 5,791.41 at
the close in  London , rebounding from yesterday’s 1.9 percent
slide. The gauge has rallied 3.9 percent this year as the
 European Central Bank  lent more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) for three years to the region’s banks to ease
liquidity. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  gained 0.6 percent
today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.8 percent.  “Even now there are some optimists to be found in global
markets, as the bulls poke their heads nervously above the
parapet,” said Ben Critchley, a sales trader at IG Markets in
London. “The ADP number is the starting gun for non-farm
payrolls speculation, which will only intensify over the coming
days, and might help to prevent further serious losses for
markets for the time being.”  U.S. Economy  U.S. companies added 216,000 jobs in February, according to
data today from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer
Services. The release comes two days before the U.S.
government’s jobs report on March 9, which is forecast to show
that employers added 210,000 people to payrolls last month.  British American Tobacco Plc, TUI Travel Plc and CRH Plc
are among London-listed stocks that are trading today without
the right to their latest dividend, according to Bloomberg data.  Investors with 58 percent of the Greek bonds eligible for
the nation’s debt swap have so far indicated they’ll participate
as tomorrow’s deadline approaches.  Greece ’s largest banks, most of the country’s pension
funds, and more than 30 European banks and insurers including
BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG and Assicurazioni Generali SpA
have pledged to accept the offer. That brings the total so far
to at least 120 billion euros ($157 billion), based on data
compiled by Bloomberg from company reports and government
statements.  The goal of the swap is to reduce by 53.5 percent the total
of privately held Greek sovereign debt, helping the country
avert an uncontrolled default.  Admiral Advances  Admiral (ADM)  soared 10 percent to 1,144 pence, the largest gain
since October 2008. Full-year net income rose to 221.3 million
pounds ($348 million) from 193.6 million pounds a year earlier,
the Cardiff, Wales-based firm said in a statement today.  Cobham jumped 13 percent to 209.7 pence, the biggest
increase on record. The company reported full-year net income of
187.9 million pounds, surpassing the average estimate of 145.3
million pounds in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  surged 7.5 percent to 33.55
pence as the Financial Times reported that Vodafone Group Plc is
“edging towards” making an indicative offer for the company,
citing two unnamed people with knowledge of the process.
Vodafone may still withdraw and is deliberating over the price,
the report said.  Faroe Petroleum Plc (FPM)  lost 5 percent to 156.5 pence as the
Aberdeen, Scotland-based oil explorer said wells at the T-Rex
and Bolan prospects in the  Norwegian Sea  failed to find
commercial quantities of oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  