-- Total Weighing Petrochemical Expansion of Port Arthur Refinery
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-07T02:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/total-weighing-petrochemical-expansion-of-port-arthur-refinery.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
energy producer, may add petrochemical capacity at its 174,000
barrel-a-day refinery in  Port Arthur ,  Texas , to convert low-
priced natural gas into more valuable chemical products.  Installing petrochemical capacity at Port Arthur would add
to the $2.2 billion spent upgrading the refinery to take heavier
crude, Patrick Pouyanne, the company’s president of refining and
chemicals, said today in an interview.  The upgrade was the largest investment Paris-based Total
has made in refining in five years, Pouyanne said in an
interview at CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates. He declined to give a
timeline or potential cost.  The Port Arthur expansion would represent another
petrochemical investment seeking to wrest more value from
natural gas prices that have reached the lowest point since at
least 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. plans to build a plant to produce ethylene and
related plastics in Appalachia.  Total is considering a similar expansion at its $10 billion
plant at Jubail in  Saudi Arabia  built with the Saudi Arabian Oil
Co., or Aramco., he said. The French company remains in
“preliminary talks” with Kuwait Petroleum Corp. in an effort
to help build a 300,000 barrel-a-day, $10 billion refinery for
 China Petroleum (386)  and Chemical Corp., Pouyanne said.  Total has abandoned plans to sell its Lindsey refinery in
the U.K. after failing to find a buyer, he said.  “The increasingly difficult market conditions have
resulted in the fact that we have not received sufficiently
attractive offers to sell the refinery,” Michael Crochet-
Vourey, a Total spokesman, said in an e-mail message. “The
refining asset sale process has been long and difficult for the
local teams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  