-- House Republicans Say Obama Restrictions Spur Rising Gas Prices
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-07T17:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/house-republicans-say-obama-restrictions-spur-rising-gas-prices.html
U.S.  House Republicans  sought to
link rising gasoline prices with President Barack Obama’s
restrictions on offshore drilling and denial of the Keystone XL
pipeline from Canada, an argument rejected by Democrats.  The Obama administration lacks the power to stem the
increase, Democratic lawmakers said, and an energy analyst said
U.S. consumers should get accustomed to price swings at the pump
driven by consumers outside the U.S.  Prices will “gyrate wildly” as demand increases in  Asia 
and other emerging economies, Robert McNally, president of the
Rapidan Group LLC, a Bethesda, Maryland-based energy research
firm, said.  “There is no silver bullet for a short-term solution,” he
said, echoing words used by Obama in a Feb. 23 speech.  A House Energy and Commerce Committee panel hearing became
a forum for debate between Republicans and Democrats over gas
costs, which climbed for 27 straight days before a decline on
March 5.  Gas prices  averaged $3.761 a gallon yesterday,
according to  AAA (3AGSREG) , about 20 cents higher than a year earlier.  Representative Henry Waxman of California, senior Democrat
on the full committee, said the U.S. should invest in clean
power “to diversify and reduce our energy use” and uncouple
the economy from fluctuations in  oil prices .  The administration said today that Obama would seek
expanded tax credits and community research grants to make
alternative-energy cars and trucks more attractive to buyers.  Obama, in his State of the Union address in January, cited
rising U.S. oil and gas production to show he is supporting an
“all-of-the-above”  energy policy .  Federal Land Limits  Republicans said the higher output reflected additional
leases sold on private and state-owned lands, and that
production was falling on federal lands because of U.S.
restrictions.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the full committee, said approving  TransCanada
Corp.’s (TRN)  Keystone pipeline to carry crude from Canada’s oil sands
in Alberta to refineries in Texas would do more to alleviate gas
prices than releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve,
a step urged by some Democrats.  “None of America’s pain at the pump should be self-
inflicted, which is why we must do more to increase domestic and
North American oil supplies,” Upton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  