-- Hovnanian Has Narrower Loss as Builder Lowers Writedowns, Increases Sales
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-03-07T14:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/hovnanian-has-narrower-loss-as-builder-lowers-writedowns-increases-sales.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , reported a narrower first-
quarter loss as it reduced writedowns and increased sales.  The  net loss  for the three months ended Jan. 31 was $18.3
million, or 17 cents a share, compared with $64.1 million, or 82
cents, a year earlier, the  Red Bank , New Jersey-based company
said today in a statement. The average  estimate  of nine analysts
in a Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 42 cents a share.  Hovnanian, which has been buying land at distressed prices
in an attempt to boost margins, is benefiting from stronger
demand for U.S. houses. Its net new orders increased 27 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, to 1,079 homes, the
builder said. Orders jumped 38 percent last month from February
2010.  “The spring selling season is off to a good start in
February,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in the
statement. “We are hopeful that the positive trends continue.”  Purchases of new U.S. single-family houses beat analysts’
expectations in January and  sales  for December and November were
revised upward, the Commerce Department said Feb. 24.  Hovnanian’s first-quarter results included $3.3 million in
pretax land-related impairments, down from $13.5 million a year
earlier. Revenue rose to $269.6 million, up from $252.6 million
a year earlier.  Hovnanian’s operations “are unlikely to improve
meaningfully over the next several quarters,” Vincent Foley and
Cedric Morris, analysts with  Barclays Capital  in New York, said
in a March 5 note to clients. “We are cautious on the company
because of its continued lack of profitability, poor liquidity,
unsustainable leverage, elevated annual interest burden and
aggressive land buying.”  The results were released before the start of regular U.S.
trading. Hovnanian fell 5.5 percent to $2.40 yesterday. The
shares have lost 38 percent in the 12 months through yesterday,
the  worst performance  in the 13-member Bloomberg Industries
homebuilder index, which advanced 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  