-- Palm-Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia May Drop to Lowest in Six Months
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-03-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-may-drop-to-lowest-in-six-months.html
Palm-oil  reserves in Malaysia, the
second-biggest supplier after  Indonesia , declined to a six-month
low in February after production slumped for a fourth straight
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Stockpiles (PASTTOTL)  fell 5.4 percent to 1.9 million metric tons,
dropping below the 2 million-mark for the first time since
August, according to the median estimate in the survey of three
analysts and two plantation companies. Inventories are still
expected to be 28 percent higher than a year earlier, according
to the survey. Official estimates are due for release March 12.  Declining reserves may highlight tighter global edible-oil
supplies as soybean output drops in  South America  after a
drought. Lower palm-oil stockpiles may help boost prices in
Malaysia that gained 2.9 percent this year, while potentially
raising profits for companies including  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)   “It’s a lean season for palm oil production” Vimala Reddy, an analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd., said by phone from the
Indian city of Hyderabad. “Export demand has been better in
terms of comparison to January.”  Output (PALPCPO)  fell 8.3 percent to 1.18 million tons last month,
the lowest since February last year, from 1.29 million tons in
January, according to the survey. Exports dropped 7.3 percent to
1.28 million tons, the survey showed.  Shipments (ITSPALM)  fell 10.5
percent to 1.18 million tons in February from a month earlier
after 12 percent drop in January, according to surveyor
 Intertek (ITSPALM) .  The May-delivery contract gained 0.7 percent to 3,266
ringgit ($1,079) a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange
yesterday. Futures advanced 6.2 percent last month, the best
monthly performance since December 2010, after reaching an
eight-month high of 3,321 ringgit on Feb. 28.  Mistry’s Forecast  Palm oil may gain to 4,000 ringgit on declining global
vegetable-oil stockpiles,  Dorab Mistry , director of Godrej
International Ltd., said yesterday. The global soybean harvest
may drop by 19 million tons in 2011-2012, the most ever,
Hamburg-based researcher Oil World said on Feb. 28.  Exports may pick up as India and  China , the biggest
consumers, buy more of the tropical oil because of the reduced
soybean-oil supply from Argentina and  Brazil , Reddy said. Palm
oil and soybean oil are substitutes in food and fuels.  Palm-oil production would take time to rebound from the
seasonally-low output months of January and February, with a
recovery is expected only in June or July, Karvy’s Reddy said.
The low-output cycle may end in November, Godrej’s Mistry said.  Output in Malaysia, will reach 19 million tons this year as
more plantations mature, Plantation Industries and Commodities
Minister Bernard Dompok said Jan. 19. Production gained 11
percent to 18.9 million tons in 2011, according to data from the
Malaysian Palm Oil Board, which releases the monthly figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  