-- Pandora Tumbles Most Ever After Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-07T22:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/pandora-tumbles-after-issuing-guidance-below-analyst-estimates.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the Internet
radio pioneer, fell the most since it sold shares to the public
after the company’s fiscal first-quarter forecast trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , sank 24 percent to
$10.86 at the close in New York  trading  after its forecast
yesterday. The shares also fell 24 percent last June 16, their
second day of trading. The stock us up 8.5 percent this year.  Pandora said yesterday it expects consumer advertising
sales in the quarter to be lowest of the year and  Laura Martin ,
an analyst at Needham & Co. in  Pasadena , said the company has
more mobile advertising inventory than it can sell. She expects
marketers to embrace the platform, as about 70 percent of users
listen on mobile devices.  “Mobile is putting a lot of pressure on their revenue
line,” Martin said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
television. “Mobile growth will also allow this company to grow
at a 100 percent next year,” said Martin, who  recommends  buying
the shares.  Fiscal first-quarter sales will be $72 million to $75
million, Pandora said yesterday in a  statement  after markets
closed. That’s short of the $86.4 million  analysts  projected.
The company sees a loss, excluding items, of 18 cents to 21
cents a share, larger than the 2-cent loss analysts forecast.  Rising Expenses  Pandora is facing growing sales and programming expenses.
The company is accelerating hiring a sales force in the top 10
U.S. radio markets, Chief Executive Officer Joe Kennedy said
yesterday on a conference call. Marketing costs rose 46 percent
to $21 million in the fourth quarter ended Jan. 31. Programming
expenses more than doubled to $48.2 million as the number of
listeners rose.  Fourth-quarter sales rose 71 percent to $81.3 million, less
than the $83 million average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We were a touch light of the high end of our guidance in
terms of holiday ad spending,” Kennedy said in an interview.  The loss widened to $8.17 million, or 5 cents a share, from
a loss of $3.91 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, before the
company went public, Pandora said.  Excluding items, Pandora lost 3 cents a share, more than
the 2-cent average loss seen by 16 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  