-- U.S. Reviews Military Options for Syria as Clinton Urges Russia to Shift
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-08T10:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/panetta-says-u-s-considering-military-action-against-syria-if-necessary-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said the U.S. is reviewing military action to ease the crisis in
 Syria  even as he cautioned that the opposition and international
support aren’t unified enough to intervene now.  The Obama administration is consulting with other nations
and considering “an array of non-lethal assistance,” Panetta
told the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington
yesterday. He also cited U.S. concerns over Syria’s stockpile of
chemical weapons, which he said is “100 times worse than what
we dealt with in  Libya .”  A bloody siege of Homs last month led to intensified
international pressure on President Bashar al-Assad a year after
his forces began a crackdown on protests. The army has used
tanks and artillery to fight opposition forces and more than
7,500 people have died in the conflict, according to the  United
Nations .  “What doesn’t make sense is to take unilateral action
right now,” Panetta said. “Before I recommend that we put our
sons and daughters in uniform in harm’s way, I’ve got to make
very sure that we know what the mission is, I’ve got to be very
sure that we know whether we can achieve that mission and at
what price.”  Syria’s deputy oil minister, Abdo Hussameldin, defected,
according to a statement he posted on YouTube. If confirmed, it
would be the highest ranking resignation to date in the
conflict.  ‘Brink of the Abyss’  “I declare that I am joining the revolution,” Hussameldin
said in the video from an undisclosed location. Hussameldin,
seated in an armchair dressed in a black suit and tie, accused
the government of atrocities and “of driving the country to the
brink of the abyss.”  The video, whose authenticity couldn’t be independently
verified, was also cited by news organizations including the
 BBC , the Associated Press and  Al Jazeera .  Hussameldin’s decision to join the opposition follows
thousands of military defections. About 40,000 soldiers from the
270,000 people armed forces have defected, the Turkish Foreign
Ministry said Feb. 20, citing intelligence reports.  Security forces killed at least 40 people across Syria
yesterday, the Local Coordination Committees of Syria said on
its website. Attacks on Homs alone resulted in the deaths of 26
civilians, according to the LCC, as the UN’s emergency relief
coordinator,  Valerie Amos , visited the central district after
meeting Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem in Damascus.  ‘Badly Damaged’  Al-Muallem affirmed Syria’s commitment to cooperating with
the UN mission “within the framework of respect for the
sovereignty and independence of Syria,” according to state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency. Yet, Amos wasn’t given access to
opposition-held areas, according to her spokeswoman in  New York .  The UN envoy “was assured she could go where she wanted in
the country,” spokeswoman Amanda Pitt said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Amos visited Homs and said the neighborhood
of Baba Amr, which Assad’s forces reclaimed after continuous
shelling, “was badly damaged” with “very few” people around,
according to Pitt.  Panetta and Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, resisted calls from some Republicans
for immediate military involvement.  The hearing demonstrated the pressure on the Obama
administration to find a way to ease the crisis in Syria.  U.S. Lead  “Americans should lead in this,” said Arizona Senator
 John McCain , the top Republican on the panel. “Mass atrocities
are going on.”  After McCain called March 5 for U.S.-led airstrikes to
create civilian safe havens, other lawmakers disagreed. House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, described U.S.
intervention as premature “until there’s a clear direction as
to what’s happening there.”  Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, was among
committee members who cited the potential “strategic benefit”
to the U.S. of toppling the Assad regime because of its links to
 Iran . American intervention would help unify the international
community and the opposition, he said.  “The clock is running,” Lieberman said. Failure to act
may lead to regret that “not only we didn’t do the right thing
morally to stop innocents from being killed, we missed an
extraordinary strategic opportunity to strengthen our position”
in the  Middle East , he said.  No Quick Fix  Dempsey said the U.S. has the right to take military action
either with the consent of the nation involved, in its own
national defense or with a UN Security Council resolution.  “We have to have some legal basis,” Dempsey said, adding
that he also would advise taking any action in concert with a
coalition. “We’ve shown that that produces an enduring
outcome.”  President  Barack Obama  said Feb. 6 that unilateral U.S.
action would be a mistake. Panetta echoed that comment in his
remarks and said “there is no simple or quick solution to this
crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  