-- Payroll Revisions Point to Stronger U.S. Job Market
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-07T22:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/payroll-upward-revisions-in-u-s-point-to-stronger-labor-market-economy.html
Employment gains in the U.S. have
been understated since the middle of 2010, showing the expansion
is in a better position to withstand headwinds such as rising
gasoline prices.  The Labor Department has raised its initial estimate of
payroll employment in all but two months since July 2010 through
the end of last year. The upward revisions are likely to
continue, said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. in New York, because job gains have been
revised “sharply higher” in seven of the last eight
expansions.  The size of the revisions to monthly job growth was bigger
in the second half of 2011 than in the first, helping explain a
jump in wages and salaries that may invigorate American
households, whose spending accounts for about 70 percent of
gross domestic product. Stronger consumer finances put the
world’s largest economy in a better position to withstand rising
higher costs and fallout from a slump in Europe.  “The revisions tell us that the household sector was in
much better financial condition than we previously thought,”
LaVorgna said in a telephone interview. “When you have extra
income, people have more firepower.”  Companies in the U.S. added 216,000 workers to payrolls in
February, up from a gain of 173,000 a month earlier, according
to a report today from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer
Services.  Stocks Advance  Stocks rose after the report and as more investors agreed
to a Greek debt swap. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.7 percent to 1,352.63 at 4 p.m. in  New York , after a 1.5
percent decline on March 6.  The Labor Department in two days may say total payrolls
rose by 210,000 last month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It would mark the
strongest three-month stretch in almost a year. The unemployment
 rate  may have held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent.  Employers are reaching the limit of their ability to wring
efficiency from their workforces, suggesting they may need to
hire more staff. Worker productivity rose at a slower pace in
the fourth quarter and labor costs jumped, revised figures from
the Labor Department showed today.  The measure of employee output per hour climbed at a 0.9
percent annual rate, after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three
months. Expenses per worker climbed at a 2.8 percent rate, more
than twice as much as previously estimated.  Making Investments  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , based in Peoria,  Illinois , is one company
making investments that it says will boost its own payrolls and
that of other firms. The world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment said it will build a 1 million square-foot
factory in Georgia, which will employ 1,400 workers and support
an additional 2,800 positions in the U.S.  Manufacturing is “perhaps where you’ll see some stronger
numbers and upward revisions,” LaVorgna said. Factories
probably added 20,000 workers last month, compared with 50,000
in January, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere, German factory orders unexpectedly declined in
January as foreign demand for investment goods such as machinery
slumped. The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, contracted in the
fourth quarter of 2011 as the sovereign debt crisis curbed
demand for its exports across the euro region.  Recovery Accelerates  The U.S. labor-market recovery has accelerated in recent
months. Employers have added 1 million workers to payrolls since
July. During the same period, the  jobless rate  dropped by 0.8
percentage point, the biggest decline in as many months since
1984.  Revisions resulted in 235,000 more U.S. jobs added in the
second half of 2011 than the Labor Department initially
reported, or an average of 39,000 a month. During the previous
seven economic expansions, revisions added about 34,000 jobs to
payrolls each month, according to LaVorgna’s calculations.  “The labor market is running at a stronger pace than those
initial prints have been suggesting,”  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “When GDP is expanding, the revisions tend
to be upwards. The initial number we get is typically too low.”  “In terms of the behavior of the labor market, it’s
looking more and more similar to the expansion of the early
’90s,” LaVorgna said.  Longest Stretch  The decade following the 1991 recession marked the longest
stretch of economic growth since the  National Bureau of Economic
Research , the group that dated U.S. business cycles, began
keeping records in 1854.  Worker pay is increasing in tandem. Wages and salaries in
the second half of 2011 grew a combined $197.3 billion, the most
since the six months ended March 2007, according to the Commerce
Department’s revised figures released last week.  Those gains may help Americans at the gas pump. Gasoline
prices that have increased 48 cents this year through March 6 to
$3.76 a gallon, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  “A labor market with momentum can buffer the economy from
higher  gas prices  through the new paychecks generated for an
expanding workforce,” Credit Suisse economists in New York, led
by chief economist Neal Soss, wrote yesterday in a research
note.  Both Maki and LaVorgna said they foresee further revisions
to job gains as the  U.S. economy  continues to expand.  “Over time, we expect nonfarm payrolls to be revised
higher,” LaVorgna said. “History strongly suggests these
upward revisions in the current cycle will continue for some
time, probably until the onset of the next downturn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  