-- Pemex CEO Says Production Targets to Be Helped by Gains at Cantarell Field
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-03-07T18:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/pemex-ceo-says-production-targets-will-be-helped-by-aging-cantarell-field.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
third-largest oil producer, expects output from its aging
Cantarell field to gain this year, allowing the state-owned
company to boost production for the first time in eight years.  “We foresee a stable and increasing Cantarell field,”
Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said yesterday
in an interview in Houston. Expected output at the field, which
fell 11 percent last year, “makes us comfortable” that Pemex
will reach its goal to increase production this year, he said.  Mexico has sought to stop declining output at Cantarell,
the world’s third-largest field when it was discovered in 1976,
by injecting gas and using other recovery methods. In the past
decade, Cantarell’s production slid 74 percent to 500,674
barrels a day last year, dragging the country’s daily output to
its lowest level since 1990 of 2.55 million barrels.  “We plan to increase production to 2.7 million barrels in
the next couple years,” Suarez Coppel said. Pemex will produce
3 million barrels a day “by 2017 or 2018, given that we invest
enough.”  The company, based in  Mexico  City, plans to invest an
annual average of  $25 billion  to reach production goals and
upgrade its refinery system, according to a five-year business
plan on Pemex’s website.  Demand Disruption  “The reality is that we expect small increases in many of
our projects, including Cantarell,”  Carlos Morales , head of
exploration and production said in Warsaw today.  Suarez Coppel, 52, said that high  oil prices  are increasing
the risk of a global demand disruption.  “Nobody in the industry is comfortable with these
levels,” Suarez said. “Historically, what you’ve seen is that
prices at this level do destroy demand.”  Crude oil for April delivery reached $110.55 a barrel on
March 1 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
intraday price since May 4. Oil traded at $106.06 at 12:22 p.m.
New York time.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. is the world’s largest crude
producer, followed by the National Iranian Oil Company.
Petroleos de Venezuela SA is trailing Pemex’s production
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 