-- Pfizer, Abbott, Glaxo Sued Over Brand-Drug Co-Pay Discounts
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-03-07T22:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/pfizer-abbott-face-allegations-over-co-pay-coupon-promotions.html
Affiliates of a consumer group sued
eight drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , accusing the companies of illegally
offering coupons to reduce copayments for brand name drugs.  Affiliates of Boston-based  Community Catalyst  contend that
cutting co-pays for the drugs destroys the incentive to use
cheaper generic drugs, in a suit filed today in federal court in
Newark, New Jersey, against  Merck & Co. (MRK)  Identical cases were
filed in New York, Philadelphia and Chicago.  “A recent study estimated that these kickbacks will
increase health benefit providers’ prescription drug costs by
$32 billion over the next 10 years,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Lisa J. Rodriguez of Haddonfield, New Jersey, said in one complaint.  Also sued were  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Bristol-Meyers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Novartis AG. (NOV)   “Given the larger cost-sharing burden being placed on
patients, Pfizer supports the use of company-sponsored programs
which help patients with out-of-pocket expenses for the
medicines prescribed by their physician,” Christopher Loder, a
Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The company
will fight the claim, he said.  The lawsuits were filed by the AFSCME District Council 37
Health & Security Plan Trust, the Sergeants Benevolent
Association Health and Welfare Fund, the New England Carpenters
Health and Welfare Fund and the Plumbers and Pipefitters Local
572 Health and Welfare Fund.  Health Plans  The community group said in a statement the health plans,
struggling with rising costs, provide drug benefits for civilian
and uniformed municipals workers, retirees and their dependents
throughout the city of  New York , plumbers from Florida to Ohio,
and carpenters throughout New England.  “Our lawyers still have not received the brief; we won’t
comment before we’ve had an opportunity to review the brief,”
said Mary Klem, an Amgen spokeswoman.  Sarah Lindgreen, an AstraZeneca spokeswoman; Ron Rogers, a
spokesman for Merck; Sabrina Oei, a Novartis spokeswoman; Adelle Infante of Abbott; Laura Hortas of Bristol-Meyers; and officials
of Glaxo didn’t immediately respond to voice and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the lawsuits.  Some of the drugs named in the lawsuits are Pfizer’s
Celebrex and Lipitor, Novartis’s Diovan, Amgen’s Enbrel, Merck’s
Nasonex and Vytorin, and AstraZeneca’s Crestor and Nexium.  The first Newark case is Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 572
Health and Welfare Fund, 3:12-cv-01379, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 