-- Philippine Peso Gains on Speculation Demand for Bonds Improved
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-07T09:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/philippine-peso-falls-on-global-slowdown-concern-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso rose for the
first time in three days amid speculation the slowest inflation
in 29 months is bolstering demand for local-currency bonds.  The nation’s  international reserves  climbed to a record
$77.8 billion in February, central bank data showed today.
Consumer prices increased 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
smallest gain since September 2009 and less than the median 3.2
percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank
expects inflation this year to average below 4 percent even as
it predicts that  oil prices  will remain elevated, Governor
Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  “Renewed demand for  government securities  eased the
pressure on the peso, which started when we noticed some selling
in bonds in recent days,” said Manu Goseco, treasurer at East
West Bank Corp. in Manila. “As the concern on oil prices
moderated and we see inflation looking very manageable, jitters
in the  bond market  eased.”  The peso closed 0.2 percent higher at 42.862 per dollar,
after declining 0.6 percent in the last two days, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc.  The yield on the 5.875 percent bond due February 2032 fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.835 percent,
data from Tradition Financial Services showed. The yield climbed
to 5.925 percent yesterday, the highest since the notes were
sold in January.  Inflation will breach the central bank’s target of 3
percent to 5 percent if oil rises above $150 a barrel, Tetangco
told reporters yesterday. “At this point in time, our
assessment is, stance of policy is appropriate.”  Bangko Sentral (PPCBON)  ng Pilipinas cut its overnight borrowing
rate by a quarter-point each in its first two meetings this year
to 4 percent. The next policy meeting will be on April 19.  “The BSP is likely to pause for the remainder of the first
half and probably consider another rate cut by the third
quarter,” Goseco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  