-- Pittsburgh Penguins’ Crosby Cleared for Contact Practice After Concussion
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-07T06:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/pittsburgh-penguins-crosby-cleared-for-contact-practice-after-concussion.html
Pittsburgh Penguins captain  Sidney Crosby , who has been benched since Dec. 6 with concussion-like
symptoms and a neck injury, has been cleared to resume full-
contact practice, the National Hockey League team said.  Crosby has been symptom-free for a few days and will
practice before a decision is made on his return to the lineup,
the team said on its website.  “Contact is the big step,” Crosby said. “It’s nice to be
symptom free, but it’s not as fulfilling until you get out
there. I just want to make sure that I take the right steps here
and get back out there soon.”  Crosby, 24, had been skating with teammates sporadically
without contact since Feb. 6. He was on the ice in a full-
contact practice yesterday.  “As soon as they knew I could get contact I was getting a
lot of bumps,” Crosby said. “It was fun to be out there with
them and hopefully it’s a regular occurrence.”  Crosby sustained head injuries in last year’s Jan. 1 Winter
Classic against the  Washington Capitals  and again four days
later against the  Tampa Bay Lightning . He missed the rest of the
2010-11 season.  Crosby returned to the ice this season for eight games
until he was sidelined when concussion-like symptoms returned
during a game against  Boston  on Dec. 5.  He was the first pick of the 2005 draft, and two years
later won the Hart Trophy as the NHL’s Most Valuable Player at
the age of 19, the youngest to get the honor.  He also scored the gold medal-winning goal at the 2010
Winter Olympics in Vancouver, lifting  Canada  over the U.S. in
overtime.  The Penguins (39-21-5) are eight points behind the first-
place  New York Rangers  in the Eastern Conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  