-- Polish Central Bank Leaves Main Repurchase Rate at 4.5% for Ninth Month
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-03-07T18:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/polish-central-bank-leaves-main-repurchase-rate-at-4-5-for-ninth-month.html
Poland ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a ninth month as the
economy grows six times faster than the euro-region average and
inflation holds above target.  The Narodowy Bank Polski kept its  seven-day interest rate 
at 4.5 percent, the highest since January 2009, at a meeting in
Warsaw today. The decision matches the forecasts of all 36
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank raised its inflation
forecast for this year, while predicting slower economic growth.  “Even though central bankers would like inflation to
return faster to the target, they’re unlikely to hike rates
given the expected slowdown in growth,” Piotr Bujak, chief
economist at Nordea Bank Polska in Warsaw, said after the
statement. “The fact that some market players expected a more
hawkish message from led the zloty to weaken.”  Poland’s main interest rate is at a three-year high as
inflation has stayed above the 3.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range since December 2010. Borrowing costs
are now at an appropriate level and any change will hinge on the
central bank’s new inflation forecast,  Jerzy Hausner  of the
rate-setting Monetary Policy Council said Feb. 28. Consumer
prices grew 4.1 percent from a year earlier in January.  More Probable Scenario  Six-month forward-rate agreements , used to bet on future
interest-rate levels, traded 12 basis points below the Warsaw
interbank offered rate today, suggesting investors expect
borrowing costs to remain on hold.  “Unchanged rates seem to be the most probable policy
scenario over the next few months,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief
economist at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw, said after the
decision. “The key risk for the Monetary Policy Council is that
inflation will stay persistently above target for too long, and
that means their rhetoric will probably stay hawkish.”  The central bank toughened its language on prices, saying
it wouldn’t exclude further rate increases if “positive signals
continue on Poland’s economic growth prospects and, at the same
time, the outlook for inflation slowing to the target doesn’t
improve.” In earlier statements, policy makers said they
wouldn’t rule out tightening if the inflation outlook worsened.  ‘Slowing Too Slowly’  “Our forecasts show inflation is slowing too slowly,”
Governor  Marek Belka  told a news conference after today’s
decision. “We aren’t satisfied with the pace at which inflation
is heading toward the target. The horizon is too far.”  While he reiterated that a rate increase is more likely
than a cut, he said central bank projections for the medium-term
inflation outlook had been lowered “significantly.”  The Monetary Council forecasts 2012 consumer-price growth
of 3.3 percent-4.1 percent, up from a previous estimate of 2.5
percent-3.9 percent. Inflation will slow to 2 percent-3.3
percent next year, compared with an earlier projection of 2.2
percent-3.7 percent, the rate-setting panel said. The forecasts
were adjusted after the central bank’s initial projections to
include zloty gains and data reported after Jan. 24.  The zloty gained to 4.1625 against the euro as of 6:51 p.m.
in Warsaw, 0.1 percent stronger on the day. The yield on the
two-year bond due January 2014 fell to 4.629 percent from 4.677
percent yesterday.  While the zloty has gained 7.3 percent against the euro
this year, it’s 7.1 percent weaker against  Europe ’s common
currency than two years ago. A slump in the zloty last year
helped Polish exporters and boosted prices of imported goods,
spurring inflation.  GDP Expands  Poland’s economy expanded 4.3 percent from a year earlier
in the fourth quarter, topping the 4.1 percent median forecast
of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the statistics office
said March 1. Growth was boosted by a 10.3 percent jump in
investment, fueled by EU subsidies for roads, bridges and farm
modernization. Strong growth and high inflation may trigger an
interest rate increase, central bankers said in recent weeks.  “The new GDP projection will probably be lowered on the
weaker economy in the euro region, while inflation will probably
be seen higher,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s Polish unit  Bank Handlowy SA (BHW)  in Warsaw, said in a report
before the decision.  March Projection  The central bank is “more likely to keep rates unchanged
or raise them” than cut borrowing costs, Monetary Policy
Council member Anna Zielinska-Glebocka told private broadcaster
TVN CNBC on March 1. Most council members said rate increases
can’t be ruled out if Poland sustains “relatively fast”
economic growth and an “elevated” inflation rate, according to
the minutes of the January rate meeting published on Feb. 23  Policy makers in the  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  left rates
unchanged last month amid a temporary spike in inflation.  “The inflation path in the March projection will be the
key for  interest rates  in the coming period,” Wiktor
Wojciechowski, chief economist at Invest Bank in Warsaw, said
before the decision. Rates will hold steady until the end of the
year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  