-- PricewaterhouseCoopers Says Middle East Fastest Growing Region
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-07T11:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/pricewaterhousecoopers-says-middle-east-fastest-growing-region.html
The  Middle East , where several oil-
rich governments are boosting spending, has become consulting
firm PricewaterhouseCoopers’s fastest growing region with
revenue expected to rise 25 percent this year.  “Notwithstanding some of the clouds that are here, and
there are several, we see the Middle East as one of our biggest
investment areas,” Dennis Nally, PricewatherhouseCoopers
International Ltd.’s chairman, said in an interview in Dubai on
March 5. “All our businesses, assurance, tax and advisory, are
doing very well, but obviously led by our advisory business.”  PricewaterhouseCooper’s Middle East business employs more
than 2,500 professionals, and revenue in the Middle East and
 Africa  in the fiscal year ending June 2011 grew 20 percent to
$987 million, it said in October. Global revenue advanced 10
percent to $29.2 billion.  Governments and companies in the Persian Gulf region are
using oil revenue to build infrastructure to diversify their
economies, which is boosting growth and demand for audit
services and financial advice.  Saudi Arabia  has pledged to spend
more than $500 billion to build homes and industrial projects,
while Qatar has a $88 billion investment program to prepare for
the 2022 Soccer  World Cup .  The share of  emerging markets  in PricewaterhouseCooper’s
global revenue is projected to double to about 42 percent over
the next five years from about 20 percent now as the worldwide
economy increasingly relies on them to lift growth, Nally said.  “It’s a direct reflection of where our clients are, what
they are doing, where they are growing and where they are
investing,” said New York-based Nally, who is in Dubai to
attend the company’s quarterly strategy meeting. “Our business
just follows our clients, and the Middle East is a big part of
that as you might imagine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  