-- Prisa Chairman Plans to Keep Stake in Mediaset Until Stock Price Rebounds
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-03-07T09:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/prisa-chairman-plans-to-keep-stake-in-mediaset-until-stock-price-rebounds.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA , the
publisher of  Spain ’s El Pais newspaper, will hold back from
selling its stake in  Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA (TL5)  until the
stock price rises after halving in value in a year, Chairman
Ignacio de Polanco said.  Prisa will wait to sell assets including a 17.3 percent
stake in Mediaset Espana until it can generate more gains to cut
a “big” pile of debt, de Polanco said in an interview in
Madrid. Prisa’s holding in Spain’s biggest commercial TV station
 plummeted  51 percent in value to about 311 million euros ($409
million) in the 12 months before today.  “At a certain time the possibility of selling those assets
should be considered,” de Polanco said. “We have to wait until
the situation is a bit better everywhere. But yes, it’s
something that’s planned.”  Media companies in Spain are struggling to halt a slide in
earnings and their stocks as advertising revenue slumps with the
country’s worst economic crisis in decades. In December, Madrid-
based Prisa agreed with lenders to refinance about 2.9 billion
euros in debt, winning time to prepare for a sale of assets.
Mediaset Espana, controlled by Italy’s  Mediaset SpA (MS) , has cut
dividend payments and approved a 20 percent pay cut for board
members.  Assets Sale  Prisa Chief Executive Officer Juan Luis Cebrian said in
June the company may sell non-strategic assets valued at more
than 500 million euros and issue non-banking debt instruments to
extend obligations with lenders.  “It’s fair enough that he wants to keep the stake until
things recover a bit,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage
about $60 billion at Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management AG
including Prisa shares. “But he will need quite a lot of
patience and it’s going to be challenging to get to previous
levels.”  Mediaset Espana climbed 0.6 percent to 4.44 euros on the
 Madrid  exchange as of 10:27 a.m. Prisa rose 0.7 percent to 68.5
cents, valuing Spain’s largest media company at 730 million
euros.  Last week, Prisa reported a net loss of 451.2 million euros
in 2011, widening from 72.9 million euros a year earlier on
provisions for investments in  Portugal  and tax risks.  “Business lines continue to be positive,” de Polanco said
in the interview yesterday. “It’s not what it used to be
because things are harder as advertising remains tough.”  The Spanish advertising market may decline 2.1 percent this
year, dropping for the fourth year in five, according to media
researcher Zenith Media.  State-owned La1 led Spanish television ratings in February
with a 14.1 percent audience share, according to Barlovento
Comunicacion, a Madrid-based media consulting firm. Mediaset
Espana’s Telecinco channel had 13.7 percent and  Antena 3 de
Television SA ’s Antena 3 channel had 12.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  