-- Prudential Financial Halts Sale of Individual Long-Term Care
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-07T21:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/prudential-financial-to-stop-offering-individual-long-term-care-coverage.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, said it will halt the sale of
individual long-term care policies, joining rivals in retreating
from the industry.  The company will continue to offer group long-term care
insurance,  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential said today in a
statement distributed by  Business Wire . Existing contracts are
guaranteed renewable and won’t change, Prudential said.  Insurers including CNO Financial Group Inc. have been
burned by coverage sold in the past when they underestimated the
number of claims, the cost of care or the life expectancy of
their clients.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the No. 1 U.S. life insurer, said
in 2010 it would stop sales of new long-term care coverage,
citing “financial challenges” in the business. Prudential said
it faces “challenging economics” in the market.  “It’s a smart move,” said Dan Theriault, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC who has a “sector perform” rating on
Prudential shares. Prudential, MetLife and other companies
scaling back “can’t price the product appropriately, and
instead they’ve decided to exit the business.”  Prudential advanced 1.7 percent to $60.78 at 4:04 p.m. in
 New York  and has gained 21 percent this year. New York-based
MetLife has risen 22 percent since Dec. 31.  Unum, Genworth  Deterioration in the long-term care business pushed Unum
Group into a $425.4 million fourth-quarter loss and prompted the
Chattanooga, Tennessee-based insurer to announce its exit from
sales of the products to groups. Genworth Financial Inc. is the
largest seller of long-term care insurance in the U.S., said
Jesse Slome, executive director of the  American Association  for
Long-Term Care Insurance.  Prudential Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld is expanding outside the U.S. and spent more than $4
billion last year to buy two Japanese subsidiaries from American
International Group Inc. Net income rose to $3.53 billion in
2011 from $2.71 billion a year earlier.  Long-term care policies provide coverage to help pay for
home-health aides or residence in nursing homes or assisted-
living facilities. Lower  interest rates  pressured the business,
limiting investment income on funds set aside for claims.  “The decision to exit the individual long-term care
business reflects the challenging economics of the individual
market,” Malcolm Cheung, vice president of long-term care for
Prudential, said in the statement. Prudential will focus “our
resources and capital on the group market where we see the
greatest opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 