-- Radiation Blast May Turbocharge Bristol-Myers Melanoma Drug
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/radiation-blast-may-turbocharge-bristol-myers-melanoma-drug-report-shows.html
Radiating one tumor can trigger the
immune system to wipe out tumors in other parts of the body and
may boost the effectiveness of  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s cancer
drug Yervoy, doctors have shown.  Researchers at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  are
reporting on the case of a 41-year-old woman with advanced
melanoma who took Yervoy, a drug that stimulates the immune
system to fight cancer cells, in a clinical trial. She didn’t
respond to the medicine until she got a radiation treatment to
shrink a tumor on her lung that was pressing on a nerve and
causing severe back pain.  Soon, all the other tumors in her body started shrinking,
according to the results published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine . The case is the best demonstration to date of a rare
phenomenon called the abscopal effect, in which radiation to
just one tumor causes other tumors all over the body to regress,
said Charles Drake, a medical oncologist at the  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine  not involved with the study.  “It is a really amazing finding,” Drake said in a phone
interview. “It confirms that this effect can occur.”  The broad tumor shrinkage was associated with changes in
the immune system that occurred after the radiation treatment,
according to the report.  Harnessing the effect may enable researchers to boost the
response rate to Yervoy, said Memorial Sloan-Kettering’s  Jedd
Wolchok , an oncologist and senior author on the case study. The
radiation-linked response may occur because the radiation
creates cellular debris that the immune system recognizes as
dangerous, he said.  Immune System Brakes  Yervoy  for melanoma is the first in a new class of drugs
that removes molecular brakes on immune system cells that
prevent them from attacking cancer. While it improves survival
by four months, the drug causes major tumor shrinkage in 10 to
15 percent of melanoma patients. Doctors are looking for a way
to improve on this.  Valerie Esposito, the radiation patient in the study,
started getting Yervoy in September 2009 and didn’t clearly
benefit at first. “She was definitely getting worse” until she
got the radiation in December 2010, said Wolchok.  Yet when doctors performed a scan a few months after the
radiation, six tumors in her spleen and two more in her lymph
nodes that had not been radiated shrank dramatically, he said.  Surprise Phone Call  Wolchok called Esposito with the news as she was driving
home from an appointment at the cancer center last spring.  “He was like, you won’t believe it, but your tumors shrunk
drastically,” Esposito said in a phone interview. “It is
amazing, it is a wonderful thing.”  Esposito, a government clerical worker and single mother
raising three kids on  Long Island  near  New York City , said she
hopes her case can provide clues for doctors how to help other
melanoma patients.  Wolchok said that a second melanoma patient on Yervoy at
Memorial Sloan-Kettering had a similar body-wide response to
local radiation treatment just a few weeks ago.  Wolchok, who is also affiliated with the Ludwig Institute
for  Cancer Research  in New York, is working with several major
hospitals to start a clinical trial that would combine Yervoy
and radiation to see if doctors can duplicate what happened to
Esposito on broader numbers of patients, he said. It could begin
in six months.  Sarah Koenig, a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.,
based in  New York , said in an e-mail that the company is aware
of the Sloan-Kettering case report and considers it “an
interesting finding.”  Bristol-Myers is studying whether Yervoy’s effects can be
enhanced with radiation, she wrote. One example of this is a
trial the company is conducting of Yervoy in patients who have
received radiation for advanced prostate cancer, she said.  Yervoy generated $360 million for Bristol-Myers in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at +1-212-617-1886 or
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York +1-212-617-2563 or
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  