-- RDQ’s Ryding Says Fed May Allow Inflation to Rise Above 3% to Boost Jobs
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-03-07T20:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/rdq-s-ryding-says-fed-may-allow-inflation-to-rise-above-3-.html
The  Federal Reserve  may let
inflation exceed 3 percent as it keeps the main interest rate
low to boost growth, said  John Ryding , a former Fed researcher
who is chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “The Fed’s saying that they’re going to be quite
tolerant” about rising prices, Ryding said today in a radio
interview on “The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays  and
Vonnie Quinn.  “They may dress it up in terms of they expect inflation to
fall and they keep talking about that, but I think they would
tolerate inflation for a while of up to 3 percent or maybe a
little higher,” he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  estimated in January that
inflation will be at or below its 2 percent goal for the next
three years, according to the central tendency estimate. The
FOMC’s inflation target benchmark, the personal consumption
expenditures price index, rose 2.4 percent for the 12 months
ending in January.  The Wall Street Journal reported today that the U.S.
central bank is considering a program aimed at stimulating
growth while restraining inflation. Under the plan, the Fed
would print money to buy long-term Treasuries or mortgage bonds
and tie up that money by borrowing it back for short periods at
low rates, the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  A decision to begin so-called sterilized bond purchases may
“calm” policy makers who are most concerned about maintaining
stable prices, Ryding said.  “I don’t think it would appease them but if we have to go
down that route then we’re addressing those inflation
concerns,” he said.  Sterilized asset purchases probably aren’t on the Fed’s
current agenda,  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said on the program. The
move may deter criticism from lawmakers should the Fed decide
more stimulus is necessary, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  