-- Treasuries Decline as Support for Greece Debt Exchange Eases Refuge Demand
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-07T22:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/treasuries-remain-lower-after-private-report-shows-added-jobs-in-february.html
Treasuries (YCGT0025)  fell as reports showed
 Greece  is garnering enough support for the nation’s debt
exchange to avoid a disorderly default and U.S. companies added
more jobs last month.  Government bonds  erased a portion of yesterday’s gains as
data showed that investors with at least 58 percent of Greece’s
debt will participate in the private-sector-involvement in a
bailout of the country. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes
yesterday declined the most this year. The report today from
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services comes two days
before U.S. data forecast to show nonfarm payrolls added more
than 200,000 jobs in February for a third month.  “We are paring some of the risk-off trade from yesterday
with the market clearly focused on PSI and what percentage of
the Greek bondholders agree to the swap,” said Michael Pond,
co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .  Yields on 10-year notes rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 5:07 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They fell seven basis
points yesterday. The yields have traded between 1.79 percent
and 2.09 percent in 2012. The 2 percent security maturing in
February 2022 declined 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to
100 7/32.  Thirty-year (USGG30YR)  Treasury bond yields increased five basis
points to 3.12 percent, after dropping eight yesterday.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index rose 0.7 percent today
after sliding 1.5 percent yesterday, the most since December.  Report on Fed  Treasuries stayed lower and stocks extended gains as the
Wall Street Journal reported Fed officials are considering a
bond-buying program designed to subdue concern about future
inflation if they decide on new steps to boost the economy. The
Fed would print new money to buy long-term mortgage or Treasury
bonds but effectively tie it up by borrowing it back for short
periods at low rates, the newspaper said, citing Fed officials.  The U.S. central bank is scheduled to hold a policy meeting
on March 13.  Prices of federal funds futures contracts traded at the
CME Group in  Chicago  fell on the possibly long-term debt
purchases would be sterilized by draining short-term cash from
the money markets. The June 2012 contract traded at 99.87 basis
points, corresponding to a rate of 0.13 percent, compared to
0.12 percent yesterday.  The idea of the Fed sterilizing future debt purchases
“certainly put some pressure on the federal fund futures
contracts,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term
rates trading at Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in
New York.  ‘Rethinking the Need’  Forward repo, or repurchase agreement, rates also rose,
“which reinforces the perception that repo rates will continue
to move higher,” Silliman said. “After operation twist the Fed
has very little securities in the front end, so sterilizing with
reverse repos or term deposits would be a very logical option.”  “People believe the Fed is rethinking the need for
additional liquidity at this point,” said James Collins, an
interest-rate strategist in the futures group at Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. in Chicago, a primary dealer.  U.S. 10-year notes have returned 0.02 percent this year
through yesterday, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. Treasuries of all maturities have lost 0.1 percent,
another Merrill Lynch index showed, compared with a full-year
gain of 9.8 percent in 2011.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE (MOVE)  index, which measures
price swings based on options, fell to 75.1 after rising
yesterday to 75.8 in its first gain in three days.  Volume Rises  About $244 billion of Treasuries changed hands today as of
5:01 p.m. in New York through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker, in the third straight daily increase. The
average for the past five years is $269 billion.  European banks and insurers including BNP Paribas SA,
Commerzbank AG and Assicurazioni Generali SpA are among bond
holders that have pledged to accept the Greek debt-swap offer.
That brings the total so far to at least 120 billion euros ($157
billion), based on data compiled by Bloomberg from company
reports and government statements.  The goal is to reduce the 206 billion euros of privately
held Greek debt by 53.5 percent and turn the tide against
 Europe ’s two-year-old crisis. The government is seeking at least
75 percent participation, and the swap offer expires tomorrow.
The government said it will use collective-action clauses to
compel holders of Greek-law bonds to accept the swap if enough
holders consent to the deal.  “Adding up the commitments to participate in the Greek
PSI, it is now clear that the CAC hurdles will very likely be
cleared,”  Christoph Rieger , Commerzbank AG head of fixed-income
strategy in  Frankfurt , said in a note today.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. companies added 216,000 workers to their payrolls in
February, according to data from ADP. The median projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an advance of
215,000.  The Labor Department will report this week that U.S.
nonfarm payrolls added 210,000 jobs last month, according to
economists in a separate survey, compared with 243,000 in
January and 203,000 in December.  A bigger increase in payrolls would “put more pressure on
long-term Treasuries because the economy’s getting better,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “The risk-
reward ratio is now skewed to being short Treasuries.” A short  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought $1.97 billion of Treasuries today maturing
from February 2036 to May 2041. The central bank is in the
process of swapping $400 billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries
in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  The U.S. will announce tomorrow the size of three note-and-
bonds auctions next week. It will probably sell $32 billion of
three-year notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and $13
billion of 30-year bonds, according to an estimate by Wrightson
ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , that specializes in  government finance .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  