-- Treasuries Fall as ADP Report Seen to Show Job Growth
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-07T12:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/treasuries-snap-rally-on-speculation-industry-report-to-show-jobs-growth.html
Treasuries dropped, trimming gains
after yesterday’s biggest rally this year, as economists said a
report from ADP Employer Services today will show U.S. company
hiring accelerated.  Government securities  also slid as  Societe Generale  SA
joined firms saying they would participate in  Greece ’s debt
swap. Ten-year yields shrank yesterday to almost negative 1
percent when accounting for inflation, damping demand from
investors who say bond rates need to rise as the economy grows.  “We’ve got the ADP report today that will be fairly
pivotal,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at
Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London. “The consensus out there is
most people perceive yields should go higher rather than
lower.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.96 percent at 6:56 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities due in February 2022 slid 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 10/32.  The 10-year note yields decreased seven basis points
yesterday, the most since Dec. 28. The yields will climb to 2.53
percent by year-end, according to the average projection of
banks and securities companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  Company Hiring  ADP will say U.S. companies added 215,000 workers in
February, compared with 170,000 in the previous month, according
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Employers added more than 200,000 jobs for a third month,
according to the median forecast in a separate Bloomberg News
survey before the Labor Department’s March 9 report.  “Treasuries are very expensive,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $114.8 billion as an investor in
 Tokyo  at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s
second-biggest brokerage by market value. “The  U.S. economy  is
improving. The labor market is warming.”  U.S government securities rallied yesterday as a report
showed  Europe ’s economy shrank and investors weighed Greece’s
chances of persuading creditors to agree to a bond swap under
its private-sector-involvement plan.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE (MOVE)  index, which measures
price swings based on options, rose yesterday for the first time
in three days, increasing to 75.8  About $239 billion of  Treasuries (ICPTVOL)  changed hands yesterday
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. The
five-year average is $269 billion.  Europe’s Economy  Europe’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, according to the
European Union’s statistics office.  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, fell 2.7 percent in January, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 37 economists called for a 0.6 percent increase.  “Our yield forecasts suggest that we’re pretty much
stabilized around these current levels,” said  Peter Schaffrik ,
the head of European  interest-rate  strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in London, referring to the benchmark 10-year note yield.
“Macro expectations are not significantly stronger than where
we are at the moment, so we forecast 1.85 percent and 1.95
percent for March and June respectively.”  U.S. Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.5 percent yesterday,
the most since December. Futures rose 0.5 percent today after
Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest bank,  Assicurazioni
Generali SpA (G)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  joined companies saying they
would participate in the Greece debt plan as the country
threatened to compel holdouts to take part.  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to buy as much as
$2.25 billion of U.S. debt due from February 2036 to February
2042 today, according to the New York Fed’s  website . The central
bank is in the process of swapping $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
securities to cap borrowing costs.  Ten-year yields have been within 21 basis points of 2
percent since the start of November. Policy makers pledged in
January to keep the benchmark interest rate close to zero until
at least late 2014.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.17 percentage points, the lowest level
since Feb. 6. The average over the past decade is 2.14
percentage points.  Treasuries also dropped before the U.S. announces tomorrow
the size of three auctions of coupon-bearing debt next week
starting March 12. The government will probably sell $32 billion
of three-year notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and
$13 billion of 30-year bonds, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC,
an economic advisory company in  Jersey City , New Jersey, that
specializes in government finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  