-- Recovery of Commercial Property Fueled by Apartments: Mortgages
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-03-07T16:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/recovery-on-commercial-property-fueled-by-apartments-mortgages.html
When Arenda Capital Management LLC
bought an Atlanta apartment complex whose owners defaulted on a
$26 million loan, they did something distressed investors rarely
do: They paid full price, deciding not to wait for lender LNR
Partners to foreclose and face competition from other acquirers.  “If I don’t buy the deal, then it may be 12 to 24 months
before I’d have another chance to buy it, and they still may not
be selling unless I make them whole,” said Ryan Millsap,
managing principal at Los Angeles-based Arenda, which bought the
592-unit property in October.  Demand for U.S. apartment buildings is surging as the
 homeownership rate  hovers near the lowest level since 1998 and
government-supported mortgage companies provide record levels of
financing for apartment properties. That’s fueling a rush by
investors to buy buildings and helping lenders recover 75
percent of the value of defaulted mortgages tied to multifamily
housing, the highest recovery rate on all commercial property.  Sales of U.S. apartment properties totaled $3.8 billion in
January, a 53 percent increase from the same month a year
earlier, the strongest start to the year compared with offices,
and shopping centers, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.,
a New York-based commercial property data firm.  Fannie, Freddie Loans  The dollar volume of multifamily loan originations by
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac hit an all-time high in the fourth
quarter, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association index that
has tracked the data for 11 years. The government-supported
entities increased lending by selling $33.9 billion of bonds
tied to apartment buildings last year, from $21.6 billion in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For Millsap, paying full price to acquire Atlanta’s Arbors
at Winters Chapel before foreclosure seemed like a pretty safe
bet, he said.  “Multifamily was not hit hard from an operating
standpoint,” Millsap said. “Everybody overpaid -- but there
was nothing wrong with the actual properties and today’s market
recognizes that. The property itself doesn’t know the difference
-- it just keeps operating.”  When the complex was appraised in March, 2006, it was
valued at $39 million. The original loan matured last May and
went into default because the borrower was unable to refinance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Little Capital Risk  Millsap’s firm got a loan from  Freddie Mac  at a 4.5 percent
 interest rate . The capitalization rate, a measure of investment
yield on the property, is about 7.8 percent, by Millsap’s
estimates. “That puts me in a position where I don’t feel like
I have a lot of capital risk,” Millsap said.  “Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae originate a huge portion of
the loans out there for apartments,” said Ben Carlos Thypin,
director of market analysis for Real Capital Analytics Inc. “If
a buyer can secure cheap financing, whether from a government
sponsored entity or elsewhere, that allows them to be able to
pay more for a property.”  The interest rate for a 10-year fixed multifamily loan
designated for purchase by Fannie and Freddie was 4.1 percent,
as of March 2, according to  New York  real estate investment
banking firm Cushman & Wakefield Sonnenblick Goldman. The rate
is for a loan that covers up to 80 percent of the asset value.  ‘Aggressive Lending’  Life insurance companies and commercial banks are also
competing to lend in the relatively stable apartment market,
offering mortgages for shorter durations and for
“transitional” properties that are not fully occupied, said
Bert Crouch, director of acquisitions for structured investments
at Dallas-based  Invesco Real Estate .  “You’re seeing interest rates fall and a very stable and
aggressive lending environment, and you’ve got a supply
constrained world,” Crouch said.  Rents in the U.S. climbed 4.1 percent in the 12 months
through December, according to  Axiometrics Inc.  Apartment owners
are projected to see their rental revenue increase by 6.7
percent this year, as little new supply comes to market.  For all of 2011, 37,678 new apartment units were completed,
the lowest annual total in 31 years of data compiled by New
York-based Reis Inc.  While Invesco’s real estate holdings are “overweight” on
multifamily properties, the firm hasn’t found the kinds of deals
it had hoped for when dealing with lenders disposing of troubled
apartment loans.  ‘Difficult to Find’  “On the distressed side it’s been very difficult to find
the quality of product that we’re comfortable with and at the
same time get a meaningful discount,” Crouch said. “We have
not been nearly as productive in that area as we would have
wanted.”  In major metropolitan areas, where institutional apartment
investors such as REITs and pension funds have concentrated
their acquisitions, recovery rates for liquidated apartment
loans have come close to 100 percent of the outstanding debt,
according to Real Capital. In  Manhattan , apartment lenders
disposing of bad loans recouped 88 percent of the debt in the
second half of 2011. Lenders for properties in  San Francisco  and
Los Angeles have been able to recover about 86 and 85 percent
respectively.  The biggest losses were for states where high volumes of
 foreclosed  single-family homes are competing with apartment
buildings for renters. Lenders for apartment properties in  Las
Vegas  and Miami recovered 59 percent of their debt in the second
half of last year.  Overleveraged Owners  Acquiring notes on distressed multifamily loans makes sense
in most markets, which isn’t the case for loans backing retail
and office, said Matthew Schwab, managing director and co-
founder of Los Angeles-based Karlin Real Estate. The investment
firm bought the note and in June foreclosed on the 200-unit
Vista Verde apartment complex in  Orlando .  The main source of distress in the apartment market is the
overleveraged owners, who borrowed at the peak of the market on
rosy assumptions of rent growth, and then couldn’t repay their
debt once rents plummeted in 2009, he said. Once that old debt
is cleared, new loans can easily be supported by tenant demand,
he said.  “If you told me about an office building in Orlando, now
you’ve got to really study the office vacancy rates in that
market,” Schwab said. “Retail, even if you get to the asset,
you still have a challenge to lease up. With multifamily, once
you get to that asset, the  cash flow  will be much more
predictable.”  Mortgage Bankers Data  In 2011, banks and thrifts charged off less than one
percent of their balance of multifamily mortgages, compared with
a 1.55 percent charge-off rate for their total portfolio of
loans and leases, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said in a
 report  today. In all years since 2007, banks charged off $7.8
billion in multifamily mortgages, the lowest dollar volume of
charge-offs of any other type of loan. Commercial mortgages for
properties other than apartments had $35.1 billion in charge-
offs since 2007, the Mortgage Bankers said.  Banks liquidating debt from retail properties recovered 61
percent of what they were owed in the second half of 2011, Real
Capital said. Defaulted office property loans mustered a 68
percent recovery rate. Industrials recovered 73 percent.  Apartment vacancy rates, now at a decade-low of 5.2
percent, never fell below 8 percent, even during the lowest
point of the commercial property rout, according to data from
Reis Inc. The office vacancy rate was 17.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, while vacancies at shopping centers average 11 percent
in the fourth quarter, unchanged from the previous three
quarters.  “It’s a lot easier to hang your hat on something that’s
experiencing good fundamentals where values are being supported
than if somebody handed you a retail building that sits 60 or 70
percent occupied,” said Ryan Severino, senior economist at
Reis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub in  Los Angeles  at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  