-- Renault May Join Nissan, AvtoVAZ in Creating Russian Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-03-07T11:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/renault-may-join-nissan-in-russia-targeted-cars-on-avtovaz-ties.html
Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest
automaker, may join Japanese affiliate  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  in
developing models targeted at  Russia  once the companies complete
a deal to buy a majority stake in OAO AvtoVAZ.  Renault may seek to make use of AvtoVAZ’s facilities to
develop vehicles for the Russian market, Philippe Klein, head of
the French carmaker’s product planning, said in an interview
yesterday at the  Geneva Motor Show . Nissan Chief Performance
Officer Colin Dodge said at the show that the Yokohama-based
carmaker will add three models built in Russia.  “We do have the situation in  India , where we launched the
Renault Pulse, and we leveraged the assets of Nissan in this
region to expand our line-up,” Klein said. “We have a global
strategy as well as this kind of pragmatic approach that we are
undertaking when it makes sense.”  Russia’s car and light-truck market expanded 39 percent in
2011 to 2.65 million vehicles, and  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , the country’s
biggest automaker, said on March 5 that its sales in February
jumped 33 percent. Christian Klingler, sales chief at  Volkswagen
AG (VOW3) , said in Geneva yesterday that Russia, along with  China  and
the U.S., will help keep global auto-industry growth at a “low
single-digit” rate this year as  Europe ’s market shrinks.  Shares Rise  Renault gained as much as 1.8 percent to 38.72 euros and
was trading up 1.4 percent at 38.56 euros at 12:06 p.m. in
Paris. The stock has jumped 44 percent this year, valuing the
carmaker at 11.4 billion euros ($15 billion).  The French manufacturer, based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, already owns 25 percent of AvtoVAZ. The
Renault-Nissan alliance expects to conclude an agreement with
AvtoVAZ’s top two Russian shareholders to buy a controlling
stake in the automaker in coming weeks,  Carlos Ghosn , head of
Renault and its Japanese partner, said in Geneva yesterday.  The process of expanding the stake in Togliatti-based
AvtoVAZ will probably accelerate now that Russia’s presidential
elections are finished, Ghosn said.  The three partners will produce cars from a joint platform
used for Renault’s Dacia Sandero and Logan models, Klein said.  Carmakers undertaking projects in Russia include Turin,
Italy-based  Fiat SpA (F) , which signed a letter of intent in
February with Moscow-based Sberbank to set up an 850 million-
euro, jointly owned factory with capacity for 120,000 vehicles
that may also involve U.S. brand Chrysler, and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
which is scheduled this year to introduce sport-utility vehicles
made with local partner OAO Sollers.  Luxury-Model Strategy  Renault’s model plans include adding three luxury vehicles
to its line-up, including a new version of the Espace minivan
scheduled to go on sale in 2014. An expanded luxury line-up is
essential to sustain fleet sales to corporate customers, Jerome Stoll, Renault’s sales chief, said in an interview at the show.  An executive car based on a platform from partner  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand is being evaluated, Klein said,
declining to specify a model. The Mercedes-Benz E-Class,  priced 
starting at 39,835 euros ($52,400), is the flagship executive
car for Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler, the world’s third-
biggest maker of  luxury vehicles .  The third high-end model Renault is considering would be
based on an updated platform now used for the Nissan Qashqai and
Renault Koleos sport-utility vehicles, according to Klein and
Nissan performance chief Dodge.  The Japanese carmaker’s Infiniti luxury unit isn’t helping
Renault develop the vehicle, Dodge said in an interview.  Infiniti has already worked on feasibility studies for a
hatchback and sedan to be produced jointly with Mercedes-Benz,
Dodge said. Such collaboration would add to the engines the two
companies plan to build in  Tennessee  starting in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Geneva via 
146 or  awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  