-- Romney Racks Up Delegates Even as Campaign Underscores Weakness
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-07T19:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/romney-racks-up-delegates-even-as-campaign-underscores-candidate-weakness.html
Mitt Romney  is winning in math and
losing in chemistry.  The former Massachusetts governor’s 1-point victory in Ohio
and wins in five other Super Tuesday states yesterday added at
least 212 delegates to his quest for the 1,144 he needs to
capture the Republican Party presidential nomination, according
to the  Associated Press .  Yet exit polls show he isn’t connecting with voters who
form the base of his party, including Southerners motivated by
religious issues and anti-tax Tea Party activists, or the
independents he needs to reach out to in the general election.
Among those who described themselves as “strong supporters of
the Tea Party movement,” Romney drew 32 percent compared to 41
percent for former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, a CNN
 Ohio  exit poll showed.  “Romney has been having trouble closing the deal largely
with the authentic conservative base of the party,” said  Greg Mueller , a Republican public relations executive who was an aide
to Steve Forbes’s 2000 presidential campaign.  Less-Friendly Terrain  The challenge may intensify as the race stretches into
March, when several southern states that are less-friendly
terrain for Romney hold contests -- including the next primaries
March 13 in Alabama and  Mississippi  -- that could create an
opening for Santorum, who won  Oklahoma , North Dakota and
Tennessee last night.  “I don’t have a math problem -- I know we won at least
three states tonight, and I know that adds up pretty nicely,”
said John Brabender, Santorum’s top political adviser. “If
conservatives and Tea Party supporters unite behind  Rick
Santorum , Mitt Romney will not be the nominee.”  At Romney’s Boston campaign headquarters today, top
strategists argued his latest victories yielded unforgiving math
for his rivals that virtually guarantees Romney will eventually
collect the 1,144 delegates necessary to claim the nomination,
even if it takes weeks or months and Romney loses the popular
vote in several forthcoming contests.  Romney will consistently place second in those elections
and pick up delegates, said one aide, speaking on condition of
anonymity without authorization to detail campaign strategy.  Delegate Gap  Conversely, Romney’s rivals would have to win overwhelming
majorities of the remaining delegates up for grabs -- 65 percent
for Santorum and 70 percent for Gingrich, far outpacing their
performances in contests so far -- to have a chance at the
nomination, another strategist said. Romney must win 48 percent
of the remaining delegates, and has earned 53 percent of those
available in contests so far, said the second top aide.  Still, chemistry remains a challenge. Another adviser said
Romney has ground to make up with lower-income voters and those
who are struggling economically, and is working to establish a
stronger connection with them.  Among the 10 contests that ended on Super Tuesday, Romney
won 6, Santorum took 3 and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  captured his home state of  Georgia . Romney carried
states from his home of  Massachusetts  to  Alaska , where he
finished 4 percentage points ahead of Santorum. While Romney
pocketed the most delegates, Santorum picked up at least 84,
Gingrich collected at least 72, and Texas Representative Ron Paul scored 22 delegates, according to AP.  Wyoming Contest  Romney took an early lead in  Wyoming , where delegates are
being selected at county conventions that end on March 10.  Going into the day, the Romney campaign was upbeat about
Ohio and tightening public opinion polls in Tennessee raised the
possibility that a win there might quell questions about his
appeal in a region that’s a party bedrock.  Santorum’s 9-point victory in Tennessee achieved the
reverse, underscoring Romney’s weaknesses in border and southern
states. The former governor also lost to Santorum in the
caucuses of North Dakota, a state Romney won in 2008.  “There’s breathing room to live if you’re Santorum or
Gingrich,” said Mueller.  Romney’s aides argue his latest wins reflect a candidate
broadening his appeal across crucial voting blocs that will hold
sway in the general election, including Tea Party voters and
those anxious about the economy.  Weak Points  They also underlined his weak points. Romney lost to
Santorum among working-class voters, those who earn less than
$50,000 annually and those who never attended college, according
to an Ohio exit poll conducted by  CNN .  He won among Ohioans who described themselves as
“moderate” or “somewhat conservative” on social issues such
as abortion, and lost to those who consider themselves “very
conservative,” drawing backing from 26 percent of them compared
with Santorum’s 53 percent.  With Santorum and Gingrich both vowing to stay in the race,
Romney will be denied the chance to pivot to the task of
improving his standing with independent voters -- a group that
could be crucial if he wins the primary and takes on President
 Barack Obama  in the November general election.  His campaign advisers said the nominating process has
damaged his standing with that group.  “When this primary is over -- and people have had their
heads knocked in by one another, that’s just the nature of a
hard-fought campaign -- we hit the reset button, and the
campaign begins anew with a different opponent,”  Eric Fehrnstrom , a senior adviser, told reporters March 4. “And
we’ll be able to draw sharp contrasts with the president and the
president alone, not worrying about our competition, and
focusing solely on him. It will be a different race at that
point, and the numbers will move again.”  Mixed Messages  Until then, Romney will have to continue to make overtures
to core Republicans, many of whom are motivated by opposition to
abortion rights and gay marriage, topics that don’t coincide
with the economic issues that are top concerns for independent
voters.  Last night’s results opened a new phase of the contest that
could become a three-month, nationwide delegate trek.  Alabama  is home to 50 delegates and Mississippi to 40,
although the states’ rules for awarding them make it unlikely
that Romney, Santorum or Gingrich would be able to collect all
of them given the potentially splintered vote tallies.  Santorum’s Math Problem  Josh Putnam, a campaigns and elections specialist at
Davidson College in Davidson,  North Carolina , said unless
Santorum could win 50 percent or more of the vote in the
remainder of the contests, “he’s not really going to be able to
get to 1,144, nor is Gingrich.”  Even if Santorum can do so, “he only barely gets over
1,144, so it’s just really tough,” Putnam added.  Romney’s allies who operate Restore Our Future, a super-
political action committee that can raise and spend unlimited
amounts on Romney’s behalf, are already airing advertisements in
Alabama and Mississippi. Winning Our Future, a super-PAC backing
Gingrich, is also showing commercials in the two states. Neither
Santorum nor his friendly super-PAC, the Red, White and Blue
Fund, has commercials airing in those states.  Beyond those Southern primaries, the calendar in the next
few weeks holds few opportunities for either challenger to
topple Romney.  April, when a number of states with large delegate rosters
hold their contests, may be more decisive.  “When it switches to April, and we’re talking about
 Wisconsin , and  New York ,  Maryland  and those kinds of places,
those are not areas that are good for Gingrich or Santorum, so
you start to see the numbers really rack up,” Putnam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Boston at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  