-- Romney Boosts Fundraising Efforts for Longer Race After Close Ohio Finish
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-07T20:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/romney-wins-virginia-as-gingrich-takes-georgia-to-keep-his-candidacy-alive.html
Mitt Romney, facing an extended
fight for the Republican presidential nomination, is boosting
his fundraising efforts as his campaign seeks to outspend and
outlast his rivals.  In a sign that his campaign is gearing up for a prolonged
battle, Romney is planning to attend three fundraisers in the
 New York  area next week. The events -- two in New York City and
one in nearby Stamford,  Connecticut  -- are expected to bring in
as much as $2.5 million, according to people familiar with the
plans who weren’t authorized to speak about them publicly.  Romney raised $11.5 million in February, Andrea Saul, a
spokeswoman, told reporters today. It was his second-biggest
fundraising month after December 2011, she said.  The day after Super Tuesday -- in which Romney won six of
10 contests in which the vote counted ended -- his aides worked
hard to sell a message of confidence.  “I don’t want to say he’s inevitable, but I think that
he’s the likely nominee,” Russ Schriefer, his media strategist,
told reporters outside his Boston headquarters today.  Asked about Romney’s best opportunities for wins in the
coming weeks, Schriefer named contests in Illinois,  Hawaii ,
Maryland and  Washington , D.C. He didn’t mention races in the
Midwest and South, including March 13 primaries in Mississippi
and Alabama, where Romney’s aides say he may lose, yet collect
delegates.  “This is going to go on for a while,” Schriefer said.  Weaknesses Exposed  Romney’s narrow win yesterday in Ohio’s primary -- the most
coveted prize on Super Tuesday -- exposed anew his weaknesses.
The former  Massachusetts  governor edged Rick Santorum by less
than 1 percentage point in Ohio and the pair split yesterday’s
other major races, so neither candidate could claim a decisive
showing.  Primaries in  Virginia ,  Vermont  and his home state of
Massachusetts also went to Romney, as well as caucuses in Idaho
and  Alaska . His financial and organizational advantages helped
in  Ohio , yet the closeness of that contest revived questions
about his appeal to working-class voters and his party’s base.  Romney, who padded his delegate lead over the other
candidates, put the best face on his showing in remarks to
supporters last night in Boston and again today.  ‘Pretty Darn Good’  “After last night, I feel pretty darn good,” Romney said
on CNBC today. “We had a very strong response across the
country, everywhere from Alaska to Vermont.”  Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , won the
Tennessee and Oklahoma primaries and caucuses in North Dakota.
He aggressively competed against Romney in Ohio with the goal of
establishing himself as a challenger capable of derailing the
front-runner.  “We’re going to get at least a couple of gold medals and a
whole passel full of silver medals,” Santorum told supporters
last night in Steubenville, Ohio. “We’re ready to win across
this country.”  In Ohio, with 100 percent of precincts reporting, Romney
had 37.9 percent of the vote and Santorum 37.1 percent,
according to the Associated Press tally. Former House Speaker
Newt Gingrich had 14.6 percent and Representative Ron Paul of
 Texas  had 9.2 percent.  Romney’s Ohio victory solidifies his status as the
Republican front-runner, said John Green, a political science
professor at the University of Akron.  ‘A Win Is a Win’  “A win is a win, even if it’s a close win and even if it’s
not really pretty,” Green said. “The winner of Ohio will
likely get a boost, even if it’s a very slim win, and a loss is
a loss.”  Gingrich won the primary in  Georgia (BEESGA) , the state he
represented in Congress for 20 years, by 22 percentage points
over Romney, with Santorum running third. It was Gingrich’s
second victory -- he won  South Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary -- and
kept his candidacy alive.  Still, he faces an uphill climb in seeking to replace
Santorum as the main alternative to Romney. And in one way his
 Georgia  win is a plus for Romney. Gingrich and Santorum have
focused on the party’s most socially conservative members,
including those who want to outlaw abortion and same-sex
marriage; with both running, that vote probably won’t
consolidate behind one of them.  An adviser to the political action committee backing
Santorum called on Gingrich to withdraw from the campaign.  Head to Head  “With Gingrich exiting the race it would be a true head-
to-head race and conservatives would be able to make a choice
between a consistent conservative in Rick Santorum or  Mitt
Romney ,” Stuart Roy, an adviser to the Red White and Blue Fund,
said in a statement today.  The AP reported that Gingrich would begin receiving Secret
Service protection starting today, leaving Representative Ron Paul of Texas as the only remaining Republican candidate without
a detail assigned to him.  The nomination fight now moves to primaries and caucuses
that include Kansas, Alabama and Mississippi, with the next
major contest being the March 20 Illinois primary.  “These guys have to differentiate themselves from one
another, and I think it’s healthy,” Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said today on Bloomberg
Television. “A little bit of drama and a healthy primary fight
is good for the party.”  Ohio Battle  Although yesterday’s voting stretched from Massachusetts in
the east to Alaska in the West, much of the attention was on
 Ohio (BEESOH) , a battleground in presidential elections and the state
that drew the most candidate attention and money.  The Ohio campaign was in many ways a rematch of the contest
Romney and Santorum waged in  Michigan  a week earlier, as they
competed for voters in a state with similar demographics and
economic challenges following the loss of manufacturing jobs.
Romney won the Feb. 28 primary in Michigan, a state where he was
born and his father was a governor, by 3 percentage points. He
also won in  Arizona  that day.  Santorum had led in Ohio polls before those primaries. Over
the past week, surveys showed momentum shifting to Romney.  Echoing a strategy then-Senator Barack Obama of  Illinois 
used against then-Senator  Hillary Clinton  of New York in the
2008 Democratic nomination fight, Romney’s campaign has stressed
using every available technique to collect the 1,144 delegates
needed for his party’s nod to win, rather than only focusing on
winning selected states. More than 400 delegates were at stake
in yesterday’s voting.  Delegate Haul  After Super Tuesday, Romney had 415 delegates, Santorum
176, Gingrich 105 and Paul 47,  according to the AP .  In a memo to reporters today, Romney’s political director
said his candidate has won more than half of all delegates
awarded so far and holds almost 40 percent of the total needed.  “Super Tuesday dramatically reduced the likelihood that
any of Governor Romney’s opponents can obtain the Republican
nomination,” political director Rich Beeson wrote. “As
Governor Romney’s opponents attempt to ignore the basic
principles of math, the only person’s odds of winning they are
increasing are President Obama’s.”  Santorum’s campaign is paying the price for having run a
bare-bones campaign for the past year. He failed to do the
required work to get his name on Virginia’s ballot or to file a
full slate of delegates in 9 of Ohio’s 16 congressional
districts. Gingrich also didn’t get on the Virginia ballot,
creating a face-off in the state between Romney and Paul.  Wyoming also began its delegate-selection process at county
conventions that end on March 10; Romney took an early lead in
that contest.  Exit Polls  According to  exit polling  in Ohio, Romney won 45 percent of
the vote of those making more than $100,000 a year, while
Santorum had the stronger showing among those with lower
incomes: He won a plurality of those earning between $50,000 and
$100,000. Romney also won slightly more votes among women.  People who identified themselves as white evangelical
Christians represented 46 percent of the Ohio electorate. Within
that group, Santorum won 46 percent and Romney 30 percent.  Among Catholics -- 33 percent of the Ohio vote -- Romney
won 43 percent, compared with 31 percent for Santorum, who is
Catholic.  Santorum won a plurality of those who haven’t attended
college, while Romney won a plurality of those who had a college
degree or higher level of education.  Romney won almost half the vote of those 65 years of age
and older, a group that represented about a quarter of the Ohio
turnout. Santorum outperformed Romney among those under 49 and
younger.  Conservative Voters  Almost a third of Ohio’s voters described themselves as
“very” conservative, and Santorum won roughly half of that
contingent.  Ohio Governor John Kasich, a Republican who ran for
president in 2000 and didn’t endorse a candidate in the field,
said yesterday’s results were “not decisive.” While Santorum
doesn’t have a lot of money, he may be “tapping into
something,” and Romney is “not delivering,” he said.  “I’ve got to give a lot of credit to Santorum; he’s winning
a lot of these states,” Kasich said a press conference today in
Houston, where he was speaking at an energy conference.  Kasich said Santorum “will play well in the South,” a
reference to forthcoming primaries, and that “it’s a long road
to Tampa” and the Republican National Convention there in
August.  ‘Lie With the Money’  Gingrich, speaking yesterday to supporters in Atlanta,
vowed to campaign this week in Alabama and  Mississippi  as he
accused Romney of lying about him in campaign ads.  “It’s one thing to have lots of money,” he said. “It’s
another thing to lie with the money.”  Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican
vice presidential nominee who announced in October that she
wouldn’t seek the White House this year, told  CNN  yesterday
she’s open to being drafted at the national convention if a
nominee isn’t obvious by then.  “I don’t close any doors that perhaps would be open out
there,” she said. “So, no, I wouldn’t close that door. And my
plan is to be at that convention.”  Romney’s fundraising advantage was evident in Ohio.
Broadcast television spending by Romney’s campaign and a
political action committee backing him outpaced expenditures on
behalf of Santorum by more than 10-1 through March 5, according
to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, an advertising
tracking company.  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future, a super-PAC
that supports him, spent $3.4 million to air ads 6,323 times on
Ohio stations, CMAG reported. The Red White and Blue Fund, a PAC
backing Santorum, spent $316,750 to air ads 693 times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Lenexa, Kansas, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  