-- Russian Tax Break for ‘Oil Sands’ Backed by Finance Ministry
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-03-07T15:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/russian-extra-heavy-oil-tax-break-gains-finance-ministry-backing.html
Russia ’s  Finance Ministry  is putting
its weight behind an plan to cut the export duty for extra-heavy
crude for the next 10 years to stimulate output in the world’s
largest oil producing nation.  The proposal to tax exports of the hard-to-extract crude at
10 percent of the standard levy, made by the Energy Ministry,
could become law by July 1, Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Shatalov  said by phone late yesterday.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest crude producer, and OAO
Tatneft would benefit most from the tax break as they seek to
develop large resources of super-viscous oil “similar to
 Canada ’s oil sands,” said  Valery Nesterov , an analyst at
Moscow-based Troika Dialog.  “Extra-heavy oil could eventually add 1 to 2 percent to
their production figures and help compensate for falling output
at mature fields,” Nesterov said by telephone today.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , set to return to the Kremlin
as president for at least six years, has called for oil
production to remain above 500 million metric tons a year, or 10
million barrels a day, for at least a decade. The government is
looking to stimulate output to compensate for declines at mature
fields in western Siberian. Oil and gas provided about half the
state’s budget revenue last year.  $2.5 Billion Investment  In October, the government lowered the rate used for
calculating the  crude export duty , which is based on prices for
Russia’s Urals benchmark export blend, while raising the tax on
low-quality oil products. The duty is $411.20 a metric ton, or
$56.10 a barrel, this month. Heavier crude grades tend to be
more expensive to extract and yield lower amounts of lucrative
products such as gasoline and diesel than lighter oil.  The law will define extra-heavy oil as having at least
10,000 centipoise, which is a unit to measure viscosity.  Investment in two Lukoil extra-heavy oil projects could
reach $2.5 billion, according to a investor presentation last
month. The Yaregskoe field and Lyaelskaya area in the northern
Timan-Pechora region could peak at 25 million barrels a year in
2025, Vladimir Semakov, a spokesman for the company, said today.  If tax breaks are granted, Lukoil could use the savings to
boost output at the two structures to 10 million barrels a year
in 2016 from about 4 million barrels last year, he said.  The discounted export duty would save companies around $52
per barrel at current export prices, Evgeny Solovyov, an analyst
at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in a note published Feb.
29.  “ Tatneft (TATN) ’s oil is heavier than Russia’s average and the
company holds significant resources of extra-heavy oil, most of
which is currently uneconomic to produce,” Solovyov wrote.  Tatneft’s production costs for using steam-assisted gravity
drainage, an enhanced recovery technique for extra-heavy oil,
are $58 per barrel, Solovyov said. Canadian experience shows
that the per barrel cost could drop below $30, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  