-- Samsung Proves Jobs Wrong With Galaxy Note: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-03-08T07:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/samsung-proves-jobs-wrong-with-pen-based-phone-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
“If you see a stylus, they blew
it,” Apple’s  Steve Jobs  once observed about handheld devices.
Turns out he was wrong.  Samsung’s new Galaxy Note proves that a stylus -- or pen,
as the company insists on referring to it -- can be useful and
even fun, especially for scrawling an on-screen annotation or
for creative types who want to dash off a quick sketch on its
5.3-inch screen.  That is, if you don’t mind holding a relatively gigantic
slab upside your head every now and then. That’s because the
Galaxy Note isn’t just a tablet. It’s also a phone, and the same
thing that makes it appealing for those notes and sketches --
its size -- is a significant disadvantage in everyday use.  The Galaxy Note runs on  AT&T (T) ’s new superfast 4G LTE network,
which in the markets where it’s been rolled out is fully the
equal of  Verizon (VZ)  Wireless’s more-established LTE network. The
Note, which costs $300 on a two-year contract, comes with the
“Gingerbread” version of Google’s Android operating system,
which was designed specifically for phones. An upgrade to the
newer “Ice Cream Sandwich,” which works on both phones and
tablets, is promised.  Core Functions  The stylus is stowed on its bottom, not far from the USB
power connector. Turns out the Jobs prohibition should only
apply in cases where the pen is integral to the device’s core
functions. In normal use, the  Galaxy Note  works just like your
typical touchscreen Android device; you only pull the pen out
when you feel like it.  The phone comes preloaded with an app called S Memo that
allows you to write notes that can be translated into text, and
offers a digital sketchpad for your doodles. The handwriting
recognition isn’t perfect -- it translated my scrawled
“Jaroslovsky” as “jarsbnlz” -- but with a little patience I
eventually was able to use it instead of the on-screen keyboard
for short notes.  I was also able to easily capture screen shots from the
phone by holding a button on the pen and tapping the glass,
after which I could add handwritten notes and share the result
via e-mail, Facebook or  Google (GOOG) ’s Picasa service, among other
options. And the sketchpad let me capture and share freehand
drawings. The Galaxy Tab also comes with a pen-enabled game, and
more pen apps are available from Google Play, the just-renamed
online store formerly known as the  Android Market .  Poking Buttons  The pen does have some drawbacks. The most obvious is the
risk of losing it; a replacement will set you back $40. Another
is that it doesn’t work with the Android navigation buttons
arrayed along the bottom of the Galaxy Note screen. I found
myself constantly poking at the home and search buttons with the
pen, only to see no response until I remembered that I had to
use my finger for them.  While the Galaxy Note is designed for creating content,
it’s no slouch at consuming it. The screen’s size and the
richness of Samsung’s “Super AMOLED” display make watching
videos a pleasure. And perusing an e-book in  Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s Kindle
app is as natural and comfortable as reading a paperback.  “Natural” and “comfortable” are about the last words
I’d choose to describe using the phone as a phone. I have pretty
big hands and even I found it fatiguing to hold the Galaxy to my
ear for extended periods of time. Not just because of its size -
- roughly six inches long by three inches wide -- which
prevented it from resting comfortably in my palm. At 6.3 ounces,
it’s 27 percent heavier than an iPhone 4S. It does slip into a
shirt pocket -- barely -- but the pocket will sag.  No Buds  Moreover, I never could overcome feeling self-conscious
about holding something that large to my ear. While a headset is
almost an absolute requirement for the Galaxy Note, it doesn’t
come with so much as a set of wired ear buds.  One advantage to a phone this size is that it accommodates
a battery large enough to work well with the power-hungry LTE.
While the first unit  Samsung (005930)  sent me had trouble holding a
charge, its replacement was able to provide a full day of normal
service.  Steve Jobs notwithstanding, users who always want a tablet
handy needn’t be embarrassed to whip out a Galaxy Note. Except,
that is, when it rings.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 