-- Santorum Supporters Press Gingrich to Drop Out of Primaries
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/santorum-backers-pressing-gingrich-to-pull-out-as-way-to-unite-republicans.html
Rick Santorum ’s aides and allies
have a message for rival  Newt Gingrich : Time to Go.  Within minutes of Santorum winning a trio of victories in
this week’s Super Tuesday voting, his backers began making the
case that Gingrich should drop out of the Republican
presidential contest.  Richard Viguerie, a Republican activist and chairman of
ConservativeHQ.com, urged Gingrich to end his candidacy and
endorse Santorum.  “Newt Gingrich holds the key to nominating a conservative
Republican candidate for president,” Viguerie, who endorsed
Santorum in January, wrote in a statement. “The former speaker
can either be a kingmaker or a spoiler because, to unite
conservatives, Gingrich would have to suspend his campaign and
endorse Rick Santorum.”  Santorum yesterday distanced himself from the effort,
telling reporters in Lenexa,  Kansas , he doesn’t endorse it.
“That’s certainly not coming from me and I don’t support it,”
he said.  Instead, the message is being delivered by top campaign
strategists and close allies, who argue Gingrich’s presence in
the race is strengthening Mitt Romney’s ability to win the
party’s  nomination.  “It is time for Newt Gingrich to exit the Republican
nominating process,” Stuart Roy, an adviser to the Red White &
Blue fund, a pro-Santorum political action committee, said in a
statement yesterday. “Newt has become a hindrance to a
conservative alternative.”  ‘Just Getting Started’  “We’re just getting started,”  Rick Tyler , a former Gingrich
aide now heading up a super-PAC supporting the former speaker’s
candidacy said in an e-mail. “Let the voters in the
remaining states have their say.”  In primaries on March 13 in  Mississippi  and Alabama,
Santorum and Gingrich will be competing for support from
evangelical Christians, who oppose abortion rights and gay
marriage, and from anti-tax Tea Party supporters. By remaining
in the race, Gingrich is splitting that vote rather than
allowing it to consolidate behind Santorum, the former
Pennsylvania senator’s aides said.  In the  Ohio  primary -- which emerged as Super Tuesday’s
most contested race -- Santorum ended up losing to Romney by
less than 1 percentage point; 37.9 percent to 37.1 percent.
Gingrich ran third with 14.6 percent.  Scratching Your Head  “You look at those numbers and you have to scratch your
head and go, ‘You know, if he was out, we’d definitely be up,’”
 Hogan Gidley , Santorum’s communications director, said.  “It’s time for conservatives to say, ‘Look, we’re going to
rally behind one candidate,’” John Brabender, a senior Santorum
strategist, told reporters in Steubenville, Ohio. “Rick
Santorum is that candidate.”  Santorum won in Tennessee,  Oklahoma  and  North Dakota , in
the biggest day of voting so far in the Republican nominating
contest. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, now has
defeated Romney in seven states.  He was the favorite of voters who described themselves as
“very conservative,” winning about half of those voters in
Ohio and four in 10 in Oklahoma, according to exit polls taken
for the Associated Press and television networks.  Gingrich took  Georgia , the state he represented in Congress
for 20 years. He has one other victory, in  South Carolina  in
January.  Eight States  In eight Super Tuesday states aside from Georgia and
 Virginia  -- neither Gingrich nor Santorum qualified for the
ballot in the latter -- the former U.S. House speaker finished
fourth in five and third in three. In only two of these other
states -- Oklahoma and  Tennessee  -- did his vote exceed 15
percent.  In  Wyoming , where delegate selections began two days ago at
county conventions that end on March 10, Gingrich had no votes,
with 26 percent of precincts reporting.  Speaking to supporters gathered for an election-night party
in suburban Atlanta, Gingrich compared Santorum to former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and fast-food magnate  Herman Cain  -- all candidates who surged earlier in the campaign only
to drop out after their support fell off.  “Now it’s Santorum,” Gingrich said. “There’s lots of
bunny rabbits that run through. I’m the tortoise.”  Gingrich plans to spend two days this week campaigning in
 Alabama  and Mississippi, part of a strategy to revive his
candidacy by parlaying the momentum from his Georgia victory
into wins in the South.  Santorum is dividing his time between the southern
primaries and Kansas, which holds caucuses on March 10.  Kansas Stop  He was in Lenexa, Kansas, for a rally yesterday at a
printing company before heading to Tupelo and Jackson,
Mississippi.  “We’re in it to win it here in Kansas,” he told a few
dozen voters in Lenexa. “We’re going to have a sweep this week
starting here in Kansas on Saturday.”  As Gingrich and Santorum vie for Southern states, Romney’s
campaign is making the argument that both men should get out of
the race because it will be difficult for them to catch the
former Massachusetts governor in the delegate hunt.  A candidate needs 1,144 delegates to take the nomination.
Romney has won more than half of the delegates awarded to date
and now holds almost 40 percent needed to win the nomination,
according to a campaign memorandum written to reporters.  Favoring Romney  “Super Tuesday dramatically reduced the likelihood that
any of Governor Romney’s opponents can obtain the Republican
nomination,” Rich Beeson, Romney’s political director wrote in
the memo. “As Governor Romney’s opponents attempt to ignore the
basic principles of math, the only person’s odds of winning that
are increasing are President Obama’s.”  That argument doesn’t sway Santorum’s supporters, who say
that Romney would be no better than Obama on issues like
opposing abortion rights and gay marriage.  Hours after Santorum’s victory party in Steubenville, Ohio,
supporters headed to a church across the street to try and give
their candidate a heavenly assist.  “We’re still praying for him,” said a supporter, as she
pulled open the heavy church door.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Lenexa, Kansas at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  