-- Saudi Arabia Lifts Curtain on Diplomacy as Syria Killings Spur King to Act
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-03-08T10:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/saudi-curtain-lifted-on-diplomacy-as-syria-killings-spur-action.html
Saudi Arabia’s backing for rebels in
 Syria  is the latest sign that Arab unrest is pushing the
traditionally reticent kingdom into more active diplomacy.  Arming Syria’s opposition is an “excellent idea,” Prince
Saud Al-Faisal, the world’s longest-serving foreign minister,
told reporters at a meeting in  Tunisia  last month. King Abdullah
was blunt with Russia after it blocked United Nations action on
Syria, telling then-President Dmitry Medvedev that there was no
point in discussing the matter.  “The Saudi position on Syria is unprecedented,” said
Khalid al-Dakhil, a professor of political science at King Saud
University in Riyadh. “Ever since King Abdulaziz, the founding
father, Saudi Arabia has never taken such a bold position
against an Arab state by siding with a revolution.”  Saudi Arabia  has historically prioritized stability, and
suffered a blow at the start of the Arab Spring with the
toppling of its ally  Hosni Mubarak  in Egypt. Driving the policy
shift now in the world’s largest oil supplier is the desire to
cement an alliance against Iran, Syria’s backer, and bolster
Saudi leadership in the Gulf as Qatar’s regional ambitions grow.  Tweaking oil production has been a more typical Saudi
foreign policy tool than public exhortations to armed uprising.
The kingdom holds about one-fifth of global reserves, and when
1.3 million barrels a day of Libyan oil output halted during the
revolt against  Muammar Qaddafi , spare Saudi capacity covered the
gap. By contrast, neighboring Qatar provided arms and uniforms
to Libyan rebels and sent its  air force  to fly sorties.  ‘Stunned’ by Egypt  “Events in  Egypt  left the Saudi Foreign Ministry in a
state of shock,” said Crispin Hawes, director for the  Middle
East  and North Africa at Eurasia Group in  London . “They were
stunned by the speed with which the military forced Mubarak out.
By the time they tried to work out what to do,  Libya  was already
on the go and the Qataris had already jumped in.”  Saudi Arabia posted economic growth of 6.8 percent last
year and hasn’t suffered unrest on the scale that forced out
leaders in Tunisia and Yemen as well as Egypt and Libya. There
have been sporadic clashes in the oil-producing eastern region
where most of Saudi Arabia’s Shiite Muslim population live.  Saudi Arabia’s Sunni leaders have accused Shiite-ruled  Iran 
of provoking the unrest. They make the same charge about last
year’s protests in Bahrain, led by the island nation’s Shiite
majority. Iran has denied the accusation and says Shiites in
Saudi Arabia and Bahrain suffer discrimination.  Gulf Unity  Saudi Arabia led a Gulf military intervention a year ago to
help Bahrain’s Sunni rulers quell the unrest. As well as sending
troops, the kingdom backed a $20 billion aid package to Bahrain
and Oman to help pay for economic reforms aiming to allay the
protests. Both countries are members of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, along with Saudi Arabia, the  United Arab Emirates ,
 Kuwait  and Qatar.  As revolts spread across republics in the Arab world last
year, the GCC invited the monarchies of Jordan and  Morocco  to
join the group. Addressing his fellow Gulf heads of state in
December,  King Abdullah  called for the GCC to move toward
greater political unity. Efforts to create a single currency,
originally intended to be in circulation by 2010, have been
postponed.  The king’s call for Gulf unity may be hindered by “the
question of sovereignty,”  Abdulaziz Sager , chairman of the Gulf
Research Centre in Jeddah, said in an interview. He said each
royal family has “a very special relationship with their
people” and may be unwilling to cede power.  Qatar Activism  Qatar, the world’s richest country per capita and biggest
exporter of natural gas, has been at the forefront of the GCC’s
public response to the Arab uprisings. In Libya, it provided
rebels with desert uniforms and set up a field hospital to care
for the wounded in Misrata while Qatari Mirage jets helped
enforce the UN-imposed no-fly zone.  “Qatar is trying to punch way above its weight,”  Paul Sullivan , a political scientist specializing in Middle East
security at  Georgetown University  in Washington DC, said in an
e-mail. “But for the really big stuff, the leadership of Qatar
must clearly see the importance of joining up with their more
militarily powerful and more populous neighbor, Saudi Arabia.”  Qatar’s population of about 2 million compares with Saudi
Arabia’s 26.5 million, according to the Central Intelligence
Agency’s World Factbook.  Qatar has spoken out on Syria, too. Foreign Minister Hamad Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani has called for a humanitarian corridor
to get aid to besieged Syrians. The UN estimates that more than
7,500 people have been killed since the uprising against
President Bashar al-Assad began a year ago. More than 1,000 have
died since the Feb. 4 veto by Russia and  China  blocked a
Security Council resolution calling on Assad to step down, the
 Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  says.  ‘Used by the Iranians’  Relations between Saudi Arabia and Syria became strained
after the assassination in 2005 of former Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri , a confidant of the Saudi royal family and citizen of the
kingdom. An initial UN investigation linked the killing to
Syrian officials, and a UN tribunal last year indicted four
people linked to the Hezbollah movement, backed by Syria and
Iran. Syria and Hezbollah have denied involvement.  Saudi diplomacy has sought without success to persuade
Assad to revert to the regional policy of his father, who was
able to balance an Iranian alliance with a working relationship
with Saudi Arabia, political scientist al-Dakhil said.  “The Saudis are convinced now that Bashar al-Assad must
go,” he said. “They think that Bashar is depending too much on
Iran and on Hezbollah. They think he is providing the platform
for the Iranian regime, he is allowing himself to be used by the
Iranians.”  Tribal Ties  For King Abdullah, there are also tribal affiliations at
stake in the Syrian conflict, according to Robert Lacey, author
of “Inside the Kingdom,” a 2009 history of Saudi Arabia.  About half a million Syrians belong to the Shammar tribe of
the king’s mother, and that is “right at the head of the list
for Abdullah’s response to Syria,” Lacey said in an interview
in Jeddah. “If Abdullah is in a competitive match with the Emir
of Qatar, taking good care of his ‘own’ people in Syria would be
a major element in demonstrating his power, seriousness and
competence.”  The Syrian government “lost its legitimacy once it killed
its citizens,” the  Saudi Press Agency  reported Abdullah bin
Yahya al-Mua’lemi, the kingdom’s ambassador to the UN, as saying
on March 3. The next day, Prince Saud said after hosting a
meeting of Gulf foreign ministers in  Riyadh  that Syrians had the
right to take up arms to protect themselves.  In contrast, Saudi Arabia backed Mubarak right to the end.
Two weeks before his ouster, in a phone conversation with the
Egyptian leader reported by the SPA, Abdullah expressed his
support. “Some infiltrators, in the name of freedom of
expression, have infiltrated into the brotherly people of Egypt,
to destabilize its security and stability,” the king said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 