-- HSBC Plans to Sell Asia, Latin America Insurance Assets for $914 Million
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-03-07T07:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/hsbc-plans-to-sell-asia-latin-america-insurance-assets-for-914-million.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank by market value, agreed to sell some of its general
insurance units in Asia and Latin America for about $914 million
as it focuses on more profitable businesses.  Axa SA will pay about $494 million to acquire HSBC’s
general insurance business in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore  and  Mexico ,
the London-based bank said in a stock exchange filing. QBE
Insurance Group Ltd. will pay about $420 million for HSBC’s
general insurance business in  Argentina  and the general
insurance unit of Hang Seng Bank Ltd., a 62 percent owned
subsidiary of HSBC, it said.  Including today’s agreement, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  has announced almost $6 billion of asset sales since
May as the bank sheds jobs and redeploys capital in faster-
growing markets. HSBC, which earns most of its  profit  from Asia,
agreed in January to sell operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador
and Honduras to focus on bigger markets in  Latin America .  “Motor vehicle insurance, which is a major element of
HSBC’s general insurance business, has low margins and volatile
profitability,”  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas in Hong
Kong, said by telephone today. “The business isn’t in line with
HSBC’s strategy of seeking to tap high-net-worth clients.”  Shares of HSBC fell 1.6 percent to HK$67.70 in Hong Kong
trading as of 2:46 p.m. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
declined 0.9 percent.  10-Year Agreement  The sales are subject to regulatory approvals and are
expected to close in the second half of this year, according to
the statement. When the transaction is complete, HSBC will enter
10-year agreements with Paris-based AXA and Sydney-based QBE to
offer general insurance products to HSBC and Hang Seng Bank
customers. The assets being sold had a combined net asset value
of $237 million as of Dec. 31, HSBC said.  The acquisition will expand Axa’s market share in Hong Kong
to 13 percent from 6 percent, making it the largest general
insurance provider in that location, Francois-Valery Lecomte,
chief financial officer of AXA  Asia , said at a press conference
in the city. AXA is currently the second-largest general insurer
in Hong Kong behind HSBC.  Axa aims to be the largest provider of general insurance in
Asia and one of the region’s top three life insurers by 2015, he
said.  Strategically Sensible  “The deal gives AXA access to regional distribution
through HSBC branches in markets where they are trying to build
presence,” said Arjan van Veen, Credit Suisse Group AG’s Hong
Kong-based insurance analyst. “They currently only have a
handful of countries in Asia where they have scale” and the
purchases are “strategically sensible” for both AXA and QBE,
he said.  HSBC is among European banks selling assets as lenders
brace for stricter global capital rules and an economic slowdown.
That’s provided an opening for insurers like Axa to speed up
expansion in Asia, where growth is outpacing  Europe  and the U.S.  Last year, HSBC posted $993 million of “net written
insurance premiums” for its non-life business, down from $1.02
billion in 2010, according to its 2011 annual report. Net
premiums in Asia accounted for about 35 percent of the total,
while Latin America made up 52 percent, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  