-- Scene Last Night: Broad, Glenn Fuhrman, Peter Kraus, Byron Wien
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-07T20:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/scene-last-night-glenn-fuhrman-j-tomilson-hill-thomas-tisch-at-armory.html
Allan McCollum’s replicas of
dinosaur bones at the booth of the  Friedrich Petzel  Gallery had
an ironic placement last night, next to a buffet station
offering real chicken, swordfish and lamb satay.  The gala preview of the Art Dealers Association of America
Art Show, located at the Park Avenue Armory, offered a variety
of feasts, from the art at 72 booths to the catering (including
sushi in the back) to the people-watching.  J. Tomilson Hill and  Byron Wien , vice chairmen of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Peter Kraus , chairman and chief executive
of  AllianceBernstein LP (3040Q) , and Glenn Fuhrman, co-managing partner
and co-founder of MSD Capital LP, perused the aisles. (In
celebration of a week filled with art fairs, Fuhrman’s Flag Art
Foundation in Chelsea will host a Coolhaus ice-cream truck
Saturday from 2 to 4 p.m.)  Pete Ruegger, chairman of  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP (1139L) ,
stuck close to the entrance of the fair, mainly to thank people
for supporting the  Henry Street Settlement  (ticket proceeds
benefit the Lower East Side social-services agency).  Thomas Tisch, Four Partners managing partner and chancellor
of  Brown University , looked happy to have found a successor to
 Ruth Simmons  as president of Brown; last week the university
named Christina Hull Paxson, dean of  Princeton University ’s
Woodrow Wilson School, to the position.  Matching Suits  Collectors Eli Broad and Don Marron matched in gray suits
and red ties. Easily the most fashionable man at the fair was
Ben Genocchio, editor of Art + Auction, in a vintage Tom Ford-
for-Gucci jacket with slightly flared sleeves, embroidered with
a design resembling arm tattoos of the Pacific Islands.  Two hours into the preview,  David Zwirner  had sold out nine
abstract paintings by Suzan Frecon at prices ranging from
$40,000 to $100,000.  “Pays for dinner,” Zwirner said. “Hopefully we’ll repeat
this at the Armory tomorrow.”  (He did. Less than half an hour into the VIP opening of the
Armory Show, the Zwirner gallery booth sold all its works.)  Click here for a guide to art fairs taking place this week
in  New York .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 