-- Scholar Says China Should Give Details on Official Who Went to Consulate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-07T07:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/scholar-says-china-should-give-details-on-official-who-went-to-consulate.html
China ’s government should release
more information about the investigation into Chongqing Vice
Mayor Wang Lijun, who spent a night at a U.S. consulate last
month, said Cheng Enfu, head of the Marxism Academy at the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences .  “I hope that the government can let everyone know about
what is going on,” Cheng told reporters in Beijing today after
a provincial meeting of the National People’s Congress.
“There’s no good reason to keep this a secret.”  Cheng, an NPC representative for Anhui province, said many
of his fellow delegates have been talking about the case. If
Wang is corrupt, the details should be known, and if he has
psychological problems, specifics on that should be disclosed as
well, Cheng said.  Wang is under investigation after he spent a night last
month in the U.S. consulate in  Chengdu . Wang, 52, oversaw a
crackdown on gangs in the southwestern city of Chongqing that
raised the profile of Chongqing Communist Party Chief Bo Xilai.  Wang’s visit to the consulate from Feb. 6-7, confirmed by
Chinese and U.S. officials, sparked speculation he was seeking
refuge there. It comes as Bo bids for a spot on China’s highest
decision-making body, the Politburo Standing Committee, ahead of
a leadership change this year.  On Feb. 2, the Chongqing government said Wang had been
relieved of his police duties and put in charge of areas
including sanitation, athletics and education. On Feb. 8 the
Chongqing government’s information office said he had gone on
“vacation-style treatment” after suffering mental stress and
physical discomfort.  Bloomberg News reported Feb. 10 that a first-class seat was
purchased for Wang on a flight from Chengdu to Beijing on Feb.
8. Another first-class ticket on that flight was bought for Qiu
Jin, a vice minister at the agency responsible for anti-
espionage and covert operations.  Cheng is also an economics professor at the Shanghai
University of Finance and Economics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  