-- Scotiabank to Buy Firm Tied to Peyton Manning’s Brother
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-03-07T21:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/scotiabank-agrees-to-buy-u-s-energy-investment-bank-howard-weil.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  agreed to buy
Howard Weil Inc., the U.S. investment bank whose partners
include the brother of professional football players Eli and
Peyton Manning, to boost services for energy clients in the U.S.  Terms of the transaction aren’t material to Scotiabank and
weren’t disclosed, the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement.  Scotiabank,  Canada ’s third-biggest lender, has been lending
in Houston for about 50 years and is expanding its investment-
banking services in the U.S. energy sector. The transaction will
add U.S. equity, trading and research capabilities, almost
doubling the number of energy companies it covers to about 220,
according to Adam Waterous, global head of  investment banking .  “We will be able to grow this platform into things like
alternative energy, agriculture, energy infrastructure,”
Patrick Burke, Scotiabank’s head of institutional equity sales,
said in a telephone interview. “This becomes our North American
equities platform once this is put together.”  Howard Weil, established in 1946, has 53 employees, with
offices in  New Orleans  and Houston. The firm’s 11 partners
include Cooper Manning, the older brother of National Football
League quarterbacks Peyton and Eli Manning.  “Coop’s very involved on a day-to-day basis and he’s our
top salesman,” Howard Weil president Paul Pursley said in a
telephone interview. “He’s flown up to Toronto, he’s met all
the people.”  Chevron, ExxonMobil  Howard Weil  covers  more than 100 companies in the energy
sector, including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Exxon Mobil
Corp.  The two firms had been talking “off and on” for about
four years and held exclusive talks for the past 18 months, the
companies said.  Scotiabank, which has operations in more than 50 countries,
said acquiring Howard Weil may later help with its advisory
businesses in Canada and Latin America.  Scotiabank fell 0.6 percent to C$52.63 in trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  