-- Sensex Drops as Poll Losses Threaten Economic Reform; Bharat Heavy Slides
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-03-07T12:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/sensex-drops-as-poll-losses-threaten-economic-reform-bharat-heavy-slides.html
Indian stocks fell for the third day
as concern election losses for the ruling party may slow the
pace of policy changes countered optimism the central bank may
take steps to ease a cash crunch next week.  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , the largest producer by value,
slid for the third day.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the biggest
carmaker, fell to a one-week low.  Sterlite Industries (India)
Ltd. (STLT) , the largest copper producer, tumbled 4.2 percent. The BSE
 India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 0.2 percent to 17,145.52 at close in
Mumbai. The gauge changed directions 10 times.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Congress Party failed to
gain ground in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most-populous state, and
won’t play a role in forming its next administration. The party
was also behind in Punjab. Eight of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predict the central bank to cut  cash reserve ratio  by
50 basis point on March 15, a day before the federal budget is
presented, and start paring  interest rates  in April.  “The dilemma for the government after the state election
verdict is whether to present a populist budget or one that is
reforms oriented and that uncertainty is keeping markets range
bound,” Sandeep Singal, co-head of institutional equities at
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd., said from Mumbai. “We
expect a 50-basis point cut in the cash reserve ratio, though a
cut in interest rates is unlikely.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India reduced on Jan. 24 the amount of
deposits banks need to set aside as reserves for the first time
since 2009, and signaled it may cut interest rates if inflation
continues to slow. Government data showed on Feb. 14 consumer
prices eased to the slowest in more than two years in January.  Cash Shortage  Lenders borrowed an average 1.35 trillion rupees ($26.6
billion) a day from the central bank in March, more than double
the 600 billion-rupee limit favored by the monetary authority,
as companies withdrew funds to pay tax, reducing the amount of
cash in the banking system, according to central bank data.  Positive state-poll results would have improved support for
Singh, whose government is facing corruption charges and has
failed to boost economic growth. Among Singh’s plans are opening
the retail industry to companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
an initiative halted in December amid protests over likely job
losses. The  Supreme Court  last month scrapped 122 cell-phone
permits, whose sale in 2008 sparked India’s biggest corruption
probe, and Singh failed to win passage in December of an anti-
corruption bill.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the largest retailer, slumped
3.3 percent to 155.25 rupees, taking its three-day loss to 16
percent. Shoppers Stop Ltd. tumbled 3.7 percent to 324.85.  Jindal Steel fell 1.8 percent to 536.8 rupees. Maruti slid
1.7 percent to 1,308.55 rupees. Sterlite tumbled 4.2 percent to
109.1 rupees, extending its four-day decline to 12 percent.  Fund Flows  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India decreased less than 0.1 percent to 5,220.45. The  BSE 200
Index (BSE200)  retreated 0.1 percent to 2,123.76. The market is closed
tomorrow for a public holiday.  The Sensex has risen 11 percent this year as foreign funds
bought $7.4 billion of equities amid optimism the RBI will ease
its monetary policy, even as company profit-growth slowed and
the outlook for economic growth dimmed. The measure trades at
15.1 times future  earnings , compared with 19.4 times at the end
of 2010. The MSCI  Emerging Markets (EEM)  Index trades at 10.6 times.  The state poll results may trigger government efforts to
consolidate fiscal deficit, raise growth through development
before general elections in 2014, Morgan Stanley analysts led by
 Ridham Desai  wrote in a report.  “The immediate consensus reaction is that these results
will trigger a wave of populism from the Congress government at
the center. That would be a hasty conclusion given the nation’s
fiscal balance and that general elections another 24 months
away,” the analysts wrote.  The 50-stock  Nifty (NIFTY)  index may be reaching end of slide that
started at 5,600, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  