-- Serbia Seen Holding Interest Rates on Fiscal Uncertainty, Dinar
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-07T10:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/serbia-seen-holding-interest-rates-on-fiscal-uncertainty-dinar.html
Serbia’s central bank will probably
leave its  benchmark   interest rate  on hold for a second month as
fiscal expansion, the slower inflow of funds and a weakening
dinar limit room for a cut to aid economic growth.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will keep its two-
week repurchase rate at 9.5 percent when it meets tomorrow,
according to 11 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Six
predicted a quarter-point and two saw a half-point decrease.
Four respondents expected an increase by 50 basis points.  Policy makers are weighing the domestic fiscal situation
and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis for future direction. The
weakening dinar and declining capital inflows, along with fiscal
expansion are taking away room for a rate cut made by slowing
inflation, Bosko Zivkovic, the central bank’s advisory board
chairman, said yesterday.  “We see the central bank leaving the two-week repo rate
unchanged at 9.5 percent against heavy risk-off pressures,”
Andrej Knez, an analyst at Hypo Alpe Adria bank in Zagreb, said
in a report dated March 6 referring to investors turning away
from Serbian assets and toward lower-risk securities.  Serbia  is trying to avoid a second recession in three
years, just months before the nation holds parliamentary
elections. Gross domestic product expanded 0.8 percent in the
last quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, compared with 3.7
percent at the beginning of last year.  Capital Inflows  The central bank, which cut its main rate by a total of 3
percentage points since last June to contain an economic
slowdown triggered by Europe’s debt crisis, needs to pay special
attention to slowing capital inflows. European Union banks,
which control two-thirds of Serbia’s market, will probably
reduce their funding in the Balkan country and its neighbors to
meet end-June core Tier 1 capital requirements, Zivkovic said.  “Meeting those capital requirements will, at least
temporarily, lead to a halt in funding inflows,” Zivkovic said,
adding that no central bank in the region has the capacity to
deal with a “sudden-stop” in capital inflows. “These
circumstances leave no scope for monetary expansion,” he said.  The central bank and the  International Monetary Fund  see
the economy expanding 0.5 percent this year as the crisis in
Europe weakens demand for Serbian exports and its government
debt, putting pressure on the dinar.  Dinar Losses  The currency has lost 4.3 percent against the euro in the
past month to trade at 111.2285 at 10:48 a.m. in Belgrade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after hitting a record
low 112 to the euro on Feb. 27. Analysts in the survey see the
dinar stabilizing at 110 through April.  “Any further cuts would trigger additional depreciation of
the dinar and that’s the bottom line,” Ljiljana Grubic, chief
analyst with Raiffeisenbank AD in Belgrade, said in a phone
interview today. “A lower benchmark interest rate won’t
encourage dinar lending in an economy which is 80 percent
euroized.”  The central bank has sold more than 200 million euros
($262.9 million) since the beginning of the year, to curb the
declines triggered by investors’ concern that Serbia will
continue to slip on fiscal targets ahead of the elections. Its
wider fiscal deficit and spending in 2011 and 2012 led to a
freeze in Serbia’s $1.3 billion precautionary loan program with
the IMF.  Currency Sales  The bank will probably need to continue selling euros in
the market only to smooth excessive daily volatility, which
won’t stop the dinar trend, said Eldar Vakhitov, emerging market
economist at the London-based  Barclays Capital . An interest rate
increase to halt the depreciation is still not an option as
indicators point to low inflation and weak growth, he said.  The central bank targets inflation in a 2.5 percent to 5.5
percent band at the end of the year. Consumer-price growth
slowed to 5.6 percent in January from 7 percent in December and
weak domestic demand may push it below the lower end of the band
by April, according to the bank’s quarterly inflation report.  Inflation may slow to 5.5 percent at the end of March and
climb to 5.8 percent one year from now, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  