-- Shell to Keep Shale Drilling Investment Stable Amid Gas Glut
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-07T21:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/shell-to-keep-shale-drilling-investment-stable-amid-gas-glut.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, won’t increase its spending on drilling
shale fields this year due to low natural-gas prices.  “It wasn’t so long ago that gas prices were still at a
level where everybody was drilling almost as fast as you could
reasonably make it happen,”   Marvin Odum , the president of the
company’s North American operations, said in an interview today.  “Now you’re starting to see some upstream reaction to
where the prices are,” said Odum, in an interview at CERAWeek,
a Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates.  Surging output and a mild winter pushed gas futures to a
10-year low in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. U.S. gas production climbed 6.5 percent to a record
28.6 trillion cubic feet in 2011, according to Energy Department
data. Some of the largest gas producers in the U.S., including
Chesapeake Corp., have announced plans to curtail gas production
in response to low prices.  Shell may invest $3 billion to $5 billion in drilling shale
fields, Odum said. “We’re at the lower end of that right now
because of where natural- gas prices  are,” said Odum.  Shell wants to increase output in liquid-rich shale areas,
which produce more oil or gas-liquids such as propane, said
Odum. The Hague-based company doesn’t plan to boost spending in
2012 unless gas prices rise or exploration prospects in more
oil-rich formations prove successful, he said.  Adding Value  Gas for February delivery fell 5.4 cents, or 2.3 percent,
to $2.302 per milllion British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement price since Feb. 15,
2002. U.S. inventories were 45 percent above the five-year
average for the week, the  biggest gap  since June 2006.  With prices for the heating fuel so low, Shell wants to
wrest more value from gas by using it to produce chemicals,
other fuels or turning it into liquid form for potential export,
Odum said.  “We look at this from a total value chain perspective,”
he said.  Shell and other companies are evaluating plans to spend
almost $50 billion or more on new plants in the U.S. that can
turn gas into refined products such as kerosene, chemicals or a
liquid form that can fuel trucks and other pieces of the
transportation fleet.  Shell is evaluating whether to build a plant in  North
America  comparable to a $19 billion facility completed last year
in Qatar that can turn gas into fuels normally produced in an
oil refinery, Odum said.  He declined to say when the company will decide about a
plant or where it may be build.  The petrochemical industry may spend $30 billion to build
U.S. factories that convert natural gas into plastics as shale
drilling has made American production the cheapest outside the
 Middle East , Mark Lashier, an executive vice president with
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., said in an interview March 5.
Shell is studying plans to build a new plant in Appalachia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  