-- Sina Jumps as U.S. Jobs Growth Boosts Stocks in New York: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-07T22:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/simcere-jumps-as-u-s-jobs-growth-boosts-stocks-in-n-y-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in the U.S. climbed
for the first time in four days, led by  Sina Corp. (SINA) , as data
showing American employers boosted hiring last month enhanced
the outlook for the world’s largest exporter.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 index  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to 104.85 yesterday in  New
York , the biggest daily gain this month. Sina, which runs a
Twitter-like service in  China , rose the most in a week, leading
gains in major Internet companies.   Nanjing-based drugmaker  Simcere Pharmaceutical Group (SCR)  jumped 
the most in a month after reporting 2011 profit beat analysts’ 
forecasts. Mobile-phone chip designer  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  
advanced to a one-week high while China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. 
rose in New York to trade at the highest premium over its Hong Kong 
stock since Jan. 18.  Evidence U.S. companies are employing more workers is
bolstering prospects consumer spending will rise, a positive
sign for China which has seen export growth decline amid the
European debt crisis. Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said
yesterday that “arduous efforts” will be needed to meet the
nation’s goal of increasing trade by 10 percent this year.  “We are optimistic about U.S. growth, which has a
significant impact on Chinese growth,” said Gabriel Wallach,
who manages $2.5 billion in emerging-market equities, including
Chinese stocks, at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in  Boston .
China’s economic growth may exceed the government target of 7.5
percent set this week, instead expanding “8 to 8.5 percent this
year,” he said, adding “the government’s target is based on
the current economic situation, particularly slightly weaker
exports.”  ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced for the first time in
four days, adding 0.5 percent to $37.92 yesterday. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was up 0.7 percent to 1,352.63, after
slumping 1.5 percent on March 6.  Shanghai-based Sina, which also owns the third-most visited
website in China, surged 7.1 percent to $72.60, the most since
Feb. 28, after losing 9 percent over the previous two days.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , owner of the largest video-sharing website in
China, increased 4.4 percent to $25.01 in New York, extending
its gain this year to 60 percent. Competitor Tudou Holdings Ltd.
advanced 3.1 percent to $12.37, snapping a four-day slump.  Wallach said he favors Chinese companies in the technology,
energy and consumer sectors. “We like some Internet and
semiconductor names as we are seeing a very strong year-on-year
recovery in earnings,” he said.  Spreadtrum Surges  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based mobile chip designer, rallied
7 percent, the most since Feb. 28, to $14.89. The company is
 trading  at 6.6 times estimated earnings this year, which is
below the average  multiple  of 19 for the Bloomberg China-US 55
Index and also compared with 23 for its competitor MediaTek
Inc., a Taiwan semiconductor designer.  Short seller Carson Block -- whose reports on Chinese
timber company Sino-Forest Corp. led to the stock being halted
from Canadian trading -- raised concerns about Spreadtrum’s
financial reporting in June, and questioned why Chief Executive
Officer Ping Wu and Chief Financial Officer Richard Wei left the
company months before it reported a 137 percent revenue growth
in the third quarter of 2009 over the previous quarter.  Spreadtrum shares have climbed 19 percent in New York since
the June 28 Block report.  Simcere Jumps  American depositary receipts of Simcere added 4.8 percent
to $8.68, the biggest one-day gain since Jan. 30. The stock
earlier rose as much as 19 percent, the largest intraday advance
since November 2008. Each ADR represents two common shares.  Simcere, based in China’s eastern Jiangsu province, said
net income rose 3.5 percent last year to 178.4 million yuan
($28.3 million), the company said in a statement yesterday
before U.S. markets opened. That exceeded the 142.4 million-yuan
average forecast of six  analysts (762) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Du Wei reiterated a
“neutral/neutral” rating on Simcere on March 6, while raising
the price target for the ADRs to $8.30 from $7.50. Seven out of
10 analysts rated the company “hold” and two gave it a “buy”
recommendation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ADRs of China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest wireless
network operator, added 3.6 percent, the most in a month, to
$18.06. The ADRs, each representing 10 common shares, traded 1.2
percent  above  China Unicom’s Hong Kong stock, the most since
Jan. 18. The Hong Kong-based company gained 2.7 percent to
HK$13.86 yesterday, the equivalent of $1.79 per share.  Analysts at Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd. reiterated
their “buy” recommendation on China Unicom while Barclays
Capital Inc. maintained a rating of “underweight/neutral”
yesterday.  Noah Gains  Wealth manager  Noah Holdings Ltd. (NOAH)  jumped 8.3 percent to $8
in U.S. trading yesterday, the most since Feb. 22. The Shanghai-
based company said on Feb. 22 it got a license from regulators
to distribute mutual funds in China and announced on Feb. 28 its
first dividend payment since an initial public offering in
November 2010.  The Chinese government is scheduled to report inflation data
for February tomorrow. Consumer prices probably rose 3.4 percent
from a year earlier, from 4.5 percent in January, according to
the median estimate of 35 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
China has an annual inflation target of 4 percent for 2012,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  