-- Singapore Perpetual Sales Rise to Record as Investors Seek Yield
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-07T07:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/singapore-perpetual-sales-rise-to-record-as-investors-seek-yield.html
Companies are selling Singapore
dollar-denominated bonds with no fixed maturities at the fastest
pace on record as low  interest rates  spur investors to hunt for
higher yields.  Mapletree Logistics Trust (MLT)  began marketing a sale of
perpetual notes to yield in the mid-5 percent range, a person
familiar with the matter said today, asking not to be identified
because the details are private. Corporates have sold about
S$2.7 billion ($2.1 billion) of the bonds since December, more
than any other year according to data compiled by Bloomberg
which stretches back to 1999.  Falling yields and low benchmark rates are pushing
investors seeking higher returns to riskier and longer-maturity
assets. Yields on Singapore sovereign debt have dropped 54 basis
points since the beginning of July, and the  six-month swap offer 
rate averaged 0.304 percent over the last 12 months, 20 basis
points lower than the previous 12 months.  “We’ve been in a low interest environment for quite some
time, and investors have started to look for higher-yielding
alternatives,” Clifford Lee, head of fixed income at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd., said in a phone interview from  Singapore  today.
“This can be achieved by buying bonds from lower-rated
companies or by buying notes with longer tenors.” DBS is
helping to arrange Mapletree’s sale, the fifth of such notes
denominated in the island-state’s currency this year.  Supply Increases  Perpetual securities accounted for 34 percent of all
Singapore dollar-denominated bonds sold this year, versus 7.7
percent in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Singapore dollar bond sales more than doubled to S$7.8 billion
this year compared with S$3.7 billion the same period of 2011.  The notes pay more than securities with a set maturity to
compensate investors for the risk they won’t be called. They’re
generally senior to equity and subordinated to other types of
debt, and may contain terms stipulating that coupons must be
paid if a dividend has been declared. Issuers typically retain
the right to call the bonds after a set period.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , which operates one of the country’s
two casino resorts, sold the largest Singapore dollar perpetual
bond on record when it issued S$1.8 billion of 5.125 percent
notes on March 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Post Ltd. (SPOST)  and  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity supplier partly owned by Temasek Holdings Pte., raised
S$625 million selling perpetual securities last month while
Global Logistics Properties Ltd. increased its 5.5 percent of
existing notes by S$250 million in January.  Hyflux Ltd. (HYF) , the country’s biggest provider of water
treatment services, became the first company in Singapore to
sell perpetual bonds when it issued notes in April, bringing the
total for 2011 to S$1.63 billion, the data show.  Perpetual Appeal  Singapore Post’s S$350 million perpetual bond pays 4.25
percent until its first call date in March 2022, more than a 10-
year bond it sold in March 2010 which has a 3.5 percent coupon.  Singapore’s central bank uses the  exchange rate  as a policy
tool to manage inflation. It guides the local dollar against a
basket of currencies within an undisclosed band, and adjusts the
pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the slope,
width and center of the band. Gross domestic product fell an
annualized 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the
previous three months, the trade ministry said in a Feb. 16
report.  “With high levels of liquidity among private bank
investors across  Asia  and robust conditions in global credit
markets, this is a good time to look at perpetuals,” HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Singapore-based managing director for Asia-
Pacific debt capital markets, Alexi Chan, said. “For many
companies, issuing a hybrid instrument can also bring
significant benefits to their  capital structure .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  