-- Six British Servicemen Are Missing in Afghanistan, Presumed Dead, MoD Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-03-07T13:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/six-u-k-soldiers-missing-believed-killed-after-explosion-in-afghanistan.html
Six British soldiers are missing and
presumed to have been killed following an explosion in southern
Afghanistan yesterday, the U.K. Ministry of Defense said.  The six were on patrol in the Helmand area when their
 Warrior armored vehicle  was struck by the blast,  the ministry
said  in a statement today. Assuming the deaths are confirmed, it
will be the biggest loss of U.K. lives in Afghanistan since 2006
and the largest number killed in a single enemy operation,
taking the  total fatalities  among British service personnel
there to more than 400 since 2001.  “This is a desperately sad day for our country and a
desperately sad day for the families concerned,” Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said in televised comments in  London . “This work
will increasingly be carried out by Afghan soldiers, and we all
want to see that transition take place.”  The U.K. has 9,500 troops in war-torn  Afghanistan , most of
them operating from Camp Bastion in the southern province of
Helmand. The U.S.-led military coalition aims to weaken the
Taliban opposition to force the insurgents into peace talks,
while training the Afghan army and police to take over security
by end-2014. Cameron reiterated a pledge during a question-and-
answer session in the House of Commons today to withdraw British
combat troops by then.  The six British soldiers were killed last night when their
vehicle hit a planted roadside bomb in Helmand, Gen. Sayed
Malook, an Afghan corps commander based in Helmand, said in a
phone interview.  ‘Remote Area’  “There was a joint Afghan-U.K. troop patrol operation in a
remote area outside Lashkar Gah city,” the provincial capital,
he said. “One of the U.K.’s armored vehicles was struck by a
roadside bomb, killing six soldiers.”  U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond explained why the
British authorities were still regarding the soldiers as
missing.  “There’s an operation under way now to recover the
vehicle, and until we have made a positive identification of
those inside it, we won’t officially declare them killed in
action,” he told  BBC television . “So at the moment they are
missing, but the strong presumption is that they are killed in
action.”  Protests over the burning of Korans at a U.S. air base led
to attacks on U.S. personnel in Afghanistan last month. Two
American advisers were shot dead in the Interior Ministry Feb.
25, while nine Afghans were killed and two American soldiers
wounded in a suicide car-bombing in eastern Afghanistan Feb. 27.  Safety Concerns  Coalition advisers remain barred from Afghan ministries out
of fear for their safety.  The biggest British casualty toll in a single incident in
Afghanistan was on Sept. 2, 2006, when an explosion on a Royal
Air Force Nimrod reconnaissance plane killed all 14 on board
minutes after a mid-air refueling operation. A government
inquiry blamed BAE Systems Plc and QinetiQ Group Plc for safety
failings.  The coalition plans to shift increasingly away from a lead
role in combat in the next year and toward intensified training
and advising. The U.S. has 89,000 troops in Afghanistan, along
with 40,000 from other nations, and all have begun to pare their
numbers. International leaders will discuss the operation at a
NATO summit in  Chicago  in May.  The families of the soldiers involved in yesterday’s
explosion have been informed, the Ministry of Defense said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  