-- Six Charged in Federal Crackdown on Hacking by Anonymous, LulzSec Groups
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/six-charged-in-federal-crackdown-on-hacking-by-anonymous-lulzsec-groups.html
The U.S. charged six leaders of an
underground hacking movement that spent more than a year
embarrassing  law enforcement  officials and turned cyber attacks
into a tool of political activism.  The six, some involved with the group “Anonymous,” are
accused of intrusions that attracted worldwide attention such as
defacing the website of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency,
stealing customer data from  Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. (CPEI)  and
recording a confidential FBI teleconference of U.S. and Irish
agents discussing an international hacking probe. They also
stole personal information of at least 1 million people, U.S.
authorities said.  One those charged, Hector Xavier Monsegur, who used the
nickname Sabu and is described as an “influential member” of
Anonymous and an off-shoot group LulzSec, is cooperating with
U.S. authorities, according to a transcript of his August guilty
plea in federal court in  New York .  “This is probably going to have quite a chilling effect
within the illegal-hacking part of Anonymous,” said Chester
Wisniewski, a researcher for the Burlington, Massachusetts-based
cybersecurity firm Sophos Inc. “The closely coordinated and
really damaging attacks, which is what the LulzSec part of it
was, are going to be a lot harder if you’re looking over your
shoulder all the time for the FBI,” he said.  Hackers’ Leadership  Those arrested are among the de facto leadership of
Anonymous, the self-professed hacker-activist group, and
LulzSec, or Lulz Security, an affiliated group, according to
 Barrett Brown , an informal spokesman for Anonymous.  Monsegur, 28, of Manhattan, admitted breaking into  Sony
Pictures Entertainment ’s computer servers in El Segundo,
 California , where he obtained confidential data on about 100,000
users of its sonypictures.com website and into  Sony Music
Entertainment ’s computer systems in  Belgium , the Netherlands and
 Russia , U.S. authorities said. He later admitted sharing that
information with other LulzSec members, court records show.  He also said he and his co-conspirators broke into the
websites of the governments of Algeria, Yemen and  Zimbabwe  and
conducted a cyber attack upon  Tribune Co. (TRB)  and the computer
system used by  Fox Broadcasting Co. (NWSA) , according to U.S.
authorities. Monsegur, known as “Sabu,” and his co-
conspirators stole confidential data relating to more than
70,000 potential “X-Factor” television show contestants,
prosecutors said.  Monsegur continued to work with Anonymous until this week,
posting his last tweet only hours before the arrests, Brown
said. His guilty plea was only made public yesterday by U.S.
authorities.  ‘Absolute Traitor’  “If that’s true, he’s an absolute traitor,” Brown said in
an interview. “God knows what’s compromised.”  Brown, who said his own Dallas apartment was raided by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  yesterday, said Monsegur had
access to confidential dealings among the top leadership of both
LulzSec and Anonymous.  He said it’s unclear what information Monsegur may have
given authorities as he continued to work on operations,
including the hack of Strategic Forecasting Inc., or Stratfor,
an Austin, Texas-based global security firm.  “They managed to get people who are very important, the de
facto leadership,” Brown said. “That’s something they haven’t
been able to do up to now.”  There have been rumors in recent weeks that Monsegur was
working with authorities, Brown said.  ‘False-Flag Operation’  “I wrote it off as mistakes or a false-flag operation by
the FBI,” he said.  Monsegur’s arrest in June and his Aug. 15 plea to 12 counts
including conspiracy and computer hacking were sealed after U.S.
District Judge  Loretta Preska  said “the facts here are
sufficiently unique that it is possible that this defendant
could be identified, and, thus, be in great personal danger,”
according to a court transcript.  He could face as long as 122 1/2 years in prison, Preska
told him during the proceeding.  The six defendants and their unidentified co-conspirators
“waged a deliberate campaign of online destruction,
intimidation and criminality” from December 2010 to May 2011,
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.  Ryan Ackroyd, Jake Davis, Darren Martyn and Donncha
O’Cearrbhail were charged together in an indictment unsealed
yesterday.  Jeremy Hammond, 27, who is also known as “Anarchaos,” and
identified himself as a member of the hacking group called
AntiSec, was arrested in Chicago on March 5, U.S. authorities
said. He was charged separately in a sealed criminal complaint
with the December 2011 hack of Stratfor.  Employee E-Mails  The U.S. said Hammond and his AntiSec co-conspirators stole
employee e-mails and account information for about 860,000
subscribers or clients of Stratfor. Hammond also allegedly stole
information from about 60,000 card cards and used the data to
make more than $700,000 unauthorized charges.  Hammond appeared yesterday in federal court in  Chicago  and
agreed to be transferred to New York to face the charges against
him,  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for Chicago U.S. Attorney
Patrick Fitzgerald, said in an e-mail.  James Finnerty, a Chicago lawyer representing Hammond,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message yesterday
seeking comment.  Akroyd, 25, of Doncaster, U.K., and Davis, 19, of Lerwick,
Shetland Islands, in the U.K., were previously arrested, U.S.
law enforcement said. Akroyd was re-arrested yesterday in
Ireland, U.S. officials said. Davis remains free on bail, a U.S.
official said.  New Charges  Martyn, 25, of Galway, Ireland, was previously arrested by
authorities there and re-arrested by Irish authorities on new
charges, U.S. law enforcement officials said.  All three were charged with two counts of computer hacking
conspiracy which carries a term of as long as 10 years in
prison.  O’Cearrbhail, 19, of Birr, Ireland, is charged with the
illegal hacking of a Jan. 17 conference call between FBI agents
in the U.S. and agents with the National Police Service of
Ireland. The 16-minute call detailed confidential aspects of the
investigation into Anonymous by the FBI, U.K. and Irish law
enforcement and included information on efforts to infiltrate
the group using informants.  U.S. authorities said yesterday that intrusion, later
posted on YouTube in February, was the equivalent of an illegal
wiretap.  He’s charged with one count of computer-hacking conspiracy,
punishable by as long as 10 years in prison and one count of
intentionally disclosing an unlawfully intercepted wire
communication, which carries a term of as long as five years. He
was previously arrested on related charges in Ireland and re-
arrested yesterday by Irish authorities, U.S. officials said.  Sony Accounts  LulzSec took responsibility for compromising user accounts
from Sony Pictures in 2011 and for taking the CIA website
offline, as well as hacking the website of the Atlanta branch of
InfraGard, an FBI-private industry partnership concerned with
protecting critical U.S. infrastructure.  Monsegur, who was allowed to remain free on $50,000 bond,
admitted participating with other LulzSec members in stealing
confidential information from 200,000 users of the Bethesda
Softworks LLC, a video game website. Bethesda Softworks is a
unit owned by Providence Equity Partners Inc. a private equity
firm based in Providence,  Rhode Island .  Brown said Monsegur was responsible for the release of
personal information of law enforcement and military personnel
obtained following the Stratfor intrusion, which he described as
controversial within Anonymous.  “The release of the credit cards on the Stratfor hack,
that was Sabu,” Brown said. “In terms of incriminating other
people, who knows what he may have done?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 mriley17@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  