-- Solarhybrid Declines by Record on Subsidy Cuts: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-07T17:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/solarhybrid-declines-by-record-on-subsidy-cuts-frankfurt-mover.html
Solarhybrid AG (SHL) , a German developer
of solar energy projects, had a record drop in Frankfurt trading
after saying that government plans to eliminate aid for large-
scale power plants threaten its business.  Solarhybrid fell 59 percent to 1.02 euros a share, the
steepest one-day plunge since the stock started trading in June
2008.  Germany ’s plans to scrap state support for solar plants
bigger than 10 megawatts after July 1 would threaten four
projects, including a planned 150-megawatt solar power plant in
Brandenburg, Solarhybrid said in a statement today.  “Solarhybrid’s entire business model in Germany has been
put into question,” the developer said. The planned cuts have
also eliminated the company’s ability to raise money via bank
loans or corporate bond and share issues, it said.  The company, based in Brilon, said it may not publish its
full-year report in March and it’s in talks to secure
alternative financing for the planned acquisition of German
developer  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) ’s 2.25 gigawatts of projects in
the U.S. Until yesterday, Solarhybrid had planned to issue a
corporate bond to finance the purchase, it said.  Solarhybrid developed six large-scale plants in Germany
last year, including the 60.4-megawatt FinowTower II project,
according to its  website . It has since focused on expanding
abroad by purchasing project rights in Israel and the U.S.  Germany, the world’s biggest solar market by total
capacity, plans to cut aid to the industry by as much as 29
percent and further scale back subsidies each month, beginning
in May, Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said on Feb. 23.
The cuts are deeper than the 15 percent reduction ordered Jan. 1
and may hurt manufacturers in Germany and  China , where the
world’s three largest panel makers are based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  