-- Sony Rivals Quizzed by EU About Higher Prices From EMI Bid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-07T18:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/sony-rivals-quizzed-by-eu-regulator-about-higher-prices-from-emi-purchase.html
A Sony Corp.-led group’s rivals and
customers were quizzed by European Union antitrust regulators
examining whether its $2.2 billion purchase of EMI Group’s
publishing unit would allow it to increase prices.  The EU also asked whether licenses for Sony and EMI’s music
portfolio were critical for online music services, according to
a copy of the questionnaire seen by Bloomberg News. The European
Commission has an April 2 deadline to rule on the bid.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions. The EU is also looking at  Vivendi SA’s (VIV)   Universal
Music Group ’s bid for London-based EMI’s recorded music business
and quizzed companies last month over that deal.  The Sony group would gain control of EMI’s publishing
rights to classics such as “ New York , New York” and “Stand By
Your Man,” adding to Sony’s portfolio of songs by  Elvis
Presley , the Beatles and  Bob Dylan . Sony/ATV Music Publishing,
the joint venture formed in 1995 that is co-owned by  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Michael Jackson ’s estate, will oversee the new business.  “Would Sony/ATV’s publishing rights repertoire become
inherently more valuable after the acquisition of the EMI”
music publishing repertoire, the EU questionnaire asked in one
of more than 120 questions for companies involved in licensing
music publishing rights.  Online Recording, Publishing  The EU also asked whether music publishers use their
control over online recording and publishing rights to influence
rates and conditions and if companies that control both recorded
and publishing rights for music tend to get better licensing
deals that earn higher revenues.  It wanted to know whether the collecting societies who
gather and distribute royalties for copyright owners could be
influenced by the combined companies and asked about the impact
of some publishers’ moves to withdraw rights for “Anglo
American” rights from the collecting societies. It also asked
if higher royalties could be charged for those rights.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on the document. Voice-mail messages left at
the London offices of Sony/ATV Music Publishing weren’t
returned. Richard O’Brien, a spokesman for EMI, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 