-- South Africa Stocks: AngloGold, MTN, Richemont, RMI, Telkom Move
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-07T12:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/south-africa-stocks-anglogold-mtn-richemont-rmi-telkom-move.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced for the first time in four days, gaining 0.5 percent to
33,566.43 by 1:13 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The following are among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  , Africa’s biggest producer
of the metal, rose for the first time in six days, climbing 1.8
percent to 305.48. Gold gained for the first time in four days
in London as investors bought the metal after its drop to the
lowest level in almost six weeks.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  , the world’s second-
largest luxury goods maker, which makes almost a quarter of its
sales in China and Hong Kong, rose for the second time this
week, adding 1 percent to 45.43 rand. China will cut  import
taxes  on “a large number” of consumer and luxury goods this
year to boost domestic consumption, the  China Daily  reported
today, citing former Vice Commerce Minister Wei Jianguo.  Compu-Clearing Outsourcing Ltd. (CCL)  , a freight
forwarding and clearing company, advanced to a two-month high,
climbing 1.7 percent to 3 rand. Earnings per share rose 36
percent to 12.2 cents in the six months through December, the
company said today.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone
company, headed for its highest level in more than a month,
climbing 2.4 percent to 138.40 rand. Total subscribers increased
16 percent to 164.5 million in the year through December, the
company said today.  RMI Holdings Ltd. (RMI)  (RMI SJ), the  investment company  with
interests in insurance services, fell for a second day, dropping
1.2 percent to 15.80 rand.  The group’s casualty and property
insurance unit, known as OUTsurance, expects its personal lines
business to remain under pressure while its commercial lines
unit will continue to gain market share, it said today.  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  , Africa’s biggest fixed-
line phone company, headed for its biggest gain in almost three
months, rising 2.5 percent to 25.97 rand. KT Corp., South
Korea’s largest phone and Internet company, said it is still in
talks to buy a stake in Telkom amid speculation the offer may be
lowered or scrapped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  