-- Rand Drops for Fourth Day, Set for Longest Losing Streak Since November
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-07T15:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/south-african-rand-gains-snaps-three-day-drop-on-exporters-bonds-decline.html
The rand declined for a fourth day,
its longest losing streak in almost four months, on concern that
 Greece  won’t conclude a debt-swap before tomorrow’s deadline,
risking growth in  Europe ,  South Africa ’s main trading partner.  South Africa’s currency retreated 0.1 percent to 7.6561 per
dollar as of 5:02 p.m. in Johannesburg. It has declined 2.9
percent since March 1, the longest losing streak since November.
The yield on the nation’s 77 billion rand ($7.5 billion) of 6.75
percent bonds due 2021 dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.87 percent, the lowest since Feb. 29.  The Greek government said it will use collective action
clauses, which may trigger credit default swaps, to compel
bondholders to accept its debt restructuring if necessary.
 Emerging-market stocks  fell to a five-week low and bond risk
rose to the highest in two weeks.  “De-risking is taking place in European asset markets,”
 George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics,
wrote in e-mailed comments today. “In these kinds of markets,
the possibility of upside dollar-rand moves simply cannot be
ruled out.”  Investors with holdings amounting to 39.3 percent of the
Greek bonds eligible for the nation’s debt swap have agreed to
sign on, moving the country closer to the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history.  Foreign Reserves  The rand gained in earlier trading after South Africa’s
foreign reserves rose to the highest on record and business
confidence climbed to an eight-month peak.  Gross foreign exchange and gold reserves rose 0.9 percent
in February from the previous month to $51.9 billion as the
price of gold surged and the dollar weakened, boosting the value
of other foreign currencies, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank 
said. The central bank probably made no “material” dollar
purchases in the month, signalling it won’t intervene to curb
rand strength,  Standard Bank  Group Ltd. said.  “Although the Reserve Bank does not target a particular
level of the rand, the data could be seen to suggest that it
might not have been entirely averse to the rand’s strength in
February,” Bruce Donald and Nomvuyo Guma, Johannesburg-based
analysts at Standard Bank, said in e-mailed comments. “This
could mean that into any resumption of capital inflows in the
period ahead, Reserve Bank activity is unlikely to prove a
material resistance point to rand strength.”  Stocks Gain  South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  advanced for the first
time in four days after MTN Group Ltd., the biggest South
African-based company, reported a rise in earnings and customer
numbers. Mining companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo
American Plc gained as some industrial metal prices rose.  Companies including Gold Fields Ltd. halted production
today as members of South Africa’s biggest trade union
federation went on a one-day strike to force the government to
scrap short-term work contracts and highway tolls.  “This event will be fun to watch but we expect it to have
no discernable impact of foreign exchange markets,” George Glynos, an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote
in e-mailed comments today.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent
bonds due 2024 dropped four basis points to 4.17 percent,
narrowing the premium investors demand to hold the debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries by seven basis points to 221 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  