-- Corn, Soybeans Drop as World’s Farmers Boost Sales Following Recent Rally
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-07T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/soybeans-corn-decline-as-farmers-boost-sales-after-recent-rally.html
Corn fell the most since mid-January
and soybeans declined from a five-month high on speculation that
farmers took advantage of last month’s rally by boosting sales
to makers of livestock feed, biofuel and food.  Before today, soybeans in Chicago jumped 15 percent since
Jan. 13, and corn gained 9.1 percent as hot, dry weather reduced
crop yields in  South America . Rain will aid crops in parts of
 Argentina  and eastern  Brazil  the next week with dry conditions
expanding in parts of western Brazil, World Weather Inc. said in
a report today. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will update
its world supply and demand forecasts on March 9.  “Farmers have increased sales with the rally in prices,
and that slowed buying interest” from processors, Jim Gerlach,
the president of A/C Trading Co. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a
telephone interview. “The markets are near equilibrium ahead of
the USDA reports.”  Corn futures for May delivery dropped 2.3 percent to close
at $6.3875 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
the largest drop since Jan. 12. On March 5, the price touched
$6.6525, the highest since Nov. 9.  Soybean futures for May delivery slid 0.6 percent to
$13.2675 a bushel in Chicago, after reaching $13.39, the highest
since Sept. 21.  China Speculation  Corn also slumped on speculation that  China (US09PRCN) , the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity, will reduce imports of the
grain and boost planting to feed expanding hog herds and chicken
flocks, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research for Allendale
Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois .  China’s Heilongjiang Province, which produced about 15
percent of China’s crop last year, has enough land to increase
planting by as much as 15 percent this year, Governor Wang
Xiankui said yesterday. The nation won’t require “large
imports” this year as record output in 2011 will cover demand,
Nie Zhenbang, head of the State Administration of Grain said
yesterday.  “The market is focused on the potential for bigger crops
in  China  and reduced demand for U.S. exports,” Allendale’s
Nelson said in a telephone interview.  The U.S. was the largest exporter of both commodities in
the year that ended Sept. 30, according to government estimates.
Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in 2011,
followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  