-- Spain Trails Italy as Growth Concern Halts Rally: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-07T12:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/spain-lags-italy-as-growth-concern-halts-rally-euro-credit.html
Spanish bonds are underperforming
those of  Italy  as concern the Iberian nation’s economy will
struggle to grow has left it trailing in a rally sparked by two
rounds of extraordinary European Central Bank lending.  Spain’s benchmark borrowing costs rose above Italy’s for
the first time in almost eight months last week after Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said his nation’s 2012 deficit would be
higher than agreed at budget talks with the European Union.
Italy’s 2011 deficit narrowed more than economists forecast even
as the economy slipped into recession.  “The spotlight is back on Spain’s fiscal performance,”
said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Italy appears
to still be meeting targets. On that basis alone we could
continue to see Italian bonds outperforming Spanish bonds.”  Spain ’s  10-year bond  yields closed higher than similar-
maturity Italian  securities  on March 5 for the first time since
Aug. 19. Last month Italian two-year rates became cheaper than
Spain’s for the first time since Sept. 2.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Spanish 10-year debt rather than similar-maturity Italian
securities was 14 basis points at 11:50 a.m. London time.
Italian debt yielded 80 basis points more than Spanish bonds on
Dec. 8. The two-year spread was 51 basis points.  ECB Loans  The ECB awarded 529.5 billion euros ($695 billion) in
three-year loans to 800 European banks on Feb. 29, after
supplying 489 billion euros to 523 financial institutions on
Dec. 21. Under the so-called longer-term refinancing operation,
banks can borrow at the average of the central bank’s key
interest rate, currently at a record-low 1 percent, and use the
funds to purchase higher-yielding assets such as Italian and
Spanish debt.  Spanish bonds have handed investors a 7.7 percent return
since the ECB announced its lending program on Dec. 8, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian securities have advanced
14 percent in the period.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year note was 4.97 percent, while
the nation’s two-year was at 1.83 percent. Spanish 10-year
yields were 5.10, while two-year rates were 2.35 percent.  “All the LTRO has done is concentrate Spanish government
bonds within Spanish banks,” said Peter Allwright, who helps
oversee around $4 billion as head of absolute rates and currency
at RWC Partners, a London-based asset-management company. “We
are so negative on Spain. The main issue for us is that the debt
dynamics have deteriorated so quickly.”  Spanish Deficit  Prime Minister Rajoy said March 2 that his nation’s 2012
deficit would be 5.8 percent of gross domestic product compared
with the previously agreed 4.4 percent. EU leaders signaled he
must stick to the target even though Spain overshot last year’s
goal and is facing recession.  Rajoy has already adopted a 15-billion euro package of
savings and would need to find another 25 billion euros to meet
this year’s target, according to an estimate from Moody’s
Investors Service.  The announcement added to evidence suggesting Spain’s
economy is struggling. A services index fell to the lowest since
November last month and a manufacturing measure dropped in
February. The Spanish jobless rate is 23 percent. The government
is also grappling with a banking crisis, offering help to
lenders saddled with 175 billion euros of troubled assets linked
to real-estate.  Credit-Default Swaps  While the services gauge for Italy also fell last month,
the manufacturing measure grew and the nation’s jobless rate is
at 8.1 percent.  Credit-default swaps on Italian debt have narrowed more
than 100 basis points since the start of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, while contracts on Spain’s debt are
little changed.  “It is clear that the market is more worried that the
Spanish authorities won’t be able to reach the budget goals,”
said Elwin de Groot, a market economist at Rabobank Nederland in
Utrecht. “In the near term, there is a bigger risk that further
austerity measures in Spain will undermine its budgetary
strategy.”  Italy’s performance may be tested later in the year as its
borrowing needs are greater than its neighbor’s.  “Spain is well ahead of the curve with regards to
supply,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at DZ
Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Italy has been much slower and also much
more active at the short-end, so supply pressure will intensify
going forward.”  ‘Bad for Growth’  Italy has issued more than 65 billion euros of debt and
still requires another 271.4 billion euros to pay back
investors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Spain has
sold about 45 billion euros of securities and plans to issue 128
billion euros more.  Spain’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, while Italy’s shrank 0.7 percent, the
European Union said yesterday.  The Spanish government’s double headache of tackling fiscal
and banking crises will be “bad for growth,” said  Jacob Kirkegaard , research fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington .  “Increasingly Italy will look the stronger of the two,”
Kirkegaard said.  -- With assistance from  Simon Kennedy  in London. Editor: Mark
McCord, Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  