-- Springsteen’s Anger Outdoes Sinead as Rock Turns Fiery: CDs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-03-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/springsteen-s-anger-outdoes-sinead-as-rock-turns-fiery-cds.html
Life doesn’t get any easier for
 Bruce Springsteen .  His man is in the White House, he has the adoration of
millions and has spent decades getting “paid a king’s ransom
for doin’ what comes naturally,” as he once sang. Yet
Springsteen is still enraged.  “Wrecking Ball,” his latest CD, is a sign that
Springsteen, at 62, along with rock and roll generally, is
getting real attitude again.  The Boss forgets he’s a multimillionaire and sees himself
odd-jobbing, clearing drains and mowing lawns in “Jack of All
Trades.” He complains that “the banker man grows fat, working
man grows thin/ it’s happened before and it will happen again.”
His blue-collar rock is loaded with references to crushed
American dreams, hard times, shackled workers and depression.  After a decade of quieter tunes, Springsteen is back to
blasting rock with a big band that has more than a hint of
 Arcade Fire  about it. Standouts are “We Take Care of Our Own”
and the title track, written in 2009 for the old  Giants Stadium .  It’s not all great. I have grown weary of listening to
Bruce addressing his betters as “mister,” singing about his
hometown and rhyming funny, sunny and honey on the way to a
title like “Easy Money.”  The liner notes include a touching reference to the late
saxophonist  Clarence Clemons , who features on two tracks.
“Clarence doesn’t leave the E Street Band when he dies,”
Springsteen writes. “He leaves when we die.”  Rating: ****.  Angry O’Connor  Lippy Irish singer Sinead O’Connor is still angry about
everything.  In the past year, she advertised for a boyfriend, married
one and attempted suicide. Now she is channeling her passion
productively. “How About I Be Me (And You Be You)?” is a
strong return to accessible form after albums exploring
traditional music and more.  “Take Off Your Shoes” is a rant about the Vatican’s
oversight of child abuse in the Irish church. “I Had a Baby”
is about parental neglect (O’Connor, 45, herself has four
children by four different men). She adds one cover version,
John Grant’s “Queen of  Denmark ,” which she makes her own, from
the opening lines “I wanted to change the world, but I couldn’t
even change my underwear.”  Rating: ***.  Dragon Tattoo  I only got around to “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo”
soundtrack after seeing the movie, and it’s oddly good.  It opens with Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs flirting with
Led Zeppelin’s “Immigrant Song” -- more rock aggression that
fits the movie’s title character -- and signs off with Bryan Ferry’s “Is Your Love Strong Enough” performed by How to
Destroy Angels. In between these tracks is a three-hour
soundscape fashioned by Oscar winners Atticus Ross and Trent Reznor. This has some distorted grungy guitar, though little of
the latter’s Nine Inch Nails attack. It’s closer to Brian Eno
ambiance, with washes of glacial synthesizer.  Rating: ***.  Springsteen is on Columbia, with “Wrecking Ball” priced
at $9.99 or $12.99 for an edition with two bonus tracks.
O’Connor is on One Little Indian priced $9.99 and “The Girl
With the  Dragon Tattoo ” box set is about $14. Download fees
vary across services. Information:  http://brucespringsteen.net ,
 http://www.sinead-oconnor.com/  and  http://www.dragontattoo.com .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 