-- Stanford, Morgan Stanley, Lorillard, BP, Porsche, Madoff in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-07T12:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/stanford-morgan-stanley-lorillard-bp-porsche-in-court-news.html
R. Allen Stanford’s jury, a day
after finding the  Texas  financier guilty of leading a
$7 billion international fraud, will continue hearing evidence
on federal prosecutors’ request that he forfeit $300 million in
assets.  The jury of eight men and four women yesterday convicted
Stanford on 13 of 14 charges including four wire fraud counts
and five mail fraud counts carrying maximum penalties of 20
years in prison. No sentencing date has been set.  The panel acquitted him of the claim he used interstate
wire communications to buy $9,000 in Super Bowl tickets for the
chief of the Antiguan regulatory authority responsible for
monitoring his Stanford International Bank Ltd.  “We are disappointed in the outcome,” co-lead defense
counsel Ali Fazel said after the verdict. “We expect to
appeal.”  The founder of Houston-based Stanford Financial Group
denied federal government allegations he’d lied to investors
about the nature and oversight of the certificates of deposit
issued by the bank and sold in U.S. by his securities firm,
Stanford Group Co.  The forfeiture trial, which continues today, began about 2
1/2 hours after the jury rendered its verdict. Prosecutors want
the panel to decide how much money Stanford must give up now
that they’ve said he is guilty.  The funds, now on deposit in the U.K., Switzerland,  Canada 
and Antigua, belong to Stanford bank depositors,  Justice
Department  lawyer Andrew Warren told the jury at the outset of
the second proceeding yesterday.  “It includes the SocGen slush fund about which you’ve
heard a lot about already,” Warren said, referring to money at
a Swiss unit of Paris-based Societe Generale SA. “Every single
dollar the U.S. is seeking is CD depositors’ money that stems
from Mr. Stanford’s crimes and belongs to the victims of his
fraud.”  Fazel responded that the government can’t prove that every
dollar in every Stanford account spanning more than 20 years is
subject to seizure as a product of fraud.  “That’s just not the case,” he told the jury. “I respect
your verdict. It is what it is. The question is whether all the
money -- including money in his children’s accounts -- is the
result of ill-gotten gains, and we maintain it is not.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  For more, click here.  U.S. Urges Approval of Morgan Stanley Deal Without Admission  The U.S. Justice Department urged a judge to accept a $4.8
million antitrust lawsuit settlement with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  even
without an admission that the  New York  bank violated federal
law.  Morgan Stanley agreed in September to pay $4.8 million to
settle a U.S. antitrust case over a 2006 derivative contract
with Brooklyn, New York-based KeySpan, a deal which the Justice
Department said probably led to higher electricity prices in New
York City.  Antitrust lawyers from the Justice Department yesterday
filed court papers in Manhattan urging U.S. District Judge
William Pauley to accept the settlement. The U.S. says Pauley
should accept the deal even though Morgan Stanley didn’t admit
wrongdoing. A not-for-profit group and a regulatory board urged
the judge to reject the deal for that reason.  “The government routinely enters into antitrust consent
decrees explicitly disclaiming admissions or findings of
liability,” Justice Department lawyers wrote.  “To insist on more is to impose substantial resource costs
on government antitrust enforcement; to risk the possibility of
litigation resulting in no relief at all; to contravene a
century of congressional and judicial policy; and to establish a
precedent that could impede enforcement of the antitrust laws in
the future,” the Justice Department wrote.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the submissions.  In their public submissions challenging the accord, AARP
and the Public Service Commission cited a ruling by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan in an unrelated lawsuit
against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Rakoff refused to accept a settlement in that case
without some acknowledgment of wrongdoing.  AARP argued in comments submitted on Dec. 8 and attached to
the U.S. court papers that the settlement should be rejected
because it provides no benefit to customers, because there’s no
proof the settlement will serve as a deterrent, and because
there’s no finding of wrongdoing by Morgan Stanley.  The case is U.S. v. Morgan Stanley, 11-6875, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lorillard Told by Jury to Pay $25 Million to Smoker’s Widow  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  was ordered to pay a  Florida  widow $25
million in punitive damages by a Miami jury, the week after she
was awarded $16 million in compensatory damages.  The jury awarded the full amount that Dorothy Alexander’s
attorney had sought as punishment for her husband’s death.  “What could a corporation hope for after 50 years of lies
causing death, suffering, disease?” the lawyer, Alex Alvarez,
asked the jury. “They need to think twice before putting
profits before people.”  Ed Cheffy, an attorney for Greensboro, North Carolina-based
Lorillard, argued that his client shouldn’t be forced to pay
punitive damages because cigarettes aren’t illegal.  “Lorillard complies with all of the laws and all of the
regulations that govern the manufacture, marketing and sale of
cigarettes,” he told the jury.  After a monthlong trial, the jury decided last week that
Dorothy Alexander was entitled to $20 million in compensatory
damages for the loss of her husband, Coleman Alexander, who died
of lung cancer in 1995.  The jury reduced Lorillard’s responsibility for his death
by 20 percent, for a final award of $16 million.  “Lorillard is disappointed with the jury’s decision, and
the company plans to appeal,” said Gregg Perry, a company
spokesman.  The case is Alexander v. Lorillard Tobacco Co., 07-46830-
ca-10, 11th Judicial Circuit Court of Florida (Miami).  Gulf Spill Victims Say BP Settlement May Delay Compensation  BP Plc’s (BP/)  settlement with victims of its 2010 oil spill
creates confusion and may delay compensation, participants in
the claims process that the new agreement will replace said.  Keith Overton, president of Tradewinds Island Resorts in
St. Pete Beach, Florida, said he’s more uncertain than before as
to when he will be paid. He reached a settlement with the Gulf
Coast Claims  Facility  run by Washington attorney Kenneth
Feinberg in November.  BP appealed the payment, a process allowed for awards of
more than $500,000.  “How does my claim factor into this new settlement?”
Overton said in an interview. “I don’t even know.”  The estimated $7.8 billion settlement BP and plaintiffs’
lawyers reached March 2 shuts Feinberg’s fund, which paid $6.1
billion to 225,000 claimants over 18 months.  While Feinberg has been accused of being slow and miserly
in making payments, some participants in the facility said they
believed he lived up to a pledge made in July 2010 to be quicker
and more generous in compensating spill victims than a court.  There are more than 10,000 final payment offers still
outstanding from the facility that will now fall under the new
compensation program. Claimants can accept 60 percent of the
final offer as an interim payment without yielding their rights
to sue.  They can then accept the offer of a new settlement, minus
the payment already made. Or they can take the remaining 40
percent from the offer from the original claims facility, Steve
Herman, liaison counsel for the plaintiffs, said in an e-mail.  In accepting a final payment, claimants agree to waive
their rights to sue BP or other companies involved in the spill.  The new agreement will draw on the same $20 billion fund BP
set up that the facility has used to compensate individuals and
businesses for economic losses.  A court-supervised “transitional claims process” for
economic losses will continue to operate as a new settlement
system is set up, according to a BP press release.  Feinberg said the settlement was “good news,” in a
statement released March 3. “It avoids a lengthy complex trial
and uncertain appeals,” he said.  Unsatisfied plaintiffs can also opt out of the settlement
agreement BP and the attorneys reached last week and continue to
pursue litigation.  The case is re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon
in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  UPM-Kymmene Wins $7.6 Million Reduction of Bag-Cartel Fine  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest papermaker, won a
5.8 million-euro ($7.6 million) reduction of a European Union
antitrust fine for unlawfully fixing prices with competitors in
an industrial bags cartel.  The EU’s General Court cut to 50.7 million euros a penalty
 imposed  in 2005, the biggest fine among 16 companies punished
for colluding on prices of plastic bags used for industrial
products.  The UPM-Kymmene fine was reduced because it couldn’t be
held liable for the cartel before October 1995, according to the
ruling by the Luxembourg-based EU court yesterday.  Fines on FLSmidth & Co. and its FLS Plast unit were also
reduced to 14.5 million euros from 15.3 million euros. The court
rejected arguments that they weren’t liable to pay part of the
penalty imposed on their unit Trioplast Wittenheim SA.  “The fine decreased as the court estimated the duration of
the infraction shorter than in the original decision,” Petri
Meurman, senior group legal counsel for Helsinki-based UPM-
Kymmene, said yesterday by phone. He declined to comment on a
possible appeal.  Decisions by the EU General Court can be appealed to the EU
Court of Justice, the region’s highest tribunal. FLSmidth, based
in Copenhagen, said it will study the decision in detail before
deciding whether to challenge decisions concerning its
liability.  British Polythene Industries (BPI)  Plc, based in Greenock,
Scotland, escaped a fine because it was the first to provide the
commission with “decisive evidence” about the cartel, the EU
said at the time.  The cases are T-53/06, T-64/06 and T-65/06.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Takeda Hid Actos Adverse Effects From Regulators, Suit Says  A U.S. unit of Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. failed to give
accurate reports to regulators about hundreds of congestive
heart failure cases associated with its diabetes drug Actos, a
whistle-blower claimed in a lawsuit.  The company failed to classify “non-hospitalized or non-
fatal” congestive heart failure cases as serious from late 2007
to January 2010, former Takeda medical reviewer Helen Ge said in
the complaint in federal court in Boston. Takeda, like other
drugmakers, is required to update the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration’s Adverse Event Reporting System.  “These events were not properly identified or reported in
the FDA’s safety database,” Ge claimed in the complaint, filed
in June 2010 and recently unsealed. “Takeda’s motivation to
fraudulently report and under-report the serious adverse events
was driven by an economic desire to falsely enhance Actos’s
safety profile and to increase sales,” Ge said.  The case against Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America Inc.,
filed by Ge on the government’s behalf, became public after the
U.S. Justice Department declined to join it on Feb. 22. Twenty-
four U.S. states also declined to join Ge’s complaint, said one
of her attorneys, Michael L. Baum.  “Takeda complies with all laws and regulations regarding
the reporting of adverse events,” Hisashi Tokinoya, a company
spokesman based in  Tokyo , said in an e-mailed response today,
declining to comment on specific allegations because the
lawsuits are pending.  Ge sued under the federal False Claims Act and similar
state statutes, and seeks to recover damages on behalf of
governments. She would be entitled to between 15 percent and 30
percent of any recovery.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Helen Ge v.  Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. (4502) , 10-cv-11043, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more, click here.  Ex-Porsche CFO Haerter Charged With Loan Fraud Over Options  Former  Porsche SE (PAH3)  Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter
was one of three managers charged over statements made to a bank
when the holding company refinanced a 10 billion-euro ($13.2
billion) loan in 2009.  The men are accused of understating Porsche’s liquidity
needs by 1.4 billion euros if all purchase options the company
held on  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  shares had been exercised, Stuttgart
prosecutors said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, without
disclosing any names. Haerter will fight the charges, his
attorney, Anne Wehnert, said in an e-mailed statement.  Along with the criminal investigation, investors in the
U.S. and  Germany  are suing Porsche, accusing the company of
misleading them about plans to take control of Volkswagen. A
planned combination of the companies was called off last year
because of legal uncertainties related to the litigation.  “The risk to the merger will increase because the normal
shareholder won’t want to pay too much and the funds will use
this to their advantage to seek a significantly higher
settlement,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen.  The managers also withheld some information about put
options tied to VW shares that Porsche sold, the Stuttgart
prosecutors said yesterday.  “An economy university professor specializing in options
trading confirmed after a thorough review of the facts, that the
prosecutors’ method regarding the alleged liquidity need isn’t
viable, so the statements given to the bank were correct,” said
Wehnert, Haerter’s attorney. The bank didn’t say it hadn’t been
adequately informed, she said.  The charges reflect “the position of the state
prosecutor,” Frank Gaube, a Porsche spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. “This is not a court ruling and until
there is a ruling there is a presumption of innocence.”  For more, click here.  Hackers Charged in Crackdown on LulzSec, Anonymous Groups  The U.S. charged six alleged members of Anonymous, LulzSec
and other hacking groups with trying to break into computers
used by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting and security firm HBGary
Inc. and by governments including Yemen.  Ryan Ackroyd, Jake Davis, Darren Martyn and Donncha
O’Cearrbhail were charged in an indictment unsealed yesterday in
Manhattan federal court, the Office of U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said in a statement. Jeremy Hammond was arrested in
 Chicago  and accused of crimes related to the hack of Strategic
Forecasting Inc., or Stratfor.  Hector Xavier Monsegur, an “influential member” of
Anonymous, Internet Feds and LulzSec, pleaded guilty in August
to conspiracy to engage in computer hacking, prosecutors said.
Monsegur, known as “Sabu,” was accused of attacking the
websites of the governments of Algeria, Yemen and Zimbabwe. He
also helped try to hack Tribune Co. and Fox, prosecutors said.  The hackers arrested are among the de facto leadership of
Anonymous, the self-professed hacker-activist group, and
LulzSec, or Lulz Security, an affiliated group, according to
 Barrett Brown , an informal Anonymous spokesman, whose apartment
in Dallas was raided this morning. Monsegur continued to work
with Anonymous until last week, Brown said. Monsegur’s plea was
only made public yesterday.  Monsegur agreed to cooperate with the U.S. investigation,
according to a transcript of his August plea hearing. U.S.
District Judge  Loretta Preska  told Monsegur that he could face a
sentence of 122 1/2 years in prison, according to the
transcript.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Criminal Libor Probe of Banks Is Under Way, U.S. Tells Judge  A criminal investigation into suspected manipulation of
benchmark  interest rates  is being conducted by the U.S.
government, the Justice Department said in a letter to a federal
judge.  The Feb. 27 letter to U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice
Buchwald in Manhattan was made public yesterday and is the first
public acknowledgment by the Justice Department of the criminal
investigation of benchmark lending rates such as the London
interbank offered rate, known as Libor.  Buchwald cited the letter at a March 1 hearing in which she
denied a request for documents related to the investigation by
investors suing  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and other companies over claims they artificially suppressed
Libor.  “The Department of Justice is conducting a criminal
investigation into alleged manipulation of certain benchmark
interest rates,” including those for “several currencies” on
the Libor exchange, according to the letter signed by lawyers
from the fraud section of the Justice Department’s criminal
division and its antitrust division.  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the letter. Steven Vames, a Credit Suisse spokesman,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment yesterday
after regular business hours.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate Libor and the Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Tibor and Euribor.  Buchwald is presiding over multidistrict litigation
involving 21 class-action, or group, lawsuits against banks
accused of conspiring to artificially suppress Libor by
understating their borrowing costs to the British Bankers’
Association.  In a Feb. 17 letter to Buchwald, the defendant banks
objected to the plaintiffs’ demand for documents already given
the Justice Department.  “Plaintiffs have demanded discovery to help them draft
their consolidated complaints,” said lawyers for Bank of
America, Credit Suisse,  Barclays Bank Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Norinchukin Bank (NORZ) 
and  Royal Bank of Canada . The Justice Department letter doesn’t
identify the banks that received subpoenas.  The banks said turning over such evidence to plaintiffs
would impose a “substantial burden” because they are already
complying with requests from “U.S. and foreign government
authorities.”  Buchwald denied the investors’ request for documents in a
ruling from the bench on March 1.  “To me, it is simply too much to have them piggyback on
the government’s investigation at this stage,” Buchwald said.  The case is In re: LIBOR-Based Financial Instruments
Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262,  Southern District of New York 
(Manhattan).  Wal-Mart Asks Judge to Reject Texas Class-Action Bias Suit  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  asked a federal judge in Dallas to
reject a proposed class-action lawsuit in which women allege
that the world’s largest retailer discriminated against Texas
female workers over pay and promotions.  The company said the claims are barred by the statute of
limitations. “The time for asserting class allegations on these
claims has passed,” it said yesterday in court papers.  The case also can’t be pursued as a class-action matter
because there is little in common among the claims made by the
plaintiffs, it said.  “The complaint does not allege any facts that would
establish a class-wide policy of discrimination,” Wal-Mart
said.  Some of the women who sued allege denial of promotion
opportunities but not pay differences, the company said. Others
allege pay discrimination but not promotion differences, it
said.  “Some advanced quickly within Wal-Mart while others
apparently never pursued managerial advancement,” it said.  The suit was filed in October on behalf of women working in
Texas Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores from Dec. 26, 1998, until
at least June 2004.  It came in response to a U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling in June
that barred treatment of gender-bias claims against Wal-Mart as
a national class action.  “They claim that this is exactly the same case as the one
the Supreme Court looked at, and that’s completely wrong,” Hal
K. Gillespie, an attorney for the women, said yesterday of the
company’s motion. “It’s evident this is very different.”  “We have a Supreme Court case that supports us, not
them,” he said.  “Walmart has strong policies against discrimination; many
years ago Walmart established these policies to help ensure
women are paid and promoted fairly,” Greg Rossiter, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The claims by the
women bringing this case don’t match the positive experience
that so many other women have had at Walmart.”  The case is Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 3:11-cv-02954,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  Defendants in 400 Madoff Trustee Suits Seek New Judge  Defendants in more than 400 lawsuits related to the
collapse of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme have sought to move
their cases from bankruptcy court to district court, most asking
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to assess demands for return of
money by the Madoff trustee.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  has filed more than 1,050
lawsuits to try to recoup money he alleges was stolen from the
con man’s other customers, according to a bankruptcy court
filing in Manhattan yesterday. Rakoff’s handling of Picard’s $1
billion lawsuit against the New York Mets owners, which the
judge cut to $386 million, spurred defendants in more than 30
other cases to ask Rakoff to assess their liabilities too, court
documents show.  The number of suits awaiting attention from Rakoff and
other district judges was published as part of a notice to
defendants that Rakoff set an April 2 deadline for requests to
take more Madoff suits. Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz
are due to go to trial on March 19 in Rakoff’s Manhattan court.  Bank defendants in Picard’s bankruptcy court suits,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., have asked district judges to
decide whether Picard, a New York lawyer, has the right to sue
them, and for how much. They say that Picard is straining the
limits of the law as he tries to grab back money for victims of
Madoff’s fraud. Some of them have won initial victories.  The Madoff trustee currently is appealing district court
decisions that knocked out about $30 billion of his claims
against banks. Rakoff also disallowed most of a $59 billion suit
that was based on racketeering law.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Houston’s Home County Joins Texas Lawsuit Seeking MERS Damages  Harris County Texas, which includes the city of Houston,
won a bid to join a group lawsuit seeking damages from the
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc.,  Bank of America
Corp . and Stewart Title Co.  U.S. District Judge Reed C. O’Connor allowed Harris and
nearby  Brazoria County (66583MF)  to enter the case that could result in
payouts of as much as $10 billion for all Texas counties,
according to court papers filed by the plaintiffs.  The counties accuse MERS, which runs an electronic registry
of mortgages, and members of the mortgage-banking industry
including Bank of America of filing false lien claims in the
real property records of Texas counties. The suit also alleges
the defendants failed “to record subsequent assignments of
mortgage loans and pay the attendant filing fees.”  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., has
said it complies with Texas’s recording statutes and
regulations.  Dallas sued in state court in September and the defendants
won a change of the case to federal court in October. The U.S.
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation in February denied an
attempt by the defendants to join the case with a lawsuit
brought against Merscorp by homeowners in  Arizona .  The case is Dallas County, Texas, v. Merscorp Inc., 3:11-
cv-02733-O,  U.S. District Court (1100L) , Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  On The Docket  Toyota First Trial Scheduled in California Acceleration Case  The first  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  sudden-unintended acceleration
trial in  California , involving the death of a woman whose 2006
Toyota Camry hit a telephone pole, will get under way in
November in  Los Angeles .  California Superior Court Judge Anthony Mohr, who oversees
the coordinated state court cases in Los Angeles, said in an
order March 6 that jury time-qualification will begin between
Nov. 1 and Nov. 30 and that the trial will begin after Jan. 1,
with the specific date to be determined.  The so-called bellwether trial involved the claims by the
family of Noriko Uno, who died in 2009 when, they allege, her
Camry unintentionally accelerated and struck a telephone pole.
Lawyers for the plaintiffs estimate that the trial will take
about 40 days, according to the judge’s order.  Simultaneously with the wrongful death case, the judge will
hear evidence for the lawsuit by the Orange County District
Attorney who sued Toyota in 2010, alleging the carmaker
endangered the public by knowingly selling defective vehicles.
Witnesses who testified in the Uno case will testify if needed
in the D.A.’s case without the jury present, the judge said.  The judge also selected two other bellwether cases, one
proposed by the plaintiffs, as was the Uno case, and one
proposed by Toyota.  “Toyota looks forward to defending these cases, and we
remain confident that the evidence will confirm what millions of
Toyota drivers prove every day: that they can depend upon their
vehicles to provide safe, reliable transportation,”  Celeste
Migliore , a spokeswoman for Torrance, California-based Toyota
Motor Sales USA, said in a statement.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa Ana,
California, who oversees the coordinated federal lawsuits
against Toyota over unintended-sudden acceleration, in October
scheduled the first of three trials in his court for Feb. 19,
2013.  Toyota, the world’s second-largest automaker, recalled at
least 8 million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of
defects and incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration.
The recalls set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims
of injuries and deaths.  The cases are Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP 4621, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Central Civil West.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  