-- Stanchart Leads Foreign Banks in China on Small Business Loans
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-03-07T09:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/stanchart-leads-foreign-banks-in-china-on-small-business-loans.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by market value, says it’s lending more to
small companies in  China  than its international rivals, as the
government calls on lenders to support entrepreneurs.  “We probably do more lending to small and medium-sized
enterprises than any other foreign bank in China,” Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands , 50, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. “It’s something we do in most of
our markets and we have real expertise in helping SMEs,
particularly those that want to export and trade with other
countries.”  The Chinese government has pledged to bolster domestic
banks’ financing for small businesses, to curtail defaults that
may destabilize the economy. Limits imposed by the government to
fight inflation had restricted lending available to smaller
companies, forcing them to turn to non-bank lenders that usually
charge higher  interest rates .  Loans to China’s small enterprises rose 26 percent last
year to a record 10.8 trillion yuan ($1.71 trillion), more than
double the pace of lending to larger companies, the central bank
said in its  quarterly monetary report  on Feb. 15.  Standard Chartered  expanded its SME loan book in the
“other Asia Pacific” region, which includes China, by 17
percent to $5.79 billion, the bank said in a filing on Feb. 29.  “China’s going to hit various bumps along the way, and
there will be asset bubbles in certain places and NPL problems
in others, but that isn’t the big picture,” Sands said. “The
big picture is China will still continue to grow.”  Standard Chartered, which generated at least 73 percent of
last year’s pretax profit from  Asia (2888) , plans to expand its China
network to more than 100 outlets from 81 at the end of last
year, Jaspal Bindra, the bank’s Asia Chief Executive Officer,
said Feb. 29. Standard Chartered doubled its pretax profit in
China to more than $220 million last year, according to a filing
that day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  