-- States Facing ‘Sleeping Cancer’ in 96% Unfunded Retiree Benefits
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/states-facing-sleeping-cancer-in-96-unfunded-retiree-benefits.html
The near-failure by U.S. states to
fund rising retiree health-care costs for millions of government
workers threatens to produce budget crises similar to the one
that pushed Stockton, California, to take a step toward
bankruptcy last week.  States haven’t financed almost 96 percent of the $627.4
billion they were projected to owe for future retiree benefits
in 2010, according to Bloomberg Rankings data. The estimated
deficit grew from about 95 percent in 2009 as governors coped
with lower general-fund revenue and rising demand for services
following the longest recession since the Great Depression.  “The whole country is dealing with” finding a way to
finance the projected costs of retiree health care, said  Chris Christie , New Jersey’s Republican governor. His state owed
almost $7,600 per resident for public workers’ post-employment
benefits other than pension payments. Alaska, Connecticut and
New Jersey had the largest unfunded liabilities, ranked in
proportion to population, among the 47 states examined.  “How do we deal with the cost of health care, especially
the cost of health care as we get older?” Christie, 49, told
reporters March 1. The first-term governor pushed for measures
enacted last year that increased pension and health-care
contribution rates for government workers and raised the age for
retirement with full benefits to 65 from 62. The changes are
forecast to cut costs by at least $10 billion over 30 years.  Widening Gap  Delays in containing such expenses just widen the funding
gap, said Glen Volk, an actuary for Itasca, Illinois-based
Gallagher Benefit Services Inc., a consulting firm. States also
may face higher borrowing costs as well as more pressure to cut
services to pay for promised retiree benefits, he said.  Most states cover such expenses on a pay-as-you-go basis,
yet per capita U.S. health-care  spending  rising an average 5.8
percent annually for the 10 years through 2009 has made covering
required payments increasingly difficult. Stockton, confronting
a $417 million unfunded liability for retiree medical benefits,
took a step toward Chapter 9 bankruptcy Feb. 28 when the City
Council voted to enter a 60-day mediation with creditors.  “There’s a point at which it becomes a problem,” Volk
said. He has helped municipal governments forecast retiree
health-care liabilities.  Bankruptcy Lever  Cities including Central Falls,  Rhode Island , and  Vallejo (8736MF) ,
California, have used bankruptcy to cut promised benefits to
current and retired workers. States can’t seek court protection
under the code’s Chapter 9.  In Alaska, where  Standard & Poor’s  said the unfunded
liability for state retiree health care fell 47 percent in 2011,
most of the reduction came from raised expectations of returns
on assets in a trust fund set up to cover the costs, according
to Gabriel Petek, an analyst in  San Francisco .  “Most governments haven’t been funding it, but Alaska has
been,” he said. He said part of the savings stemmed from
rollbacks in benefits, though the bulk came from changed
assumptions on trust investments.  Idaho (STOID1)  cut benefit costs by pushing more retirees into
Medicare, the federal health insurance plan for those 65 and
older, according to David Hitchcock, an S&P analyst in  New York .  “The low-hanging fruit is to just push people on
Medicare,” Hitchcock said. “States are coming to the
realization that that is the easy way to cut OPEB costs,” he
said, referring to other post-employment benefits, such as
health care.  Unprepared States  At least 20 governors and legislatures have failed to
prepare ways to meet their projected expenses, said Sujit
CanagaRetna, a senior analyst in Atlanta with the Council of
State Governments.  The inaction paired with climbing health-care costs may
create fiscal crises in states as the number of retirees rises,
said Girard Miller, a senior strategist at Philadelphia-based
PFM Group, which advises municipalities on financial matters.
The liability “is like a sleeping cancer,” he said.  The gap may become starker as the U.S. population grays.
The number of Americans eligible for Medicare is projected to
rise 70 percent to 78 million in the 20 years to 2030, the Henry
J. Kaiser Family Foundation said in a 2008 study.  Municipal and state governments have expanded their
payrolls in the meantime, with cities, towns, counties and
school districts employing 14.1 million in January, up 3.5
percent from January 2002, according to U.S. Labor Department
data. State employment has grown 1 percent to 5.05 million in
the same period.  Rocky Recovery  States still reeling from the recession “face a long and
uncertain recovery,” according to analysts at the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities in  Washington . In a Feb. 27 update,
the nonprofit organization’s analysts said states had projected
or closed $47 billion in deficits for the fiscal year that
begins in July. Tight budgets make it harder to deal with future
health-care costs.  Pennsylvania’s growing pension and benefit liabilities pose
a risk that “will materially challenge” the state’s attempts
to balance its budget, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
December report. Pennsylvania ranked 24th in the Bloomberg
Rankings analysis of unfunded liabilities for retiree benefits.  “We’re still where we were five years ago,” PFM’s Miller
said. “If we continue on, it will cause budget problems. It’s
going to squeeze out jobs and pay raises.”  Affecting Ratings  Since state and local governments began disclosing the
projected costs of promised retirement benefits about five years
ago, bond analysts have begun weighing the obligations when they
grade government debt.  Connecticut ’s “fixed costs for debt, pension, and other
post-employment benefits (OPEB) relative to budget are among the
highest in the nation” and remain a fiscal challenge, Moody’s
analysts said in a January report. Taken together, “they will
continue to consume an increasingly larger portion of the
state’s budget,” absent further changes, the analysts said.  “Rating agencies are forcing states that ignore it to
expect their credit ratings to be impacted,” said CanagaRetna.
“States are looking to catch up.”  Moody’s cut Connecticut’s $14.6 billion of general-
obligation debt one step to Aa3, its fourth-highest grade in
January. It gave the state a “stable” outlook, citing steps
taken last year to curb pension and benefits liabilities.  More Urgent Needs  States have been slow in tackling the retiree health-care
cost issue to avoid pressure for benefit cuts or funding
increases, which may divert money from other priorities, said
David Crane, who was an adviser to former  California  Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican. Schwarzenegger’s final
budget, passed in 2010, included reduced pension benefits for
new employees and higher contributions for the rest.  “It’s like a frog being slowly boiled to death,” said
Crane, who teaches at  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,
California. “They’re not doing anything about the liabilities.
In most states, they’re not being funded at all.”  Until accounting-rule changes in 2008 forced state and
local governments to disclose other post-employment benefits
besides pensions, most didn’t track the liability. There was no
requirement to put money aside to pay for the promised coverage.  By 2009, when Moody’s cut Connecticut’s bond grade, they
said the state owed more for retirees than its annual budget.
The Nutmeg State, with a about 3.57 million people in 2010, had
the second-highest unfunded liability per person, at $8,281,
trailing only  Alaska , with about 710,200 residents, at $16,742.  Passing the Buck  “There’s a bit of a reluctance to tackle the problem
because it’s going to be someone else’s problem in a few
years,” Gallagher Benefit’s Volk said. “Some think it’s not a
real liability, that it’s an accounting thing.”  New Jersey (STONJ1)  estimates its unfunded liability for retiree
health is more than twice what it owes for pensions, according
to state figures. The Garden State has paid more to borrow from
the municipal-bond market after three credit evaluators cut its
ratings in part because of expanding pension and health-care
obligations. Moody’s cited the growing cost of retiree benefits
as a continuing fiscal challenge in reports last year.  The state’s liability for retiree benefits separate from
pensions has more than quadrupled since 2008 to $13.5 billion in
fiscal 2011. Its combined unfunded obligation, at $59.3 billion
in fiscal 2010, includes coverage for retired teachers.  Christie said he initially sought to cut retiree health
costs along with changes for current workers. Instead, he said
he left out raising retiree expenses to smooth passage of other
changes, under a “principled compromise” with Democrats who
run the Legislature.  Seeking Lower Costs  “By offering retirees more choice, we could potentially
lower costs,” Christie said last week in Trenton, the capital.  The law that resulted “illegally takes away benefits that
school employees and others have already earned,” Barbara Keshishian, president of the  New Jersey  Education Association,
said of the changes in a response posted last year on the
union’s website.  During the 1990s, New Jersey’s Legislature cut workers’
required pension contributions at the same time it lowered the
 retirement age , without guaranteeing funds to cover the moves.  “We have structural problems in the pension system,”
Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat who
sponsored the law that changed benefits last year, said in
September. “We had to fix it.”  Setting Aside Funds   Massachusetts (STOMA1)  made progress toward covering its benefits
costs by setting aside funds from a settlement with  tobacco
companies , according to CanagaRetna, of the Council of State
Governments. The state plans to put away 10 percent of a $300
million payment to fund health-care costs for 10 years starting
in 2013.  Apart from covering the liability, governments can also
seek to curb benefits, at least for new employees, such as
Schwarzenegger did. Unions and other employee groups have
rallied legislative allies to fight benefits erosion, however.  Michigan (STOMI1)  was the only state that made significant changes
in 2011 that will reduce its retiree health-care costs, said Ron
Snell, who tracks such issues for the  National Conference of
State Legislatures , a nonprofit organization in Denver.
Employees hired after Jan. 1 won’t be promised health benefits
when they retire. Instead, the government and workers will
contribute to a fund that retirees can use to pay for insurance.  Other states have increased worker contributions for
benefits or copayments made by retirees, Snell said. Or they’re
increasing the number of years workers must put in to qualify,
CanagaRetna said.  Exposed to Cuts  “In most states, OPEB, unlike pensions, isn’t a
contractual right,” said S&P’s Hitchcock. “So it’s a lot
easier to cut the benefit.”  States also may be delaying funding the benefit in the hope
that the federal health-care overhaul will compel retirees to
buy insurance until they are covered by Medicare, Volk said.  “There’s a bit of an attitude to see what happens under
health-care reform,” CanagaRetna said. “We’re in a holding
pattern.”  Underfunded retiree benefits may pose a bigger fiscal
challenge to many states than pensions, since few have set aside
money to help cover the cost, Crane said.  By contrast, state retirement plans have hundreds of
billions of dollars for future pension payments, with a median
value of about 75 percent of the assets needed to meet
obligations, according to a Bloomberg Rankings analysis. The
most poorly financed,  Illinois , still held enough money in 2010
to cover about 45 percent of what it expects to owe.  Since health benefits often aren’t protected by law, states
are under much less pressure to cover those future costs, said
 James Spiotto , a lawyer who heads Chapman & Cutler LLP’s special
litigation, bankruptcy and workout group in  Chicago . That also
means it may be easier to reduce the obligations than pension
expenses, he said.  “If you can’t pay for your pension, you probably can’t”
cover retiree health-care liabilities, Spiotto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  