-- Stem Cells Let Kidney Transplant Patients Skip Rejection Drugs, Study Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-07T19:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/stem-cells-let-kidney-transplant-patients-skip-rejection-drugs-study-says.html
Kidney  transplant  patients given a
mixture of  stem cells  from their organ donor were able to quit
taking anti-rejection medicine in a small study, suggesting that
life-long reliance on the toxic drugs may be avoidable.  Five of eight patients treated were able to stop taking
about a dozen pills a day to suppress their immune systems. The
drugs, which prevent rejection and stop tissue from a donated
kidney from attacking the patient, can damage the transplant and
cause diabetes, infections,  heart disease  and cancer.  The breakthrough, reported in the journal  Science
Translational Medicine , mixed stem cells from the donor’s
infection-fighting immune system with the patient’s natural
immune system. The result enabled tissue from both to co-exist
in the transplant patient without either being seen as
“foreign” by the immune system, researchers said.  The results “may potentially have an enormous, paradigm-
shifting impact on solid-organ transplantation,” wrote James
Markmann and Tatsuo Kawai from  Massachusetts General Hospital  in
 Boston , in an editorial accompanying the study. “Although only
a taste of things to come, few transplant developments in the
past half-century have been more enticing than these that put
transplantation tolerance within our grasp.”  The findings are particularly striking since the patients
weren’t perfect  tissue matches  with the living donors. The
mismatch traditionally makes it more difficult for the donated
organ to survive since the patient’s immune system perceives the
unfamiliar tissue as a threat.  ‘Road to Tolerance’  “It’s been a longstanding goal in transplantation to
achieve tolerance, to get the recipient to see the donor organ
as part of itself,” said Joseph Leventhal, a surgeon at
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in  Chicago  and the lead author.
“A road to tolerance” now exists, he said.  Having two immune systems blend into one is called a
“ chimerism .” The long-lasting effect seen in the study may
stem from the manipulation of stem cells taken from the donor in
advance of the surgery, according to the report.  The cells were sent to Suzanne Ildstad, director of the
Institute of Cellular Therapeutics at the  University  of
Louisville in Kentucky. There “facilitating cells” that help
transplants take hold were identified and used to enrich the
mixture, which was given to the patient the day after surgery.  The researchers didn’t provide details on how they crafted
the stem cell mix, which may make it difficult for other
investigators to confirm the findings, Markmann and Kawai wrote.  Regenerex Links  Two of the study’s 10 authors are officers in Regenerex
LLC, a startup biotechnology company based in Louisville,
 Kentucky , that is involved in processing the donor cells.
Ildstad has an equity interest in the company and is an author
on a patent for the facilitator cells, which she discovered.  While patients who stopped taking anti-rejection drugs have
been off the medicine for at least a year, the researchers plan
to continue following them to ensure the donor organ thrives,
said Leventhal, who is also the director of kidney and pancreas
transplantation at Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine. The study, in the second of three phases needed to win
U.S. regulatory approval, will eventually include as many as 40
patients getting kidney transplants from living donors, he said.  Additional work is needed to expand the technique to
transplants from deceased donors and for more complex organs
including the liver, heart and lung, Markmann and Kawai wrote.
Nonetheless, the findings are building on evidence first
gathered in 1953 that found newborn mice could support an
intermingling of two immune systems, they said.  The findings “add to advances in the last few years that
suggest that the six-decade old quest for tolerance for kidney
transplant patients may finally be nearing its end,” they said.  The study was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health, the Department of the Army, the National Foundation to
Support Cell Transplant Research, the W. M. Keck Foundation and
the American Society of Transplant Surgeons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  