-- Syria Armed Opposition an Irritation Not a Threat, Says Research Institute
-- B y   F r a n c i s   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-07T13:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/syria-armed-opposition-an-irritation-not-a-threat-says-iiss.html
Syria ’s armed opposition is an
irritation rather than a threat to the survival of President
Bashar al-Assad’s government, according to the International
Institute of Strategic Studies.  The lightly armed rebels of the Free Syrian Army cannot
control the country’s largest centers of population, and
assisting them from abroad would be very difficult, according to
the 54 year-old London-based research institute.  The rebels are “no direct threat to the regime,” Toby Dodge, IISS senior fellow for the  Middle East , said at a press
conference in London today. Meanwhile “there clearly is not the
momentum needed” to break the deadlock over international
action at the  United Nations Security Council , he said. Fighting
inside the country continues as a form of “bloody attrition.”  As Syrian forces shelled protesters in the suburbs of
Damascus, the U.S. sought to convince veto-wielding Security
Council members Russia and  China  to drop their support for
Assad. Russia’s Foreign Ministry said it would not accept one-
sided efforts by outside powers and that it won’t revise its
position.  The Syrian National Council, the leading alliance of
opposition groups, will lobby the “Friends of Syria” for
weapons and recognition when the group of about 70 nations
reconvenes in Istanbul later this month, council member Mustafa
Hamitoglu said. The SNC established a military bureau to aid
rebel fighters on March 1.  ‘Practical Difficulties’  “While there are now regional calls to arm the opposition,
the practical difficulties of doing this, and of the external
intervention sometimes mooted, are formidable,” said John Chipman, IISS director general, at the publication of the
institute’s annual Military Balance publication.  Assad will seek meanwhile to maintain the conflict at a
level “below that which would risk triggering international
intervention,” Chipman said.  The situation in Syria is “much more complicated” then
the uprising in  Libya , President  Barack Obama  said yesterday.
While the U.S. is reviewing possible military action against
Syria, the administration is focusing on “diplomatic and
political approaches,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in
written testimony prepared for a Congressional hearing today.  Turkey  yesterday called for humanitarian corridors to aid
the victims of violence in its southern neighbor. Even so, there
is no sign it will take action to impose this, Dodge said. Such
a move would be welcomed by the West, he said.  Turkish President Abdullah Gul today described the violence
as an international problem and said Syria should accept outside
proposals on methods of resolving the crisis.  Syria’s armed opposition lost control of the central city
of Homs, the country’s third-biggest, last week following a
month-long siege.  China today said it has pulled most of its workers out of
Syria for security reasons, as Air France-KLM Group suspended
flights to Damascus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francis Harris in  London  at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  