-- Syrian Army Hits Damascus Suburb Protests
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-07T17:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/syrian-forces-target-damascus-suburb-protesters-as-un-envoys-start-visits.html
Syrian forces are shelling
protesters in Damascus suburbs as United Nations envoys arrive
in the capital seeking to protect humanitarian-aid efforts and
end President Bashar al-Assad’s yearlong crackdown.  The government killed at least 39 people today,  Al Arabiya 
reported, and 26 people died yesterday, while tanks continued
shelling Yabroud and entered Qarah, about an hour north of
Damascus, said Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights. The UN’s emergency relief
coordinator,  Valerie Amos , arrived in Damascus for a two-day
visit, and special envoy  Kofi Annan  will follow on March 10.  International efforts to halt the violence that’s claimed
more than 7,500 lives by UN estimates come as the U.S. seeks to
convince veto-wielding Security Council members Russia and China
to drop their support for Assad. China pulled out almost all its
workers from Syria as their safety deteriorated. President
 Barack Obama  said unilateral military intervention in Syria
would be “a mistake” as the country’s main opposition bloc
presses the international community for arms and a safe haven.  “Discussions are just beginning and will continue” among
the five permanent members of the  Security Council , which have
veto power, and  Morocco , U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “If and when, it seems there is a
basis for a meaningful and viable text, we will propose one to
the full Security Council.”  Humanitarian-Aid Access  Amos, who is on a mission to secure “unhindered access for
humanitarian-relief workers” in Syria, met with Foreign
Minister Walid Al-Muallem in Damascus, Elisabeth Byrs, a UN
spokeswoman in Geneva, said by telephone. She couldn’t confirm
an Associated Press report that Amos had departed for Homs.  Assad laid siege and captured the central district’s Baba
Amr neighborhood after shelling it for a month. International
aid groups haven’t been allowed access. Amos entered the
battered area in Homs today and will make the first assessment
of her trip there, the AP said, citing the Syrian Arab Red
Crescent. The aid organization’s Damascus headquarters couldn’t
be reached in repeated phone calls to verify the report.  “We have been able to go to all parts of the country where
there has been unrest,” Saleh Dabbakeh, the Damascus
representative of the International Committee of the  Red Cross ,
said today by telephone. “It hasn’t been that we’ve been
stopped, but sometimes it has been more difficult. Even in Homs,
when fighting was raging in Baba Amr, other areas were
accessible.”  China Withdraws Workers  The ICRC sent five convoys with humanitarian and medical
assistance to Homs from Feb. 11 to March 3, Dabbakeh said.
Government officials citing security reasons still won’t allow
the organization to enter Baba Amr, he said.  As the U.S. undertakes a third effort to halt the violence
in Syria, the government in Beijing withdrew Chinese nationals
“because the situation there is quite complex we need to
protect the safety of our workers,” Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told reporters in  China ’s capital today, without saying
how many workers had been repatriated. About 100 workers
remained behind in Syria to look after Chinese projects.  The proposed U.S. resolution “demands an immediate halt to
all forms of violence in Syria” and calls for government
officials responsible for “widespread, systematic and gross”
human-rights violations to be held accountable, according to a
draft e-mailed from the UN yesterday.  Russia Opposition  Assad should withdraw all forces from cities and return
them to barracks and “armed elements” of the opposition must
abstain from violence, under the draft resolution. The U.S.
proposal also supports an Arab League plan to facilitate
political transition, which was included in the resolution
Russia and China vetoed last month.  Russia’s Foreign Ministry called one-sided outside efforts
“unacceptable” and said it won’t revise its position on
resolving the crisis in  Syria . “Reaching a lasting Syrian
solution is possible only on the basis of wide-ranging, national
dialogue,” the ministry said on its website yesterday.  The Syrian National Council, the leading alliance of
opposition groups, will lobby the “Friends of Syria” for
weapons and recognition when the group of about 70 nations
reconvenes in Istanbul later this month, council member Mustafa
Hamitoglu said. The SNC established a military bureau to aid
rebel fighters on March 1.  “What you’ve seen is the international community mobilize
against the Assad regime,” Obama  told reporters  yesterday at
the White House. The U.S. will work with global partners to
support the opposition, provide humanitarian assistance and
continue pressing for the Syrian government’s political and
economic isolation, he said.  U.S. Military Options  “It’s not a question of when Assad leaves,” Obama said.
“He has lost the legitimacy of his people, and the action he is
now taking against his own people is inexcusable, and the world
community has said so in a more or less unified voice.”  While the U.S. is focusing on diplomatic means to end the
violence in Syria, the administration is considering “all
possible additional steps, including potential military options
if necessary,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said today.  The Syrian government controls a “strong” military,
Panetta told the Senate Armed Services Committee, adding that
differences within the opposition and the international
community prevent a military intervention.  The lightly armed opposition Free Syrian Army can’t control
the country’s largest population centers, the International
Institute of Strategic Studies said today. Providing foreign
assistance to the rebel army would be difficult, according to
the London-based research institute, whose senior fellow for the
 Middle East , Toby Dodge, said the rebels are “no direct threat
to the regime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  