-- U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Slows as Clothes Costs Drop, BRC Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/u-k-shop-price-inflation-slows-as-clothes-costs-drop-brc-says.html
U.K.  shop-price inflation  slowed to
the lowest in just under two years in February as clothing and
electrical-goods stores cut prices to drum up demand from
consumers, the  British Retail Consortium  said.  Retail prices rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier, the
least since March 2010, compared with a 1.4 percent gain in
January, the trade group and Nielsen Co. said in an e-mailed
report in  London  today. Non-food prices fell 0.7 percent from a
year earlier, the first decline in more than two years.  U.K. stores are lowering prices to lure shoppers whose
confidence is being undermined by a sluggish economic recovery
and rising unemployment. While  inflation  is cooling, it remains
above the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target and higher  oil
prices  have lifted gasoline costs.  “Promotional activity has been sustained over the last
three months as  consumer confidence  remains fragile,” said  Mike Watkins , senior manager of retail services at Nielsen.
“Retailers are having to work hard to encourage customers.”  The Bank of England will maintain its bond-purchase program
this week after increasing it by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion)
to 325 billion pounds last month, according to a survey of
economists by Bloomberg News. Policy makers have said they
expect consumer demand to pick up later this year as cooling
inflation eases the squeeze on consumers.  The BRC report showed that food-price inflation accelerated
to 4.2 percent in February from 3.7 percent in January. Within
the non-food category, prices for clothes and shoes fell 5.2
percent compared with a year earlier.  Hiring Accelerates  Separately, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and Employment
Confederation said their index of hiring of full-time staff rose
to a nine-month high of 53.2 in February from 51.2 in January.
An index of hiring of temporary workers slipped to 49 from 49.4.
Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  Visa Europe  said  consumer spending  rose 0.2 percent in
February from January and was down 1.7 percent from a year
earlier. In the quarter through February, spending fell 1.3
percent compared with the previous three months.  Steve Perry, commercial director at Visa  Europe , said while
the monthly increase indicates the economy “may be slowly
returning to growth,” there is still “a way to go before we
can talk of a full recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  