-- U.S. Army Corps Bribe Suspect Agrees to Plead Guilty in Kickback Scheme
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-07T19:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/u-s-army-corps-bribe-suspect-agrees-to-plead-guilty-in-kickback-scheme.html
The former director of contracts for
Eyak Technology LLC, Harold Babb, will plead guilty to bribery
as part of a $20 million false billing scheme targeting the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, prosecutors said.  The U.S. attorney’s office in  Washington , in a federal
court filing today, said Babb will admit to one charge of
bribery and one charge of unlawful kickbacks. Prosecutors asked
U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  to schedule a plea hearing
for March 13, according to the filing.  “We have reached a tentative agreement,” Babb’s lawyer,
Jeffrey Jacobovitz, said in an interview. “We are still working
out the details.  Babb was one of four people charged in a case that
prosecutors called one of the “most brazen” frauds in federal
contracting history. In January, a U.S. Army Corps contracting
official, Michael A. Alexander, admitted to taking bribes and
conspiring to launder money.  Alexander said he and a colleague, Kerry Khan, funneled
more than $45 million through a contract he managed, which
resulted in $20 million of kickbacks generated by overbilling.
Khan’s son was also charged.  ‘Domino Effect’  Jacobovitz said that generally when one co-defendant pleads
guilty “it creates a domino effect.”  Eyak Technology is a unit of Anchorage, Alaska-based Eyak
Corp., which has received more than $1.9 billion in government
contracts since the fiscal year that began October 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  The company qualifies for preferential treatment through a
program that reserves some contracts for small companies owned
by disadvantaged minorities.  Eyak Technology LLC’s so-called Indefinite Delivery,
Indefinite Quantity, or IDIQ, contract with the  Army Corps 
allowed Babb to steer work to a subcontractor who would inflate
invoices, prosecutors alleged.  Many agencies have used IDIQ contracts as a way to speed up
the process by awarding the contract to one business that
essentially acts as a “management agent” and doles out orders
for products and services for the government, said Bunny
Greenhouse, a former civilian head of contracting for the Army
Corps.  Bill Miller , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message seeking
comment on the filing. Melissa Zelinger, a spokeswoman for Eyak,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message and an e-mail
seeking comment on the proposed guilty plea.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 1:11-cr-00276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 