-- U.S. Companies in France Says Tax Situation Better, Economy Not
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-07T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/u-s-companies-in-france-says-tax-situation-better-economy-not.html
U.S. businesses operating in  France 
say the French government’s effort to cut taxes has made the
country a better place to operate. Still, many are worried about
the impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis and don’t plan to add
workers, according to an annual poll.  “Despite the financial crisis, France has advantages to
attract foreign investors,” Marc-Andre Kamel, head of Bain’s
European retail practice, said at a press conference today in
Paris. “But the debt crisis is like a boomerang that keeps
coming back.”  Sixty-seven percent of U.S. subsidiaries in France said the
euro debt crisis was damaging investment plans, according to the
12th annual poll by the American Chamber of Commerce in France
and consultants Bain & Co.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s decision to raise the minimum
 retirement age  to 62 from 60 was seen as positive by 45 percent
of respondents and neutral by 49 percent. A tax credit for
research was seen as positive by 70 percent of respondents.
Still, 45 percent said the elimination of the “professional
tax,” a company tax based on invested capital, was insufficient
to make France’s tax system more attractive and only 12 percent
said it was sufficient.  The poll was conducted before the French government
announced a cut in social charges paid by companies, and before
an extended bank lending operation by the  European Central Bank 
helped bring down bond yields in troubled euro countries.  Overall, 56 percent of respondents said France was an
“attractive” place for direct investment, compared with 46
percent a year ago.  Companies Surveyed  This year’s poll was based on questionnaires sent out at
the end of November 2011 to about 1,000 U.S. companies operating
in France. The 59 companies that responded employ 110,000 people
and have annual revenue of 25 billion euros ($33 billion).  France was the fourth largest recipient of foreign direct
investment in 2011, behind the U.S.,  China , and  Hong Kong ,
according to the  United Nations . It’s the second largest
recipient of U.S. investment in Europe, behind Britain.  Google Inc. opened a research center in Paris last year,
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  is creating a  data center  in the south of France, and
Amazon.com Inc. is building a logistics base.  Looking at the French economy over the next two years, 20
percent said the outlook is “positive,” down from 51 percent
last year. Only 25 percent said they planned to increase the
number of workers in 2012-13, compared with 38 percent who a
year ago expected to increase hiring.  Rigid Labor Rules  As in past years, the poll found that France is well rated
for its geographical position and quality of its work force.
It’s rated similar to other countries in company taxation, and
is rated worse for rigid labor rules and cost of bureaucratic
procedures.  Eric Boustouller, president of the American Chamber in
France, said this year’s French presidential election doesn’t
seem to be affecting the mood of U.S. companies, even as
Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  has called for a 75
percent tax bracket on income above 1 million euros.  “Companies stay above the fray because they make
investment based on 10, 15 years,” said Boustouller, who is the
head of Microsoft Corp.’s French unit. “They don’t make
decisions based on campaign declarations here and there.”  The poll showed that 49 percent of company heads think the
election will be neutral for their company, while 35 percent
said it would have a negative impact.  U.S. companies in France employ 800,000 people directly and
2 million indirectly, the Chamber says, and have annual revenue
of 30 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  