-- Clinton Prods Russia on Syria as U.S. Reviews Military Options
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/u-s-pushing-russia-to-change-syria-stance-ahead-of-un-meeting.html
The debate over how to end the
violence in Syria grew louder, as Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said the U.S. is reviewing potential military action and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  challenged Russia to end its
support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Panetta told the Senate Armed Services Committee there
isn’t enough unity among the Syrian opposition and the
international community for outside military intervention. The
Obama administration is consulting on options with other nations
and considering “an array of non-lethal assistance,” he said.  “Unfortunately, this terrible situation has no simple
answers, and so the result is a great deal of anger and
frustration that we all share,” Panetta said.  Pressure on the U.S. and other nations to ease the crisis
in Syria, where the United Nations estimates the violence has
claimed more than 7,500 lives, continues to mount amid concerns
over what a messy end to the Assad family’s 40-years of
authoritarian rule could mean for  Syria  and its neighbors.  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, told the committee the options he is preparing for
President Barack Obama’s consideration include humanitarian
relief missions, naval interdiction, a no-fly zone and
“limited” air strikes.  “The ability to do a single raid-like strike would be
accessible to us,” Dempsey said, noting that Syria has “five
times more sophisticated” air defenses than existed in  Libya .
“The ability to do a longer-term sustained campaign would be
challenging and would have to be made in the context of other
commitments around the globe.”  ‘Mass Atrocities’  Obama said on March 6 that unilateral military intervention
in Syria now would be “a mistake.”  Lawmakers, including Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain 
and Connecticut independent Senator  Joe Lieberman , are pushing
for a more aggressive American stance. They argue that ousting
Assad would deprive  Iran  of its only Arab ally and sever a major
delivery route for weapons and people from Iran to the Lebanese
Shiite group Hezbollah, which the U.S. lists as a terrorist
organization.  “Americans should lead in this,” McCain said at the Armed
Services Committee hearing yesterday. “Mass atrocities are
going on.”  Clinton, who plans to speak at a United Nations meeting on
March 12 in support of a third attempt on a Security Council
resolution on Syria, argued for international unity to end the
bloody crackdown on Assad’s opponents.  Regime Allies  It is “past time for those nations that continue to arm
and support the regime to bring an end to the bloodshed,”
Clinton said at the State Department yesterday, as she condemned
Assad’s refusal to allow humanitarian help as “a new low.”  The international community, stymied twice by Russian and
Chinese  Security Council  vetoes protecting Assad, has increased
its diplomatic efforts on Syria.  The world body’s emergency relief coordinator,  Valerie Amos , arrived in Damascus for a two-day visit yesterday, with
special envoy  Kofi Annan  scheduled to follow on March 10.  Meanwhile, the U.S. is circulating a third draft Security
Council resolution calling for the violence to end and Syrian
leaders to be held accountable.  Clinton said yesterday she will meet with her Russian
counterpart, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , on March 12 before
a broader UN meeting with Arab countries to discuss the Arab
Spring. Lavrov will be in Cairo on March 10 to meet with the
 Arab League , which sponsored one of the Syria resolutions  Russia 
spiked.  ‘Positive Role’  “We continue to believe Russia should join the
international community and play a positive role in trying to
end the bloodshed and help create the conditions for a peaceful
democratic transition,” Clinton said.  U.S. officials said earlier this week they hope that, with
Russia’s March 4 elections now over, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  might be more supportive on Syria. Russia countered
yesterday on its foreign ministry website, saying that outside
efforts to impose a solution that back one side in the conflict
are “unacceptable.”  Moscow has insisted on apportioning equal blame for the
violence to the Assad regime and its opponents, while the U.S.
and European nations have said most of the blame should fall on
the Assad regime for using military force against the civilian
population. Yesterday, Russia’s foreign ministry said it has
told Syria’s ambassador to Moscow that “the violence must end
immediately, no matter where it comes from.”  Russia Consistent  Russia’s position on Syria is going to remain consistent,
and the chances of Moscow backtracking and supporting regime
change are slim unless the violence escalates further, said
Lilit Gevorgyan, a Russia analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London , in an e-mail.  The proposed U.S.-drafted resolution “demands an immediate
halt to all forms of violence in Syria” and calls for
government officials responsible for “widespread, systematic
and gross” human-rights violations to be held accountable,
according to a draft obtained by Bloomberg.  The draft says the Security Council agrees to “review the
implementation of this resolution within 14 days and, in the
event of non-compliance, to consider swiftly further measures.”  In Syria, government forces shelled protesters in Damascus
suburbs yesterday, killing at least 39 people,  Al Arabiya 
reported, in addition to 26 people who died March 6.  ‘This Is Unacceptable’  Clinton said the coalition of countries and organizations
that make up the self-proclaimed Friends of Syria group have
delivered tons of food and medicine at Syria’s borders. Those
supplies “are standing by while more civilians die and the
regime launches new assaults,” Clinton said. “This is
unacceptable.”  The Friends group decided at a meeting in  Tunisia  last
month to increase its support for the opposition, which Clinton
said was “not yet as unified and focused, either inside or
outside Syria, as we hope it could become.”  UN humanitarian envoy Amos, who is on a mission to secure
“unhindered access” for humanitarian relief workers, met with
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem in Damascus, Elisabeth
Byrs, a UN spokeswoman in Geneva, said by phone.  Assad captured the Baba Amr neighborhood in Homs after
shelling it for a month. Amos was permitted in the area
yesterday, her spokeswoman Amanda Pitt said in a telephone
interview.  “Her impressions of Baba Amr was that it was badly damaged
and very few people were around,” Pitt said.  While Clinton said the U.S. will focus on helping the
rebels become more unified and communicate more clearly, allies
such as  Saudi Arabia  are publicly calling for arming the
opposition. Prince Saud Al-Faisal, the world’s longest-serving
foreign minister, told reporters at the Tunisia meeting last
month that it would be an “excellent idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  