-- U.S. House Plan Would Ease SEC Rules for Closely Held Companies
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/u-s-house-plan-would-ease-sec-rules-for-closely-held-companies.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats  say they want
to put their own mark on House legislation intended to make it
easier for closely held companies to raise money and prepare to
go public.  Lawmakers in the Republican-controlled House and
Democratic-controlled Senate say they see the potential for
bipartisan agreement on elements of the plan, which would loosen
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules on such companies.  The House plans to begin debate today and may vote tomorrow
on the measure,  H.R. 3606 . Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada told reporters yesterday that Senate Democrats will quickly
offer their own version “in the same framework of getting
something done to help create capital so small business can do a
better job.”  “Passage in the Senate appears not to be a question of if,
but when,” Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s
third-ranking Democrat, said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration yesterday urged the
House to pass its plan and said it will work with Congress
toward a final measure. “Helping startups and small businesses
succeed and create jobs is fundamental to having an economy
built to last,” the statement said.  Smaller companies have been struggling to raise money amid
regulatory and economic pressure. Secondary markets, where
private shares of companies are bought and sold, have surged as
the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act made
accessing public markets more expensive.  Going Public  The goal, lawmakers say, is to let companies attract
investors while remaining closely held, giving them an
opportunity to prepare to eventually go public.  The House Republican plan also would provide newly public
companies with less than $1 billion in annual revenue with
exemptions and phase-ins for compliance with some SEC rules,
including a requirement that an outside auditor attest to the
firm’s internal controls.  While saying it would be “naive to believe that it’s going
to turn the economy around,” Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin  said
in an interview that the plan “could be helpful.” Durbin said
fellow Senate Democratic leaders were consulting with Senator
Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat and chairman of the Banking
Committee, on possible revisions.  Some Democrats expressed concern that removing or relaxing
SEC rules would harm protection for investors.  ‘Appropriate Balance’  “You’ve got to have an appropriate balance between the
ability to raise capital and protect investors,” Senator Jack Reed of  Rhode Island (BARI) , the second-ranking Democrat on the banking
panel, said in an interview. “The market functions best when
entrepreneurs can access capital and investors feel confident
that their interests are being protected.”  Other Democrats are pushing to expand the proposal. Schumer
said he expects the Senate package “to go a little further”
than the House plan.  The House Republican proposal would double to 1,000 the
number of shareholders a closely held company can have while
avoiding SEC registration.  It also would let companies raise as much as $2 million
through advertising on Internet platforms such as Twitter or
Facebook without triggering SEC registration requirements. The
House passed the measure exempting the practice, known as
“crowdfunding,” from SEC rules 407-17 in November.  House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California
Republican, is sponsoring a provision in the House measure to
remove an SEC ban on private companies soliciting funds from
accredited investors unless they have a previous relationship.
He said yesterday he feels “stronger” about the plan’s chances
of Senate approval.  “The climate is a little different and hopefully,
attitudes are a little different,” McCarthy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  