-- Ukrgasbank Will Return to Profit Before Its Resale, Shlapak Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-03-07T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ukrgasbank-will-return-to-profit-before-its-resale-shlapak-says.html
PAT Ukrgasbank , the Ukrainian bank
seized by the government in 2009, will post a profit this year,
making it attractive before a possible resale to investors by
2015, said First Deputy Board Chairman Stanislav Shlapak.  The formerly private  bank , now 93 percent-owned by the
government, will return to profitability after last year’s net
loss of 3.7 billion hryvnia ($460.3 million), Shlapak said in a
March 5 interview in the Ukrainian capital Kiev.  The government took over Ukrgasbank in July 2009 after the
global financial crisis that led to the demise of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  shook Ukraine’s banking system. The bank
has shown profits in the past two months, the first since the
state takeover, after it cut costs and added new clients.  “Last year was a breakthrough year for us” because of a
new growth strategy, said Shlapak, 33. “The bank should be
attractive for investors when the government decides to sell its
stake,” perhaps in two to three years, “though it is not our
decision, it is the decision of the owner.”  The last year’s loss was blamed on the accumulation of
reserves, in line with international standards, he said. Profit
in January totaled 42 million hryvnia, while February’s profit
was as high as 25 million hryvnia, Shlapak said, as corporate
lending totaled 13.4 billion hryvnia and retail lending was 2.9
billion hryvnia at the end of last year.  Ukrgasbank, which was the country’s 16th largest bank by
assets as of Jan. 1, wants to increase the share of retail
lending in its loan portfolio, said Shlapak. Its main clients
include metal, chemical, agricultural companies as well as
energy and railway, he said.  Retail Lending Goal  Eighty-percent of lending goes to corporate accounts, while
20 percent are to individuals, said Shlapak, who wants to
increase the bank’s share of retail lending to at least 25
percent this year. Bad loans totaled about 6 billion hryvnia.  “Part of those bad loans, mainly for construction, may be
redeemed in some period,” Shlapak said.  He sees the possible repayment of 3 billion hryvnia in 18
months, though the timing depends on legal procedures, and plans
to keep the number of branches stable after cutting more than
100 in 2009 and 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  