-- Ulrich Sees China Tax Reform Amid Shift to Consumption Focus
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-03-07T07:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/ulrich-sees-more-easing-tax-reform-from-china.html
China  may implement “dramatic” tax
reforms and introduce more easing measures to help boost the
economy as it shifts its focus to domestic demand growth from
exports,  Jing Ulrich , managing director and chairman of global
markets for China at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said.  Interest rates may be cut if growth in the world’s second-
largest economy remains sluggish, Ulrich said. The People’s Bank
of China may cut reserve ratio levels for major banks on three
more occasions this year after reductions in December and
February, Ulrich said. China will reform its tax system this
year, cutting consumption and service taxes to stimulate
 consumer spending , she said.  “Tax reduction will be a major theme throughout 2012,”
Ulrich said at a conference today in  Hong Kong . “The central
government has collected huge amount of taxes in the last few
years and deficit remains very small. They’re in a good position
to reduce tax in an environment where economic growth is
slowing.”  China is targeting economic growth of 7.5 percent this year,
the lowest since 2004, and inflation of 4 percent, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a state-of-the-nation speech on March 5. The
government is keeping in place measures to rein in property
prices as it attempts to replace exports with domestic demand as
the main driver of expansion.  ‘Worst Behind Us’  The “worst is behind us” for China’s real-estate market
and property prices and transaction volumes will begin to
improve in the second half of the year, Ulrich said. Still, high
inventories in steel, cement and other materials will continue
to put pressure on construction stocks, she said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 9.6 percent this year
through yesterday following two years of losses. Equities have
risen on speculation the central bank will add to a Feb. 18 cut
in  reserve requirements  to halt a slowdown in economic growth.
Stocks in the index trade at 10 times estimated profit, compared
with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg showed.  “Some time in 2012 we will have decent returns in the A-
share market, although a shift away from a bear market mentality
to a bull market mentality would take some time,” Ulrich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  