-- Humans and Gorillas Closer Than Thought, Genome Sequence Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-07T18:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/humans-and-gorillas-closer-than-thought-study-of-great-ape-genome-finds.html
Gorillas have been portrayed as
militaristic bullies in the Planet of the Apes movies and as
“highly social gentle giants” by researcher Dian Fossey.  Now scientists say they’re closer genetically to humans
than they once thought.  Sequencing the genome of a female western lowland gorilla
named Kamilah determined that most gorilla DNA is similar or
identical to those of humans, despite the 10 million-year gap
since the two species split off, according to a report today in
the journal Nature.  In 30 percent of the genome, the study determined that
gorillas are closer to humans and chimpanzees than the latter
two are to each other. It’s a finding that may help scientists
track changes in how the species have responded over time to
shared genetic characteristics, including diseases, the
researchers said.  “If we can understand why they’re harmful in humans but
not in gorillas, that would have useful medical implications,”
said  Chris Tyler-Smith , head of the human evolution team at
Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute in Hinxton,  England .  Gorillas are the last of the great ape genus to have their
genome sequenced, the investigators said. The group saw changes
in genes involved in sperm production and in the formation of
keratin proteins in the skin.  Additionally, gene variants that in humans cause genetic
disease don’t seem to affect gorillas similarly, said Tyler-
Smith, one of the study’s authors.  Dementia Gene  One of the genes, PGRN, has  a mutation  that causes
frontotemporal dementia in humans. Another, called TCAP, a human
variant that causes hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a condition
where the heart muscle thickens, makes it hard for blood to
leave the heart.  Both humans and gorillas have accelerated evolution in
genes associated with hearing, suggesting that the changes
aren’t related to speech, Tyler-Smith said.  Because gorillas live in groups with one male and many
females, there isn’t a lot of sperm competition, so many genes
involved in sperm formation are either inactive or decreased in
numbers in gorillas. And a gene called EVTL, which contributes
to keratin formation in the skin, is evolving very rapidly in
gorillas, who walk using knuckles that are padded with keratin.  Humans overall are still closer to chimpanzees in 70
percent of the genome, said study author Aylwyn Scally, a
postdoctoral fellow at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.  Ape Separation  “When we look at human evolution, there’s an emphasis on
chimpanzees because they’re closer, and other great apes get
overlooked,” said Tara Stoinski, chief scientist of the  Dian
Fossey Gorilla Fund  International, based in Atlanta.  “This lets us understand the relationships further back in
our ancestry,” Stoinski, who wasn’t involved in the research,
said in a telephone interview.  Human beings separated from chimpanzees 6 million years
ago, and from gorillas about 10 million years ago, according to
the report in Nature.  About half a million years ago, gorillas split into two
species, the eastern gorilla, featured in Dian Fossey’s book,
“Gorillas in the Mist,” and the western gorilla, whose genome
sequence was published today.  Fossey was inspired by Jane Goodall’s work with chimpanzees
and established a research center called Karisoke, in  Rwanda .
She knuckle-walked with the gorillas, habituating them to her
presence so she could study them. Later, she tried to protect
them from poachers after Digit, a gorilla she was especially
close to, was killed in 1977. In 1983, she published “Gorillas
in the Mist,” a description of her time with the gorillas that
underscored conservation. Fossey was murdered in 1985, and
buried next to Digit.  Koko the Gorilla  Koko the gorilla , who “speaks” using sign language, is a
western lowland gorilla; her relationship with a pet cat was
featured in the book “Koko’s Kitten.” Francine Patterson, a
scientist who taught a modified form of sign language to the
gorilla named Koko, portrayed the relationship between the
gorilla and a housecat in the book.  Since the latest species split, eastern and western
gorillas appear to have continued exchanging genetic information
through sexual liaisons, researcher has suggested.  In the future, the scientists plan to look at the eastern
gorillas, which have been studied more extensively in the field
than western gorillas, Tyler-Smith said. Both species live in
 Africa , separated by the Congo River. The western gorillas are
critically endangered, threatened by Ebola and being eaten by
humans as meat; eastern gorillas are endangered, Stoinski said.  The human genome sequence was  declared complete  in 2003,
 the chimpanzee  in 2005, and  the orangutan  in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  