-- UN to End Arms Embargo on Libya, Extend Mission There by a Year
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-07T23:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/un-to-end-arms-embargo-on-libya-extend-mission-there-by-a-year.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
is likely to vote next week to end an arms embargo on Libya and
extend the mandate of its political mission there by a year,
according to U.K. Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant.  Grant, who this month holds the presidency of the 15-member
body, told reporters today that a draft resolution will be voted
on in the coming days. Some Council members had sought a shorter
renewal of six months, he said.  Addressing the Security Council in  New York , Libyan Prime
Minister Abdurrahim El-Keib rebuffed criticism by  Russia  and
 China  that NATO strikes had resulted in civilian deaths and
alluded that the killings in Syria also required the UN’s
attention.  “Permit me to say that this matter which concerns the
blood of Libyans should not be a matter of political
propaganda,” he told council members. “I hope the reason for
raising this is not to impede or prevent the international
community” from intervening “in situation of others states
where their peoples are being massacred and killed at hands of
their rules.”  A year ago, the UN  Security Council  approved a no-fly zone
over Libya and authorized “all necessary measures” to protect
civilians, a move that helped the opposition topple dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi  and was criticized by Russia for expediting
regime change.  Since protests began in Syria last March, Russia and China
have twice vetoed attempts by the decision-making body to end
the bloodshed in a conflict that the UN estimates has claimed
more than 7,500 lives.  A third draft resolution was presented
by the U.S., and discussions have begun this week.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  