-- Vale Says It Plans to Challenge $17.4 Billion Tax Claims
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-03-07T21:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/vale-says-it-plans-to-file-court-appeal-after-losing-injunction.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, plans to challenge unpaid tax claims in  Brazil  of
as much as 30.7 billion reais ($17.4 billion) after losing an
appeal to keep the dispute at an administrative level.  The company, based in  Rio de Janeiro , lost an injunction
for claims of 9.8 billion reais plus interest related to tax
liabilities on its non-Brazilian domiciled units to be treated
as an administrative dispute, Vale said in a statement late
yesterday. The decision follows a similar ruling, which prompted
Vale to say March 5 that it will put up 1.6 billion reais in
collateral to challenge the dispute in court.  “Vale will file the necessary appeals to protect its
interests,” the company said in yesterday’s filing, without
saying if it will increase the amount. Including interests and
penalties, the claim may reach 24.1 billion reais, or about 78
percent of the total dispute, Vale said.  Vale, Brazil’s biggest exporter, is fighting tax claims
amid growth in its shipments and rising minerals prices. The
government is seeking tax payments on foreign operations profit
from 1996 to 2008 and additional unpaid royalties from
operations in Brazil, according to an April 28  filing  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Increasing Risks  Vale’s potential tax liabilities will continue to threaten
the stock,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  analysts Felipe Reis and Alex
Sciacio in Sao Paulo said in a research note today, where they
downgraded their rating on Vale to “hold” from “buy.”  “Our perceived risk related to Vale’s tax contingencies
increased significantly recently due to the sequential losses in
the company’s ongoing discussions with Brazilian tax
authorities,” the analysts said.  Since 2003 Vale has been challenging Brazilian taxes levied
on its foreign subsidiaries’ net income. Vale has received four
tax claims for a total of 30.7 billion reais including interests
and penalties as of Dec. 31, the company said in yesterday’s
filing. Brazilian tax authorities may also file claims for the
period starting in 2009, Vale said.  The company said it didn’t make provisions to cover
potential losses related to the dispute because it expects a
favorable decision.  Tax Defense  “Vale will continue to take appropriate legal action to
challenge the tax assessments, employing all available means to
ensure its rights to defend itself,” the company said, adding
it is “confident on obtaining a final favorable ruling.”  The mining company said Jan. 30 it obtained an injunction
blocking a court decision it must pay 9.8 billion reais for
taxes on overseas unit profit.  Vale fell 0.05 percent to 40.15 reais in  Sao Paulo , its
lowest level since Jan. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  