-- Viagra Pills Would Need Sex Therapist’s Approval in Ohio Bill
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-07T18:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/viagra-would-need-sex-therapist-s-approval-under-table-turning-ohio-bill.html
If women considering abortions must
face government-mandated examinations, it’s only fair that men
who want drugs such as Viagra to treat impotence get the same
treatment, an  Ohio (STOOH1)  lawmaker says.  State Senator Nina Turner, a Cleveland Democrat, has
introduced  a bill  to require that physicians take specific
actions before prescribing such drugs, including giving a
cardiac  stress test  and making a referral to a sex therapist for
confirmation that “the patient’s symptoms are not solely
attributable to one or more psychological conditions.”  “We want to make sure that men, vulnerable, fragile men,
who are not capable of making decisions for themselves,
understand all of the side effects and the implications of these
types of drugs,” Turner said in a telephone interview.  Her bill takes its place alongside similar efforts by
Democratic lawmakers in states including  Virginia  (STOVA1),  Georgia (STOGA1)  and
 Missouri (STOMO1)  in response to moves by Republican-controlled
legislatures to limit abortions or oppose a federal requirement
to include contraceptives in health-care plans.  A bill in  Missouri  would allow vasectomies only to protect
a man from serious injury or death, according to the  Associated
Press , and in Virginia, which passed a bill requiring women to
get an ultrasound before an abortion, state Senator Janet Howell
sought an amendment requiring doctors to perform a rectal exam
and stress test before prescribing erectile-dysfunction drugs.  For the Gander  “I think we should just have a little gender equity
here,” Howell testified in January, according to a video posted
on her YouTube channel.  Medications such as Viagra, manufactured by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
the world’s largest drugmaker,  increase  blood flow to the penis.
Side effects can include headaches, blue-tinted vision and long-
lasting and painful erections, according to the  Viagra  website .  Turner, 44, said she modeled her Ohio bill in response to a
measure in the Republican-dominated Legislature that would
prohibit doctors from performing an abortion after a fetal
heartbeat is detected. The legislation passed the Ohio House
last year, and Republican Senate President Tom Niehaus has said
he will resume hearings on it after yesterday’s primary.  ‘Equal Opportunity’  The Turner bill mimics provisions of the so-called
heartbeat bill, including requiring a doctor to place medical
records about prescriptions for erectile dysfunction in a
patient’s file and keep them for at least seven years.  “If we are going to be in the business as policy makers of
regulating sexual health or medical health, then we should do it
across the board,” Turner said. “We should be equal
opportunity in that.”  The legislation will be assigned to a committee, and it
will be up to the chairman to decide when it is considered, said
Angela Meleca, a spokeswoman for Senate Republicans. Senate
leaders have not yet reviewed the measure can’t comment on its
status, Meleca said.  Peter O’Toole , a Pfizer spokesman, said by phone that the
company doesn’t comment on specific legislation.  Turner said she is serious about passing her bill, pointing
to the drugs’ potential side effects. It’s also telling that
legislation about women’s reproductive health is common and
measures about men’s health aren’t, Turner said.  “Instead of focusing in on the crisis that we’re still
trying to dig ourselves out of as a country related to the
fiscal crisis of 2008, some of us have found leisure time to
deal with reproductive health -- and not deal with it in a very
productive manner,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  