-- Republicans to Lose 2012 Latino Vote, Democratic Mayor Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-07T22:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/villaraigosa-says-republicans-poised-to-lose-latino-voters-1-.html
Anti-immigrant positions of the
Republicans seeking the presidential nomination will cost the
party Latino voters in November, said  Los Angeles  Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , chairman of the Democratic National Convention.  “They’re going to lose the Latino electorate and they’re
going to lose it for some time,” Villaraigosa said today at a
Politico Playbook forum in  Washington . “This is the first time
in modern history that I can recall where a major candidate for
either party does not support comprehensive immigration
reform.”  Leading Republican contender Mitt Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, in January said he opposes any measure
allowing undocumented workers a chance to stay in the country
and gain legal status, including the so-called Dream Act. The
legislation would permit those brought to the U.S. illegally as
children a chance at legalization if they attended college or
enlisted in the military.  In January, Republican  Jeb Bush , a former  Florida  governor,
said his party’s candidates should adjust the “tone” of their
debate on issues such as illegal immigration to start appealing
to independent-minded voters in states such as Florida with a
history of voting for either major party. These voters are
likely to decide the outcome of the 2012 presidential election.  Gay Marriage  Villaraigosa, 59, the first Latino mayor of Los Angeles,
was tapped by the Democratic National Committee in February to
lead the party’s national convention in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . He will preside over the September convention’s
proceedings and serve as a spokesman for the party, which is
seeking to appeal to Latinos.  When asked whether he thought making same-sex marriages
legal should be in the Democratic party platform, Villaraigosa
said that he did.  “It’s basic to who we are,” he said. “I believe in
family values and that we all ought to be able to have a family.
I don’t think the government should be in the business of
denying people the fundamental right to marry.”  While President  Barack Obama  has backed civil unions, he
hasn’t endorsed marriage between couples of the same gender. At
a news conference in December 2010, Obama said his views on
same-sex unions “are constantly evolving.  ‘‘I struggle with this,’’ Obama said.  Villaraigosa, who is term limited, said he doesn’t have
plans to seek another elected office when this current four-year
term, his second, ends in 2013.  ‘‘I’m thinking about writing, speaking, but for now I’m
thinking about taking a little time out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  