-- Vivendi in Cost Hunt at SFR Mobile Unit, Eyes Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-03-07T18:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/vivendi-planning-hundreds-of-job-cuts-at-mobile-unit-union-officials-says.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , which began a review of
its SFR wireless division last month, may eliminate hundreds of
marketing and administrative positions to offset a projected
slump in earnings of as much as 570 million euros ($749 million)
at the unit, top union officials said.  SFR, the venture Vivendi bought out for 7.95 billion euros
last year, has frozen new projects, hirings and research to
adapt to falling prices in the French market after  Iliad SA (ILD) 
started a discounted service in January, union representative
Damien Bornerand said in a phone interview. The unit of Paris-
based Vivendi employs about 10,000 people.  “We’ve been told to expect more  positions  will be cut than
initially planned. It could be 200, 500 or even more on top of
the 120 cuts that were already decided,” Bornerand said. “It’s
tough to say how big it will be.”  SFR is under pressure because of increasing competition in
the French market. Iliad, due to report  earnings  on March 8,
captured as many as 2 million mobile customers in fewer than two
months, said French regulator Arcep. SFR said it lost 208,000
subscribers, while  France Telecom SA (FTE)  said it had lost a similar
number of clients as of mid-February.  Vivendi rose 2.2 percent to 13.85 euros in Paris trading
today.  Changing Market  This year’s budgets, set at the end of 2011, are being
called into question and all SFR managers have been asked to
identify cost-cutting opportunities, Geoffroy de Vienne, another
union representative, said in a separate interview. Spokesmen
for both SFR and Vivendi declined to comment.  The impact on jobs is set to be discussed with unions in
April. Job cuts could mean less interim and short-term
contracts, shifting employees from one project to another, or
lay-offs, according to both union representatives. The aim is to
implement all cost-cutting measures by June, Bornerand said.  SFR will adapt its structure, capital expenditure and
operational costs to new market conditions, Vivendi Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  said last week.  Vivendi, which bought  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 44 percent stake
in SFR last June, forecasts a profit slump through 2013. SFR’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will drop 12 percent to 15 percent in 2012, from 3.8 billion
euros last year, and the unit’s cash flow from operations will
decline 15 percent to about 1.7 billion euros, Vivendi said last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  