-- Wal-Mart $13.5 Million Retirement-Suit Accord Is Approved
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-08T01:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/wal-mart-13-5-million-retirement-suit-settlement-is-approved.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest
U.S. private employer, and  Merrill Lynch (MER)  won a judge’s final
approval to pay $13.5 million to settle claims the retailer’s
employees were charged excessive 401(k) fees.  U.S. District Judge Gary A. Fenner in  Missouri  approved the
accord at a hearing today, according to the court docket.
Merrill Lynch, the plan’s trustee now part of  Bank of America
Corp. , will pay $10 million and Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart will pay $3.5 million.  The docket entry said the “court orally grants motion for
approval of class action settlement” and “written order to be
issued.”  In 2009, a U.S. appeals court overturned Fenner’s decision
the previous year throwing out the suit. Wal-Mart was accused in
the suit of failing to offer retirement plans that limit the
amount of fees and expenses that are charged when employees make
investments.  The complaint also included an allegation that the improper
administration of the plans cost participants more than $60
million. The class-action, or group, lawsuit was filed by Wal-
Mart employee Jeremy Braden.  “We’re pleased to have settled the matter,” Greg Rossiter, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the bank was pleased to resolve the
case “and continue to provide a high-quality plan for Walmart
employees.”  Gretchen Obrist, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Braden v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 08-cv-3109,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Missouri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 