-- Wal-Mart Sets Announcement With Studios on Web-based Film-Sales Initiative
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-03-07T21:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/wal-mart-sets-announcement-with-studios-on-web-based-film-sales-initiative.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  set a March 13
announcement with five movie studios, a sign the world’s biggest
retailer plans to join Hollywood’s Web-based movie-storage
initiative.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount unit, Sony Pictures,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. will take part, according to a statement
today from Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart.  Support from Wal-Mart, owner of the Vudu online movie
service and the biggest DVD retailer, would mark an advance for
the studios’ efforts to reignite movie sales. A studio
initiative called Ultraviolet allows consumers to purchase and
store copies of films and television shows online and access
them with multiple devices.  “It’s more than us just joining the consortium,” Sarah
Spencer, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, said by telephone, without
providing additional details.  Also at the event will be the Digital Entertainment Content
Ecosystem, the industry group created to promote the cloud-based
Ultraviolet system.  Wal-Mart gained 1.5 percent to $59.83 at the close in  New
York . The shares are little changed this year.  In January, Amazon.com Inc., the largest online merchant,
said it was working with an unnamed studio to offer movies in
the UltraViolet format, becoming the first major retailer to
commit to the platform.  “The best movie and TV service for consumers is the one
that provides them with the broadest choice possible,” Bill
Carr, an executive vice president of Seattle-based Amazon, said
at the Consumer Electronics Show in  Las Vegas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  