-- Warmest Winter Since 2000 Offers No Solace to Natural Gas Market
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-07T19:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/warmest-winter-since-2000-offers-no-solace-to-natural-gas-market.html
The mildest U.S. winter since 2000
will end in two weeks with warming temperatures, leaving little
chance for a last gasp of heating demand that would bolster
natural gas prices.  Temperatures may exceed 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius)
in parts of the mid-Atlantic and southern Midwest by the time
spring officially arrives March 20, said Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Temperatures may reach 69 in New York
tomorrow and 60 in Chicago on March 15, according to AccuWeather
Inc. of  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  While there may be brief spells of lower temperatures, the
coldest part of the average U.S. winter has passed. The gas
market needed cold to help offset weaker demand caused by rising
inventories and a slumping economy, said James L. Williams,
owner of  WTRG Economics  in  London ,  Arkansas .  “It’s just out of whack,” Williams said. “The warm
winter has clearly exacerbated it. Unless it’s going to be an
ugly March, it’s not going to make up for the warm winter. You
can’t catch up at this point.”  Gas has fallen 23 percent this year, making it the worst
performer on Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index. On Feb. 24,
inventories of the fuel were 45 percent above the five-year
average, compared with 13.7 percent on Dec. 23, according to
Energy Department data.  Futures Decline  Futures fell to a 10-year low in  New York  as forecasts for
above-average March temperatures signaled reduced demand for the
furnace and power plant fuel. Gas for April delivery declined
5.4 cents, or 2.3 percent, to settle at $2.302 per million
British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “People are starting to come to the realization that this
was the winter that wasn’t,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at PFGBest Research in Chicago.  This winter in the contiguous U.S. was the fourth-warmest
on record, with an average temperature of 36.8 degrees
Fahrenheit (2.7 Celsius), the  National Climatic Data Center 
reported today.  That made it the warmest since the record winter of 2000,
which had an average temperature of 37.17 degrees, the center
said. Meteorologists designate winter as being from Dec. 1 to
Feb. 29. The calendar start to spring is based on the equinox.  Looking Past March  “March is theoretically the last month of winter but the
market is looking beyond,” said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in Houston. “It’s
looking at relatively mild conditions, so lots of excess gas and
no place to burn it.”  Viswanath said that at this time of year, a cold snap tends
to lack the punch, and therefore the impact on energy markets,
that a frigid blast in January can provide.  A day where the temperature falls below normal in  Chicago 
can mean a 1 billion cubic foot swing in inventory in January
and half that in March, she said.  “It is a significantly different story that develops in
March,” Viswanath said. “So now we’re in the last month and
we’re looking into the shoulder season and there is not a lot of
support of the gas market.”  The Arctic and North Atlantic oscillations, changes in
pressure over the  North Pole  and the northern Atlantic Ocean,
were major contributors to the mild U.S. winter, said Jon
Gottschalck, head of forecast operations at the  Climate
Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs , Maryland.  Weather Patterns  Through November, December and the first half of January,
the Arctic Oscillation was positive, which meant cold air stayed
at the pole, Gottschalck said.  In the second half of January, it flipped to negative and
frigid polar air started heading south. Then something unusual
happened, he said: The  North Atlantic Oscillation  remained
positive.  Instead of cold Arctic air being trapped in the U.S. to
freeze large cities, it kept right on going.  “We’re not sure why,” Gottschalck said. “That’s just the
way it worked out this year.”  While damping  natural gas  prices, the milder winter weather
probably was positive for the economy in general, said Thomas J.
Teisberg, a weather economist and president of Teisberg
Associates in Charlottesville, Virginia. People who saved money
on heating bills probably spent it elsewhere, he said.  State and local governments benefited because they didn’t
have to spend as much on snow and ice removal, said Jim Koermer,
a professor of meteorology at  Plymouth State University  in  New
Hampshire . At the same time, ski resorts spent more making snow
and many retailers missed out on selling snow shovels, which are
a last-minute item, Koermer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  