-- Wells Fargo’s CFO Says Branches May Be Closed, Merged
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-07T22:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/wells-fargo-may-consolidate-or-close-branches-in-savings-plan-sloan-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the most valuable
U.S. lender, may close or consolidate outlets as it examines
ways to trim costs, according to its chief financial officer.  Wells Fargo could shut branches near each other or move
some wealth-management or mortgage employees into those offices,
Timothy Sloan said today at a  New York  investor conference.  “There are obviously some regulatory issues that you need
to be mindful of when you combine a securities business and a
deposit-taking business,” Sloan told analysts who follow the
San Francisco-based company. “But from time to time, we are
clearly going to look at opportunities to consolidate.”  Banks including Wells Fargo have fallen short in efforts to
replace revenue lost to new financial rules such as those
capping debit-card interchange fees. Chief Executive Officer
 John Stumpf  has announced plans to trim $1.5 billion in
quarterly costs by the end of this year. Sloan affirmed the goal
while saying first-quarter expenses will remain elevated.  Wells Fargo has completed converting the former Wachovia
Corp. network to its own brand, Sloan said, giving the bank
6,239 retail branches, 1,375 retail brokerage offices and 725
mortgage locations at the end of 2011, according to today’s
 presentation . That outpaces Bank of America Corp. for the
largest U.S. network of outlets.  Retail Presence  “We continually make decisions on how best to increase the
efficiency of our networks, which is focused on how to best
serve our customers and meet their financial needs,” Wells
Fargo spokesman Ancel Martinez said in an e-mailed statement.
“While we may streamline or even expand our offices and stores
in business areas such as in mortgage and brokerage and within
various geographical locations, we certainly have no plans to
reduce our retail presence.”  The lender closed 638 branches in 2010, when it decided to
shutter its consumer-finance unit, Wells Fargo Financial,
according to a July 6, 2010 statement. At the time of the
announcement, the bank said it had 6,600 Wachovia and Wells
Fargo branches, and 2,200 mortgage offices. The staff totals
about 264,000.  Bank of America closed 154 branches in 2011, according to
its fourth-quarter presentation, and ended the year with about
5,700 branches. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender told
the  Federal Reserve  in June that it could reduce branches to
bolster finances in an emergency, a person briefed on the
discussions said earlier this year.  More Branches  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest U.S. bank by assets, is
expanding its network. The New York-based company said it may
open 900 “potential” new branch buildings in 2012, especially
in California, Florida and Atlanta. JPMorgan had 5,508 branches
at the end of the year, an increase of 240 from 2010, according
to the fourth-quarter earnings statement.  Wells Fargo gained 1 percent to $30.41 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York. The company has the biggest market value among U.S.
lenders at about $160 billion and ranks first in home lending
and mortgage servicing. The retail brokerage ranks third by
number of financial advisers, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  