-- Women Must Be Given Equal Rights in Decision-Making, Pillay Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-07T11:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/women-must-be-given-equal-rights-in-decision-making-pillay-says.html
Women remain under-represented in
politics and business and won’t be recognized as equal partners
in decision-making without institutional change, said
the  United Nations ’ top human-rights official.  “With too few women leaders in politics, and woefully
insufficient numbers of women leaders in industry, women are not
taking part in decisive discussions on how to respond to global
crises,” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said
in a statement today. “Such exclusion is at our own peril --
the refusal to embrace  gender equality  has led to many scourges,
one tragic example being the ferocious spread of HIV/AIDS.”  UN statistics show that women held only 19.3 percent of
seats in single or lower houses of parliament worldwide as of
last year and just 12 of the Fortune 500 companies have women at
the helm. The European Union’s justice chief  Viviane Reding  said
in a March 5 interview she may impose quotas to compel EU
companies to add more women to their boards.  Some 13.7 percent of board seats in the 27-nation EU are
filled by women after a 1.9 percentage point increase between
October 2010 and January 2012, the European Commission said in a
March 5  report .  While women produce 60 percent to 80 percent of the food in
 developing countries , they rarely have rights to the land they
cultivate. Figures from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization
show that only a fifth of landowners globally are women.  Structural and institutional changes would help ensure that
women are recognized as equal citizens and equal partners in
decision-making, said Pillay, speaking in Geneva on
International Women’s Day.  “Meaningful participation requires that women are able to
access relevant information and are empowered, through education
and political access, to make contributions,” she said. “And
by women, I am also referring to women from minority groups,
poor, elderly, women with disabilities and otherwise vulnerable
women. We must think about these women as legitimate rights-
holders and future leaders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 