-- ‘Macho’ France Dismays Women Seeking Égalité in Election
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-08T09:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/women-eye-egalite-in-macho-france-as-election-platforms-dismay.html
Former French Prime Minister Edith Cresson this month called  France  a “macho country,” where men
and women aren’t equal. With 45 days before the presidential
election, candidates are doing little to dispel that notion.  Although  French women  account for 53 percent of the
electorate, there are few concrete proposals from the candidates
to improve their lot. Europe’s debt crisis is putting the
“égalité” part of the French motto “Liberté, Égalité,
Fraternité” on the backburner, with the frontrunners lacking
the economic will to pledge gender equality.  “Most candidates are avoiding promises to improve equality
for women,” said Magali de Haas, a spokeswoman for  Osez le
Feminisme , a women’s rights group. “More gender equality means
investing in the future: more child care, education for
children, a fairer pension system. Candidates are balking
because it means greater spending during the crisis.”  The  2011 World Economic Forum gender-gap  report shows
 Europe ’s second-largest economy ranked 48th out of 135 nations,
lagging behind  Spain ,  Germany  and the U.K. In 2009, women earned
 23 percent less  than men in similar white-collar jobs, national
statistics office Insee said. Women had 19 percent of the seats
in parliament in France, compared with Andorra’s 50 percent and
36 percent in Spain, according to the  Inter-Parliamentary Union .  “We are scandalously behind,” said Elisabeth Guigou, a
Socialist lawmaker and former justice minister.  The Candidates’ Stance  Gender equality was drawn into the heart of France’s
presidential campaign yesterday as 45 women’s associations from
across the country gathered in Paris, inviting all candidates to
sign an  ”Equality 2012” pact  on equal wages, access to full-
time jobs and less sexism.  Lawmakers, feminist groups and former ministers are calling
for women’s causes to be ”put on the agenda” after the lack of
new measures from President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  A large proportion of women voters remain undecided, a
survey this week showed. With the first round of the election
scheduled for April 22, only 46 percent of registered women say
they’ve decided for whom they’ll vote, compared with 68 percent
for men, according to  pollster Harris Interactive .  “I would, of course, like a government with 50 percent
women and 50 percent men,” frontrunner  Francois Hollande , a
socialist, said in an e-mailed response to questions. Still, at
a conference last week, he made no commitments, saying it
“would be a good principle to have.” He added that parity
didn’t “mean that they will have the same responsibilities.”  A Struggle  The comment drew the wrath of feminists.  “This is outrageous!” said  Marie-Jo Zimmermann , a
lawmaker from Sarkozy’s party. “What does it mean: junior jobs
for women and voila?”  The ruling party lawmaker’s criticism also extends to
Sarkozy. Zimmermann lobbied for two laws -- one passed last year
and the other last month -- that  impose a minimum of 40 percent
of women  on boards and in top administration jobs by 2017 for
private companies and the state.  “I struggled to get these laws passed,” Zimmermann said.
“I didn’t get much help” from the president’s office, she
said. Since the law was passed, the number of women on the
boards of companies listed on France’s benchmark CAC 40 index
has risen to 20.8 percent in 2011 from 15.3 percent in 2010 and
10.5 percent in 2009,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  While Sarkozy has made few commitments in his campaign to
narrow the gender gap, women have key roles on his team,
including Emmanuelle Mignon, Carine Trividic and Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, his spokeswoman. Hollande, on the other hand,
has only men among top advisers.  DSK Case  Last year’s arrest in  New York  of former International
Monetary Fund chief and a one-time potential leading
presidential candidate  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  on charges of
attempted rape prompted some soul-searching in France on
politicians’ attitudes toward women. Charges against DSK, as he
is known in France, were dropped. Still, it revealed “backward
ways that still exist in France,” said De Haas.  While the case emboldened women to speak out against men in
power, it has yet to make them a voting block to reckon with.  Hollande and Sarkozy both acknowledged this week that they
need to do more to empower women, narrowing France’s wage gap
and seeking parity in government and parliament. They aren’t
committing to number targets. Hollande said he would enforce
existing gender-parity legislation, including a 2001 law on
professional equality. He promised to create a women’s rights
ministry to oversee the enforcement.  “We don’t need more laws, we have everything we need,”
Hollande said. “What we need is to abide by them.”  Equality Theme  He pledged  to cancel state subsidies to political parties
that don’t respect parity, going further than the fines imposed
today. He also said companies failing to comply with wage-
equality laws within a year will lose tax credits.  “Gender issues don’t move lines in a vote in France,”
Jean-Daniel Levy, head of the opinion section of  Harris
Interactive , said in an interview. “But it will help Hollande
anchor his campaign theme, equality.”  Zimmermann said Sarkozy’s hasn’t done enough to fulfill his
2007 campaign promise to women.  Only 29 percent of his government’s posts are held by
women, much less than the 50-50 parity he had promised five
years ago. His party will only have 28 percent of women running
in the June legislative elections to elect the 577 members of
the lower house of parliament, while the Socialist Party has
46.5 percent of women running, Zimmermann said.  Controlled by Men  “The problem is that even with parity among candidates
going into elections, the best ridings often go to men,” said
Socialist lawmaker Guigou. “There have to be ways to make
parties give women opportunities in places where they can get
elected. Voters are not the problem, the parties put up the
barriers because they are controlled by men.”  Cresson, the only woman prime minister France has had --
holding the post in 1991 and 1992 -- concurs.  “Voters are open to women and in some cases view them as
more trustworthy,” she said in an interview in Paris this
month. “It’s the party apparatus that puts up the barriers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  