-- Productivity in U.S. Cools as Labor Costs Jump
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-07T13:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/worker-productivity-in-u-s-rises-at-slower-pace-pushing-up-labor-costs.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
rose at a slower pace in the fourth quarter and labor costs
jumped, indicating businesses are reaching the limit of wringing
efficiency from their workforce.  The measure of employee output per hour  climbed  at a 0.9
percent annual rate, after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three
months, revised figures from the Labor Department showed today
in  Washington .  Expenses per worker  climbed at a 2.8 percent
rate, more than twice as much as previously estimated.  Productivity will probably remain restrained as businesses
gain confidence in the economic expansion and take on more
workers to meet growing demand. Nonetheless, rising labor costs
and slowing efficiency may put pressure on corporate profits.  Less productivity means “the only way to increase output
is to hire more people,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S.
economist at  Societe Generale  in New York, who was the only
analyst in a Bloomberg News survey to accurately forecast the
jump in labor costs. “It’s a positive for the labor market,”
he said, at the same time “margins should be getting squeezed a
bit.”  Another report today showed companies added 216,000 workers
to their payrolls in February, according to data from Roseland,
New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services.  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing this
month rose 0.5 percent to 1,349 at 8:46 a.m. in  New York .  Prior Estimates  Fourth-quarter productivity was revised up from an initial
estimate of 0.7 percent issued last month. Labor costs were
revised up from a prior estimate of 1.2 percent.  For all of 2011, productivity climbed 0.4 percent, the
smallest gain since 1995. The increased was revised down from an
initial estimate of 0.7 percent.  Labor expenses last year increased 2 percent, revised from
a 1.2 percent gain and the most since 2008.  Fourth-quarter productivity was projected to rise 0.8
percent, according to the  median  forecast of 65 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.5
percent to 1.6 percent.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to rise 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter, the
survey median showed.  The revised jump in labor expenses last quarter reflected
the biggest six-month increase in worker pay in almost five
years. Wages and salaries in the third and fourth quarters of
2011 grew a combined $197.3 billion, the most since the six
months ended March 2007, Commerce Department data revisions
showed on Feb. 29. Gross domestic product climbed at a revised 3
percent annual rate, faster than previously estimated and the
most since the second quarter of 2010.  Productivity Focus  Companies taking steps to boost efficiency and cushion
rising employee expenses include  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company. UPS reported a jump in
fourth-quarter earnings and forecast a 2012 profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, helped by higher demand for shipping.  “In the fourth quarter, our productivity improvements
offset the entire wage-rate increase,” Scott Davis, chairman
and chief executive officer, said on a Jan. 31 conference call.  Improving demand is boosting hiring. A report in two days
may show payrolls rose by 210,000 in February, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The projected increase in payrolls for last month would
follow gains of 243,000 in January and 203,000 in December. It
would mark the strongest three-month stretch in almost a year.
The jobless rate in February probably held at an almost three-
year low of 8.3 percent, economists predicted.  “On balance, the data indicate improving growth and
prospects for  job creation  in 2012,” Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said in a speech on March 5.
“However, the outlook is hardly robust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  