-- Wringing More Yield Out of Your Cash
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-03-08T17:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/wringing-more-yield-out-of-your-cash.html
     Money market mutual funds have been taking it on the chin
lately. The Securities and Exchange Commission is considering
proposing regulatory changes that would make the funds less
appealing for investors. At stake: whether share prices will
float based on market values, rather than follow the practice
of fixed $1 per share values, and whether up to 5 percent of a
requested withdrawal may be held back for 30 days.  Any proposal is bound to engender fierce debate. If you
own one of the nearly 30 million money market fund
accounts, you might want to focus on a more pressing
issue, though: Why are you content to earn bupkes? The average
money fund yield is a you-can-barely-see-it 0.06
percent, according to Crane Data. And the  Federal Reserve  has
telegraphed that it's unlikely to budge on rates for a further
two years. Still, there's $2.7 trillion sitting in these
funds.  With a little effort, you can keep most of the
convenience of a money fund and wring out a bit more yield
from your cash:  SWEEP FASTER. Money funds are a great parking lot when
you sell shares and don’t want to immediately reinvest, or for
dividend and bond payments. Your goal today is to make sure
it’s just a short-term parking lot. Jeff Layman, chief
investment officer at BKD Advisors, says his firm is now
focused on getting cash that lands in a money market fund
redeployed faster. “When you were earning 4 percent in the
sweep account, you didn’t necessarily have to worry about a
fast turnaround. But earning zero changes things. You don’t
want a month or two to go by earning nothing.” If you don’t
want to reinvest, consider siphoning money from your no-yield
money market fund into better cash alternatives. (Keep
reading.)  FIND A BETTER HOME FOR YOUR EMERGENCY FUND. If you use a
money fund as your liquid emergency fund, it’s time for a
rethink. For starters, why not have that money in a bank
deposit account where the base level of insurance is $250,000
per depositor? Money funds offer no such safety net.
(Granted, you’re not likely to face big losses if a money
market fund does run into problems -- but your money could be
held hostage for a while.) With a bank money market
account, you won’t necessarily earn much more yield, but
you'll get both insurance and liquidity.  Moreover, Ken Tumin, who runs the depositaccounts.com
website, says you can earn at least 1 percent or more in a
variety of bank and credit union accounts. “It’s just one
percent, but that’s still 15 to 20 times better than what the
money fund is paying.”  At depositaccounts.com, a money market deposit account
offered by TIAA Direct came with a 1.25 percent yield
recently, and a basic checking account at Incredible Bank pays
1 percent. (Despite the gimmicky name, it is federally
insured.) If you’re up for jumping through a few hoops, such
as using your debit card 10 or so times a month or feeding a
direct deposit into your account, a handful of banks and
 credit unions  offer rewards checking accounts with yields of 2
percent or more.  LEAN ON YOUR 401(K) STABLE VALUE FUND. If your money fund
is part of a long-term  asset allocation  to cash, you’d be far
better off using a 401(k)’s stable value fund. The average
stable value fund had a yield of 2.47 percent at the end of
January, according to Hueler Analytics. Once you’ve rolled
over a 401(k) into say, an IRA, you’re out of luck, though.
These quasi-money market accounts (that’s the "stable"
reference) have an insurance component that generates the
extra yield and are available only through 401(k) accounts.  CONSIDER A VERY SHORT-TERM BOND FUND. BKD's Layman notes
that the Vanguard Limited Term Tax Exempt bond fund pays 2.1
percent. (That’s the equivalent of 2.9 percent taxable yield
if your marginal federal  tax rate  is 28 percent.) With a
2.3-year duration, it wouldn’t suffer big price losses if
rates were to rise. Besides, as Layman notes, with the Federal
Reserve stating on the record that it intends to keep target
Fed Funds rate low through late 2014, “it’s not that risky to
move some cash into a shorter-term fund and pick up some more
yield.”
 