-- Wynn Asks to Remove Okada From Board in Special Holder Vote
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-07T20:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/wynn-asks-investors-to-remove-okada-as-director-in-special-vote.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  asked investors to
approve the removal of Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada as a
director, after accusing him of making improper payments to
Philippines gambling officials.  Wynn Resorts called for a special meeting of shareholders
to vote on the ejection following a Feb. 18 decision by the
board that Okada and certain affiliates are “unsuitable
persons,” according to a statement today by the Las Vegas-based
hotel and casino operator. The date hasn’t been set.  Okada improperly gave more than $110,000 in payments and
gifts to regulators in the Philippines and their families, Wynn
Resorts said in a Feb. 19 statement. The company forcibly
redeemed the stake held by Okada’s  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) 
at a 30 percent discount to its then market price. His removal
and the redemption escalated a clash between founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Wynn  and Okada, the man who helped
bankroll Wynn Resorts starting 12 years ago.  James Golden, a spokesman for Universal Entertainment, said
Okada wasn’t immediately able to comment on Wynn Resorts’
statement today.  The billionaire said, in a statement read to lawmakers in
Manila last month, that he would “vigorously” continue his $2
billion casino project in the Philippines and prove “that all
of the accusations are baseless and are lies that have been
blown out of proportion.”  Okada, the former vice chairman at Wynn Resorts, sued the
casino operator in state court in  Clark County , Nevada, in
January for access to financial records. Okada opposed the
company’s HK$1 billion ($129 million) pledge in July 2011 to the
University of Macau Development Foundation, according to the
complaint. A hearing is scheduled in  Las Vegas  tomorrow at 9
a.m. local time.  Wynn Resorts rose 2.4 percent to $122.20 at 3:26 p.m. in
 New York . The stock has fallen 8.7 percent in the 12 months
before today, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.7
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  