-- Zynga Investor IVP Said to Be Raising Up to $1 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-03-07T18:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-07/zynga-investor-ivp-is-said-to-be-raising-up-to-1-billion-for-venture-fund.html
Institutional Venture Partners, an
investor in Web companies including Zynga Inc., Twitter Inc. and
LivingSocial, is planning to raise $750 million to $1 billion
for its next fund, said two people familiar with the matter.  The firm is expected to finish capital raising by June,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. IVP last raised a fund in August 2010,
when it brought in $750 million, the largest in its history.  IVP, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , is following other
venture capital firms that are raising new funds after the
biggest year for U.S. Internet initial public offerings in more
than a decade. Since late last year, Andreessen Horowitz,  Peter Thiel ’s Founders Fund and  Steve Case ’s Revolution LLC have
reeled in money, and Lightspeed Venture Partners is close to
raising $875 million for two funds, people with knowledge of the
matter said last month. Revolution and Lightspeed are also
investors in daily-deal site LivingSocial.  Gina Bauman, a spokeswoman for IVP, said the firm doesn’t
comment on fundraising.  IVP, which focuses on more mature startups than other
venture firms, turned an investment of about $13 million in
social-game developer Zynga into a $475 million stake after the
company sold shares to the public in December. The firm owns a
$170 million stake in HomeAway Inc., the vacation-rental site
that went public in June.  Dropbox Inc.  In 2009, IVP invested in micro-blogging service Twitter,
and last year it led or participated in three of the biggest
U.S. venture capital deals. LivingSocial raised $400 million,
cloud storage provider Dropbox Inc. raised $250 million and
online discounter WhaleShark Media Inc. brought in $150 million.  IVP was founded by Reid Dennis in 1980 and has six general
partners. Past investments include Juniper Networks Inc., TiVo
Inc., Netflix Inc. and Seagate Technology Plc. The first
investment from its 2010 fund was in Buddy Media Inc., a
developer of social-media advertising software. The New York-
based company now works with eight of the world’s 10 biggest
advertisers.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  