-- ‘Fast’ Sequel Tops Weekend Movies Again, Speeds by Smiths
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-06-03T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/-fast-sequel-tops-weekend-movies-again-outpacing-smith-outing.html
“Fast & Furious 6” was the top film
at U.S. and Canadian theaters for a second weekend with $35.2
million in sales, topping “After Earth,” the new Will Smith-
and-son movie from  Sony Corp. (6758) , which took in $27.5 million.  The Smith movie finished third, behind Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp.’s “Now You See Me,” which debuted in
second place with $29.3 million, according to a statement
yesterday from  Hollywood.com Box-Office .  Universal Pictures’ “Fast & Furious 6,” the latest in a
franchise inspired by illegal street-racing gangs, has thrived
on the tried-and-tested formula of a multiethnic cast and
intense action scenes. The first five movies have posted $2
billion in sales, garnering a global audience of teens and young
adults.  “The diversity of the cast is a huge advantage,” said
Phil Contrino, an analyst with  Boxoffice.com . “These films have
become global products in a way that doesn’t feel forced or
tacked on.”  “Fast & Furious 6” receipts add to the $117 million the
movie took in during last weekend’s U.S. Memorial holiday, which
was a record debut for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal and the second-biggest opening of the year. Alongside recent big Hollywood
releases, such as “Star Trek Into Darkness” and “Iron Man
3,” it has built momentum for Hollywood, which has begun the
prime summer-movie season.  7th Installment  Starring Dwayne Johnson and Vin Diesel, “Fast & Furious
6” has taken in $171 million since it opened on May 24. It was
forecast to generate $38.2 million this past weekend, according
to Boxoffice.com.  “Going into the weekend, we thought it would be a horse
race with ‘After Earth,’” said Nikki Rocco, Universal Pictures
president of distribution, in an interview.  The studio will release a seventh installment in July 2014,
she said. The first movie in the series was released in 2001
without plans for so many sequels, Rocco said.  “We didn’t see it -- the crystal ball just doesn’t tell
you,” she said.  The picture’s fortunes contrast with Sony’s bet on Will
Smith and his son Jaden in “After Earth,” a grim, futuristic
tale of survival after catastrophic events. Made for about $130
million, its debut falls short of previous Smith openings which
carry a similar, serious tone, including “I Am Legend,” which
opened with $77.2 million and “I, Robot,” with $52.2 million.  Bad Reviews  “After Earth,” forecast to take in about $36.4 million,
was poorly reviewed ahead of its opening with 95 negative
critiques out of the 109 compiled on  Rottentomatoes.com .  “In regards to the U.S. performance, we’d hoped for
more,” Rory Bruer, president of worldwide distribution at Sony
Pictures Entertainment, said in an interview yesterday.  The company is confident the picture can recoup its cost,
he said.  “I think that we’ll see as we look ahead, the tracking for
us internationally is very strong,” Bruer said.  Directed by M. Night Shyamalan, it’s the second pairing of
Smith and his son. The two co-starred in “The Pursuit of
Happyness,” a drama that cost $55 million and took in $307.1
million worldwide. Jaden Smith also played the lead in “The
Karate Kid” in 2010. The film, also from Sony, cost $40 million
and had sales of $359.1 million worldwide.  Raise Cash  The results for “After Earth” may intensify the spotlight
on Sony. It’s under pressure from billionaire investor Daniel Loeb to sell a portion of the entertainment unit in an initial
public offering to improve the division’s performance and raise
cash for Sony’s unprofitable electronics businesses.  “After Earth” may still make up some ground for Sony on
its international release, Contrino said.  “You can’t compare ‘After Earth’ to ‘Men in Black’ or his
established franchise movies,” Contrino said. “And I don’t
want to write it off until after we see how it does worldwide.”  Second place’s “Now You See Me,” from  Lions Gate (LGF) , edged
out “After Earth” by $1.8 million while playing in about 500
fewer theaters.  The story of how illusionists pull off a heist by
outsmarting corrupt businessmen and the FBI stars Jesse Eisenberg, Mark Ruffalo and Morgan Freeman. It cost about $75
million to make, and was forecast by Boxoffice.com to take in
$23 million.  Contrino called it one of the summer’s biggest upsets.  “A-list stars are not nearly as reliable at the box
office as they once were,” he said.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 19 percent to
$160.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is down 6 percent year to date, while revenue is 6.2
percent lower at $4.16 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales from May 31-June 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  