-- Abbas Names University President as Palestinian Premier
-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-06-03T08:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/abbas-asks-nablus-professor-to-become-palestinian-prime-minister.html
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
has appointed Rami Hamdallah, president of An-Najah National
University in the West Bank city of Nablus, as prime minister.  The decision, made yesterday, was confirmed by Ahmed Assaf,
a spokesman for Abbas’s Fatah party. Hamdallah has three weeks
to form a government, Assaf said by phone.  Hamdallah, 54, who has a doctorate in applied linguistics
from the University of Lancaster in  England , replaces Salam Fayyad, who worked in  Washington  and was familiar with the U.S.
government and international aid organizations. Hamdallah’s
resume says he is also the chairman of the  Palestine Exchange .  “Hamdallah is a respected academic in the West Bank who
has good relations with the Fatah movement, unlike Fayyad, who
was distrusted by Fatah, and that is the key thing here,” said
Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at al-Azhar University
in the  Gaza Strip .  Fayyad wasn’t a member of Fatah and had criticized Hamas,
damaging Fatah efforts to reconcile with the rival group. Hamas
seized control of Gaza and ousted troops loyal to Abbas in 2007,
a year after winning legislative elections. Abbas won a
presidential election in 2005 to what was originally supposed to
be a four-year term.  Political Base  “We don’t know the new Palestinian prime minister as a
statesman but as an academic, and we will see how things
develop,” Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon said today,
according to an e-mail from the ministry. “Hopefully we are
dealing with pragmatic people.”  The appointment of a new prime minister in the  West Bank 
“will not resolve the problems and doesn’t achieve unity,”
Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said. Considered a terrorist group
by the U.S. and the European Union, Hamas refuses to recognize
 Israel ’s right to exist.  Abbas choice of Hamdallah over other candidates better
known internationally, including his top economic adviser
Mohammad Mustafa, “shows more concern for his domestic
political base and is maybe sending a message to the U.S. and
 Europe  that he has grown impatient with their peacemaking
efforts that haven’t produced much,” said Abusada.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  last week pressed
Israelis and Palestinians to renew peace negotiations, touting a
plan he said could attract $4 billion in investments to boost
the Palestinian economy.  ‘Moment of Challenge’  Kerry congratulated Hamdallah in a statement, saying “his
appointment comes at a moment of challenge, which is also an
important moment of opportunity.”  It wasn’t immediately clear whether the appointment would
help Abbas retain the confidence of international donors, who
contribute half the Palestinian Authority’s budget. Fayyad, a
University of Texas-educated economist for the  International
Monetary Fund , fulfilled that role until he resigned in April,
warning that the government was in an unsustainable financial
position.  “Hamdallah has lots of experience managing things and
political experience as head of the elections committee,” said
Samir Abdullah, a former Palestinian Authority planning
minister, who runs an economic research group in Ramallah. “I
don’t think his appointment should be of concern to the
donors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  