-- Abenomics Needs Cheap Nuclear Power to Work
-- B y   U l r i k e   S c h a e d e
-- 2013-06-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/abenomics-needs-cheap-nuclear-power-to-work.html
Everybody knows that  Japan  has an
energy crisis. We also know that the yen has greatly
depreciated, by some 20 percent in just a few weeks. It’s time
to put these two facts together.  “Abenomics,” the shorthand for the aggressive economic
strategies being pursued by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, is the
hot thing in  Asia . What wonders will the weak yen work for
Japan’s export machine? Is a recovery just around the corner?
Despite its volatility, Japan’s stock market says so, and
foreign investors, in particular, like the prospects.  Yet what makes exports more competitive also makes imports
more expensive. After the March 11, 2011, Fukushima disaster,
Japan turned off its nuclear-power plants and stepped up imports
of energy. Looking just at the four biggest categories (oil,
liquefied natural gas, coal and liquefied propane gas), the
monthly value of Japan’s energy imports jumped from 1.4 trillion
yen (before March 2010) to 2.2 trillion in March 2013. In March,
that was about $17 billion; now add 20 percent in exchange-rate
shifts to get $22 billion per month. Energy imports constitute
about one-third of total imports, and since Fukushima, imports
have grown to account for 17 percent of gross domestic product,
up from 12 percent.  No wonder Japan is running a  trade deficit . Yet the export
machine can’t fix the economy if energy imports keep rising.  Nuclear Dependence  If all of Japan’s nuclear-power plants were running at full
capacity, they would provide about 30 percent of electricity,
and 11 percent of total energy consumption. With the current
shutdowns, nuclear contributes only 2 percent of electricity,
with oil and gas filling the gap.  Setting aside the question of  greenhouse gases  and global
warming, the economic question is: Who will pay for the growing
costs of energy imports? Industry, which consumes about 36
percent of energy, is supposed to lead the recovery, and some of
Japan’s export leaders are energy guzzlers. If energy costs
rise, the companies that produce the bulk of Japan’s world-class
products will either lose out or -- to prevent this from
happening -- move production elsewhere. Either outcome would
surely halt Japan’s domestic recovery.  The second-biggest energy users, at roughly a third, are
office buildings and city infrastructure. These, too, should be
kicking into high gear, and would be hit by increased costs for
air-conditioning or transportation. The final 30 percent of
usage -- household consumption -- could perhaps be reduced or
take higher charges. But people are already cheating on their
28-degree thermostat settings while complaining about rising
energy costs. And the country can’t afford to subsidize this
bill, since  government debt  is already more than 200 percent of
GDP.  The economic reality of the 2011 disaster is that the
strong yen saved the country. The yen is too weak for Japan to
continue current levels of energy imports. Japan needs cheap
energy, now. And it’s sitting there, in 50 reactors up and down
the country.  The voices you hear from Japan in support of restarting
these nuclear- power plants  are not cold-blooded. Nobody wants to
relive the horrors of March 12 and March 14, 2011, when the
Daiichi reactors exploded. It is inconceivable that Japan will
ever design a new nuclear-power plant, and highly unlikely that
the two under construction will ever be fully operational. No,
the pro-voices are economic-rational: Until Japan has
alternative domestic-energy sources tied into its grid, there is
no choice. Without nuclear energy, Abenomics will fail.  Ugly Politics  The politics behind this are surprising. At the national
level, the plans of Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party , which has a
strong pro-nuclear image, are no secret. The government recently
announced that after new regulation takes effect in July,
several power plants could go back online -- presumably in time
for August’s summer heat wave. Even so, Abe’s popularity is
intact.  According  to a leading energy think tank in  Tokyo , 52
percent of Japanese were in favor of nuclear energy before
Fukushima, and 39 percent were still in favor immediately after
the disaster. This may have nudged back up, judging from the
dwindling participation at the weekly “Sayonara Nuclear”
demonstrations.  The real challenge is the local governments, which have
veto rights. Surprisingly, a recent poll among 135 cities
located in nuclear evacuation zones  showed  that 49 percent of
mayors would agree to a restart. The official (what Japanese
call “tatemae”) argument is: Nobody likes to live near such a
plant, but there they are, as toxic as ever (though certainly
less volatile than when switched on), and we don’t know much
about disposing of unused nuclear-power plants. So, we might as
well turn them back on. The real (“honne”) story is that the
plant owner/operators -- the ten local monopolists that run
Japan’s energy system -- pay their annual “dues” to the
localities, not just in the form of jobs but straight money to
communities and incumbent local governments.  The final piece to the puzzle, then, is how local
governments and mayors who were vociferously against nuclear
just last year can switch sides without losing votes. Consider
the usually clever mayor of  Osaka , Toru Hashimoto, now known
globally as “the man who prescribes prostitutes for soldiers.”
Osaka is much more nuclear-dependent than any other large city;
it is close to the biggest agglomeration of nuclear-power plants
in Fukui prefecture and surroundings, all operated by Kansai
Electric Power Co, with headquarters in Osaka. Co-leader of the
conservative Japan Restoration Party, Hashimoto also served
briefly in 2012 as the anti-nuclear movement leader. Osaka
happens to get really hot in August, and needs cheap
electricity. Whatever Hashimoto’s intentions with his bizarre
tweets about Japan’s wartime behavior, they certainly have
distracted voters from the tough choice he faces on energy.
Indeed, the self-inflicted damage to his reputation now gives
him the political space to go quietly along with the ruling
party.  Not one part of this story is palatable, whether it is
Japan’s glaring dependence on nuclear energy, the slow progress
of the search for alternatives, or the inefficiencies of its
grid. Yet whatever the future resolution of those problems,
Japan has only one viable course of action: It cannot afford not
to turn its nuclear-power plants back on.  (Ulrike Schaede is a professor of Japanese business at the
 University of California ,  San Diego , and the author of “ Choose
and Focus: Japanese Business Strategies for the 21st Century .”
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ulrike Schaede at  uschaede@ucsd.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  