-- Labour Suspends Peers Accused of Breaching U.K. Parliament Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-06-02T15:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/labour-suspends-peers-accused-of-breaching-u-k-parliament-rules.html
Britain’s opposition  Labour Party 
suspended two of its lawmakers in the House of Lords over
allegations they offered to carry out parliamentary work in
return for cash.  John Cunningham and Brian Mackenzie “have been suspended
from the Labour Party pending further investigation,” the party
said today in a statement. “The Labour Party expects the
highest standards of its representatives and believes they have
a duty to be transparent and accountable at all times.”  The two men, along with John Laird, who represents the
Ulster Unionist Party in the upper chamber of Parliament, were
named today in an undercover probe carried out by the Sunday
Times newspaper into lobbying on behalf of private companies.
Laird resigned the Ulster Unionist whip, meaning he’s no longer
part of the party in Parliament. All three deny breaching
parliamentary rules.  The controversy comes two days after Patrick Mercer, a
lawmaker in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party ,
resigned from the party after a BBC investigation into lobbying.
Mercer said he won’t seek to retain his seat in the next general
election, in 2015, and that he’s resigned the Tory whip.  Speaking earlier today, Cabinet Office Minister Francis
Maude expressed confidence the government will bring in a
statutory register of lobbyists before the election.  Douglas Alexander , who speaks for Labour on foreign
affairs, called for urgent cross-party talks on the issue of
lobbying.  “I think any right-thinking person reading the newspapers
this morning wouldn’t just feel sad, they would feel angry,” he
told  BBC Television .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  