-- Hagel Cites Navy’s Newest Warship as Key to Asia Pivot
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-02T12:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/hagel-cites-navy-s-newest-warship-as-key-to-asia-pivot.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel toured
the Navy’s first Littoral Combat Ship on its maiden deployment
to  Singapore  today, saying the ship represents “a new era of
partnership” as the U.S. military shifts focus toward  Asia .  “You’re all making history out here,” Hagel told the crew
of the USS Freedom, built by a team led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
“A new ship, new capacity, new opportunities,” Hagel said from
the ship’s pilot house via intercom.  Federal investigators, some Navy officials and lawmakers
have said the small, speedy warship designed to operate close to
shore may need a redesign or at least more thorough testing.
It’s the first of as many as four Littoral Combat Ships that
will rotate through Singapore as the U.S. tries to increase its
presence and deepen alliances in the Asia-Pacific region.  The $34 billion LCS program has been beset by troubles,
including cracks and corrosion, a doubling of its price per
vessel and a decision to build two alternative versions that
will add to long-term costs.  The Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm
of Congress, is urging lawmakers to consider slowing funding for
ship construction because the Pentagon is buying them faster
than it can test their design and performance, according to a
draft report obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The program has continued to draw support from lawmakers
and the Pentagon despite  federal budget  cuts and a growing list
of questions about the ship’s design, firepower, defenses and
survivability.  Navy Study  A confidential 2012 Navy study found that the ships are too
lightly armed, that plans to swap equipment for different
missions are impractical, and that the decision to build two
versions simultaneously complicates logistics and maintenance.
Meanwhile, construction costs have doubled to $440 million per
ship from an original goal of $220 million.  Failure to resolve such issues will result in ships that
are ill-suited to war-fighting needs, Rear Admiral  Samuel Perez 
wrote in the March 2012 report.  Still, the Navy will be under contract for at least 24 of
the planned 52 ships before it completes tests in 2019 to see
whether mission modules designed to quickly reconfigure the
vessels for different tasks can meet minimum performance
requirements, the GAO report said.  “We need to fix it, or find something else quickly,”
 Arizona  Senator  John McCain , a Republican and former Navy pilot,
said of the ship last month.  No Doubts  Hagel expressed no doubts about the LCS as he took a tour
and chatted with the Freedom’s crew members.  George Little , a
spokesman for Hagel, said the defense secretary is impressed by
the ship’s “pioneering naval capability” and is confident that
any issues with it will be resolved.  Hagel, who today wrapped up a three-day visit to Singapore
for an annual Asian security conference, pointed to the Littoral
Combat Ship in an address to several hundred defense officials
and analysts as evidence of the U.S. commitment to the region.  “We are pushing forward with plans for innovative
rotational deployments in the region,” he said in his prepared
remarks.  While the Freedom is based in  San Diego , it’s on a 10-month
deployment to Singapore, the first of several rotations planned
for such ships, said Lieutenant Commander Clayton Doss, a Navy
spokesman aboard the Freedom. By mid-2015, two Littoral Combat
Ships will be operating in Singapore simultaneously, Doss said.  9/11 Aftermath  Conceived in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, the
ship was designed to be a small, speedy, and adaptable vessel to
patrol shallow coastal waters and replace aging frigates. It’s
designed to use interchangeable modules for various missions,
such as surface combat. The Freedom is equipped with a surface-warfare mission module that can be used for search-and-rescue or
anti-piracy operations, Doss said. Other modules for anti-submarine warfare and mine clearing aren’t yet operational.  The Navy is buying two versions of the ship. Lockheed’s
steel-hulled vessel, led by the Freedom, is being built in
Marinette,  Wisconsin . A group led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  is building an
aluminum trimaran in Mobile,  Alabama .  The Navy has asked for funding to purchase four ships, two
of each type, in fiscal 2014, which begins Oct. 1.  “We understand what is at stake and will get this right,”
Vice Admiral Richard Hunt, the head of a Navy task force for the
ship, said in a statement last month, when asked what the Navy
needs to show Congress to keep lawmakers’ support.  If Hagel had any concerns about the ship, he didn’t express
them publicly on his tour. The one question he had for the
Freedom’s officers was: “Do I get to drive it?”  He didn’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  