-- Malaysian Bonds Beat Peers as Najib Aids Ringgit: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-06-03T04:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/malaysian-bonds-beat-peers-as-najib-aids-ringgit-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian bonds outperformed regional
counterparts in May after Prime Minister Najib Razak’s election
victory removed the risk of a power shift, prompting analysts to
maintain forecasts for appreciation in the ringgit this year.  Government securities  gained an average 0.3 percent, while
local-currency notes in Singapore and Indonesia slumped 2.2
percent and 2.4 percent respectively, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc indexes. Thai debt handed investors almost zero returns and
Philippine bonds fell 1 percent. The ringgit will advance 3.2
percent by Dec. 31, ending the year stronger than 3 per dollar
for the first time since 1996, the median estimate of 22
analysts shows.  Overseas investors boosted  holdings  of Malaysian bonds to a
record as 10-year yields offer a 1.3 percentage-point premium
over  U.S. Treasuries  and 2.6 points more than Japanese notes.
The ringgit rallied to a 21-month high on May 7, two days after
the re-election of Najib’s government, which has embarked on a
decade-long $444 billion program to help achieve developed-nation status by 2020. Foreign-exchange reserves have climbed to
the highest since at least 1998.  “ Malaysia  has a good macro profile and strong fiscal
position, and foreign investors seeking yield find  government
bonds  in Malaysia attractive,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , said in a May 22 interview.
“Especially now that the uncertainty about the elections is
behind us, investors don’t need to hold back any more.”  ‘Catch-up Rally’  Emerging market local-currency bond funds drew net inflows
of $265 million in the week to May 29, according to a Morgan
Stanley report on May 30, citing data from U.S. research firm
EPFR Global. Hard-currency debt funds saw outflows of $535
million. Overseas investors increased ownership of Malaysian
government and corporate securities to 236.8 billion ringgit
($76.6 billion) in April, central bank data shows.  The ringgit will appreciate to 2.99 per dollar by year-end
from 3.0885 as of midday in  Kuala Lumpur , according to the
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Barclays Plc predicted in a May
28 research report that the currency will strengthen to 2.90 in
12 months, bolstered by capital inflows.  Najib’s Barisan Nasional party alliance won the May 5
election after securing 60 percent of the 222 parliamentary
seats, extending a 55-year grip on power for the coalition.  “Malaysia, due to the election concern, had lagged gains
in other emerging-market debt and so had a catch-up rally after
the vote,” Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$59 billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s largest publicly traded
bank, said in a May 31 interview.  Ringgit Outlook  Malaysia’s currency dropped in May along with other Asian
exchange rates and bonds after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled stimulus measures that have fed inflows to
developing nations may be decreased, while housing and  consumer
confidence  data beat economists’ forecasts.  The ringgit’s weakness is likely to be short-lived as
Malaysia’s economic growth and sustained current-account
surpluses provide support, according to Barclays’s report, whose
authors included foreign-exchange strategist Hamish Pepper.  The currency weakened 1.7 percent, faring better than a 3.3
percent loss in the  Thai baht  and a 2.6 percent drop in the
Philippine peso, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.7 percent as the central bank
intervened last week.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.48 percent bonds due in March
2023 increased nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
3.46 percent in May, with much of the advance coming last week
after Bernanke’s comments. The yield climbed 27 basis points in
the five days and was the highest since April 4, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It reached 3.05 percent on May 17, the lowest
level for a benchmark of that maturity since 2009.  In contrast, the rate on the 3.58 percent 2018 notes rose
16 basis points to 3.36 percent last week.  Underweight Duration  Thailand ’s 10-year borrowing costs on local-currency notes
increased 10 basis points to 3.51 percent in May, while
 Indonesia ’s equivalent rose 48 basis points to 5.98 percent.  On a relative-value basis, Barclays recommended switching
out of Malaysia’s 10-year debt into five- and 20-year securities.  Private and public-sector investment will probably gather
pace given the uncertainties related to the election have been
resolved, according to Barclays, which raised its economic
growth forecast for Malaysia to 5.3 percent this year from 5.1
percent previously. The central bank will likely keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3 percent for the rest of
the year, the report said.  ‘Makes Sense’  The incumbent government’s election victory “gave offshore
investors more confidence that the status quo, in terms of
policy, will be maintained,” Guan Yi Low, who helps oversee $91
billion as Singapore-based fixed-income investment director at
Eastspring Investments, a unit of the U.K.’s Prudential Plc,
said in a May 21 interview.  The country’s foreign-exchange reserves climbed to $141.4
billion as of May 15, the highest level since at least 2008,
according to  Bank Negara Malaysia . That compares with $136.1
billion a year earlier. The current account has been in surplus
since at least 1999 and stood at $8.7 billion in March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Malaysia’s gross domestic product will increase 5 percent
to 6 percent in 2013, after growth of 5.6 percent last year,
according to the central bank’s annual report released March 20.  “As  interest rates  in the world remain suppressed, it
makes sense for foreign investors to invest in assets that
provide them with a better yield,” Esther Teo, Kuala Lumpur-based fixed-income head at Hwang Investment Management Bhd.,
said in a May 23 e-mail interview. “Malaysia is one of the
obvious choices given our stability in the political and
economic environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  