-- Carlyle Sets Record With $1.3 Billion Sale of NYC Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-06-03T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/manhattan-s-650-madison-tower-to-be-sold-for-1-3-billion.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s $1.3 billion deal
to sell 650 Madison Ave. will set a record based on the per-square-foot price for the  office tower , driven by its retail
space in the heart of midtown  Manhattan ’s Plaza district.  Crown Acquisitions Inc., based in  New York , and Highgate
Holdings Inc. agreed to buy the 600,000-square-foot (55,700-square-meter) building, Crown said June 1. The property between
East 59th and 60th streets has about 75,000 square feet of
 retail space  in a prime tourist and office area.  The purchase is the largest of an entire building in the
U.S. since Google Inc.’s $1.8 billion acquisition of 111 Eighth
Ave. in Manhattan in late 2010, and on a square-foot basis it
exceeds the record of $1,583 paid for 450 Park Ave. in 2007. In
another deal for a trophy Plaza district property, a 40 percent
stake in the General Motors Building was sold to the families of
Chinese real estate developer Zhang Xin and  Brazil ’s Safra
banking empire, a person familiar with the transaction said.  “The true trophy properties are in a league of their
own,” Robert Stuckey, managing director and head of U.S. real
estate at Washington-based Carlyle, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s just a quantum leap in both rents and
building values when you’re in that category.”  The area is known as the Plaza district because of its
proximity to the landmark Plaza Hotel, two blocks west of 650
Madison. It commands some of the priciest office rents in the
U.S., and is home to notable retail stores including Bergdorf
Goodman, Tiffany & Co., FAO Schwarz and Apple Inc.’s outlet at
the bottom of the GM Building.  GM Building  The GM Building stake sale, completed May 31, valued the
50-story tower at about $3.4 billion, according to the person
with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to be named because
the details are private. That works out to roughly $1,700 a
square foot for the tower, located at 767 Fifth Ave. between
58th and 59th streets.  The biggest value of 650 Madison was its retail space, said
Haim Chera, managing principal of Crown. The tower isn’t
comparable to 450 Park because of its location at the center of
a “retail triangle” created by Barneys to the north,  Bergdorf
Goodman  to the west and Bloomingdale’s flagship Lexington Avenue
store to the east, Chera said. Those stores, as well as the
Apple store across the street, combine for about $2 billion of
annual sales, he said in a telephone interview.  “We expect to achieve a retail value of close to $1
billion on this asset, giving us a basis of about $300 million
in a trophy office building,” Chera said.  Lease Deal  The building’s current retail tenant is a Crate & Barrel
housewares store, under a lease that runs until 2019. As part of
the deal, Carlyle agreed to pay Crate & Barrel $55 million in
return for paying a higher rent, thereby expediting Highgate and
Crown’s return on its investment, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  “In that building, you could get easily $2,000 to $2,500 a
square foot,” in rent, said Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of
retail leasing for Douglas Elliman Real Estate. Crate & Barrel
“was one of the first big boxes on the street.”  Vicki Lang, a spokeswoman for Northbrook, Illinois-based
Crate & Barrel, declined to comment on the company’s lease at
650 Madison.  The new owners will discuss “reconfiguring” the Crate &
Barrel space in an effort to unlock some of the value, according
to Chera.  ‘Savvy Group’  “You’re not going to find a more savvy group of investors
than Highgate and Crown,” said Howard Michaels, chairman of
Carlton Group, a New York-based real estate investment bank.
“This deal just affirms the desirability of the New York office
and retail market. I’m sure they’ve got a plan to maximize the
value of the property’s retail and office.”  Adam Spies and Douglas Harmon, of New York-based Eastdil
Secured LLC, were the brokers on the tower sale. Bidders
included  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) ,  HFZ (GGP)  Capital Group and a venture
of General Growth Properties Inc. and  Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. (BPO) , according to people with knowledge of the sale.  Carlyle and a partner paid $680 million for the 27-story
building in 2008, according to research firm Real Capital
Analytics Inc. The owners finished renovating the building
earlier this year, improving the lobby and installing a glass
entrance and new elevators. They also completed more than
400,000 square feet of leases.  “This is a great outcome for our investors and validates
our opportunistic approach,” Stuckey said in a statement.  666 Fifth  The sale of 650 Madison marks the second profitable exit of
a 2008 investment for Carlyle. The private-equity firm teamed up
with Crown in July of that year to buy a controlling stake in
the retail portion of 666 Fifth Ave. from Kushner Cos. for $525
million. They introduced new occupants including Japanese
clothing retailer Uniqlo, and later sold the asset in a pair of
deals for about $1 billion.  With the sale of 650 Madison, Carlyle will have distributed
a substantial portion of the capital invested by its fifth real
estate fund. The fifth fund still holds more than 100
investments, Stuckey said.  Crown is among New York’s most active retail-oriented
developers. Crown and a partner last year acquired a stake in
the Olympic Tower on Fifth Avenue from the Onassis Foundation, a
legacy of the Greek billionaire  Aristotle Onassis .  In 2010, Crown and Highgate, a real estate firm headed by
Mahmood Khimji, together bought Manhattan’s Knickerbocker Hotel
along with Ashkenazy Acquisition Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  