-- U.S. Stocks Gain With Commodities as Dollar Index Weakens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-03T21:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/asian-stock-futures-decline-as-fed-stimulus-concern-increases.html
U.S. stocks and commodities rallied
and the Dollar Index fell for the third time in four days amid
speculation the Federal Reserve will maintain its pace of
monetary stimulus until economic growth picks up.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.6 percent to
1,640.42 after the benchmark gauge posted its first consecutive
weekly declines since November. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the
currency against six major peers, slid 0.8 percent to 82.681.
The 10-year Treasury yield was little changed at 2.13 percent
after earlier climbing as high as 2.19 percent. Nickel and
silver surged more than 2 percent and oil rallied 1.6 percent to
pace commodity gains.  Turkey ’s stocks, bonds and currency slid
amid anti-government protests.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said in a
Bloomberg Television interview that central bank officials are
committed to record stimulus measures even as divergent views of
when to reduce bond purchases create a “mixed message.” U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in May at the fastest pace
in four years, according to an Institute for Supply Management
report. Commerce Department data showed construction spending
increased 0.4 percent in April, less than half the median pace
predicted by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “In terms of the Federal Reserve, we can now say with even
more confidence that there is literally zero chance the Fed
announces any adjustments to its QE program in June,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at broker-dealer BTIG LLC,
wrote in a note to clients. “It’s too soon to wonder whether
‘bad news is good news’ again but we hope today’s report is not
the start of a trend.”  Dollar Weakens  The U.S. currency weakened against 15 of 16 major peers as
the yen strengthened beyond 100 per dollar for the first time in
almost a month. The Aussie dollar jumped 1.9  percent to 97.54
U.S. cents before a Reserve Bank of Australia policy meeting
tomorrow. The rand rallied 2.8 percent versus the dollar,
rebounding from a four-year low.  Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly losses in
nine years in May, with the over $40 trillion of securities in
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index
falling 1.5 percent on average, led by a 2 percent drop in
Treasuries.  Thirty-year Treasury bonds increased today,  sending yields 
down two basis points to 3.26 percent. Two-year rates slipped
less than one basis point to 0.29 percent.  Concern that Fed stimulus is poised for a reduction is
taking a bigger toll on confidence in bond markets than stocks,
based on options trading.  Equity Volatility  Indexes that measure expected volatility in equities are
diverging by the most in a year compared with Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE Index, which tracks option projections for swings
in U.S. government debt, climbed 62 percent to 79.99 in May.
That’s three times the monthly increase for the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index of S&P 500 contracts, the data
show.  Consumer staples, energy and technology companies led gains
among all 10 of the main groups in the S&P 500 today.  Merck & Co. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. jumped more than 3
percent as the companies’ new experimental drugs showed promise.
Intel Corp. surged 4 percent after FBR Capital Markets upgraded
the chipmaker’s shares. F5 Networks Inc. slid 4.9 percent after
Morgan Stanley cut its rating on the maker of data-management
equipment.  The S&P 500 sank 1.1 percent last week, paring its 2013
advance to 14 percent. The index is down about 1.7 percent from
a closing record on May 21 as investors debate what the Fed’s
next move will be.  ‘Healthy’ Pullback  “We view the pullback as healthy within the framework of
the long-term uptrend,”  Katie Stockton , chief market technician
at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM Partners, wrote in note
yesterday. “Our intermediate- and long-term momentum indicators
remain supportive of the uptrend. Initial support is near 1,600,
and our long-term target remains 1,780.”  The S&P 500 has risen for seven straight months which,
combined with its strong start to the year, may indicate further
gains for stocks in June, according to Sam Stovall, S&P’s New
York-based chief equity strategist.  A  seven-month  winning streak has happened 13 times since
1945 and it has led to advances of 0.4 percent on average in the
eighth month as stock prices rose 62 percent of the time,
Stovall wrote in a note today. The S&P 500’s advances in January
and February may also help as the benchmark U.S. equity index
has returned annual gains in each of the 26 years with such a
positive start since World War II. The strong starts to the year
have been followed by increases of 1 percent in June compared
with its normal flat performance.  ‘Upside’ Surprise  “Could sell in May have started in the end of the month,
rather than the usual? One could easily infer that from the
performance of the last three days,” the strategist wrote.
“However, history says, but does not guarantee, that the S&P
500’s performance in June could surprise to the upside.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.8 percent today, trimming
a drop of as much as 1.2 percent.  Roche Holding AG sank 3.7 percent, the most since 2011,
after a study showed that its Avastin drug failed to extend the
lives of patients with a type of brain cancer. Munich Re and
Hannover Re slipped at least 2.8 percent, leading reinsurers
lower, as storms across central Europe caused rivers to swell,
flooding  Prague . Polymetal International Plc added 1.9 percent
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its rating on the shares.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds with credit-default
swaps rose for a fourth day, to the most since April 26. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps linked to 125 investment-grade companies increased four basis points to 108 basis points.  Emerging Markets  Japanese shares fell, with the Topix index deepening its
correction, as Nomura Holdings Inc. paced declines among
brokerages and a stronger yen weighed on exporters’ earnings
outlook.  The Topix lost 3.4 percent to 1,096.95 at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , with all of its 33 industry groups falling.
The gauge is down 14 percent from its recent high on May 22. The
index sank 2.5 percent in May, its first monthly drop since
August. Measures of real estate companies and brokerages, the
two Topix industry groups that led the rally from November, have
fallen more than 25 percent from recent highs.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.7 percent, extending
last month’s 2.9 percent drop. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong sank 0.5
percent.  India ’s Sensex slid 0.8 percent after factory output in
May fell to the lowest level in 50 months. Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index slipped 0.9 percent as manufacturing
slowed, while  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rebounded 0.8 percent after
slumping 5.1 percent last week.  The yield on Turkey’s  two-year notes  jumped 71 basis points
to 6.78 percent, the biggest increase on record, and the lira
declined for a fifth day, while the nation’s benchmark equity
index tumbled 10 percent, the most since 2003. Clashes in
Istanbul began May 31 and continued late yesterday in Ankara and
Istanbul as protesters took to the streets calling for Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to resign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  