-- Kuchar Wins Memorial to Join Woods as Multiple PGA Tour Champion
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-06-03T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/matt-kuchar-wins-memorial-for-second-title-on-pga-tour-this-year.html
Matt Kuchar won the Memorial
Tournament for his sixth career title on the U.S. PGA Tour to
join Tiger Woods as the only multiple champion this year.  Kuchar shot a 4-under-par 68 at Muirfield Village Golf Club
in Dublin,  Ohio , yesterday for a four-round total of 12-under-par 276. Kevin Chappell was second, two shots further back and
Kyle Stanley finished third at 7-under at the event that’s
hosted by Jack Nicklaus.  “At the beginning of the year when I set goals I wanted to
have a multiple-win year,” Kuchar, who was second a week ago
the Crowne Plaza Invitational, said in a news conference. “To
seal the deal with winning this tournament feels really good.”  The victory is worth $1.12 million to Kuchar, 34, who also
won February’s Match Play Championship, a World Golf
Championships event. Kuchar climbed to second in the season-long
 FedExCup standings  behind Woods, who has won four times in 2013.  “I don’t feel like there are any real weaknesses in my
game,” Kuchar said. “I feel like I have a great amount of
control and enough distance to really be competitive.”  Woods, who won the Memorial for a fifth time in 2012,
finished the tournament this year in a tie for 65th place at 8-over. Woods had an even-par 72 yesterday after playing the first
half of his third round in 9-over 44, his worst nine holes as a
professional.  U.S. Open  The tour now moves to  Memphis  for the St. Jude Classic, the
final stop on the world’s richest golf circuit before the U.S.
Open, the second of the four annual major championships.  Kuchar said now that he’s accomplished one of his goals by
winning more than once in a season, he’s targeting a first major
title.  Nicklaus said in his news conference with Kuchar that he
always went to a major-tournament venue a week early to work out
how to play the course and get prepared mentally.  Kuchar replied that he’s never played Merion Golf Club so
he’d follow the advice of 18-time major champion Nicklaus and
travel to Ardmore,  Pennsylvania , tomorrow to practice for the
U.S. Open for as long as he needed to. With 20-1 odds to win at
the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, Kuchar is the third-favorite
behind Woods (9-2) and Rory McIlroy (15-1).  “I certainly feel like I’m ready to show up and play some
really good golf,” Kuchar said. “I’d love it if I could show
up and play good enough golf to win a major.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 