-- Australia May Need 40% Currency Slump to Compete, Garnaut Says
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-06-02T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/australia-may-need-40-currency-slump-to-compete-garnaut-says.html
Australia ’s dollar, the world’s best-performing major currency of the past decade, may need to slump
40 percent to restore economic competitiveness as a local mining
boom ends, said former government adviser  Ross Garnaut .  Export industries in Australia unrelated to resources, such
as services, tourism and manufacturing, will only recover if the
currency weakens between 20 percent and 40 percent, Garnaut, who
is now an academic, said on Channel Nine’s “Financial Review
Sunday” program yesterday.  The Aussie fell 7.7 percent in May as the nation’s central
bank cut  interest rates  to record lows to soothe exporters and
retailers hammered by currency gains. That’s only the start of a
transition that will also make travel, fuel and foreign
electronics costlier for Australians, said Garnaut, who advised
former Prime Minister  Bob Hawke  during a 1980s economic
overhaul.  “We need the reduction in the real exchange rate as soon
as possible,” Garnaut said on the program. “Once it starts to
fall a lot, with a lag, we’ll start getting investment into non-resource export industries again.”  Australia’s government said May 22 that the country’s
resources-investment boom may be at its peak after A$150 billion
($144 billion) of projects were scrapped or delayed. Demand for
commodities, led by  China , had sent the Australian currency
soaring, undermining some industries’ ability to compete.  Ford Motor Co. said last month it will stop making cars in
Australia, nine decades after founder  Henry Ford  first began
building Model Ts in the country.  ‘Hit Badly’  “We need to put resources into export industries,
especially the export industries that have been hit so badly by
the resources boom and the high  exchange rate ,” Garnaut said in
the interview.  Australia’s dollar has still surged 47 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  in the past 10 years, more than any other major
rival. It fetched 95.71 U.S. cents on May 31 in New York. Last
month’s decline was the biggest for the currency since a 9.8
percent plunge in September 2011.  China’s resources boom “will soon end,” Garnaut said in a
speech in Melbourne last month. The Aussie may have to reach 70
U.S. cents before the economy can make the transition, he said
yesterday.  “It does require a pretty wide understanding among
Australians that we’ve got a problem,” said Garnaut, who was
ambassador to China from 1985 to 1988. “We’re only at the start
of understanding that.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens , who has
slashed benchmark borrowing costs by 2 percentage points over
the past 19 months to 2.75 percent, should take further steps to
weaken the currency, according to Garnaut.  “The best way to do that would be just to continue with
reductions in interest rates,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  