-- Balls Says U.K. Labour Would Pursue ‘Tough’ Fiscal Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-06-03T10:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/balls-says-labour-would-pursue-tough-plan-to-cut-u-k-deficit.html
Britain’s Labour opposition sought to
boost its standing on the economy by pledging to end benefits
for wealthy pensioners as part of a “tough” program to reduce
the  budget deficit  if it wins the 2015 general election.  With the  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicting the
 deficit  will be almost 80 billion pounds ($122 billion) higher
in the fiscal year starting April 2015 than it forecast three
years ago, a Labour government would have to show “iron
discipline” over the public finances, the party’s Treasury
spokesman,  Ed Balls , said in a speech in London today.  “Labour will set out a clear and balanced plan to support
growth, alongside a clear timetable to get the deficit and the
debt down -- finishing the job where this government has
failed,” Balls said.  While Labour leads the Tories in opinion polls by about 10
percentage points, the party is losing the arguments on the
economy and public spending. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
more trusted to run the economy than Labour leader  Ed Miliband ,
a survey by Ipsos MORI found last month.  Tony Blair , who won
three general elections for Labour, warned in April that
resistance to austerity and welfare cuts risks reducing it to a
party of protest.  To help lower  government spending , Labour would end winter-fuel subsidies for the richest pensioners as part of a
“fairer” approach to deficit reduction, Balls said. Labour
will also set out “tough” new fiscal rules monitored by the
OBR, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s non-partisan
fiscal watchdog.  Missed Goals  OBR forecasts in March show the government borrowing 160
billion pounds more by April 2015 than had been forecast in June
2010, largely due to weaker-than-expected tax receipts. As a
result, Osborne has been forced to push back his goal of
balancing the structural budget deficit within five years.  The pace of austerity “choked off” the recovery, with the
 U.K. economy  expanding 1.1 percent since 2010 compared with
growth of 2.9 percent in  Germany  and 4.9 percent in the U.S.,
Balls said.  He attacked the decision to cut the top income-tax rate at
a time when  inflation  is eroding the incomes of the majority of
people and accused the government of clinging to a
“discredited” belief in “old-style trickle-down economics.”  Balls urged Cameron and Osborne to cut value-added tax and
heed the advice of the  International Monetary Fund  by boosting
spending on housing and other infrastructure projects, financed
by a “temporary” increase in borrowing.  ‘Very Different’  “The situation we will inherit will require a very
different kind of Labour government to those which have gone
before,” Balls said. “We can expect to inherit plans for
further deep cuts to departmental budgets at a time when the
deficit will still be very large and the national debt rising.”  Separately, Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude said that
U.K. government departments saved 10 billion pounds last year as
a result of changes to the way goods and services are bought.  “Civil servants are changing the ways they work and we are
on the way to managing our finances like the best-run FTSE 100
businesses,” Maude said in a statement released today by his
office in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  