-- Banks Battle Telcos for Cash in South African Townships
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-06-03T07:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/banks-battle-phone-companies-for-hidden-cash-in-africa-townships.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  hired
Itumeleng Heymann to persuade her neighbors that for about $6 a
month, their cash would be better off with  Africa ’s largest
lender than in its current hiding place: under the bed.  For millions of Africans, a simple Nokia mobile phone acts
as a bank account, allowing them to transfer funds with services
like M-Pesa, run by  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  and Safaricom Ltd. Now
Standard Bank is turning to an army of 1,000 township residents
such as Heymann as it tries to block Vodacom,  South Africa ’s
largest wireless operator, and companies like it from muscling
in on the nation’s expanding banking market as they have in
 Kenya ,  Tanzania  and elsewhere. So far, the banks are winning.  “A lot of people around here don’t have accounts,” said
Heymann, 27, wearing braids and a bright blue  Standard Bank  T-shirt as she worked the morning rush at a market in South
Africa’s Tembisa township. “A lot of people don’t want to open
accounts because they are scared that maybe there’s lots of
fees. We explain to them why it’s better to have an account
instead of putting money under your bed.”  Wireless companies like Vodacom are finding the going far
more difficult in South Africa than the rest of sub-Saharan
Africa because of the biggest economy in the region’s more
developed banking and regulatory systems and the wireless
operators’ own false starts. At stake are the more than 11
million people, a third of the adult population, who don’t have
bank accounts.  M-Pesa Overhauled  The contest pits two companies that are both No. 1 in their
industries in South Africa. Johannesburg-based Standard Bank has
31 percent of the  nation’s banking assets , according to the
Banking Association of South Africa; Vodacom, also based in
Johannesburg, said it controls more than half the wireless
market. Standard Bank has a market value of 181 billion rand
($18 billion), while Vodacom is worth 167 billion rand.  Vodacom is overhauling M-Pesa for South Africa after just
1.2 million people registered for the service since its
introduction more than 2 1/2 years ago in partnership with
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the smallest of the country’s four largest
banks. By contrast, 17.1 million Kenyans and almost five million
Tanzanians use M-Pesa and more than 550,000 people since March
2012 have signed up for Standard Bank’s AccessAccount, which
also registers them for mobile-phone banking. Standard Bank has
11 million customers in its retail bank in South Africa.  Mobile-phone payment services like M-Pesa have blossomed in
east Africa, while in South Africa they have struggled because
of regulation and a lack of a network to deposit and withdraw
cash, said Vodacom Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub.  Regulation Eased  “The big issue has been regulation and cracking the
distribution,” Joosub, 42, said in an interview in
Johannesburg. “In Tanzania, the banks are using M-Pesa as a
solution to reach the unbanked, whereas here it was a separate
product and you had lots of competing products.”  Vodacom, which is  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s largest African
operation, will probably reintroduce M-Pesa to South Africa in a
few months and take advantage of eased regulation on
transactions of less than 1,000 rand, he said.  Vodacom may also add more locations where customers can
deposit and withdraw cash with M-Pesa. The service costs 6 rand
for a cash withdrawal of less than 1,000 rand, and a money
transfer is 2.45 rand for amounts under 5,000 rand. Vodacom will
work with Nedbank as the banking-license provider, the company
said by e-mail. Nedbank didn’t respond to calls and an e-mail
seeking comment.  ‘Always Paranoid’  As Vodacom struggled with a viable alternative to banking
in South Africa,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s  First National Bank  decided to
become more like a mobile-phone company. The lender acquired a
full telecommunications license and is now the dominant company
in mobile-phone banking with 40 percent market share, according
to CEO Michael Jordaan.  “We’re always paranoid about every form of competition,
and we’re particularly paranoid about the competition that comes
from the non-conventional guys,” he said in an interview. “We
do see convergence between these two industries. What we’re
doing to telcos is going to be far more disruptive than what
telcos are going to do in banking.”  The license lets FNB give its eight million consumers free
data that they can use for banking or free phone calls to other
FNB customers. That’s been a boon for those in a country where
data is sold by the megabyte.  Jordaan credits M-Pesa’s success in east Africa to the
region’s unsophisticated banking system, lack of competition for
its owner and Kenya’s biggest mobile-phone company, Safaricom,
which is 40 percent owned by Vodafone, and the ease of access to
M-Pesa agents. The opposite is true for South Africa, said
Arthur Goldstuck, managing director of research and consulting
firm World Wide Worx in Johannesburg.  Accounts Upgraded  “M-Pesa was launched by Nedbank with the service only
available at Nedbank branches and that’s not going to appeal to
the socio-economic setting that M-Pesa was built for,” he said
in an interview. “The things that will give M-Pesa reason for
existence are an agent network that allows access anywhere and
the costs are lower than any other banking service.”  M-Pesa’s success in South Africa will depend on consumers
changing behavior and using a mobile phone as their sole means
of conducting financial services, Audrey Mothupi, Standard
Bank’s head of inclusive banking, said in an interview.  The banks introduced accounts called  Mzansi , which means
South Africa, in 2004 for customers who couldn’t afford typical
bank charges. The accounts were criticized by an antitrust panel
as too expensive, lacking transparent fees and having limited
access to automated teller machines.  Under Mattresses  Standard Bank upgraded Mzansi customers to  AccessAccounts 
in March, offering 24-hour banking and 7,000 locations where
money can be deposited or withdrawn for 59 rand a month.  “We’ve got something that’s neatly positioned to the M-Pesa product,” Mothupi said by telephone. “There are billions
hidden underneath mattresses. The average informal market
customer lives 50 kilometers (31 miles) from a bank branch. By
creating the accessibility, one makes sure that you’re closing
the gap.”  Other banks are looking to expand their mobile-banking
operations, including London-based  Standard Chartered  Plc, which
is seeking partners with retailers and phone companies in
 Nigeria  and South Africa.  “We see the opportunity in mostly partnering with telcos
so that we can leap to financial inclusion,” Kariuki Ngari,
Standard Chartered’s head of  consumer banking  for Africa, said
by telephone from Nairobi.  MTN Responds  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest wireless company, allows
subscribers to access accounts with Standard Bank, Nedbank and
First National Bank using WAP and WIG technology on their mobile
phones. Days after Vodacom, its biggest competitor, said it
would relaunch M-Pesa, Johannesburg-based MTN placed a full page
ad in the country’s City Press newspaper promoting its mobile-money service.  Sub-Saharan Africa had a population of 875 million in 2011
and more than 75 percent of adults don’t have bank accounts,
according to a  World Bank study . About 5 percent of mobile
payments in Africa and the  Middle East  were for shopping or
contactless payments in 2012, according to Bain & Co., a Boston-based consulting firm.  Of the 11 million  South Africans  without accounts, about 88
percent are black and 2 in every 5 households earn less than
2,999 rand a month, according to a report by the  FinMark Trust ,
an independent trust established through the U.K.’s  Department
for International Development .  Income Rising  South Africa’s median annual family income rose to 119,542
rand in 2011 from 74,589 rand in 2006, the nation’s statistics
agency reported last year. Gross domestic product growth slowed
to an annualized 0.9 percent in the first quarter from 2.1
percent in the previous three months, Statistics South Africa
said last week.  The average  black African family  has an income of 69,632
rand compared with 387,011 rand for white households. And
Tembisa, a township of 510,000 neighboring Johannesburg, is now
a prime target as the banks and the wireless companies mine for
new customers.  Founded in 1957 as part of the ruling  National Party’s
segregationist policy , Tembisa has become much more developed in
the past five years with fewer shacks and more solar-energy
units sprinkled on rooftops, making it increasingly attractive
to companies such as Standard Bank.  ‘Like Peanuts’  The lender said it opens about 60,000 checking accounts and
30,000  savings accounts  a month in townships including Tembisa,
which means promise or hope in Zulu.  Florence Khoza, who sells wood-fired corn on the cob from
under a corrugated tin roof, and Sarah Manyaka are just the kind
of customers Heymann, the Standard Bank agent in the blue T-shirt, is prospecting for in Tembisa. And so far, Manyaka, a 44-year-old furniture saleswoman, is a satisfied customer.  “I was eating money like peanuts,” she said, speaking of
the way she spent money before having a bank account. “But
since I had this account, I’m so happy because everywhere you
can deposit or get your money straightaway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  