-- Bayer, Onyx’s Liver Cancer Drug Nexavar Slows Rare Thyroid Tumor
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-06-02T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/bayer-onyx-s-liver-cancer-drug-nexavar-slows-rare-thyroid-tumor.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ONXX) ’s drug Nexavar gave thyroid cancer patients a five-month
respite from their tumors getting worse in a study that will be
used to request broader marketing approval for the medicine.  Patients who got Nexavar didn’t see their cancer progress
for a median of 10.8 months, compared to 5.8 months for those
who took placebo in the 417-patient study, researchers said
today at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology ’s meeting in
 Chicago . The study hasn’t reached conclusions yet about whether
Nexavar helped the patients live longer.  If cleared for sale to thyroid cancer patients, Nexavar
would be the first drug in its class approved for the disease,
making it easier to get insurer reimbursement for the treatment,
said Keith Bible, chairman of the endocrine malignancies
disease-oriented group at the Mayo Clinic. Some five percent of
thyroid cancer patients may benefit from the drug, he said.  “The impact on patient care could be considerable,” said
Bible, who wasn’t involved in the study. Rates of thyroid cancer
seem to be rising, he said.  There will probably be about 60,220 new cases in the U.S.
this year, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Thyroid cancer sales could generate an additional 150
million euros ($194.5 million) for Nexavar within three to four
years, according to Andreas Fibig, head of Bayer’s
pharmaceuticals division. Known generically as sorafenib,
Nexavar is already sold as a treatment for liver and kidney
cancer.  Bayer said it plans to request marketing approval in
thyroid cancer soon in the U.S. and Europe.  The company is aiming for 3 billion euros in peak annual
sales from its oncology franchise within five to six years,
Fibig said. Bayer’s portfolio also includes colon and liver
cancer medicine Stivarga and Alpharadin, a therapy for bone
metastases in prostate cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  