-- Bernanke Offers ‘10 Suggestions’ to Princeton Seniors
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-02T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/bernanke-offers-10-suggestions-to-princeton-seniors.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
said he wouldn’t presume to teach soon-to-be graduates of
 Princeton University  about the Ten Commandments.  Instead, Bernanke today shared with seniors “ten
suggestions.” Not one of them focused on low  interest rates , an
inflation goal or unorthodox monetary easing -- the usual topics
of the Fed chairman’s speeches. All of the recommendations dealt
with life after Princeton.  “My qualification for making such suggestions, or
observations, besides having kindly been invited to speak today
by President Tilghman, is the same as the reason that your
obnoxious brother or sister got to go to bed later,” Bernanke
said, speaking at the school’s Baccalaureate Address at the
invitation of Princeton President Shirley M. Tilghman. “I am
older than you.”  Bernanke, 59, taught at Princeton from 1985 to 2002, when
he left to join the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. His
leave from the university officially expired in 2005, the same
year he became President  George W. Bush ’s economic adviser and
just before he became Fed chairman in 2006.  Among Bernanke’s observations to the seniors: life is
unpredictable, those with the greatest gifts also have the
greatest responsibilities, and, while money matters,
satisfaction matters more.  “Most of us would agree that people who have, say, little
formal schooling but labor honestly and diligently to help feed,
clothe and educate their families” deserve respect and
sometimes help, he said in remarks prepared for a speech in
Princeton’s  University Chapel . “They’re more fun to have a beer
with, too. That’s all I know about sociology.”  Right Thing  Cynicism is a “poor substitute” for constructive action,
he told the students, and politicians in  Washington  are mostly
trying to do the right thing.  “If you think that the bad or indifferent results that too
often come out of Washington are due to base motives and bad
intentions,” he said, “you are giving politicians and policy
makers way too much credit for being effective.”  Bernanke, who has been married to his wife, Anna, for 35
years, told the students that choosing the right partner is
crucial. So is calling “mom and dad” once in a while, he said.  “Congratulations, graduates,” he concluded. “Give ’em
hell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 