-- Infosys Jumps Most Since January as Billionaire Murthy Returns
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-06-03T11:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/billionaire-murthy-returns-to-infosys-as-growth-lags-behind-tata.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  surged the most in
nearly five months after co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy
returned as chairman to spur growth that analysts project at
half the pace compared with Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  Shares of India’s second-largest software exporter  rose  4.3
percent to 2,514.1 rupees at close of trading, the most since
Jan. 11, after surging as much as 8.8 percent. Billionaire
Murthy will be chairman of the Bangalore-based company for five
years and replace Kundapur Vaman Kamath, according to a company
statement.  The 66-year-old Murthy, who helped Infosys become the first
Indian company to list on the Nasdaq stock market, will have to
steer it through proposed tougher visa rules and spending cuts
in the U.S., its biggest market. Sales growth in the 12 months
ending March 31 may be the slowest in four years, according to
analyst  estimates , as fewer customers commit to long-term
contracts amid economic uncertainty.  “If Murthy is here to change the direction of the company,
then shareholders will welcome him,” said Hardik Shah, a
Mumbai-based analyst at KR Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. who
currently has a hold  recommendation  on the stock. “The company
is lagging behind other players.”  Kamath stepped down from the role after “stakeholder
feedback” to become an independent director of Infosys, he told
Bloomberg TV  India  in an interview. Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal will retain his position, and Rohan Murthy, the
billionaire’s son, will be the new chairman’s executive
assistant.  Analyst Upgrade  Kotak Institutional Equities Ltd. raised its rating for
Infosys to add from reduce following Murthy’s return and
increased its share price forecast by 12 percent to 2,750
rupees, analysts led by Kawaljeet Saluja said in a report.  Before today, Infosys shares had slumped 17 percent since
May 2011, when Kamath, former CEO of ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s
second-largest lender, took over from Murthy as chairman of the
board and Shibulal was named chief executive.  Infosys’ revenue may increase 8.2 percent in the year to
March, according to the median of 64 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales at larger competitor  Tata Consultancy (TCS)  may
rise 15 percent, according to a survey of 63 analysts.  Falling Margin  Infosys’ earnings  margin  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the three months ended March
narrowed to 26.5 percent, according to Batlivala & Karani
Securities Pvt. That’s the lowest since at least 2005, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are many issues that need his attention, ranging
from impending immigration bill in the U.S. to faltering growth
and margins,” Rumit Dugar and Udit Garg, analysts at Religare
Institutional Research, said in a note to clients yesterday.
“While mixed demand environment will be a challenge, we do
think the issues such as faltering customer connect and cost
structure could be first to be addressed.”  Infosys’ move to ask Murthy recalls the successful returns
of former leaders, including Apple Inc.’s  Steve Jobs  and
Starbucks Corp.’s  Howard Schultz . Yet similar comebacks at Dell
Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. couldn’t reverse sagging fortunes.  Procter
& Gamble Co . last month hired back A.G. Lafley as its chief
executive officer.  Wipro, HCL  Under Murthy’s 19-year tenure as chief executive officer
until 2002, Infosys became a 234 billion-rupee ($4.1 billion)
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost
bigger than  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and HCL Technologies Ltd. combined. Tata
Consultancy was closely held when Murthy stepped down as CEO.  Infosys on April 12 forecast revenue will rise 6 percent to
10 percent in the year ending March. That compares with the 10
percent to 14 percent estimate of the industry group NASCOMM.  To compete with industry rivals, the company must shed its
“conservative tack” as it competes for about $18 billion in
outsourcing contracts in the next two years, Walter Rossini, a
Milan-based  fund manager  for Aletti Gestielle SGR Spa, said in
an interview on May 22.  Infosys announced Murthy’s return effective June 1. He will
earn an annual salary of one rupee pending shareholders’
approval, according to the statement.  The company may struggle to win clients as U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s $85 billion in spending cuts prompts companies to
rein in spending.  1981 Founding  “The days of exporting people are over, the world is
shifting in front of our eyes, and Infosys has been
blindsided,” Tripatinder Chowdhry, Managing Director at Global
Equities Research said today in an interview with Bloomberg TV
India. “Innovation is very critical and without it, they will
continue to suffer.”  Infosys, started by seven people including Shibulal with
$250 borrowed from their wives in 1981, is also battling the
potential approval of legislation in the U.S. that would
discourage companies from outsourcing computer jobs using H-1B
visas by barring the program’s heaviest users from obtaining
additional permits and raising fees.  “Some things, like immigration reform, are really out of
his control,” said Harit Shah, analyst with Nirmal Bang
Equities Ltd. “It won’t surprise me if it takes almost a year
for the change in leadership to trickle down through the
company. There’s a lot of work to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  