-- Bombardier Says CSeries ’Looks Great’ for First Flight in June
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   J a s p e r   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-02T13:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/bombardier-says-cseries-spurred-by-hot-high-africa-credentials.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  said its new CSeries
plane, designed to compete with top-selling models from  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS, is set to make its initial flight this
month.  The Canadian company’s first fully-fledged jetliner “looks
good” for a debut flight before the end of June, Chet Fuller,
senior vice president for commercial, said today, adding that it
won’t take off before the  Paris Air Show  starting 15 days from
now.  Bombardier is betting that the CSeries’s entry into service
next year will help spur sales following a six-month program
delay. Hitches with the Boeing 787 and Airbus SAS A380 have also
made it tougher for the No. 3 planemaker to strike deals for an
all-new model that has so far secured 148 firm contracts.  “There is no faith, trust or belief in anything an
airframe maker says today because of the program performance,”
Fuller said in  Cape Town  prior to the International Air
Transport Association annual meeting. “The industry has to fix
itself. We are hoping we can be one of those elements that helps
fix it.”  Bombardier aims to reveal undisclosed CSeries customers --
of which it has three -- at the Paris show, and is “guardedly
optimistic” about announcing new sales there too, Fuller said.  The ability of the CSeries to operate from “hot and high”
runways should help spur orders in an African market Bombardier
expects to double in size over three to five years, he said.  Climate, Infrastructure  Fuller said the CS100 model, seating as many as 135 people,
together with the Q400 turboprop, are particularly suited to an
African market where intra-regional demand is beginning to
emerge even as climatic and infrastructure hurdles remain.  “We are really bullish on the CS100 in  Africa ,” he said.
“That’s the airplane that will really open up markets.”  Bombardier’s African penetration is likely to increase from
about 200 planes to 400 in tandem with the surge in demand,
which the Montreal-based company expects to take an even shorter
period to double again, the executive said.  The Canadian manufacturer is looking at a strong order
pipeline in Africa for both the CSeries and Q400, he said. The
market for the CRJ regional jet will also grow but is more
complex, according to Fuller.  The CS300, the larger model, should be 12,000 pounds
lighter than  Airbus (EAD) ’s A319neo and offer 12 to 15 percent better
performance, Fuller said. Boeing’s new 737-7 Max is not
competitive on a per-seat basis, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Jasper in Cape Town at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in Cape Town at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  