-- Bonds Drop Globally as Stocks Reach Highs on Growth Optimism
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k ,   L u   W a n g ,   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-06-03T04:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/bonds-tumble-worldwide-as-stocks-reach-highs-on-growth-optimism.html
Global bond markets posted their
biggest monthly losses in nine years in May as the  U.S. dollar 
rallied and stocks reached record highs amid speculation a
strengthening  U.S. economy  will allow the  Federal Reserve  to
reduce its monetary stimulus.  The over $40 trillion of bonds in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index fell 1.5 percent on
average, led by a 2 percent drop in Treasuries. The MSCI World
Index lost 0.3 percent while the  Standard & Poor’s 500  reached a
record high. The U.S. Dollar Index jumped 2 percent as the
greenback gained versus all its major peers. The S&P GSCI Total
Return Index of metals, fuels and agricultural products dropped
1.5 percent a month after falling the most since May 2012.  Employment gains and increases in housing and  consumer
confidence  suggested the recovery in the U.S. economy, the
world’s largest, is gaining momentum, prompting traders to
increase bets the Fed will scale back its $85 billion in monthly
debt purchases later this year. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development predicts faster global economic
growth, led by the U.S. and Japan.  “Investors’ attempt to access what the Fed will do with
its bond-buying program has been pretty central to the
performance of all asset classes,” Neil Mackinnon, a global
macro strategist at VTB Capital Plc in London, said May 30 in a
telephone interview. “The markets are very sensitive to the
idea that the Fed might ease back on their debt purchases.”  Bernanke Testimony  Yields on U.S. Treasuries, German bunds and U.K. gilts are
all forecast to rise by year-end from current levels, while
those in Japan may fall, according to separate surveys of
analysts by  Bloomberg News .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a response to
questions following Congressional testimony on May 22 that the
central bank could consider reducing the amount of Treasuries
and mortgage debt it buys within “the next few meetings” if
officials see signs of sustained improvement in the labor
market.  The OECD sees growth among all its member countries
accelerating to 2.3 percent next year from 1.2 percent this
year.  China , which isn’t part of the group, will expand 8.4
percent in 2014 after growth of 7.8 percent this year, according
to the OECD report.  “The tone of the economic data has certainly been getting
better and that is certainly one of the reasons why yields are
pushing a little bit higher along with this talk of a Fed taper
of debt purchases,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in
New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a May 29 interview
on  Bloomberg Radio .  Yields Rise  Last month’s losses in the Global Broad Market Index of
bonds trimmed its year-to-date returns to 0.13 percent,
including reinvested interest. While the effective yield rose to
1.83 percent, from 1.53 percent on April 30.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s index of sovereign bonds
lost 1.63 percent, as Treasuries fell 2 percent and Japanese
 government bonds  plunged 1.25 percent, the most since April
2008.  Corporate bonds globally from the riskiest to most-creditworthy borrowers dropped 1.35 percent, the most since
November 2011. Investment-grade notes lost 1.55 percent as  junk
bonds  declined 0.48 percent, the first monthly loss in a year.  The MSCI World Index’s loss in May trimmed this year’s
gains to 10 percent. The biggest stock-market gains were found
in  Venezuela , where the main equities index soared 22 percent.
At the opposite end, Argentina’s Merval Index slid 9.3 percent.  Global Equities  Germany’s DAX rose the most among developed markets,
gaining 5.5 percent as carmakers rallied. The Portugal PSI 20
Index dropped 5 percent for the worst performance as Banco
Espirito Santo SA slumped amid an unexpected quarterly loss.  Japan’s Topix slid 2.5 percent, trimming gains for the year
to 32 percent, after rising bond yields spurred losses in
financial shares. The index has entered a correction by falling
more than 10 percent since May 22.  The  S&P 500  reached an all-time high close of 1,669.16 on
May 21 and rose 2.1 percent in its seventh-straight monthly
gain, the longest stretch since September 2009. The rally has
lifted the index 14 percent this year and pushed its dividend
yield down to 2.08 percent, below the 10-year Treasury note’s
yield for the first time in 13 months.  “The market is a power house,” Bruce Bittles, the chief
investment strategist at Milwaukee-based RW Baird & Co., which
oversees about $100 billion, said in a May 30 phone interview.
“My biggest concern is a lot of people are being pushed into
the market that really don’t want to be here and will exit at
the first sign of trouble.”  Dollar Index  In the foreign-exchange market, IntercontinentalExchange
Inc.’s  Dollar Index  rebounded from a 1.5 percent drop in April
on optimism the Fed may soon slow the pace at which it prints
the currency to buy bonds. The gauge measures the greenback
against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and
Swedish krona.  The Dollar Index lost 0.2 percent to 83.239 as of 1:19 p.m.
in Tokyo. The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3008 after falling 1.3
percent in May.  China’s  yuan  was the only currency to gain in May versus
the greenback among 31 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.
The yuan appreciated 0.5 percent during the month to 6.1345 per
dollar.  Chinese Slowdown  The biggest losers against the U.S. currency were the South
African Rand, sliding 11 percent; the Australian dollar, losing
7.7 percent; the Brazilian Real, falling 6.5 percent; and the
 New Zealand dollar , depreciating 7.2 percent.  Australia ’s dollar tumbled the most since September 2011,
weakening to 95.71 U.S. cents. Japan’s currency slid 3 percent,
bring this year’s losses to 14 percent as the  Bank of Japan 
doubled its bond-buying program and inflation target to end a
protracted period of deflation.  “Some of the Chinese data hasn’t been as resilient as some
had thought,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in Stamford,
Connecticut, during a telephone interview on May 30. “Concerns
about the China story have been rising, especially as commodity
prices are moving lower on the back of that, and that hampered
the Australian dollar.”  Commodities Drop  China’s slowdown is reverberating in Australia on the
prospects for reduced trade between the nations. Manufacturing
in China, the nation’s biggest trade partner, contracted in May
for the first time in seven months, adding to signs that
economic growth is losing steam for a second quarter.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities declined in May after
falling 4.7 percent in April. It slid 5.6 percent this year
through last month as slowing growth in China crimped demand for
raw materials.  “Commodities are underperforming because of concern about
growth, especially in China,” Russell Silberston, a London-based  money manager  at Investec Asset Management, said in a
phone interview on May 28. The company manages $105 billion.  Cocoa fell 7.5 percent, the most this year, as  stockpiles 
in warehouses monitored by ICE Futures U.S. expanded for a sixth
consecutive month, the longest streak in three years. At the
same time, soybeans jumped 7.9 percent, the most since July, as
farmers in the U.S. Midwest withheld dwindling supplies from
last year’s drought-reduced harvest.  Gold, Copper  Gold futures on the Comex in New York fell 5.4 percent,
after tumbling 7.8 percent in April when the metal entered a
 bear market . Copper on the London Metal Exchange climbed 3.6
percent, the first monthly gain since January, as some traders
who were betting on lower prices bought back contracts after
mining was suspended in Indonesia at Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc.’s Grasberg, the world’s second-largest copper mine.  “Agriculture markets are generally seeing ample supply
keeping a lid on prices apart from some old crops where
inventories are low from last summer’s much-reduced harvest,”
said Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “Precious metals are still struggling to come to
terms with higher bond rates and subdued inflation.”  Brent oil dropped 1.9 percent in May to $100.39 a barrel,
the fourth-consecutive monthly decline. It may rebound to about
$110 a barrel in the next few months, Hansen said.  “Geo-political worries are primarily priced through Brent
as U.S. inventories of crude oil are at a record high but not
easily exported so any supply worries impacts Brent the most,”
Hansen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  