-- Changing China Food Safety Key to Shuanghui on Smithfield
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-03T20:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/changing-china-food-safety-at-heart-of-shuanghui-smithfield-deal.html
Wan Long, who helped turn a single
hog-processing plant into  China ’s largest producer, explains the
reasons for his $4.7 billion swoop on  Smithfield Food Inc. (SFD)  as he
adjusts six miniature porcelain pigs on his desk.  The 72-year-old chairman of Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd., who last week won Smithfield’s acceptance for
what would be the largest Chinese acquisition of a U.S. company,
is not just reordering the pink and blue swines in front of him.
He’s seeking to tap foreign expertise and technology to help
reshape food safety and production in China’s pork industry.  “The question of food safety, whether it’s to American
consumers or Chinese consumers, is a big deal,” Wan said in an
interview at his office in Luohe city in Henan province, about
800 kilometers (500 miles) south of Beijing, sitting in front of
a world map that hangs behind him. “Our nation has a tighter
and tighter grip over  food safety .”  Chinese consumers spend about $183 billion on pork a year,
favoring pig head, feet and offal that aren’t popular on U.S.
menus. The nation’s farms are mostly small, which combined
produce about five times more pig meat than the U.S. China’s
food industry had been wracked by scandals ranging from tainted
milk to the illegal dumping of hogs in rivers.  Smithfield accepted Hong Kong-based Shuanghui’s offer of
$34 a share on May 29, priced at a 31 percent premium to the
close the day before, the companies said that day. The U.S.
producer has 30 days to continue talks with possible buyers
 Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  and  JBS SA (JBSS3) , according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Prepared to Raise  Smithfield rose 0.1 percent to $32.98 at the close in  New
York .  Buying the Smithfield, Virginia-based hog producer would
give Shuanghui access to more advanced production technology as
well as 460 farms that raise about 15.8 million hogs a year. The
bid by the owner of China’s top pork producer is valued at about
$7.1 billion including debt. Shuanghui may raise its offer to
meet other bids, Wan said during the May 31 interview.  Shuanghui International is a holding company that counts
among its shareholders CDH Investments Fund Management Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., New Horizon Capital, Kerry Group and
Temasek Holdings Pte., as well as Shuanghui employees and
management, according to its  website .  A vertical calligraphy paper scroll on the wall in the
reception to Wan’s office, with black ink Chinese characters,
may offer some insight into the deal. “Restructure and expand,
good management and sound spending of money,” it reads.  First Sausage  Wan said the price they agreed to pay for Smithfield
“isn’t cheap,” and that any possible increased bid would be
made “while keeping in mind the costs.” Shuanghui said
yesterday it had no confirmation of competing offers for
Smithfield and that its bid was “fair.”  Shuanghui began operating a single processing plant in
Luohe in 1969 and introduced its first branded sausage in 1992,
according to its  website . It produces more than 2.7 million
metric tons of meat a year from plants in 13 provinces. Zhang
Taixi, president of Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development
Co., Shuanghui’s listed unit, said in a May 18 interview that
the company makes more than 100 million sausages a day, or about
one for every 13 of mainland China’s people. That production
rate equates to about 36.5 billion sausages a year.  “Chinese traditionally like to eat pork,” said Chairman
Wan. Secondly, “China doesn’t have the resources to raise
cattle on a large scale. If there isn’t a lot of beef, you’ll
have to eat pork if you like to eat meat,” he said.  Breeding Swines  Wholesale pork prices  averaged 21.3  yuan  a kilogram ($1.60
a pound) in China in 2012, according to the Ministry of
Commerce. The nation consumed 52.7 million tons that year,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , at a value of
1.1 trillion yuan, according to Bloomberg calculations. The
China cost compares with the most recent U.S. price of $95.03 a
hundredweight for  boxed pork carcasses .  The number of hogs available for slaughtering in China rose
5.2 percent to 696 million in 2012, while those remaining as
livestock advanced 1.6 percent to 475 million, according to the
National Bureau of  Statistics .  “China spends tens of millions of dollars every year
importing U.S. piglets or breeding swines because the U.S. has
much better technology in that field,” said  Li Qiang , chairman
of  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co., an agricultural research
company. Increased pork imports would also cut pollution at
home, Li said.  Global Production  Farmers with annual production of less than 50 hogs
available for slaughter contribute 35 percent of the nation’s
output, while producers with less than 500 contribute 65
percent, according to James Feng, general manager of Soozhu.com,
China’s biggest independent hog researcher. Pig farming consumes
large amounts of crops and water, and produces pollution, while
urbanization is reducing the supply of land in China, he said.
In the U.S., 53 percent of farms produce 5,000 or more pigs a
year, according to the National Pork Producers Council  website .  The world’s farmers are estimated to produce 107.4 million
tons of pig meat in the marketing year 2013, according to the
USDA. China’s output, the largest, is predicted at 53.8 million
tons, compared with U.S. production of 10.7 million tons. China
imported more than 1.3 million tons of pork and its byproducts
last year, including more than 500,000 tons from the U.S.,
Shuanghui said yesterday.  “The U.S. has sufficient farming land and water
resources,” Feng said. “Buying Smithfield is to secure the
supply of feed and water to pigs for Shuanghui.”  Food Scandals  Shuanghui imports all its slaughtering and processing
equipment from the U.S. and  Europe , said Wan. He’s been to the
U.S. many times and includes visits to supermarkets on his
trips, especially those selling Chinese-style products such as
steamed buns and pancakes, he said.  “Europe and America have excellent skills and equipment,”
he said. “If we go and purchase businesses from America and
Europe, develop China’s meat industry, we will raise the level
and standard of our food safety.”  China has been seeking to reassure consumers about food,
creating a new administration in March charged with overseeing
food and drug safety in the country. Premier  Li Keqiang  told a
government meeting in May a large amount of money should be
spent for food safety to build up people’s confidence in what
they eat, China National Radio reported May 13.  Illegal Additives  The efforts come after scandals including the deaths of at
least six babies in 2008 because of melamine-tainted milk and
the discovery of more than 9,000 dead pigs in Shanghai’s Huangpu
river in March. Shanghai’s government said last month it was
testing some mutton after police busted a ring selling rat, fox
and mink as meat.  Shuanghui apologized in March 2011 over illegal additives
found in its meat and halted output after  China Central
Television  reported that farmers in central  Henan province  fed
an additive to their pigs and then sold them to a slaughterhouse
owned by the group. The company subsequently pledged to step up
quality control.  Back in his ninth-floor office in Luohe, Wan says he never
thought of buying an American company when he was a factory
director at Shuanghui’s first plant about three decades ago. The
porcelain pigs on his desk were a gift from a foreign meat
industry guest, though he can’t recall who, he says.  The Smithfield deal will help accelerate Shuanghui’s global
expansion plans, Wan says now, and he’s “fully confident” it
will get shareholder and regulator approvals.  “China’s demand for meat products is getting bigger and
bigger,” he says. “We very much need to bring in advanced
production and technologies from overseas.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  