-- China Southern Gets First Dreamliner After Failed A380 Strategy
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-06-02T02:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/china-southern-gets-first-dreamliner-after-failed-a380-strategy.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , the
nation’s biggest carrier by passengers, took delivery of its
first  Boeing Co. (BA)  Dreamliner after a two-year struggle to use its
Airbus SAS A380s on overseas flights from Beijing.  The 787 arrived today in Guangzhou, where China Southern is
based, after Boeing handed over the aircraft last month. The
carrier, which has ordered 10 Dreamliners, will become the
nation’s only operator of both Dreamliners and superjumbos.  China Southern will fly the composite-plastic plane to
Paris from its hub after three months of domestic flights, Chief
Operating Officer Zhang Zifang said last month. The decision to
fly the Dreamliner from Guangzhou came after stalled talks with
 Air China Ltd. (601111)  to use the A380 superjumbos from its rival’s base
in Beijing.  “China Southern has the most high-profile aircraft now,”
said Li Lei, a Beijing-based analyst at China Minzu Securities
Co. “That doesn’t mean profits because its base is  Guangzhou ,
not Beijing.”  Boeing delivered the 787 to China Southern after flaws in
the plane’s lithium-ion battery forced a three-month global
grounding of the jet starting in January. Carriers worldwide
resumed commercial flights with Boeing’s most advanced jet in a
phased manner starting in April.  Guangzhou Versus Beijing  Air China also has 15 787s on order, due to be delivered
from the end of 2015 to mid-2018. Hainan Airlines Co., the
nation’s fourth largest carrier, has ordered 10 Dreamliners.
 China Eastern  in 2011 swapped orders for 24 of the model for
smaller planes, citing late delivery and waning international
 travel demand  at that time.  China Southern has lost money flying the double-deckers
because they have been mainly used on domestic routes from
Guangzhou, a smaller city with less traffic compared with
China’s capital, according to Li.  Guangzhou, less than 200 kilometers away from Hong Kong,
can’t command a premium unlike Beijing or  Shanghai , he said in a
phone interview.  China Southern said in April it will fly the A380s from
Guangzhou to Sydney later this year.  Air China has a lock on Beijing routes because of the
aviation landscape established by the Civil Aviation
Administration of China, according to Li Yanhua, a professor at
Tianjin-based Civil Aviation University of China.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  similarly controls Shanghai,
the nation’s financial capital, while China Southern has
Guangzhou.  Air China has about 37,000 weekly long-haul seats out of
Beijing airport this week, 18.5 times China Southern’s 2,000,
according to data compiled by  CAPA Centre for Aviation , which
advises airlines. China Southern received first A380 in October
2011.  The fuel-efficient 787 will help China Southern shore up
profitability, said Will Horton, an analyst at CAPA.  “Chinese carriers are generally unprofitable on long-haul
routes, so using a 787 could enable China Southern to keep a
route but have improved economics,” Hong Kong-based Horton
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  