-- China Growth Limited by Struggling Small Manufacturers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-03T08:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/china-sees-economy-stabilizing-as-manufacturers-signal-expansion.html
Chinese manufacturing indexes showed
small businesses struggling, sapping momentum in the economy and
underscoring the need for the government to shift support away
from larger, state-backed companies.  The official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for smaller
companies fell to 47.3 in May from 47.6 the previous month, even
as the broader  gauge  rose to 50.8 from 50.6, the government said
June 1. A private manufacturing index today that includes small
enterprises fell more than forecast to 49.2, an eight-month low,
from 50.4. Levels below 50 signal contraction.  The reports illustrate Premier  Li Keqiang ’s challenges in
achieving sustainable growth across the world’s second-biggest
economy while increasing consumption and reducing reliance on
exports and investment. Declines in manufacturing gauges today
in  India , South Korea,  Vietnam  and  Taiwan  add to risks that
Asian and global expansion will slow.  “It is too early to conclude that an economic rebound has
begun” in  China , Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a report today.
“There is still a strong bias towards larger enterprises and
coastal areas in terms of fiscal and credit policy
implementation,” and small and mid-sized companies appear to
“operate with minimal policy support,” Shen wrote.  Divergences in the manufacturing indexes are common given
their different focus and coverage, said  Wang Tao , chief China
economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong. The decline in the official
PMI’s gauge for smaller companies is consistent with the HSBC
index, Wang said before today’s release.  Stock Indexes  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 1.4 percent as
of 5:08 p.m. in  Tokyo . China’s benchmark  Shanghai  Composite
Index was down 0.1 percent at the close, while the ChiNext index
of small companies dropped 2 percent.  Rising property prices may limit any potential efforts by
the government to aid growth. China’s new home prices jumped in
May by the most since they reversed declines in December, a
report today from SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest
real estate website owner, showed after a survey of 100 cities.  The PMI reading released June 1 by the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing in
Beijing was higher than all estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey 
of 30 analysts and compares with the median projection of 50,
which marks the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today gave the final
May reading of their manufacturing index, whose 49.2 level was
the lowest since September. The gauge, which surveys fewer
companies than the government’s report, had a preliminary figure
of 49.6 released May 23, and the median estimate of 14 analysts
was also for 49.6 today.  ‘Sluggish’ Momentum  “Business activity at small businesses is much weaker than
bigger companies, showing sluggish growth momentum,” said  Ken Peng , a BNP Paribas SA economist in Beijing. The official
manufacturing PMI’s output sub-index was higher than the one for
new orders, “and that’s not a good sign because it reflects
growing inventories at manufacturers,” Peng said.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, lowered product prices for June delivery, according
to a May 9 statement on its website, the first cut in nine
months as supply exceeds demand. About 54 percent of the
increase in steel output in the first four months of the year
has become inventory sitting in warehouses, Wang Xiaoqi, vice
chairman of the China Iron & Steel Association said last week.  Service industries  expanded last month at the slowest pace
since September, a separate government  survey  showed today,
adding to pressures on Li. An NBS and federation  gauge  of
service industries, the non-manufacturing PMI, declined in May
to 54.3 from 54.5.  Asia Gauges  While the Asia manufacturing indexes outside China declined,
gauges for the euro area, Germany and Australia showed
improvement. A figure is also due for the U.S.  South Korea today reported the slowest  inflation  since 1999,
leaving the central bank with more scope for cutting  interest
rates  to spur growth. Consumer prices rose 1 percent in May from
a year earlier. In  Japan , a report showed a decline in  capital
spending  in the first quarter.  In Hong Kong, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  maintained a
forecast for the city’s economy to grow between 1.5 percent and
3.5 percent this year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in a
speech in Shanghai that while the economic outlook in the euro
area is “challenging,” he still expects a recovery this year.  Xi Confidence  President  Xi Jinping  said expansion is on a “more stable
footing,” the Xinhua News Agency reported May 31. The
fundamentals of the Chinese economy are “sound,” according to
the English-language transcript of a written interview released
by Xinhua before his visit to Latin America and the Caribbean.  Domestic demand, especially  consumption , is playing a
bigger role in driving growth, employment is stable and incomes
are rising, Xi said.  A Bloomberg News survey of economists showed the People’s
Bank of China is more likely to raise interest rates than cut
them in the coming year.  Premier Li said the government will step up efforts to
develop service industries to “help unleash huge potential in
domestic demand” and bring “firm support for stable economic
growth,” Xinhua reported on May 29, citing a speech he gave at
a trade fair in Beijing.  Services Growth  Even with the drop in the  index (SHCOMP) , service industries are
“expanding at a quite high rate,” said Sun Chi, a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets. At the same time,
economic growth will be “relatively flat” in the coming months
with the absence of a major policy shift, she said.  “Big Chinese enterprises are at the front of the line to
benefit from pro-growth policies and eased credit,” Sun said.  HSBC will release its services PMI on June 5. The  official
survey  hasn’t dropped below 50 since a new data series started
in March 2011 and HSBC’s has shown expansion for at least four
years.  Service industries accounted for about 45 percent of  gross
domestic product  last year, according to statistics bureau data,
up from 41 percent in 2003. The government is seeking to
increase the share to 47 percent by 2015, according to its five-year plan. In the U.S., services comprise about 90 percent of
the economy.  --Zhou Xin, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Penny Peng, Regina Tan and  John Liu  in Beijing and Ailing Tan and Rina Chandran in
Singapore. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  