-- Corn May Extend Rally After Resistance Break: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-06-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/corn-may-extend-rally-after-resistance-break-technical-analysis.html
A two-month rally in corn futures
probably will extend into June as prices break resistance from
the March highs this week, according to Northstar Commodity
Investment Co.  Corn futures for December delivery on the Chicago Board of
Trade jumped more than 9 percent from an 11-month low on May 17.
On May 31, the price closed at $5.6725 a bushel, the highest
since March 27, and the relative-strength index gained last
week. A settlement this week above the March intraday high of
$5.7375 signals the grain will approach the January high of
$6.05, according to  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at
Northstar.  “Corn should make a quick jump to test the January highs
if futures close above the March peak,” Schultz said. “We
should see fund money flow back into the corn market.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased  bets  on
higher corn prices by 80 percent to 98,370 futures and options
contracts in the week ended May 28, data from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission on May 31 showed. Net longs still
dropped 49 percent from the end of March.  Corn may rally as wet, cool weather in the Midwest prompts
farmers to shift acreage to soybeans, Schultz said. Growers also
may opt to collect crop insurance and leave fields empty, he
said. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is scheduled to update
planted acreage on June 28.  “The corn market is moving into a bull phase that may last
through June until more is known about planted area, and the
health of the crop already planted,” Schultz said. “There’s a
chance this rally could carry all the way up to $6.40.”  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a bond,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  