-- Czech Rainfall Threatens Prague With Flooding, Railway Closures
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-06-02T08:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/czech-rainfall-threatens-prague-with-flooding-railway-closures.html
Heavy rains prompted flood warnings
across the Czech Republic’s western region, forcing authorities
to close nine rail lines, evacuate homes and erect flood
barriers in  Prague  for the first time since 2002.  “The situation is very serious,” acting Prague Mayor
Tomas Hudecek said, the news website  Novinky.cz  reported today
as firefighters inspected breaches along the banks of the Vltava
River, including in the center of the Czech capital. Two rafters
on a swollen river west of Prague were missing. City officials
have called an emergency meeting.  As much as 30 millimeters of rain pounded the countryside
in northern Bohemia in 12 hours yesterday, while western Bohemia
had as much as 20 millimeters of precipitation, according to the
state weather service.  The rainfall is raising the specter of a repeat of the 2002
floods that crippled Prague, paralyzing the subway system  for
weeks and costing the city more than 24 billion koruna ($1.2
billion) in damage. Whole neighborhoods, such as the riverside
Karlin and Mala Strana districts, were left under water, while
animals drowned in the Prague Zoo.  This weekend, authorities issued flood warnings in Prague,
Plzen, the home of  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s Pilsner Urquell brewery, and
surrounding regions.  On the Vltava, the river that bisects Prague, the water
level is expected to trigger the third and highest stage of
alert at about noon, said Iva Vojtkova, a spokeswoman for the
Mayor’s office. A crisis staff to decide emergency measures is
meeting in the city hall, she said.  Flooded Homes  The third stage of alert has been called in five areas of
central Bohemia, Novinky.cz reported. Mountain river runoff
flooded village homes west of Prague. In Beroun, about 30
kilometers (19 miles) southwest of Prague, authorities evacuated
a retirement home at midnight and shut off electricity at the
town’s flooded bus station.  In Prague, police closed a highway ramp in the southern
part of the city and several roads leading out of town because
of the flooding, according to the website of the Prague-based
newspaper Mlada Fronta Dnes. A tree fell in front of a commuter
train, blocking the line that leads to the suburban communities
of Kladno and Rakovnik.  South of the capital, the road leading into Cesky Krumlov,
a Unesco-protected medieval city, was closed at the Eggenberg
brewery, iDnes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  