-- Israel’s Dankner in Last-Ditch Debt Fight for Control of IDB
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-06-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/dankner-s-idb-holding-makes-new-debt-proposal-to-retain-control.html
IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH)  countered
bondholder efforts to wrest control of the debt-strapped Israeli
company from Chairman Nochi Dankner with a plan of its own,
pushing the company’s 2020  bonds  to an 11-week high.  The Tel Aviv-based company, which is struggling to meet
payments on about 2.06 billion shekels ($559 million) of debt,
is offering to inject 540 million shekels in cash, according to
an e-mailed company statement on June 1. Argentine businessman
Eduardo Elsztain will make a $75 million investment and will
share ownership with Dankner.  Bondholders of unit IDB Development Corp., including York
Capital Management LP, joined hands to force a debt-to-equity
swap to take over the company Dankner spent 15 years building.
He turned a family business that made its fortune in table salt
and real estate into a holding company which includes  Israel ’s
biggest supermarket chain,  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , and the largest
mobile operator,  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)   “Dankner’s plan is preferable to IDB bondholders’ joint
proposal, but the weak link is that it relies entirely on the
certainty of the outside investor,” Avihay Hermon, a trader at
Tel Aviv-based  Israel Discount Bank Ltd. (DSCT) , said yesterday by
phone. “Even if the investment materializes, it isn’t clear how
Dankner will be able to reach agreements, repay banks and retain
control of the company.”  ‘Maximum Efforts’  Businessman Elsztain said May 30 that after “maximum
efforts” leading up to the investment, the final decision will
be taken by bondholders and the court. The yield on IDB’s 1.07
billion shekels of 5.1 percent bonds due in December 2020
yesterday plunged 476 basis points, or 4.76 percentage points,
to 56.95 percent, the lowest since March 18, at the close in Tel
Aviv. The  shares  jumped 9.4 percent, the most since April 28, to
8.126 shekels.  IDB Holding will issue 700 million shekels in bonds and
debtholders will get a 10 percent stake in the company and
another 10 percent in IDB Development as part of Dankner’s
proposal. The combination of unprofitable investments and
regulations to boost competition prompted IDB Holding to include
a going-concern warning in its first-quarter earnings report on
June 1. It also said that  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  is calling
for immediate payment of a loan to parent company Ganden
Holdings Ltd.  The Israeli Securities Authority said yesterday bondholders
are legally entitled to impose their debt restructuring
proposal, if they can prove that IDB is insolvent. Under the
terms of the joint bondholders’ takeover bid on May 24, IDB
Development creditors would get 90 percent of the equity and IDB
Holding creditors the remainder. IDB Development owes 6 billion
shekels to bondholders and banks, according to a company
statement.  Not Insolvent  IDB’s lenders, including  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI) , Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. and Israel Discount Bank Ltd., filed a court
objection to the debtholder proposal, saying IDB Development
isn’t insolvent and will be able to meet its commitments,
Israeli daily Calcalist said yesterday. A spokeswoman for Bank
Hapoalim declined to comment on the report. IDB Development owes
Hapoalim, the country’s biggest lender by assets, 900 million
shekels, including 150 million in guarantees.  “The banks’ objection is another development against the
joint bondholders’ agreement and in favor of Dankner’s new
proposal,” Raz Mor, a corporate debt analyst at Tel Aviv-based
DS Securities & Investments Ltd., said by phone yesterday.  IDB Holding in March proposed a debt arrangement to
transfer 15 percent of its shares to bondholders and to make a
500 million-shekel cash injection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  