-- Denying Immigrants Health Care Is Cruel Politics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-02T22:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/denying-immigrants-health-care-is-cruel-politics.html
As if immigration and health-care
reform aren’t sufficiently daunting in their own rights, the two
issues are now joined.  Last week, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill
that would give the roughly 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S. a chance to become citizens. Immigrants who meet a
series of conditions would be granted provisional legal status,
allowing them to work in the country legally.  The legislation would prevent those immigrants from
receiving federal benefits for at least 10 years. The
prohibition includes qualifying for Medicaid and getting federal
subsidies to purchase health insurance.  Excluding such immigrants from government health assistance
has its appeal. Although the cost of extending such benefits is
hard to estimate -- the  Congressional Budget Office  hasn’t
analyzed the issue -- it’s likely to be expensive. In addition,
some critics view subsidies for immigrants as a perverse reward
for breaking immigration laws.  Yet withholding health benefits is even more problematic.
First, legalizing immigrants without providing access to health
care will give employers an incentive to hire immigrants over
American citizens. The Affordable Care Act requires employers
with 50 or more employees either to provide health insurance or
pay a penalty as high as $3,000 per uninsured worker. Employers
could avoid doing either by hiring immigrants that are excluded
from the program.  In addition, excluding immigrants will weaken the new
health-care system, which is predicated on bringing healthy
young people into the insurance market, both to balance the risk
pool and to reduce expensive (and publicly funded) emergency
care. If that economic logic holds for citizens and legal
residents, it should also apply to undocumented immigrants.
(Actuarial tables don’t care about your immigration status.)  In fact, the economic argument for bringing immigrants into
the health-insurance market is strong. The  median age  of
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. is 36 -- 10 years younger
than the median age of citizens, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center.  Younger people are generally healthier, and young
immigrants, in particular, typically use fewer health-care
services than nonimmigrants. More than two-thirds of adult
immigrants working without authorization had no insurance in
2011, according to  estimates  from the Migration Policy
Institute. Their participation in insurance pools would help
keep costs down for everyone.  That argument was recently underscored by some  House
Republicans , who  propose  that immigrants with provisional status
be required to carry health insurance. (If this sounds like the
individual mandate enshrined in the Affordable Care Act, welcome
down the partisan rabbit hole that is  Washington .)  Requiring immigrants to buy insurance -- with limited
access to employer-based coverage, and without access to federal
subsidies -- imposes a large burden on a population in which 32
percent of adults and 51 percent of children  live in poverty . If
we want these future citizens to contribute to their
communities, saddling them with steep financial obligations
probably isn’t the best start.  Instead, Congress should ease their access to the health-insurance market. At a minimum, that should include access to
coverage for the estimated 1 million undocumented immigrants
younger than 18, and enabling immigrants to purchase insurance
on state exchanges with their own money -- even if Congress
unwisely blocks subsidies. If no subsidies are available, a
mandate to carry insurance can’t be justified.  Giving 11 million undocumented immigrants a chance at legal
status makes economic and ethical sense. Denying them the chance
to get affordable health coverage in the meantime does not.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 