-- Drugs Go From Hit to Dud in Two Years in Hepatitis Race
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-03T13:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/drugs-go-from-hit-to-dud-in-two-years-in-hepatitis-race.html
Jean-Michel Pawlotsky has déjà vu.  The doctor in the town of Creteil, just outside Paris, is
telling hepatitis C patients to delay treatment until later this
year, when two new drugs that may boost their chances of
defeating the lethal liver infection hit the market.  It’s the same advice he offered two years ago, when earlier
medicines developed by  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  and  Merck &
Co. (MRK)  were poised for approval. Now he says those drugs, hailed as
breakthroughs in 2011, will soon be superseded by products from
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   The pace of innovation, spurred by drugmakers jostling for
a slice of a market that may reach  $15 billion  by 2018, has
turned hepatitis C research into one of the fastest-developing
areas of medicine. That boosted Gilead’s shares to a record last
month, and left others like Vertex facing dwindling sales as
their products quickly go from revolutionary to outdated.  “Things are moving very fast,” Pawlotsky, who teaches
medicine at the University of Paris-Est, said by phone. “People
are frustrated, they want more, better.”  Hepatitis C, an infectious disease that can scar the liver
and afflicts about 170 million people worldwide, is transmitted
via blood, most commonly among drug users who share contaminated
needles.  The disease is still treated largely with injections that
can take six months to clear the virus, sometimes don’t work,
and cause side effects ranging from flu-like symptoms to
depression. If untreated for long periods, hepatitis C can cause
liver damage that may require a transplant, or cancer.  Reed Transplant  Lou Reed , a musician who penned songs about his heroin
addiction, had a  liver transplant  in recent weeks after
suffering from hepatitis, the Telegraph newspaper  reported ,
without saying which type or where it got the information.  Gilead, a newcomer to the field, in April applied for
regulatory clearance of a drug known as sofosbuvir. The pill may
become the  Foster City , California-based company’s top-selling
product by 2015, and reach sales of $6.3 billion by 2016,
according to the average of nine analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock has more than doubled in the past year on
optimism about the pill.  Until 2011, there was only one standard treatment: the
generic antiviral ribavirin, together with a weekly injection
called pegylated interferon, sold by  Roche Holding AG  and Merck.  Two years ago, doctors and patients embraced the new drugs
from Vertex and Merck because they boosted cure rates to about
80 percent from 50 percent. But they came with more side
effects, including skin rashes and the risk of  birth defects .  Drug Deluge  In clinical studies, newer formulations from Gilead and J&J
show similar or better results in ridding patients of the
disease, and fewer risks. Both may win regulatory approval this
year. Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen unit applied in March for
clearance of its product, simeprevir, which was developed by
 Medivir AB. (MVIRB)  Other drugs from  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  are in late-stage trials.  “It’s not often you’re in a field that moves so fast and
offers so much promise,” said Graham Cooke, a clinician at
 Imperial College London . “We’ve had very difficult treatments
for so long, and we’re now in this era of incredible throughput
from the pipeline.”  Vertex, of Cambridge,  Massachusetts , gets 76 percent of its
revenue from Incivek, the hepatitis drug it developed with
Janssen, which markets the treatment as Incivo in  Europe . The
drug won U.S. regulatory approval in May 2011 and prescriptions
and sales reached a peak in the fourth quarter of that year, but
have declined since. The drug may only garner sales of $669
million this year, the average of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Almost Unethical’  “We recognize that fewer patients are starting treatment
for hepatitis C, however there are still patients who want or
need to be treated now,” Erin Emlock, a spokeswoman for Vertex,
said by e-mail. “Three of four people who start treatment today
get Incivek, a number that’s unchanged since launch.”  To stoke demand, Incivo’s booth at a meeting of the
European Association For the Study of the Liver in Amsterdam in
April featured a video with the message, “Treat now to take
your patient’s life off hold.”  Some doctors agree. The practice of delaying treatment to
wait for better drugs, known as warehousing, is “irrational,
and almost unethical,” said Mitchell Shiffman, a clinician who
sees about 1,000 new hepatitis C patients a year at the Liver
Institute of Virginia. “If a patient can be cured now, why do
you want to tell them to wait?”  $100,000 Treatment  French doctor Pawlotsky says people with mild disease
aren’t harmed by a short delay. Most of his patients want to try
the new drugs by participating in clinical trials, he says.  “Obviously if we thought that the new treatments would
come in something like five or six years, we would not
warehouse,” he said. “But it’s a matter of months.”  Mark Thursz, the secretary-general of the European
Association for the Study of the Liver, says many people he has
put on experimental drugs are faring better than those using
treatments now on the market.  “Our patients are struggling with the current regimes,”
Thursz said. “The sooner we can get the new drugs licensed and
in the clinic for our patients, the better.”  Gilead may charge up to $100,000 per patient for a course
of sofosbuvir, according to ISI Group in  New York . The drugmaker
says it doesn’t comment on drug prices before they’re approved,
but says the medicine can shorten treatment times to as little
as 12 weeks, from as long as a year now.  Even as doctors disagree on whether to delay treatment,
they’ve got one eye on the next wave of drugs. At least three
are in the final stage of clinical trials and may become
available within two years.  ‘Therapeutic Jacuzzi’  Gilead is testing a combination of sofosbuvir with an
experimental drug called ledipasvir in a cocktail that cured 100
percent of patients in a mid-stage trial presented in Amsterdam
in April. AbbVie’s three-in-one combo won designation as a
“breakthrough therapy” from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration on May 6, meaning it may be reviewed more
quickly, after a study showed it cured 96 percent of patients
after 24 weeks. Bristol-Myers Squibb’s three-in-one experimental
combo won the same accelerated status just weeks earlier.  That means yet more difficult decisions about whether to
treat or wait, said Dominique Larrey, a doctor at Saint-Eloi
Hospital in Montpellier,  France .  “I tell my students it’s like we’re in a therapeutic
jacuzzi,” he said. “Each bubble is a new drug.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  