-- Echo to Take on Packer With A$1 Billion Sydney Casino Investment
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-06-02T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/echo-to-take-on-packer-with-a-1-billion-sydney-casino-investment.html
Echo Entertainment Ltd. (EGP)  plans to
invest at least A$1 billion ($960 million) to fend off
Australian billionaire  James Packer ’s attempts to break the
company’s Sydney casino monopoly.  The operator of the city’s Star casino and  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the
gaming company controlled by Packer, have prepared rival
proposals for developments on the shores of Sydney’s harbor,
with the New South Wales state government saying it will approve
only one project. Echo’s plan requires investment of more than
A$1 billion, Chief Executive Officer John Redmond said in a
television interview broadcast yesterday on Channel Nine’s
“Financial Review Sunday.”  “I have nothing against Crown or nothing against James
Packer,” he said. “This is really an investment in Echo’s
future. It should be only one casino and one city.”  Melbourne-based Crown is seeking backing from the NSW
government for a gaming resort targeting high-rollers at a
development called  Barangaroo , across Sydney Harbour from Echo’s
The Star complex. Redmond didn’t provide details of his proposal
in the interview on  Channel Nine .  Shares of Brisbane-based Echo plunged 12 percent, the most
on record, on May 24 after Crown sold its 10 percent stake in
the rival. Crown said it wanted to end speculation over its
intentions after analysts at brokerages including Nomura
Holdings Inc. said the holding may lead to a takeover offer.  That slump helped extend Echo’s decline this year to 14
percent, cutting the company’s market value to A$2.44 billion.
Crown has climbed 20 percent, swelling its market capitalization
to A$9.36 billion.  Previous Investments  Echo has already spent A$870 million on a multi-year
renovation at The Star aimed at drawing more high-stakes
gamblers. The company has yet to deliver the 14 percent targeted
return from that investment, according to “Financial Review
Sunday.”  “Although the return may not have been reached as quick as
some were hoping, it is something that’s a realistic and
achievable number, if not this year then next,” Redmond said in
the interview.  Echo’s gaming license for The Star runs until 2093, with a
guarantee it will be Sydney’s only casino until 2019. The long-term viability of the Star would be put at risk if its monopoly
ends, Redmond said in April. The Barangaroo project won’t be
completed until 2018, Credit Suisse AG has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  