-- Egyptian Court Allows Shura to Stay
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-06-02T15:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/egypt-court-allows-shura-to-stay-as-it-strikes-down-council-law.html
Egypt ’s Supreme  Constitutional Court 
struck down laws governing the election of the upper house of
parliament and the panel that drafted a new constitution, though
it stopped short of ordering the legislature dissolved.  The court said the Shura Council can remain in place until
a new parliament is elected and convenes -- a vote that’s been
delayed amid legal wrangling. The council’s lawmakers hold
temporary legislative powers after a ruling last year led to the
lower house being disbanded.  Today’s rulings, which fuel the political uncertainty that
has compounded the country’s economic woes, came amid
discussions in the Shura Council over a law to revamp the
judiciary. That bill has outraged some judges who see it as an
attempt by President Mohamed Mursi’s Islamist supporters to
purge their ranks and bring in those supportive of their views.  “How can it be unconstitutional and yet we let it pass
laws for the country?” Emad Gad, a former lawmaker in the
dissolved parliament and deputy director of Al-Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo, said by phone in
reference to the Shura Council.  The rulings mark the latest challenge by the courts to
Mursi’s backers, many of whom accuse the judiciary of being
biased against them and stacked with loyalists from the era of
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  Dangerous Ruling  The decisions “don’t change anything on the ground,”
Mourad Ali, media adviser for the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party, said by phone. “Someone is pushing the
judiciary to enter the political struggle and this is a very
dangerous issue.”  “The people approved of the Constituent Assembly,” Ali
said of the panel that drafted the new constitution, which was
adopted in a referendum. “It doesn’t work then that the
Constitutional Court says it’s illegal or unconstitutional.”  Mursi’s opponents have said Islamists dominated the
assembly, criticizing its makeup as unrepresentative and
alleging that the constitution it produced fails to protect
freedoms and the rights of minorities.  “We’re looking into whether the ruling” on the assembly
“will allow us to file cases arguing that the constitution
itself is void,” Khaled Dawoud, a spokesman for the National
Salvation Front opposition bloc, said by phone.  Political Bickering  Mursi’s critics, some of whom are calling for nationwide
protests against him on June 30, accuse Islamists of seeking to
dominate Egypt’s transition at the expense of national
interests. His supporters say protests and legal challenges
undermine efforts to stabilize the country.  Political bickering has delayed Egypt’s bid to secure a
$4.8 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund , which
the government says is necessary to lure back investors and
unlock other funds.  Mursi this year set April for the start of new elections.
His plan was struck down by the courts. Mursi has since said he
expects a parliamentary vote could be held in October.  “Back to square one,” opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei 
wrote on Twitter after today’s rulings. “Consensus on new
constitutional framework only way out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  