-- Employment Probably Grew at Steady Pace: U.S. Eco Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-02T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/employment-probably-grew-at-steady-pace-u-s-economy-preview.html
Employers in the U.S. added as many
jobs in May as they did the month before, showing the world’s
largest economy is weathering the effects of higher taxes and
government spending cuts.  Companies probably boosted payrolls by 165,000 workers last
month, matching the gain in April, according to the median
forecast from 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a Labor
Department report this week. The unemployment  rate  held at a
four-year low of 7.5 percent, according to the survey. Other
figures may show manufacturing is making little progress amid
slack global growth.  The government spending cuts, known as sequestration, that
began in March and the payroll-tax increase at the start of the
year are projected to slow growth this quarter, putting a damper
on hiring as businesses assess the damage. A slackening economy
may prevent unemployment from retreating enough for the Federal
Reserve to scale back stimulus any time soon.  “Employment growth is decent but not gangbusters,” said
Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “Between the federal government and the rest of
the world we’re not getting a lot of help.”  Consumer spending, the largest part of the economy, fell in
April as  income  growth stalled, a report showed last week.
Household purchases dropped 0.2 percent, incomes were unchanged
and prices declined by the most in more than four years,
according to Commerce Department data.  Economic Growth  Another Commerce Department report last week showed the
economy grew in the face of higher taxes and reduced government
spending. Gross domestic product rose at a 2.4 percent
annualized rate from January through March, propelled by
strength in consumer spending.  Growth will slow to a 1.6 percent pace in the second
quarter as the effects of sequestration take shape, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg early
last month.  “The fiscal drag is a big wild card,” said Neil Dutta,
head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in New
York. “There aren’t any indications yet that we’re on the verge
of a sustained increase in jobs. It’s a ho-hum labor market
right now, kind of steady as she goes. We won’t see improvement
until the third quarter.”  Job growth needs to accelerate to drive unemployment down
to the 6.5 percent rate Fed policy makers want to see before
they consider raising interest rates. Central bankers are buying
bonds at a monthly pace of $85 billion to keep interest rates
low, spur economic growth and boost hiring.  Fed Views  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  and
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans are
among policy makers who have said they would like to see monthly
payroll gains of 200,000 or more on a sustained basis before
judging that the labor market has improved.  Besides hurting employment prospects, the weaker demand
projected for the second quarter could slow factory activity.
The Institute for Supply Management  manufacturing index , due
June 3, was probably unchanged at 50.7 last month, according to
economists’ median  estimate . Readings of 50 are the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  At the same time, the worst effects of the fiscal drag
could be over. Defense contractors, for example, probably
prepared for spending cuts well in advance, Dutta said.  Military contractors have outpaced the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index since budget cuts took effect. An  index  of the 10
biggest Pentagon suppliers has advanced 16.5 percent since
spending reductions began compared with a 7.4 percent gain for
the S&P 500.  Hiring Plans  One of those companies is  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , a
supplier of drones and other military equipment. Despite what
President and Chief Executive Officer Wes Bush called a
“challenging year,” the company is recruiting potential
employees to prepare for an increase in retirements after years
of reducing headcount.  “It might be a little bit of a surprise that as we look at
the next number of years, despite the fact that we project some
tough times from a fiscal perspective, we’re going to be hiring
aggressively,” Bush said at a May 29 conference. “Our industry
has a fairly large number of folks who are retirement-eligible,
and history would suggest that over the next number of years
we’re going to see a fairly significant number of retirements.”  A slowdown in global growth that is curbing exports is
another reason manufacturing is cooling. The  trade deficit 
widened to $41 billion in April from a three-month low of $38.8
billion in March as imports rebounded and sales overseas
slackened, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed before Commerce Department figures on June 4.  Service industries, which are less influenced by demand
overseas and account for almost 90 percent of the economy, are
doing better than factories. The ISM’s  non-manufacturing index ,
due from the Tempe, Arizona-based group of purchasing managers
on June 5, rose to 53.5 in May from 53.1 the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  