-- Erdogan Says Protests Won’t Halt Plans to Develop Square
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-02T16:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/erdogan-says-protests-won-t-halt-plans-to-develop-square.html
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan vowed to press ahead with plans to develop Istanbul’s
Taksim square, defying the crowds who fought police after a
rally to save the area turned into an anti-government protest.  Erdogan told Haberturk television in an interview today
that plans to rebuild Ottoman army barracks in the square may
also include a hotel, a mosque and an opera house.  Protesters, their ranks thinned by rain, made for Taksim
square again following overnight violent clashes that left
several injured and vehicles, including police cars, smashed.  “The incidents are ideological, they aren’t related to”
trying to save the square, Erdogan said. “There will be more
trees in Taksim when projects are completed.”  Those who clashed with police are “extremists,” Erdogan
said, adding that more than 150 vehicles were damaged and four
branches of the Justice and Development Party, from which he
hails, were attacked.  The protests, which began over a government project to
rebuild a replica of an Ottoman army barrack at a park near
Taksim square, have spread to dozens of Turkish cities as police
crackdowns fuel further anger.  “We will also build a mosque,” Erdogan said earlier
today. “I’m not about to ask permission for that from
Kilicdaroglu or a bunch of plunderers,” he said, referring to
opposition leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu  of the Republican People’s
Party.  Ankara Protest  Police used pepper gas and water to disperse about 1,000
protesters in the Turkish capital of Ankara today, NTV
television reported. More than 90 protests took place in 48
cities, leaving 53 citizens and 26 police officers injured,
Interior Minister Muammer Guler told reporters late yesterday.  Protesters in Istanbul said they’re reacting to what they
say is government oppression, including limits on alcohol sales
and the jailing of hundreds of military officers, academics,
journalists and lawyers on charges of attempting to overthrow
the government.  Some demonstrators used the wreckage of smashed vehicles to
scrawl graffiti or seek shelter from the rain.  “The people will be taken into account,” Cemil Ardic, 30,
said as he sat in the ruins of a police car in Taksim square
today. Nearby, other protesters slept in an abandoned police
minibus. “The prime minister was asking what we want. We want
justice. We want democracy. We want our freedom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  