-- Merkel Seeks Debt-Crisis, Legislative Victories Before Campaign
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-06-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/merkel-seeks-debt-crisis-legislative-victories-before-campaign.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  begins a
month of parliamentary debate and debt-crisis negotiations this
week before German politicians turn to campaigning ahead of
national elections in September.  Germany’s lower house of parliament, or Bundestag,  convenes
this week  as it wraps up its final sessions of the 2009-2013
legislative term at the end of June. Merkel is also preparing
for a June 27 European Union leaders’ summit that will focus on
how to fight unemployment and recession.  “The distance that we have yet to overcome remains hard
and long,” German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble wrote in
an op-ed in  Tagesspiegel  yesterday. “It is crucial that we
maintain our common European policy of consolidation and reforms
to create truly sustainable growth.”  With Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union leading in  all
national polls , the chancellor will aim to leverage her record
of buoying Germany’s labor market and export-led growth through
the three-year-old crisis. Merkel is hewing to her insistence on
boosting euro members’ competitiveness even as EU leaders back
off the German-led austerity agenda.  The Bundestag is set to debate issues such as the minimum
wage, immigration and nuclear waste this week as politicians
position themselves for the Sept. 22 national election.  Poll Lead  Merkel’s CDU held steady at 40 percent, while the
opposition Social Democrats under chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  slid a percentage point to 26 percent, according to
a poll published yesterday by Emnid. With the survey showing the
CDU-allied Free Democrats with 5 percent and the SPD-aligned
Green Party with 14 percent, Merkel would be in position to lead
a so-called grand coalition for a second time.  The chancellor signaled last week that she’ll campaign on
her stewardship during the crisis.  “We have to stand up for a strong euro, while making
demands” for reforms in euro countries, Merkel said May 28
during a CDU-hosted  call-in web cast . “I think there will be a
lot of talk about precisely this topic during the election
campaign. It will be an absolutely key point.”  Introducing Merkel’s crisis management as a campaign issue
poses a risk to the SPD, which while criticizing her pro-austerity stance, has avoided confronting the popular chancellor
on the subject in favor of prioritizing issues such as wealth
distribution and housing prices.  Economic Overhaul  Merkel’s party, bracing itself for a challenge from the
anti-euro faction Alternative for  Germany , will “set down a
marker” by “making it clear once again that Germany can only
do well if Europe does well,” the chancellor said. The CDU will
unveil its party platform on June 24.  The German leader’s insistence on euro states’ overhaul of
their labor markets and economies in return for leniency on
budget targets was on display May 31 in Paris, as Merkel pressed
France on reform even after President Francois Hollande said his
agenda won’t be “dictated” by the European Commission.  Nations including France, Spain and  Italy  gained greater
fiscal flexibility as the European Commission last week shifted
away from austerity to stem the euro-area economy’s longest
slump and reduce a 24 percent youth-unemployment rate.  “We agreed to the commission’s giving  France  two more
years to meet the deficit target of 3 percent coupled with the
expectation -- and the French president just confirmed that --
that reforms are undertaken,” Merkel told reporters in Paris
last week. “The two things go hand in hand.”  Common Ground  The Merkel-Hollande meeting aimed to find common ground
between Germany and France ahead of the summit. The two leaders
emphasized a front-loading of 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion) in
funds designed to combat youth unemployment.  Europe “can’t afford to lose its children to populists and
extremists,” Schaeuble wrote in the Tagesspiegel op-ed, adding
that the 6 billion euros, as well as 16 billion euros in EU
structural funds, must be deployed “swiftly” to ease the
scourge of unemployment.  Europe’s easing off its focus on fiscal consolidation also
dovetails with the German election campaign. Handelsblatt
newspaper on May 30 tallied that CDU campaign pledges, including
maternity and disability benefits and tax exemptions, would add
up to 28.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  