-- Yen Rallies Past 100 Per Dollar on Factory Data
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-03T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/euro-holds-losses-before-manufacturing-data-aussie-rises.html
The yen strengthened beyond 100
versus the dollar for the first time in almost a month as U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in May, dimming
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  The Dollar Index fell the most since January as the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index contracted in
May at the fastest pace in four years. The euro gained after a
report showed manufacturing in the 17-nation currency bloc
contracted at a slower pace than initially estimated in May.
 Turkey ’s lira slid after a weekend of violent protests.  “We had that weak ISM number is morning and that really
weighed on the dollar and on what that means for Fed
expectations going forward as well as the overall outlook for
the economy,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at
Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “In the long-term, the yen could continue to weaken
against the dollar. This is that pullback that markets have been
anticipating because the yen weakness was a bit overdone. It was
extreme.”  Japan ’s currency rose 0.9 percent to 99.53 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York, reaching the strongest level since May 9. The
euro added 0.6 percent $1.3076, touching the strongest level
since May 9.  Europe ’s shared currency weakened 0.4 percent to
130.15 yen.  Lira Weakness  The Turkish lira weakened against the greenback on concern
days of protest against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will
undermine his efforts to overhaul the political system.  The lira depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8828 per dollar.  South Africa ’s rand appreciated at least 0.2 percent
against all 16 of its major peers after a report showed
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in May. The gauge fell to
50.4 in May, from 50.5 in April. The median estimate of
economists in Bloomberg survey was for a decline to 49.9.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy added 2.7 percent
to 9.8150 per dollar from May 31, when it touched 10.2847, the
weakest level since March 2009.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $39 billion, compared with $39 billion on May 31,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  was $9.1 billion, the largest share
of trades at 24 percent. Mexican peso-dollar options were the
second most-actively traded, at $4.9 billion, or 13 percent.  Options Data  Dollar-yen options trading was 48 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day.
Peso-dollar options trading was more than 600 percent above
average.  Japan’s currency has slumped 13 percent this year against
the dollar as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to stem 15 years
of deflation and the  Bank of Japan  doubled monthly bond
purchases. The yen’s crossing the 100-versus-the-greenback
threshold on May 9 was the first time since April 2009.  The yen has fallen 3.2 percent since April 4 when BOJ
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda outstripped economist forecasts by
pledging to double monthly bond purchases and scoop up longer-term debt to reach a 2 percent annual inflation goal.  “With dollar-yen as close to that important psychological
level of 100, we did see the breakthrough there and some stops,
people selling the dollar might have exacerbated the move,”
Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. A stop is an order
that is triggered when prices reach a pre-set level.  Manufacturing Gauge  The euro-area manufacturing index increased to 48.3 last
month from 46.7 in April, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That’s above an  initial estimate  of 47.8 on May 23. It
has been  below 50 , indicating contraction, since July 2011.  “There are a few signs of a possible stabilization,”
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in a speech in
 Shanghai  today, according to text provided by the Frankfurt-based ECB. “Our baseline scenario continues to be one of a very
gradual recovery starting in the latter part of this year.”  After reducing the ECB’s  benchmark interest rate  to a
record-low 0.5 percent last month, Draghi signaled he’s prepared
to cut again if economic data worsen. The ECB’s Governing
Council will leave borrowing costs unchanged when it meets on
June 6, according to 56 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  Annual Pattern  The euro appreciated 3 percent this year among a basket of
10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen slumped 10.4 percent, the biggest
drop, and the dollar rose 4 percent, the largest advance.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls swelled by 165,000 jobs in April,
more than forecast, and the unemployment  rate  unexpectedly fell
to 7.5 percent, the Labor Department reported last month. It
will say June 7 that employers added 167,000 workers in May,
economists forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs
under its quantitative-easing stimulus strategy, which tends to
debase the dollar.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 the
U.S. central bank could decide at its next few meetings to taper
purchases if it’s confident of sustained gains in the economy.
At the same time, he said a premature tightening of monetary
policy might imperil the economic recovery.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.9 percent to 82.646, after declining as much as
1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  