-- Federer Escapes as Serena Williams Eases to Last Eight
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-02T22:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/federer-escapes-as-serena-williams-eased-to-last-eight.html
Former champion  Roger Federer  fought
back to beat  Gilles Simon  in five sets and keep alive his
pursuit of a second  French Open  title.  No. 2 seed Federer beat the Frenchman 6-1, 4-6, 2-6, 6-2,
6-3 on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at Roland Garros
yesterday to move to a record-extending 36th straight
quarterfinal at the four tennis Grand Slams.  “If you have a negative attitude, you end up losing,”
Federer said in a court-side interview after his 900th career
victory. “So many years, so many matches, so many sacrifices.”  Only  Jimmy Connors  (1,156),  Ivan Lendl  (1,068) and
Guillermo Vilas (940) have won more matches on the men’s tennis
tour than the 31-year-old from  Switzerland .  Earlier yesterday, women’s top seed  Serena Williams 
conceded four games to Roberta Vinci, the world’s best doubles
player, in moving to the last eight, where she’ll face former
champion  Svetlana Kuznetsova .  Third-seeded  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  resumes his men’s title
defense today against Kei Nishikori, the No. 13 seed from Japan,
while No. 1 Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  faces Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber, the 16th seed. Women’s defending champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia  plays No. 17 Sloane Stephens of the U.S.  Federer, who hasn’t lost before the quarterfinal stages of
a major since the 2004 French Open, raced through the first set
against Simon in 37 minutes yesterday.  Falling Federer  Serving at 3-3 in the second, Federer fell as he got his
foot stuck in the clay while running down a shot on the
baseline. He hit a double fault after that, and got broken as he
sent a forehand long. Simon, 28, took the second set as Federer
hit a backhand long.  “I fell, I don’t know exactly what happened,” Federer
said. “It changed the second set, and then it was very
different for me.”  The normally defensive Simon dictated play in the third
set, twice breaking serve as he put the 17-time major winner
under pressure from the back of the court with winners off both
sides. Another backhand error by Federer, this time in the net,
handed Simon the third set. Federer then forced a final set by
twice breaking Simon’s serve in the fourth with attacking play.  Simon got broken again early on in the fifth set as the
crowd cheered for both players. Federer won the match on a wide
backhand by Simon.  Federer, the 2009 winner, may be tested again in his next
match against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, another Frenchman. The sixth-seeded Tsonga, who beat Serbia’s Viktor Troicki 6-3, 6-3, 6-3
yesterday, knocked Federer out of the Wimbledon quarterfinals
two years ago.  Historic Comeback  Earlier, No. 32 seed Tommy Robredo made history in his 6-7
(5-7), 3-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 win against fellow Spaniard and No. 11
seed Nicolas Almagro. He’s the first man since France’s Henri
Cochet at Wimbledon in 1927 to fight back from two sets to love
down in three straight Grand Slam matches.  Robredo, a 31-year-old who had slumped to No. 471 last year
following surgery on his leg, cried and fell on his knees on
Court Suzanne Lenglen after his victory. He’ll play another
Spaniard, No. 4 seed  David Ferrer , in the quarterfinals. Ferrer
spent less energy, beating South Africa’s Kevin Anderson 6-3,
6-1, 6-1.  “What is very important is that today I won this match,”
Robredo said. “I won a big match against a player who defeated
me five times. And the rest is only records, for history.”  Williams beat  Italy ’s Vinci 6-1, 6-3. Williams, the 2002
champion, has only dropped 10 games in four matches in Paris.
Her fourth-round win against the 15th-seeded Vinci extended her
unbeaten run to 28, the longest of her career.  Williams’s Return  “I’m happy to get to the second week,” the American said
in French in a court-side interview. “Especially because I
didn’t get there last year.”  Williams was ousted in the opening round of  Roland Garros 
in 2012, her earliest Grand Slam defeat. Since then, she’s only
lost three matches, and won Wimbledon, the  U.S. Open  as well as
singles and doubles gold medals at the London Olympics.  The 31-year-old will next play Russia’s Kuznetsova, who
upset Germany’s No. 8 seed Angelique Kerber 6-4, 4-6, 6-3.
Kuznetsova defeated Williams in the quarterfinals of 2009 Roland
Garros, when she went on to win the title.  “She’s been playing unbelievable tennis,” Kuznetsova, who
also won the 2004 U.S. Open, said of Williams. “But I believe
that I have the game. Let’s cross fingers I will have a good
day.”  Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 4 seed from Poland, hit 18
winners and made just five unforced errors in beating 2008
champion Ana Ivanovic of Serbia 6-2, 6-4 to reach her first
French Open quarterfinal. Radwanska next plays fifth-seeded  Sara Errani , last year’s runner-up from Italy, who overcame Spain’s
Carla Suarez Navarro in three sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Paris at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  