-- Global Interbank Lending Falls to Record Low, BIS Reports
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-02T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/global-interbank-lending-falls-to-record-low-bis-reports.html
Banks were more reluctant than ever
to lend to peers abroad last year, driving cross-border
interbank loans as a share of total credit to a historical low,
the Bank for International Settlements said.  Cross-border lending of banks reporting to the BIS fell by
$345 billion, or 1.2 percent, to $29.3 trillion in the final
quarter of 2012, bringing the decline for the year to 1.9
percent, the Basel, Switzerland-based institution said today.
The drop was caused by a 5.2 percent reduction in lending to
banks based in the euro area, as well as by shrinking lending to
U.K. and U.S. banks, the BIS said. Interbank lending as a share
of all cross-border lending fell to a record 38 percent.  “This large contraction underscored the ongoing trend away
from cross-border intermediation, particularly in the euro
area,” the BIS, record-keeper of the world’s central banks,
said in its quarterly report. “The decline in global cross-border interbank positions was more pronounced in 2012 than in
previous years.”  The decline in interbank lending comes as regulators are
increasingly discouraging wholesale borrowing, banks haven’t
eased their skepticism of peers’ asset quality and central banks
continue to step in with unprecedented liquidity injections
since strains in global banking started to appear in 2007.  Global cross-border lending to banks, charted by the BIS
since 2005, peaked at 46 percent of all cross-border lending in
2007, the BIS said in the report, dropping to 40 percent at the
end of 2011 before falling further last year.  Beyond EU  The decline in interbank lending isn’t restricted to the
banks at the center of the euro-area’s debt crisis, according to
the BIS. Regulatory changes in the U.S. aimed at reducing the
reliance on wholesale funding raised outside of the country
contributed to a 16 percent decline in global lending to U.S.
banks, according to the BIS. Claims on euro-area banks fell 8
percent and on U.K. banks by 6 percent, it said.  As banks reduced their lending to other banks in the
developed world, they increased it to emerging-market borrowers,
albeit at a slower pace than in 2011, the BIS said. In the full
year, lending to banks, businesses, households and governments
in  emerging markets  grew by 3 percent, down from 8 percent
growth in 2011, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  