-- GM Building Stake Said to Sell to Zhang, Safra Families
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-06-02T21:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/gm-building-stake-said-to-sell-to-zhang-safra-families.html
The families of Chinese real estate
developer Zhang Xin and  Brazil ’s Safra banking empire bought a
40 percent stake in New York’s General Motors Building for about
$1.4 billion, a person with knowledge of the deal said.  Zhang is the billionaire founder and chief executive
officer of  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer in Beijing’s
central business district. Her family and M. Safra & Co., the
New York-based investment firm of the Safra family, bought the
stake through an entity called Sungate Trust, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the details are private.  The price implies that the 2 million-square-foot (185,800-square-meter) tower is valued at about $3.4 billion, the highest
total value for a U.S. property since the GM Building sold in
2008. The 50-story, white marble-clad building at 767 Fifth Ave.
near the southeast corner of Central Park is one of the most
recognizable office buildings in the U.S. and is known for its
Apple Inc. store at street level.  The sellers were Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s U.S. Real
Estate Opportunities Fund, which invests on behalf of the
sovereign wealth funds of Kuwait and Qatar; and Meraas Capital
LLC, a Dubai-based private-equity firm, the person said. The
sale was completed on May 31, according to the person. The deal
was reported earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  Boston Properties  Darcy Stacom and Bill Shanahan, brokers for CBRE Group
Inc., handled the transaction.  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  retains a
60 percent stake in the building and manages it. Arista Joyner,
a spokeswoman for the Boston-based landlord, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail and call placed outside of regular business
hours.  Robert McGrath, a spokesman for CBRE, declined to comment
on the sale. Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails sent outside regular
business hours. M. Safra, Soho China and Meraas representatives
also weren’t immediately reachable by phone or e-mail.  The GM Building occupies the full block between Fifth and
Madison Avenues and 58th and 59th Streets. It was built in 1968
and designed by architect Edward Durell Stone. Tenants include
Estée Lauder Cos.,  Icahn Enterprises  and the law firm Weil,
Gotshal and Manges.  A property across the street, 650 Madison Ave., is under
contract to be sold for $1.3 billion to Crown Acquisitions Inc.
and Highgate Holdings Inc., Crown said yesterday. That purchase
is the largest of an entire building in the U.S. since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  