-- IMF Says Krona Gain Poses No Real Threat to Sweden’s Economy
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-03T11:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/imf-says-krona-strength-poses-no-real-threat-to-sweden-s-economy.html
The krona’s strength poses no real
threat to  Sweden ’s recovery and its appreciation just reflects
the nation’s economic success, the  International Monetary Fund 
said.  “Given that we’re close to, or just below, the krona’s
fundamental value the level shouldn’t be particularly
problematic for the Swedish economy,” Helge Berger, the IMF’s
mission chief for Sweden, said in a May 31 phone interview.
“It’s appreciating because before it had weakened, so in that
sense it’s returning to an equilibrium position.”  Sweden’s appeal as a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis has
boosted the krona 9.7 percent over the past year, measured on a
correlation-weighted basis, making it the best performer among
10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The gains have
triggered pleas from the nation’s  exporters  for policy makers to
stem the rise.  Sweden posted the biggest economic rebound in the European
Union in 2010 while keeping its budget in surplus. A report last
week showed the economy expanded 0.6 percent in the first
quarter, more than twice the pace estimated. The 17-nation euro
area contracted 0.2 percent in the period.  Manufacturing Growth  A report today showed Swedish manufacturing returned to
growth last month as orders increased. An index based on
responses from about 200  purchasing managers  rose to a
seasonally adjusted 51.9 from 49.6 the prior month, Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which compiles the data, said today. A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  The krona strengthened 0.4 percent to 8.569 per euro as of
1:48 p.m. in Stockholm.  The crisis in Europe, and its corrosive effect on demand,
poses the biggest threat to Sweden’s $500 billion economy,
Berger said. That could have “adverse” effects on  household
debt  and the housing market, he said. While the IMF doesn’t
predict a “sudden drop” in residential property prices, they
are “somewhat above fundamentals,” Berger said.  The IMF recommended last week that Sweden find more
measures to limit house price gains and a build-up in debt.
Household debt has swelled to a record 174 percent of disposable
incomes this year from about 90 percent in the 1990s, the
central bank estimates.  “ House prices  might increase less than inflation going
forward so that they gradually adjust to fundamentals,” Berger
said. “There’s some room for downward corrections or at least
room for adjustment in relative terms, that is, relative to all
other prices in the next couple of years.”  Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson said last week the
central bank’s main lending rate could have been lower had it
not been for the bank’s concern about household debt. The
Riksbank kept rates unchanged at 1 percent for a second meeting
in April.  “ Monetary policy  is helpfully supportive at the moment,
with the Riksbank balancing the need to lift inflation and
growth, as well as financial stability considerations,” Berger
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  