-- In EU-China Solar Panel Slapdown, No One Wins
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/in-eu-china-solar-panel-slapdown-no-one-wins.html
China and the European Union are
 quarreling  over Chinese exports of solar panels, which  Europe 
says are being dumped in its markets. It’s a stupid fight -- but
one that could easily escalate into a bigger trade conflict if
both sides don’t take care.  In the short run, the EU should withdraw its threat of
punitive tariffs. In the long run, all the big trading nations,
including the U.S., should reform the anti-dumping rules that
encourage this nonsensical wrangling.  So far, Europe has been following the U.S.’s bad example.
The U.S.  imposed  tariffs on Chinese exports of solar panels last
year after complaints about illegal subsidies and dumping, or
selling below cost. The EU’s trade commissioner, Karel de Gucht,
advocates the same approach and is recommending preliminary
tariffs of more than 40 percent, with the possibility of
permanent duties once his investigation is complete.  China , of
course, is threatening to retaliate.  The political and economic rivalries in all this are
complex. For instance, China is accused of illegally subsidizing
its solar-panel producers as well as dumping -- but governments
everywhere subsidize renewable energy in different ways, and
rightly so. Isn’t cheap solar power a good thing?  Many EU governments oppose the commissioner, and not just
because environment ministers like cheap solar energy or because
trade officials fear a bigger trade fight. The balance of
business interests is complex, too. Tariffs on Chinese solar
panels would help Europe’s solar-panel producers but hurt
Europe’s wider solar-power industry, which relies on cheap
Chinese panels and which sells components such as  polysilicon  to
Chinese panel makers. (A  report  commissioned by an alliance of
European solar companies found that a tariff of 60 percent would
cost almost 250,000 EU jobs over three years.)  Germany ’s chancellor,  Angela Merkel , has called for a
negotiated settlement. De Gucht has said he is open to it.  This might avoid an escalating trade war, and that’s
important, but has little else to commend it. A settlement would
probably require China to set a minimum price for its solar-panel exports -- making the product more expensive for EU
consumers and putting money that would otherwise accrue to the
EU as tariffs into Chinese manufacturers’ pockets. Agreements to
rig markets at consumers’ expense in this fashion have often
been the outcome of anti-dumping disputes. The companies
bringing the complaint are protected from competition; the
companies that are the subject of the complaints cartelize their
market at government direction and fatten their margins;
everybody else loses.  The underlying problem is the very idea of dumping. Current
trade rules fail to emphasize the vital distinction between
selling below cost and predatory pricing. Selling below cost
isn’t necessarily anti-competitive, and on the face of it is
good for consumers. When producers have excess capacity and
falling demand, selling below cost can make sense for everybody.
Selling below cost in order to monopolize a market and drive up
prices later -- predatory pricing -- is different. That indeed
is anti-competitive and should be curbed.  Yet genuine predatory pricing is rare, because the
conditions for making it work are demanding. Would-be predators
must expect to gain monopoly power. The strategy fails if their
plot to raise prices later just brings more producers back into
the business. Solar-panel production isn’t concentrated -- it’s
a competitive industry with low barriers to entry. Moreover,
every analyst agrees it is suffering from global overcapacity
because of rapidly rising production (especially in China) and
depressed demand (especially in Europe). The predation theory
looks hugely implausible.  International trade rules have contained most forms of
self-defeating protectionism. Anti-dumping complaints stand as
the main exception. It’s too easy for a narrow commercial
interest to launch an anti-dumping procedure that leads to
tariffs that aren’t in the public interest. Stricter tests,
turning on the idea of predatory pricing and administered by
neutral parties (such as the  World Trade Organization ), should
be brought to bear.  When it comes to anti-dumping, the EU and U.S. both need to
drop their misguided demands and raise their sights: Trade
policy should be about promoting competition, not bowing to
corporate interests.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  