-- Indian Cricket President Steps Aside Until End of IPL Probe
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-06-02T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/indian-cricket-president-steps-aside-until-end-of-ipl-probe.html
N. Srinivasan, president of the board
that runs the world’s richest cricket tournament, will step
aside from his post until a commission completes its probe into
alleged “spot-fixing.”  Jagmohan Dalmiya, former president of the Board of Control
for Cricket in  India , or BCCI, will conduct its day-to-day
affairs, the board said in a  statement  after a three-hour
emergency meeting of the working committee in Chennai yesterday.  The board requested that secretary Sanjay Jagdale and
treasurer Ajay Shirke withdraw their resignations. Both quit
three days ago, demanding the resignation of Srinivasan.  The probe is centered on the Indian Premier League, where
Rajeev Shukla two days ago resigned as chairman. The IPL, which
uses the short-format Twenty20 game, is worth $3.67 billion
according to London-based Brand Finance Plc.  Mumbai police on May 24 arrested Srinivasan’s son-in-law
Gurunath Meiyappan on charges of placing bets on IPL matches, a
practice that’s illegal in India. Meiyappan was a member of the
IPL team managing  Chennai Super Kings , a franchise owned by
India Cements Ltd. Srinivasan, managing director of  India
Cements (ICEM) , ignored calls for his resignation by board members and
the sports ministry.  Srinivasan has dissociated himself and his company from his
son-in-law amid the controversy, while Meiyappan hasn’t issued
any statement.  The IPL appointed a three-member commission to look into
the complaints of the BCCI against Srinivasan’s son-in-law and
India Cements, the board said May 28, without specifying the
complaints.  Broadcast Revenue  Former BCCI president Sharad Pawar on May 29 asked for an
investigation of all IPL matches after the arrest of three
cricketers and a Bollywood actor in alleged spot-fixing, where
players manipulate specific actions in a game.  Fueled by sponsorships, broadcast revenue and ticket sales,
the IPL has grown into the world’s richest cricket competition.  The Twenty20 league, which showcases cricket’s newest and
shortest format, has concluded its sixth season, in which Mumbai
Indians, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , beat Chennai Super Kings in the final.  The controversies have destroyed $1 billion of stakeholder
value, Brand Finance’s global strategy director Unni Krishnan
said May 27.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  agreed to spend 3.97 billion rupees
($70.3 million) over five years to be the title sponsor of the
IPL.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  