-- Issa Sees Washington IRS Connection in Employee Interview
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-06-03T17:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/irs-spent-50-million-on-conferences-drawing-congress-s-scrutiny.html
The tougher scrutiny given to Tea
Party groups by the  Internal Revenue Service  was “coordinated
in all likelihood” from  Washington , the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee alleged, bolstering
his case with excerpts of interviews with agency employees.  “The administration’s still trying to say there’s a few
rogue agents in Cincinnati when in fact the indication is they
were directly being ordered from Washington,” Representative
 Darrell Issa , a  California  Republican, said yesterday on CNN’s
“ State of the Union .”  In the interviews, one employee, described as “more
senior,” said it was understood that the purpose was to single
out conservative and Republican groups and that some officials
in Washington were involved.  “I mean, rogue agent?” the  employee said , according to a
partial transcript released by Issa’s office. “Even though I
was taking all my direction from” technical experts in
Washington, “I didn’t want my name in the paper for being this
rogue agent for a project I had no control over.”  The panel didn’t disclose which employees were being
quoted, what else they said or who in Washington was thought to
be involved. Working with other panels, the oversight committee
has said it was interviewing John Shafer, Gary Muthert, Liz
Hofacre and Joseph Herr, all of whom worked in the Cincinnati
office, where the applications were processed. Issa said the
committee staff has 18 more interviews to do.  Tax Exempt  Previous public reports on the IRS’s scrutiny of Tea Party
groups applying for tax-exempt status, which started in 2010,
have shown that some officials in Washington were aware of how
the applications were being handled before a June 2011 meeting.
At the time Lois Lerner, then director of exempt organizations,
learned about what was happening and ordered it changed.  Nothing released yesterday directly undercuts that timeline
or shows that Lerner or anyone above her was aware of the
selective scrutiny earlier than stated.  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on Issa’s committee, said in a statement yesterday that
no witnesses have identified Washington IRS workers as ordering
the use of “Tea Party” to screen applications.  “Rather than lobbing unsubstantiated conclusions on
national television for political reasons, we need to work in a
bipartisan way to follow the facts where they lead,” he said.  Three Executives  The revelation last month that the IRS applied extra
scrutiny to small-government groups has led to six congressional
inquiries, a criminal probe and three IRS executives, including
Lerner, being pushed out of their jobs early or temporarily.  Danny Werfel, the acting IRS commissioner, is scheduled to
make his first appearance at a congressional hearing today since
taking over May 22.  Werfel announced several personnel moves today. He selected
Heather Maloy, who had been overseeing large businesses, as
deputy commissioner for services and enforcement, taking the
place of  Steve Miller , who was acting commissioner before he was
forced out.  W. Todd Grams, the chief financial officer at the
Department of  Veterans Affairs , will be Werfel’s chief of staff,
rejoining the IRS, where he was chief information officer and
chief financial officer. Jennifer O’Connor, who was a partner at
the WilmerHale law firm in Washington, will be counselor to
Werfel and Chief Counsel William Wilkins.  Hearing Tomorrow  The House Ways and Means panel plans tomorrow to hear from
groups seeking tax-exempt status that say they were singled out
for added scrutiny. Representatives from groups in  South
Carolina ,  Alabama , California and  Tennessee  are set to testify.  The panel will hear from the chairman of the National
Organization for Marriage, a group whose confidential
information was released, and from the Coalition for Life of
 Iowa , which said it was asked to agree not to protest at Planned
Parenthood Foundation of America to receive its tax-exempt
status.  An inspector general’s audit and testimony from IRS
executives at congressional hearings haven’t established who
first started sorting applications based on whether they
contained “ Tea Party ” or “patriot” in their names or why
they did it.  Issa also is pressing the IRS on a second front -- the
approximately $50 million it spent on 220 conferences for
employees from 2010 to 2012.  Conference Costs  The cost of IRS conferences was released by Issa’s
committee, which is scheduled to hold a hearing on the subject
June 6. In one case, the IRS spent $4 million for an Anaheim,
California, conference in 2010, including $135,000 for speakers
such as a $17,000 lecture on “leadership through art.”  Issa said the agency didn’t negotiate the cost of hotel
rooms, instead receiving perks such as game tickets or free
drinks, which he called kickbacks. Some agency employees stayed
in rooms costing $1,500 to $3,500 a night, according to Issa’s
committee.  “The culture of the federal workforce is one where I don’t
think you can underestimate that if you don’t keep reminding the
voters but also the federal workers that we’re watching, this
will happen again,” Issa, a California Republican, said on  CNN 
yesterday.  Mind Reader  The  General Services Administration  was the subject of
similar scrutiny last year for money it paid for employee
conferences, including $823,000 on a Las Vegas event featuring a
clown, a mind reader and a $75,000 bicycle building exercise.  Members of Congress returning from a one-week recess are
poised to focus on the IRS. The Treasury Inspector General for
Tax Administration is expected to issue a report tomorrow about
IRS spending on events, two days before the hearing in Issa’s
committee on the subject.  The inspector general’s report pays particular attention to
the Anaheim conference, according to the Washington Post, which
cited unidentified congressional aides.  That gathering, for workers overseeing small businesses and
self-employed taxpayers, featured an IRS-produced video parody
of  Star Trek . Agency employees also participated in a “dance
party” video that mentioned plans for the conference.  Werfel said in a statement last week that the event was
“an unfortunate vestige from a prior era” and the agency has
since cut training and travel expenses.  ‘Take Comfort’  “Taxpayers should take comfort that a conference like this
would not take place today,” Werfel said in a statement.
“Sweeping new spending restrictions have been put in place at
the IRS, and travel and training expenses have dropped more than
80 percent since 2010 and similar large-scale meetings did not
take place in 2011, 2012 or 2013.”  Some details of the Anaheim event were already known. The
Star Trek video became public earlier this year. The  dance party 
video, which shows employees being instructed in line dancing
ahead of the conference, was released by the House Ways and
Means Committee on May 31.  The IRS said in a statement that the video was
“unacceptable and an inappropriate use of government funds.”
The agency said it and the entire government have “strict new
policies” to ensure taxpayer funds are used properly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  