-- Japan Opposition’s Hosono Says Abenomics Ignores Risks
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-06-03T00:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/japan-opposition-leader-hosono-charges-abenomics-ignores-risks.html
(Corrects Hosono’s title in headline, first sentence.)  Goshi Hosono, secretary general of
 Japan ’s biggest opposition party, challenged the government to
better protect the elderly and small companies, charging Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies with ignoring the risks of
monetary easing and a weakened currency.  “It’s a fact that monetary easing and a weaker yen
improved the mood, but there are also side effects and risks,”
the  Democratic Party  of Japan's Hosono said yesterday on public 
broadcaster NHK’s Sunday Debate program. “The government hasn’t 
taken sufficient care regarding the increased burden on pensioners 
and small business from rising import prices.”  Polls show voter support for policies that have helped
drive benchmark stocks to five-year highs this year. The Topix
Index closed last week 54 percent above the level of mid-November, when Abe pledged to revive growth by targeting 2
percent inflation. Japan’s economy expanded the most in a year
in the first quarter as pledges for monetary easing weakened the
yen and boosted shares, supporting  exports  and  consumer
spending .  Thirty-five percent of respondents in an April 23 Mainichi
newspaper poll cited the economy as the most important issue in
parliamentary elections scheduled next month. Abe, whose first,
12-month stint as premier ended in 2007 due to ill health, is
supported by 74 percent of the electorate, according to a
Yomiuri newspaper poll published April 16.  Japanese  shares  entered a correction last week, falling 11
percent from May 22 highs as the yen gained value. Shigeru
Ishiba, secretary general of Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party ,
said yesterday the decline was an adjustment to earlier gains.
The trend is for rising prices in the market and stable economic
growth, he said on the Sunday Debate program.  IMF Support  Reversals in Japan’s stock rally coincided with a jump in
government bond yields as the central bank attempts to stoke
inflation in a nation with 15 years of entrenched consumer-price
declines. Along with monetary and fiscal stimulus, Abe plans a
structural reform package to be unveiled this month.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week endorsed Abe’s
policies and the Bank of Japan’s monetary easing, saying that a
slide in the yen is “not problematic” provided the government
rolls out a “complete package” of fiscal and structural
reforms. Abe and BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda can achieve 2
percent inflation in the near to medium term so long as
additional measures complement BOJ easing, according to the IMF.  Abe’s revival campaign got further support May 31 from data
showing Japan’s industrial production rose 1.7 percent in April,
exceeding the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
pace quickened from 0.9 percent the previous month, a Trade
Ministry report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Gearoid Reidy at 
 greidy1@bloomberg.net  