-- Japan Carriers Resume Dreamliner Flights as 747 Era Ends
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-06-03T06:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/japan-carriers-resume-dreamliner-flights-as-jumbo-747-era-ends.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  and  Japan Airlines
Co. (9201) , the world’s two largest operators of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, are
counting on the Dreamliner to boost profits as the carriers dump
their fleets of 747s that they relied on for decades.  ANA and JAL, both based in Tokyo, are focusing on adding
direct flights to U.S. and European cities with the more fuel-efficient 787 as such services wouldn’t be profitable with
larger aircraft. The carriers resumed their Dreamliner services
June 1 after battery malfunctions caused flight suspension for
more than four months.  “Most of the world’s international airlines don’t want
large quadjets, or only want token numbers, and  Japan  is no
exception,” said  Richard Aboulafia , a vice president of Teal
Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based consultant. “Smaller long-range jets permit more direct city pair flights. Airline
passengers will pay a premium to avoid flying through a hub.”  The Dreamliner’s success is crucial for the two Japanese
carriers as they have ordered 111 of the plastic-composite jets
with ANA being the world’s largest airline customer for the
plane. Carriers such as  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  have retired
their fleets of four-engined 747s as higher fuel costs prompt
companies to seek more efficient aircraft, helping Boeing rack
up about 840 orders for the Dreamliners.  Retired 747s  JAL, once the world’s biggest operator of 747s, retired its
last jumbo in 2011, according to the company. ANA, which bought
45 of the planes from Boeing, will remove the last aircraft from
service by the end of March, according to Megumi Tezuka, a
spokeswoman at the carrier.  ANA resumed 787 services on June 1 with a flight to
 Frankfurt  from  Tokyo ’s Haneda airport with 146 passengers, the
company said. JAL also resumed its Dreamliner operations with a
flight to  Singapore  the same day with 184 passengers, according
to the carrier.  JAL canceled a 787 flight to Beijing yesterday after tape
covering two holes used to regulate airflow in the auxiliary
power unit was not removed after testing, triggering an alert,
the company said in a statement yesterday. There was no
abnormality in the battery, it added.  Operating as Normal  The airline checked its other 787s and confirmed there was
no tape covering other battery box holes, said Kazunori
Kidosaki, a spokesman at the carrier. The Dreamliner fleet is
operating as normal, he said.  ANA received its 19th Dreamliner last month, while JAL
received its eighth 787 last week, the airlines have said
separately.  China Southern Airlines Co., that nation’s biggest carrier
by passengers, took delivery of its first 787 yesterday and will
start commercial flights on June 6, according to the Guangzhou-based company. Thomson Airways Ltd., a unit of  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) ,
got its first of eight 787s on May 31 and will operate its first
long-haul flight next month.  JAL, which added a new route to Boston with the 787, also
plans to add a service to Helsinki with the plane. ANA has added
 San Jose  to its network with the Dreamliner, as well as extra
flights to Frankfurt, the hub of its Star Alliance partner
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   ‘Strategic Plane’  “To increase the top line the airlines need to increase
their destinations, which they can do with the 787,” said Osuke Itazaki, an analyst in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“It’s a strategic plane.”  ANA shares fell 3.8 percent to 205 yen and JAL declined 0.6
percent to 5,190 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo today. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 3.7 percent.  All Dreamliner planes were grounded in January after two
incidents involving lithium-ion battery systems.  One of ANA’s 787s made an emergency landing on Jan. 16
after smoke from a lithium-ion battery was detected, while a
battery caught fire on a JAL 787 in  Boston  nine days earlier. No
one was injured in either incident.  The Dreamliner groundings will probably cut ANA sales by
about 16 billion yen ($159 million), according to figures from
the company. JAL’s probably lost 6.5 billion yen in sales due to
the groundings, the carrier has said.  Boeing redesigned the battery to include more protection
around individual cells to contain any overheating, added a
steel case to prevent fire and a tube that would vent any fumes
outside the fuselage. Carriers began 787 test flights after the
battery upgrades were approved by the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration .  The 787 is safe to fly, even as the cause of the battery
meltdowns remains uncertain, Mike Sinnett, vice president and
chief project engineer of the 787 program, said in April.  Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise was the first to restart
flights in April after fixes, followed by Qatar Airways Ltd.,
Air India Ltd. and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  