-- Junk Slap Provokes Finnish Bondholder Uproar as New Rules Sought
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-06-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/junk-slap-provokes-finnish-bondholder-uproar-as-new-rules-sought.html
Fixed-income investors in  Finland  are
demanding better safeguards as a company split by builder  YIT
Oyj (YTY1V)  leaves its bonds junk rated.  Future corporate bond issues must include clauses that
allow creditors to have a say in structural changes, large
mergers and spinoffs, said Juhana Heikkilae, a senior portfolio
manager who helps manage 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of
fixed-income investments at Evli Bank Oyj in Helsinki.  “When the company isn’t clearly investment grade, the
domestic bond documentation needs to include more high-yield
style clauses that limit the company’s management and owners
from acting against bondholder interests,” Heikkilae said.
“There is pressure to change documentation to better protect
bondholders, because it appears that companies aren’t very
bondholder-friendly in these cases.”  The demands come as companies across  Europe  try to broaden
their access to debt markets after stricter bank capital rules
left loans more costly. YIT bondholders argue the company
offered them inadequate compensation for spinning off its
building maintenance services in a move that  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
says will prompt it to cut its shadow rating on the issuer one
step to BB+ from its previous investment grade of BBB-.  “The decisions were taken unanimously at both meetings and
no investor even asked to speak,” Janne Tallqvist, group
treasurer at YIT, said by phone. “We’re satisfied that this was
decided according to our proposals.”  High Yield  Finnish bond documentation standards that were created in
the 1980s only suit investment-grade issuers, said Ville Talasmaeki, head of credit investment at  Sampo (SAMAS)  Oyj. He helps
manage about 17.5 billion euros of assets. “The documentation
should be different when unrated companies warranting a high-yield rating enter the  capital markets .”  Creditors get no say in YIT’s decision to split its
business units, while shareholders will vote on the move at an
extraordinary meeting on June 17. Shareholders are being offered
one Caverion Oyj share for each share they own in YIT. YIT
bondholders on May 31 approved the company’s offer to raise
coupons by as much as 87 basis points on notes due 2015 and 2016
after YIT said the proposal wasn’t open to discussion.
Bondholders won’t have access to assets in the de-merged unit to
cover their investments in case of a default.  “It was the best of bad options,” said Juuso Rantala,
portfolio manager at Aktia Asset Management, who helps manage
about $10 billion in fixed-income and equity investments. He
ended up backing the proposal, even though the compensation is
“absolutely inadequate” and doesn’t reflect the weaker  credit
quality  after the split, Rantala said.  Mergers, Splits  Finland’s  Companies Act  stipulates that mergers and splits
can go ahead without bondholder approval, provided the company
redeems the notes at par, according to Ville Poenkae, adjunct
professor of commercial law at the University of Helsinki. That
offers creditors little protection when  interest rates  are low
and bonds already trade above par, he said. Bond terms should
stipulate a price at which the company will redeem the notes,
Heikkilae at Evli said.  “It depends on the market situation whether the Finnish
Companies Act affords protection or not,” Heikkilae said.
“That’s why it would be good to have clear clauses on what the
price is at which the company has to buy back the notes. The
settlement could be a fixed price or a spread, from about 101 to
about 103.”  Nokia’s Decline  Finnish businesses can’t afford to anger debt investors as
they look for funds to pay for growth. The northernmost euro
member is struggling to adjust to the decline of its flagship
company,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , while its forest industry continues to
founder. A gauge measuring Finnish business confidence has
remained below zero since August 2011.  “It’s going to become more common,” said Ilkka Saksa,
Helsinki-based corporate credit analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj.
“At least for companies where the business is split into
various operations that could potentially be spun off, it may be
in the investors’ interests to demand terms that stipulate that
if a significant part of the business is divested, bondholders
would have some safeguards or get compensated.”  The pool of outstanding long-term Finnish corporate bonds
rose to about 33 billion euros by the end of 2012 from about 15
billion euros in 2007, according to the  Bank of Finland . Loans
from banks and other investors reached about 89 billion euros
last year.  “Investors collectively need to push for a change,”
Talasmaeki said. “If more investors begin to demand this, it
will change. Investors don’t learn until they suffer losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  