-- King Urges Carney to ‘Be Himself’ at Bank of England
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-06-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/king-says-carney-should-be-himself-at-boe-as-economy-recovers.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said an economic recovery in the U.K. appears to be under way
and advised his successor,  Mark Carney , to “be himself.”  “You can see signs now of a recovery,” King told BBC
Radio in an interview broadcast yesterday. “The economy is
growing. Not as fast as we would like it to grow, but no one can
foretell the future.” Of Carney, King said “he’s an
outstanding person but the important thing is that he does it in
his own way.”  King, 65, made his comments on Radio 4’s “Desert Island
Discs” show as he prepares to retire at the end of this month
after a decade at the helm of the U.K. central bank. King chairs
his final policy-setting meeting this week before Carney, head
of the  Bank of Canada , takes over July 1.  King, whose second term has been dominated by the fallout
from what he described as “the biggest financial crisis the
world has ever seen,” said people had “every right to be
angry” with banks.  “In many ways, when the crisis hit in 2007-2008 I was
surprised that people weren’t angry sooner,” King said. “You
can see it coming through now as the impact on standards of
living becomes more obvious.” He urged people not to “demonize
individuals.” Instead, the authorities should keep cracking on
with changing the system,’’ he said.  Dance Lessons  In a rare personal interview, King revealed that he intends
to take a “gap” of six months to a year when he retires and
he’s promised his wife he’ll learn to dance. “It will be a
holiday,” he said.  “Desert Island Discs,” which began in 1942, asks guests
to choose eight pieces of music, a book and a luxury item they
would want with them if they were to be marooned alone on a
desert island. The announcement that King was to be a
“castaway” on the show led to light-hearted speculation on
Twitter about his possible choices.  Former U.K. Monetary Policy Committee member  Andrew Sentance , who argued unsuccessfully for interest-rate increases
until his term ended in May 2011, suggested King might pick
“Easy Money.” The benchmark rate was cut to 0.5 percent in
March 2009 and remains at that level.  “Many artists have songs with this title,” Sentance, who
plays in a  rock band  called Revelation, said in a May 29
posting. “ Billy Joel , King Crimson, Rickie Lee Jones and ELO.”  Dire Straits  Save Our Savers, a campaign group, suggested any song by
Dire Straits. “If QE goes wrong The Clovers’ ‘Your Cash Ain’t
Nothin’ But Trash’ might soon fit the bill,” it wrote,
referring to the policy of quantitative easing started by the
bank under King.  Among King’s eight music choices was Mozart’s Symphony No.
40, reflecting a friendship with German  Otmar Issing  dating back
to the early 1990s when they were the chief economists of their
countries’ central banks.  “I visit him in Wurzburg and he takes me to the Mozart
Festival,” King said. An avid supporter of Aston Villa Football
Club, King also chose a song about the team’s 1982 European Cup
final victory over  Bayern Munich  in Rotterdam.  King said there had been a backlash since the financial
crisis that may turn out to be good for society. Young people no
longer “want to earn money if it has been earned in a way that
creates enormous damage to society and I think that’s a very
healthy thing,” he said.  ‘Complete Nonsense’  King said his training meant he knew “exactly” what to do
during the financial crisis and he rejected criticism that the
 Bank of England  should have been able to anticipate the turmoil.  “That’s complete nonsense because many things happen in
the future that no one can foresee,” including what will happen
to the euro area, he said. “What you pay the Bank of England
for is to understand the nature of the system and to respond in
the right way, and we did.”  He revealed he tries to keep his mornings at work as free
as possible to “sit and read and think and reflect.” On
leaving the bank, he doesn’t intend to write a book about “why
I was right and everyone else was wrong,” he said.  King said he had no ill feelings toward former Labour
finance minister Alistair Darling, who said in his memoirs that
the governor didn’t recognize the scale of the crisis facing
Britain as the credit crunch unfolded. Darling “kept very calm
and he has a sense of humour,” King said. He also praised
Darling’s Tory successor,  George Osborne .  Private Life  “We would do better to give politicians space to let them
go away in private to think some things through in depth and
them come back and talk about it at length, rather than expect
our politicians to have an immediate solution to every problem,
every 20 minutes when a microphone is put in front of them,” he
said.  King, who has a reputation for guarding his privacy, spoke
openly about his private life.  He explained how he first fell for his wife, Finnish
designer Barbara Melander, when they were students at  Cambridge
University  in 1970. They were reunited three decades later after
an unexpected phone call and married in 2007.  “We were both students at the time but she then went back
to  Finland ,” he recalls of their original relationship. “About
30 years later the telephone rang and a voice says ‘it’s
Barbara.’ The moral of this story is never change your telephone
number.” King said he’d never married until then because “the
career always came first and that was probably a mistake.”  Asked to single out a music choice, King picked “My Ship”
from the 1941 musical “Lady in the Dark,” which was played at
his wedding. His book choice was the complete illustrated
catalogue of the National Gallery in  London . His luxury would be
“a good telescope so I can explore the universe and outer
space,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  