-- Kion, Springer Science Said Set to Start German IPOs
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-06-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/kion-springer-science-said-set-to-start-german-ipos.html
Kion Group GmbH, the world’s second-largest maker of forklifts, and academic publisher Springer
Science & Business Media are set to begin their initial public
offerings in two of  Germany ’s biggest listings this year,
according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  Both Kion, which is majority owned by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , as well as Springer Science, which is
controlled by Swedish buyout firm EQT Partners AB, may announce
their intention to float as early as this week, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.
EQT is also still accepting takeover offers this month and may
scrap the IPO, they said.  The owners are seeking to tap a rally in equity markets,
with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gaining one-third in the last 12
months, as well as appetite for companies in Germany, considered
a safe-haven economy with global reach. IPOs in Europe, the
Middle East and Africa have raised $7.4 billion this year,
compared with about $4 billion in the same period in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Springer Science could be valued at as much as 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) in a sale, people with knowledge of the
matter said in March. EQT hasn’t made a final decision whether
to pursue an IPO or sell the German publisher and buyout firms
 BC Partners  Ltd., which is most interested, as well as KKR and
 Providence Equity Partners  have until about June 10 to hand in
takeover offers, the people said.  KKR, Goldman  EQT, the Swedish buyout firm part-owned by the Wallenberg
family, bought Springer Science jointly with the  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp.  in 2009. The business publishes 2,000
magazines and 7,000 books every year on subjects including
science and medicine.  Kion, which only trails  Toyota Industries Corp. (6201) , an
affiliate of Toyota Motor Corp., in the global forklift market,
was part of German industrial-gas maker  Linde AG (LIN)  before a 4
billion-euro buyout in 2006. Owners KKR and Goldman Sachs sold
25 percent of Kion to Weichai Power Co.,  China ’s biggest maker
of heavy-duty trucks, in August to help trim debt. Kion also
sold 70 percent of its hydraulics unit to the Chinese firm. The
moves brought Kion 738 million euros in investment from Weichai.  The company could be valued at more than 4.7 billion euros,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the 467 million
euros Weichai paid for a quarter of the company in addition to
the pension liabilities and debt stated in the 2012 annual
 report  as well current earnings.  Spokesmen for Springer Science, EQT, KKR, BC Partners and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment. Representatives for
Providence couldn’t be immediately reached outside of regular
business hours. A Kion spokesman, Michael Hauger, said
“together with our shareholders we are closely watching  capital
markets  to decide on the right time for a potential IPO, but a
final decision has not been taken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  