-- Nestle Sees Nigeria Retail Spending at Risk From Insurgency
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-06-03T07:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/nestle-sees-nigeria-retail-spending-under-threat-from-insurgency.html
Nestle Nigeria Plc (NESTLE)  said an Islamist
insurgency in the north of Africa’s most populous nation will
continue to weigh on consumers already buckling under rising
food costs.  “There is bit of a depressed consumer feeling at the
moment, certainly driven a lot by what’s going on in the
north,” outgoing Managing Director Martin Woolnough, 58, said
in a May 29 phone interview from Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial
capital. “There’s definitely stress on the economy.”  President Goodluck Jonathan imposed emergency rule in the
northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa on May 14 to step
up the fight against Islamist militants, who he said were taking
over parts of the country. The armed forces of  Africa ’s largest
oil producer then began an air and ground offensive against the
organization Boko Haram, which is seeking to impose Shariah law
in the country.  Nestle, the largest food company in Nigeria, temporarily
withdrew about 10 of its sales staff from the three states for a
week, the second time in four years it has evacuated employees
since the insurgency began, Woolnough said. The company has
about 140 sales staff in the country.  “People still need to eat food and cook their stews, so
fortunately we are less affected in the north than other
products would be,” said Woolnough, referring partly to the
company’s food seasoning  Maggi , which he said was a “very
strong brand” in some areas affected by the fighting.  Profit Falls  Woolnough retired on May 31 after five years as head of the
Nigerian unit of Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s
largest food company with brands including Nescafe coffee and
KitKat chocolate bars. He handed over to Dharnesh Gordhon,
Nestle’s former sales director in southern Africa.  The marketing of products in the north is being hampered,
Woolnough said. “We can’t get teams up there,” he said.
“That’s likely to impact the middle to long term brand equity
in the future.”  Nestle Nigeria’s first-quarter net income fell 3.4 percent
to 5.99 billion naira ($38 million) from a year earlier, the
Lagos-based company said on May 3. Revenue climbed 7 percent to
30.7 billion naira. Distribution, administration and other costs
rose 5 percent from a year earlier to 17.5 billion naira because
of an increase in marketing spend, Woolnough said.  Unilever Nigeria Plc (UNILEVER) , the nation’s second-largest consumer
company, posted a 5.3 percent decline in first-quarter net
income to 1.26 billion naira, the company said on April 25.
Revenue was little changed at 14.2 billion naira.  ‘Normal Life’  Nigerian food prices, which account for more than half of
the consumer price index, advanced 10 percent in April from a
year earlier, compared with a 9.5 percent increase in the
previous month, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  “Prices are going up, there’s no doubt inflation is real.
I would suggest it’s higher than officially shown, especially
when you think about food,” said Woolnough. “It’s bigger than
people can accommodate in normal life.”  Nigeria’s headline  inflation  accelerated to 9.1 percent in
April, from 8.6 percent the previous month. The central bank
maintained its benchmark interest rates at a record high on May
28, concerned that the government’s military action against
Islamist insurgents will increase prices.  “We’re absorbing most inflationary related impacts and
finding other cost-saving initiatives to offset, but there are
other companies and smaller ones that are really going out of
business, small businesses just cannot keep up with that pace,”
Woolnough said.  Third Factory  Nestle has invested 500 million Swiss francs ($524 million)
over the past decade in Nigeria, building a second factory in
south-western Ogun state which opened in 2011 and expanding its
existing one in Agbara in the southern Delta state. The company
also produces Milo chocolate malt and Golden Morn cereal.  The company has bought land south of the capital, Abuja,
and has started work on a third factory to produce bottled
water, Woolnough said.  Nestle Nigeria’s stock has advanced 43 percent this year to
1,001.01 naira on the bourse in Lagos as of May 31, compared
with a 35 percent gain for the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share
Index. (NGSEINDX)  The naira has weakened 1.3 percent against the dollar
this year and was unchanged at 158.20 per dollar as of 7:25 a.m.
in Lagos after falling the most since February in May.  Parent company Nestle said in April that sales were hurt by
“softening” in some  emerging markets . First-quarter revenue
advanced 4.4 percent in the Asia, Oceania and Africa region,
below analysts’ estimates and less than half of the 11 percent
growth in the same quarter last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  