-- Nigeria Seeks Advantage in Drop in Oil Sales to U.S., Sambo Says
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-06-02T13:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/nigeria-seeks-advantage-in-drop-in-oil-sales-to-u-s-sambo-says.html
Nigerian Vice President  Namadi Sambo 
said decreasing oil sales to the U.S. are an opportunity to
create jobs by building refineries and developing markets closer
to home.  Nigeria, an OPEC member, lacks refining capacity and
depends on imported fuel to meet domestic demand. The country is
set to lose its position as Africa’s biggest crude producer for
the first time since 2009. Its shipments to the U.S. slid to
194,000 barrels a day in February, the lowest in more than 18
years, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  “Part of our policy now, as a result of this, is that
we’re attracting more foreign direct investment in processing
the crude oil in Nigeria,” Sambo said told reporters in
Yokohama, Japan. “That creates more jobs, and it creates wealth
within the country.”  The U.S. is  Nigeria ’s biggest crude buyer, importing
cargoes valued at 724 billion naira ($4.6 billion) in the fourth
quarter of last year, according to Nigeria’s  National Bureau of
Statistics . U.S. imports from Nigeria rebounded in March to
376,000 barrels a day, according to EIA data published May 30.  Sambo is in Japan for the Tokyo International Conference on
African Development, the largest African development forum
outside the continent.  Angola is poised to overtake Nigeria as the continent’s top
producer of crude as oil thieves sabotage pipelines in the oil-rich Niger River delta. Nigeria pumped 1.87 million barrels a
day in May, the same as Angola, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both belong to the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  International producers including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  -- in
joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. -- pump about 90 percent of the country’s output.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  