-- London’s Luxury Homes Gain Least Since 2009
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-06-03T08:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/london-s-luxury-homes-gain-least-since-2009.html
Central  London  luxury-home values
rose last month by the smallest annual amount since December
2009 on a drop in the Knightsbridge area, site of  Christian
Candy ’s One Hyde Park complex,  Knight Frank  LLP said.  The average price of a house or apartment in the city’s
most-expensive neighborhoods climbed 7.2 percent from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by the London-based broker.
The monthly increase of 0.3 percent was the smallest since
December and Knight Frank said it expects little change for the
whole of this year.  The market for luxury homes in London is cooling at a time
when prices for less-expensive properties are picking up, helped
by a credit-boosting program by the  Bank of England  and the U.K.
Treasury. While demand for prime real estate remains strong,
Knight Frank said would-be buyers of homes valued at as much as
2 million pounds ($3 million) are becoming more price sensitive.  “There is a discernible shift in the market,”  Liam Bailey , global head of residential research at the London-based
firm, said today in a report about the data. Anecdotal feedback
confirms “that buyers are willing to agree to purchases, but
only when prices are realistic,” he said.  In Knightsbridge, one of 14 London neighborhoods covered by
the report, luxury-property values fell 0.3 percent in May from
the previous month. In Belgravia, there was a 0.2 percent
decline.  Sugar Quay  Knightsbridge is home to Harrods department store,  Royal
Albert Hall  and One Hyde Park, the luxury apartment project
developed by Candy’s CPC Group as part of a venture with closely
held Waterknights. CPC won approval in March for 165 apartments
at Sugar Quay in the City of London financial district, where
homes on the area’s fringe rose 2.6 percent last month, the most
in the heart of the U.K. capital for the period.  British  house prices  rose the most in six years last month
as a shortage of properties boosted values in London, according
to Hometrack Ltd. London prices increased 0.9 percent, more than
twice the average for England and  Wales , according to Hometrack
Ltd. U.K. mortgage approvals were little changed in April at
53,710, about half the monthly average in the decade to 2007,
the Bank of England said last week.  Prime central London rents were unchanged in May from the
previous month, the first time they haven’t declined since June
2012, the broker said in a separate report. Rents have fallen
2.9 percent in the 12 months through May, driven by job losses
in the financial-services industry, Knight Frank said.  The monthly cost of leasing a home in Kensington, a
district popular with bankers and hedge-fund managers, has risen
2.6 percent this year to date, the most in central London.  Britain’s four biggest banks will have cut about 189,000
jobs by the end of this year from their peak staffing levels,
bringing employment to a nine-year low amid a dearth of revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , HSBC Holdings Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  will employ about 606,000 people worldwide by the
end of 2013, 24 percent below the peak of 795,000 in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  