-- Total CEO Denies Bribes Were Paid on Iranian Gas Contracts
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-06-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/total-ceo-denies-bribes-were-paid-on-iranian-gas-contracts.html
Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie, who may be put on trial in  France  for
corruption related to Iranian contracts, denied the company paid
bribes for the gas permits.  “What we did wasn’t illegal according to French law,” de
Margerie said on LCI television yesterday. “We didn’t pay
bribes, we didn’t pay Iranian authorities. Our contracts weren’t
illegal.”  The Paris prosecutor recommended last week that the company
and its CEO, along with two other people, face trial on
corruption charges. An investigating magistrate will decide
whether a trial will be held.  Total agreed last week to pay $398 million to settle U.S.
allegations it made illegal payments to an Iranian official for
oil-and-gas contracts that date from the mid-1990s.  Total is barred from commenting on the U.S. settlement, de
Margerie said yesterday in his first public comments since last
week’s announcements. Total is “more free” to talk about the
French case, he said.  “What we did was legal,” he said. “There were no
commissions. There were no kickbacks.”  Total,  Europe ’s third-largest oil company, was charged in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, last week with three
counts of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as part of
a deferred-prosecution agreement. The company also resolved
related allegations with the Securities and Exchange Commission
in an administrative case.  A trial on the Iran orders would be the second one for de
Margerie related to business in the  Middle East . He and the
company were already tried in a Paris court this year on charges
they participated in a scandal stemming from the United Nations
oil-for-food relief program for  Iraq . A ruling on the case has
not yet been made.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  