-- Peugeot Chief Seen Buffeted Between Founders and Politics
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-06-02T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/peugeot-chief-seen-buffeted-between-founders-and-politics.html
After Philippe Varin steered
steelmaker Corus Group Ltd. away from bankruptcy 10 years ago,
he was made commander of the order of the British Empire for
“services to the U.K. steel industry.” As chief executive
officer of  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , there’s scant chance he’ll get a
similar honor in France.  With contentious job cuts and a possible capital increase
in the works, Varin this week starts his second four-year term
as head of the loss-making Paris-based company. To ensure its
survival, he will have to navigate two groups: the Peugeot
family, split over some of his moves, and the French government,
which has sought to thwart job losses and has taken a board seat
in exchange for its financial backing.  “The uneven management of Peugeot is far less linked to
the personality of Varin than to the fact that he hasn’t been
able to impose his choices,” said Bernard Jullien, an economist
at French automotive think tank Gerpisa.  Peugeot has struggled more than most European carmakers
with the region’s slump. Much of its production is in high-cost
France, and unlike German carmakers, its vehicles lack the
cachet to command higher prices and attract customers overseas.  The 116-year-old French company lost about 510 euros ($658)
on each car it sold last year, the Center for Automotive
Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen in  Germany 
estimates.  Renault SA (RNO)  lost about 241 euros and Volkswagen AG,
Europe’s No. 1 carmaker, earned 751 euros, the center says.  Offsetting Losses  With the automaker continuing to consume cash after using
up 3 billion euros in 2012, a capital increase is one option
being weighed to raise funds, three people familiar with the
matter said. The deliberations over a share sale include
concerns over demand from potential investors, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Peugeot spokesman Jonathan Goodman declined to comment.  “There’s no doubt that it will need to find new means to
offset these losses and the debt option has already been used,”
said Joffrey Ouafqa, a portfolio manager at Convictions AM, who
has about 550 million euros under management and sold his last
Peugeot shares in 2011. “If Peugeot goes on increasing its
debt, it will have a solvency issue.”  Peugeot’s shares have  gained  26 percent this year,
recovering from a 23-year low reached in 2012 on concern that
the European Union might block 7 billion euros in bond
guarantees from the French state for Peugeot’s financing unit.
VW is down 2.2 percent in 2013 and Renault has surged 46 percent
in the same period.  Government Aid  The EU, which is investigating whether the French aid is
anticompetitive, gave preliminary approval in February for the
automaker to sell 1.2 billion euros in bonds with government
backing. Peugeot sold the bonds in March. Any need for a capital
increase is partially dependent on the EU’s final decision, one
of the people said.  With European auto sales contracting for a sixth straight
year, a quick turnaround at Peugeot isn’t likely. After an
operating loss of 576 million euros in 2012, the carmaker is
forecast to lose 317 million euros this year, according to the
average of 14 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Varin didn’t have any direct automotive experience before
joining Peugeot. That means he will have to draw on his
turnaround background from the metals industry and team skills
developed as a rugby player to reach his goal of taking in more
money next year than Peugeot spends.  Tough Times  His experience heading capital-intensive companies dates
from his time at Pechiney, a former French industrial group,
where he oversaw aluminum production. Varin learned to grapple
with change, though an attempt to merge Pechiney,  Canada ’s Alcan
and Switzerland’s Algroup to form a $21 billion aluminum
behemoth ultimately failed in 2000 after months of work.  “Those were tough times,” said Jean-Dominique Senard, CEO
of  Michelin & Cie (ML) , who worked with Varin on the merger effort.
“He’s a former rugby man. He knows what a team is.”  Varin, 60, will need those traits. The heirs of founder
Armand Peugeot  hold  about 25 percent of the company’s shares.
Robert Peugeot sought the top job at the company in 2007, but
his cousin Thierry blocked his efforts.  Family tensions escalated last year as the car crisis
worsened in Europe. Varin’s decisions to sell a 7 percent stake
to  General Motors Co. (GM)  to secure an automaking alliance, and to
divest assets such as Peugeot’s truck unit Gefco, sparked heated
debates in the family, two people familiar with the matter said.  Interrogation  “There were moments of doubt and interrogation,” Varin
said in a March interview with the French weekly Le Nouvel
Observateur when asked about a reported threat to resign because
of strained relations with the family. The tensions compelled
the board of directors last June to  issue a statement  supporting
Varin.  The CEO turned down requests to be interviewed for this
story, Goodman said.  The largest remaining asset that Peugeot could sell is its
57 percent stake in  Faurecia SA (EO) , whose shares are up 49 percent
this year, valuing the parts-maker at 1.93 billion euros.
Peugeot is reluctant to dispose of the holding because Faurecia
is a profit driver for the automaker, two of the people said.  Varin has had to accept the government’s growing influence
after it agreed to guarantee 7 billion euros in bonds for
Peugeot’s banking arm. The bailout led to the appointment of
former European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. CEO Louis Gallois
as state representative to its board of directors. The deal also
included the nomination of two labor representatives.  Government Opposition  The government initially opposed Varin’s plans to eliminate
11,200 jobs by 2015 and shut a factory near Paris. When Peugeot
announced its restructuring plan last July -- about two months
after the election of President Francois Hollande of the
Socialist party -- Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg accused
Varin of “lies.”  The constraints didn’t keep Varin from taking action. In
March, he streamlined the top ranks, cutting two executives from
its management board, which now numbers four. Varin also set
targets for each product line and made top managers directly
responsible for them.  In a sign that the executive can win over critics,
Montebourg apologized on French television six months later, and
the government is letting the restructuring move forward. Even
unions are voicing support.  “Varin came in the middle of the storm,” said Jean-Francois Kondratiuk, one of the two new employee representatives
on the board of directors. “It would be dangerous to change the
boss now.”  Corus Rescue  Peugeot’s CEO, a father of four, was born in Reims in the
Champagne region. He became CEO of Corus, a steelmaker formed
after British Steel Plc bought Koninklijke Hoogovens NV, in
2003.  At the time, Corus was close to collapse after racking up 2
billion pounds ($3.1 billion) in losses over four years. Under
Varin, the steelmaker scrapped 1,150 jobs, swapped out about a
third of its management, and sold its aluminum unit. After the
changes, Tata Steel Plc paid $12.9 billion for Corus, outbidding
 Brazil ’s CSN SA.  Varin’s restructuring efforts at Peugeot cleared a hurdle
last month when the hard-line CGT union agreed to end a walkout
and drop legal action aimed at blocking the closing of the
Aulnay factory near Paris.  Up next for Varin is negotiating a deal with unions to
increase productivity in  France . He also said in April that
further cost savings may be necessary next year if Europe’s car
market doesn’t improve. At the very least, he’s won the respect
of some labor leaders.  “I hope he’ll stay,” said Christian Lafaye, head of the
FO union at Peugeot. “Of all the Peugeot CEOs I’ve known over
my 37-year-old career, he’s the one who’s most capable of
listening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  