-- Prague Braces for Cresting River as Floods Paralyze City
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a ,   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-06-03T07:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/prague-braces-for-cresting-river-as-floods-paralyze-city.html
Prague is bracing for the swollen
 Vltava  River to crest today as the Czech government deploys
hundreds of soldiers to avert a repeat of the 2002 floods that
destroyed neighborhoods and caused $1.2 billion in damage.  Five people have died and thousands have been evacuated in
the  Czech Republic , while parts of  Prague’s historic city  center
have been flooded since yesterday. Promenades lining the river
that bisects the capital are below water, submerging benches,
playgrounds and trees. The government called a state of
emergency in seven regions, including Prague, and pledged $15
million in relief aid. Prague’s transport authorities shut
subway routes, while  City Hall  said people should refrain from
driving to work and ordered schools to close today.  “I’d like to express my sympathies to all affected by
floods and state that the government will help them to deal with
the situation,” Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas said at a
briefing after an emergency meeting yesterday.  Nonstop spring storms have raised the specter of the 2002
floods that crippled Prague, shut down the  subway system  for
weeks and saddled insurers with tens of billions of koruna in
claims just as the Czech Republic was preparing to join the
European Union. Districts such as the blue-collar Karlin and the
castle-area Mala Strana were left under water 11 years ago,
forcing massive municipal reconstruction projects.  Weather Forecast  The  Czech weather forecasting service  said rains in central
Bohemia will lighten up today and end by midweek. An additional
15 millimeters (two-thirds of an inch) is expected today, after
more than twice that amount pounded the country yesterday.  Even so, the Vltava and other rivers continue to swell. The
management of the river basin predicts that Prague’s river would
crest this afternoon as rising water levels in tributaries feed
into Vltava.  “Vltava should crest this afternoon and reach the height
of 497 centimeters with the flow rate of 2,900 cubic meters per
second,” river authority spokeswoman Michaela Pohunkova said by
phone today. The authority doesn’t have any estimates when the
water level may start to decline. In 2002, Vltava reached 782
centimeters with a flow rate of 5,160 cubic meters per second.  Hundreds of  Prague  residents yesterday were told to leave
their homes. A downtown hospital was evacuated, with patients
transferred to outlying facilities, and some towns along rivers
leading into the capital were ordered to evacuate.  Assessing Possessions  Marcela Strakova, a 35-year-old stage producer who lives
next to Charles Bridge, was making a mental checklist of what to
carry, should the order come for her neighborhood.  “I was standing in my apartment, thinking what I’m going
to take with me if the evacuation comes,” she said yesterday.  The Czech Republic is not alone in central  Europe  to suffer
from flooding. At least four people died or are missing in
Germany and  Switzerland , the  Associated Press  reported, while
one perished in neighboring  Austria .  The German cities of Passau, about 30 miles from the Czech
border, and Rosenheim declared a state of emergency, and Passau
requested help from the federal army. Bavaria’s flood alert
service warned that the forecast of continuing heavy rain was
likely to worsen the flooding affecting the Danube and the Inn,
among other rivers.  Bavaria, Austria  Rivers in Saxony and Baden-Wuerttemberg, as well as in
Bavaria, have burst their banks, according to a Sueddeutsche
Zeitung report. A man was found dead in Salzburg, Austria, and
two others are missing, according to the  Salzburger Nachrichten .
The army is also helping civil authorities.  Bratislava, the capital of neighboring Slovakia, and
Budapest in  Hungary  were also preparing for flood defense on the
Danube River.  In Prague, the city closed the underground Metro system in
the center, including the Old Town and Mala Strana stations, and
shut off the historic Charles Bridge to foot traffic. Gas and
electricity utilities cut off supplies to parts of the city and
around the country as a precaution.  More Closures  More than 200 people in Prague were evacuated, while some
three thousands more in local municipalities across Bohemia were
told to leave their homes, according to the  fire brigade .  As the flood danger grew more apparent yesterday, the army
and fire brigades were called out to protect the Karlin and Mala
Strana neighborhoods, among the heaviest hit by floods in 2002,
with metal walls erected along the river to protect the most
historic and picturesque parts of the city.  The memory of 11 years ago, when waters rose above the
ground floors of hundreds of apartment buildings and stores,
left residents nervous about the possibility another flood.  Jaroslav Tuma, 35, owner of a small gallery selling hand-made souvenirs in a narrow street 100 meters (109 yards) from
the river in Mala Strana, pointed to a mark on the wall about
six feet high showing the flood level from 2002.  “I’m more worried now, even though I think the city is
better prepared than a decade ago,” Tuma said. “I’ll have to
be on alert and move quickly when I see the water breaking out
from the sewers.”  Flood Fatalities  An unidentified woman and a man died yesterday in
 Trebenice , a village some 30 kilometers outside of Prague, when
water seepage undermined the foundation of a summer cottage,
causing the wooden building to collapse over them, fire brigade
spokeswoman Nicole Zaoralova said by phone. Police was also
looking for two boaters that were missing during floods, she
said.  Over the weekend, authorities issued flood warnings in
Prague and Plzen, the home of  SABMiller Plc’s (SAB)  Pilsner Urquell
brewery, which was also heavily hit by rains. Warnings of
extreme rain or floods were issued in seven Czech regions
including Prague, according to the Czech state weather forecast
service’s website.  Parts of the cities of Decin and Usti nad Labem,in the
northern part of the country, were evacuated as the Elbe river
continued to rise,  emergency services  reported.  At the Cisarsky Ostrov island near the  Prague Zoo ,
onlookers yesterday watched firefighters raise barriers. Cars
wound their way along the roads, some of which were already
under water. Local horse-riding and dog-training clubs evacuated
all the animals in the morning before their facilities became
flooded.  Workers at the Prague Zoo, where the 2002 disaster killed
animals including an elephant that had become trapped in a pen
as water rushed in, moved animals including gorillas to higher
ground.  Mountain river runoff flooded village homes west of Prague.
In Beroun, about 30 kilometers (19 miles) southwest of Prague,
authorities evacuated a retirement home and shut off electricity
at the town’s flooded bus station.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  