-- Putin Dividend Push Flops as Micex Discount at 4-Year High
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-03T16:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/putin-dividend-push-flops-as-micex-discount-grows-to-4-year-high.html
Most of Russia’s state-controlled
companies have refused President Vladimir Putin’s appeal to
raise dividends, providing a fresh reason for investors to avoid
the cheapest emerging-market stocks.  Russian stocks’ discount to the MSCI Emerging Markets gauge
grew to 2.1 times net assets in May, the highest in four years,
as 11 of 17 Kremlin-backed companies included in the benchmark
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  ignored the government’s November rule mandating a
payout equal to at least 25 percent of net income. The Micex is
down 9 percent this year, the worst performance of the BRIC
markets after  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa. (IBOV)  State-controlled OAO Rosneft
and OAO Inter RAO UES both fell more than 20 percent.  “The unrealized dividend promises have a negative impact
on the market, especially since this was one of the key growth
triggers,” Victor Bark, who oversees about $2.8 billion as the
head of asset management at Alfa Capital in Moscow, said by
phone on May 27. “This is bad news in a situation when there
are no sources for economic growth.”  Putin has targeted dividends in a drive to boost budget
revenue and lure foreign and domestic investors wary of an
economy that grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in the first
quarter. Capital outflows amounted to as much as $4 billion in
April, according to the  Economy Ministry .  The government’s payout push hasn’t been effective so far
as some of the biggest companies resist trimming their cash
piles after profits slumped last year, according to  Pacific
Investment Management Co. (PEQWX) ’s Masha Gordon, who manages Pimco’s
$581 million emerging-markets equities fund.  Local Rules  “An increase in dividend payout ratios of state-owned
companies is a journey toward a policy goal and should be taken
as such,” Gordon, who has a policy of avoiding Kremlin-backed
companies, said by e-mail on May 24. “Time will show whether
the government is effective in its ability to influence the
outcome. Thus far, it has not been the case.”  Stocks in the Micex index  trade  at 5 times estimated
earnings, the least among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg. This compares with 11 times for Brazil’s Ibovespa,
9.4 times for the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  and 14 times for
 India ’s  Sensex. (SENSEX)  The Micex is valued at 0.7 times net assets, a
drop from 0.8 times at the start of the year and compared with
1.5 times for the MSCI Emerging-Markets Index.  Most companies use local accounting rules to calculate
dividends rather than paying them based on international
accounting standards. The government has proposed making the use
of international standards mandatory from next year, First
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said May 23. The Micex fell
1 percent to 1,337.40 by the close in Moscow. The RTS Index
tumbled as much as 2.1 percent, 20 percent below this year’s
high, closing down 0.9 percent lower at 1,319.01.  Asset Sales  Bigger payments would bolster companies’ market value as
the world’s biggest energy exporter seeks to raise 427 billion
rubles ($13 billion) from state asset sales this year, helping
balance the budget after Putin increased spending on wages and
pensions during his campaign last year for a third term.  Budget revenue from state companies’ dividends will drop 19
percent to 172 billion rubles ($5.4 billion) in 2013, according
to a Finance Ministry document obtained by Bloomberg last month.
Were the 25-percent rule followed in full, an additional 153
billion rubles would flow into state coffers, the ministry said.  While the government has weighed an increase in dividend
payout requirements to 35 percent of earnings, Shuvalov said
such rules are “unlikely” before 2015.  Putin isn’t the only emerging-market leader pressing
publicly-traded companies to boost payouts. Polish Prime
Minister Donald Tusk’s administration forced KGHM Polska Miedz
SA, the nation’s state-controlled copper producer, to raise its
dividend 67 percent more than what managers proposed.  Increasing Appeal  Higher dividends “boost companies’ appeal, while providing
the budget with extra revenue, which we really need,” Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov said May 17.  Putin started the push for higher payouts last year,
calling on the “necessity of increasing the efficiency of
management among companies with state presence,” in part by
discussing the “question of increasing dividend,” he told
executives and government officials on July 10 in Moscow.  Russia ’s economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three months
of the year, slowing for a fifth consecutive quarter, Federal
Statistics Service data showed on May 17, as the euro area’s
longest recession hurt demand for commodity exports.  That is pressuring the  budget deficit , which will widen to
0.6 percent of gross domestic product this year from about 0.1
percent of GDP in 2012, according to Finance Ministry estimates.  ‘Natural Instrument’  “Dividends are a natural instrument of budget revenue and
the state’s interests here fully coincide with those of external
shareholders,” Prosperity Capital Management’s Chief Investment
Adviser Alexander Branis, who oversees $4 billion in Russian
assets, said by phone on May 24. “The government will be forced
to return to this because it’s feeling a shortage of income.”  The Micex’s 4.3 percent  estimated dividend yield  compares
with 2.9 percent for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The gap
hit a 4.5-year high of 1.5 percentage points in April and has
narrowed 13 basis points since.  Pimco’s Gordon said she’s avoiding stocks such as  OAO
Gazprom, the natural-gas export monopoly,  and OAO Transneft, the
state oil pipeline operator, as they back down from paying
higher dividends.  Gazprom’s board recommended a 2012 dividend 33 percent
lower than the year before as profit slumped. While equal to 25
percent of net income based on domestic accounting rules, it’s
equivalent to 12 percent of profit using international norms.
Transneft, Russia’s oil-pipeline operator, may pay out 25
percent of net income based on international accounting
standards only from 2017, a company official said on April 18.  ‘Gigantic’ Investment  Gazprom’s “gigantic” investment plans prevent it from
paying more in dividends, according to Oleg Popov, who manages
$1 billion in assets for Allianz Investments, the asset-management arm of Europe’s biggest insurer.  “The state is a shareholder in these companies and through
dividends receives budget revenue, while a higher dividend yield
makes the stock more popular with investors, helping
privatization plans,” Popov said by phone from Moscow on May
28. “The government is heading in the right direction.”  VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, is considering
0.143 kopeks a share in 2012 dividend, equivalent to 17 percent
of net income in international standards, the company said in a
May 24 statement. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, plans
to pay a dividend equivalent to about 17 percent of net income,
Chief Executive Officer Herman Gref said March 22.  Rosneft Payout  Putin launched his dividend boost campaign last year by
requesting Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, to consider
raising its dividend payout to 25 percent of net income. Rosneft
took heed, with the crude giant’s board recommended paying a
quarter of profit to international standard in 2012 dividends.  That’s little consolation for shareholders of OAO  TNK-BP
Holding (TNBP) , which Rosneft acquired for $55 billion in March. TNK-BP’s stock has plunged 30 percent this year as Rosneft Chief
Executive Officer Igor Sechin said he won’t be responsible for
dividends at the company he took over. Instead, Rosneft is
seeking to borrow cash from its acquisition, curbing TNK-BP’s
ability to pay other shareholders.  “The Russian corporate sector would do almost anything on
earth to be seen as modern and transparent,”  Eric Kraus , a
managing director at Nikitsky Capital in Moscow, where he
manages about $200 million in assets, said by e-mail on May 28.
“Anything but pay fair dividends, respect minority interests in
corporate transactions, or allow truly independent directors.
There is a disconnect between the rhetoric and the reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  