-- Rand as Most Oversold Currency Poised for Gains: Market Reversal
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-03T15:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/rand-as-most-oversold-currency-poised-for-gains-market-reversal.html
South Africa ’s rand became the
world’s most oversold major currency after the biggest monthly
decline since September 2011, according to trading patterns.  The rand slid 11 percent against the dollar last month,
pushing its 14-day relative strength index to 86, above the 70
threshold that signals a currency has fallen too far, too fast.
By that measure, it’s the most oversold of the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The rand also pushed through
the upper limit of the Bollinger band, while its stochastic
oscillator is at 86, implying an imminent reversal.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest economy tumbled to a four-year low on May 31 amid concern union talks scheduled to start
this month on wages will worsen unrest in the  mining industry ,
which accounts for more than 50 percent of exports. The last
time the rand’s RSI was above 70 in late January, the rand
proceeded to climb 4 percent over three weeks.  “History tells you it will probably get to a better
level,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief
dealer at Bidvest Bank, South Africa’s biggest chain of money-changers, said by phone on May 31. “It is stretched.
Everybody’s saying it, the central bank is saying it, market
participants are saying it. We’ll see a recovery, although it
may still be a week or two away.”  Movements in the currency are “somewhat exaggerated,”
central bank Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  told bankers in
 Pretoria  on May 30. The rand will retrace losses “at some
point,” National Treasury Director-General Lungisa Fuzile said
in an interview with Johannesburg-based Radio 702 the same day.  Big Mac  The rand slumped to 10.2847 per dollar on May 31, the
lowest since March 2009. It fell the most last month of 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg and weakened
versus all 16 most-traded currencies. The rand is 60 percent
below fair value, based on the Economist Group’s Big Mac Index.
The currency gained 2.4 percent to 9.8583 per dollar as of 5:40
p.m. in Johannesburg, its biggest one-day gain in 11 months.  The rand has the second-highest Bollinger Band reading
versus the dollar among European, Middle Eastern and African
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Russia ’s ruble.  Bollinger bands, developed by  John Bollinger  in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory. The upper limit of the band represents
two standard deviations from the 20-day moving average and
typically implies that the likelihood of the currency dropping
below the band is about 2.5 percent.  Imminent Reversal  The stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar
passed through the 70 level that signals an imminent gain on May
20. The measure tracks the price of a currency relative to its
highs and lows during a particular period.  In these and other forms of technical analysis, investors
and analysts study charts of trading patterns and prices to
predict changes in a currency, security or index.  The rand may extend its decline even as technical
indicators show it’s oversold, according to  John Cairns , a
currency strategist at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg.  “Sentiment is driving it now, not fundamentals or
technicals,” Cairns said by phone on May 31. “Rand weakness
has gone far beyond what even the most negative local
fundamentals can justify. But this doesn’t in any way mean that
the slide will end.” The currency could fall to 13 per dollar
“in a worst-case scenario,” Cairns said.  Cairns is more pessimistic that the median estimate of 26
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who see the currency climbing to
9.06 per dollar by the fourth quarter.  Slower Growth  Last month’s slump in the rand was spurred by slides in the
prices of gold and platinum, metals that accounted for about 20
percent of South Africa’s exports in 2012. Gold dropped 6
percent, following a 7.6 percent slump in April, and platinum
declined 3.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Labor unrest has also weighed on the currency after causing
more than 15 billion rand ($1.5 billion) in lost output and
shaving 0.5 percentage point off gross domestic product last
year, according to the Treasury. GDP  growth  slowed to an
annualized 0.9 percent in the first quarter from 2.1 percent in
the previous three months, Statistics South Africa said last
week.  President  Jacob Zuma  said May 30 that he appointed a group
of ministers to mediate between rival labor unions. The  National
Union of Mineworkers , the nation’s largest labor group in the
mining industry, supports Zuma’s calls for stability, it said in
a statement on May 31. The Chamber of Mines, which represents
mining companies, wants to reach an early, peaceful settlement
that’s fair for employees and mining companies, the
Johannesburg-based organization said in a statement on May 30.  “The sell-off has gone too far and the rand is
undervalued” at around 10 per dollar, Bernd Berg, an emerging-market strategist at Credit Suisse AG in Zurich, said in a May
30 note. The rand could rebound to 9.50 over the next three
months as the weaker currency boosts earnings for exporters, he
said. “Past periods of significant rand volatility have shown
that the rand tends to overshoot, but then rebound quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  