-- Treasuries Drop Will Be Volatile on Stimulus Exit, BIS Says
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-03T10:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/treasuries-decline-will-be-volatile-on-stimulus-exit-bis-says.html
Treasuries are set to extend losses
and price swings may intensify as growth allows central banks to
withdraw stimulus, the Bank for International Settlements said.  “Yields will go up as the economy recovers,” Stephen Cecchetti, economic adviser and head of the monetary and
economic department at the BIS in Basel, Switzerland, told
reporters on a conference call on May 31. “The ride to
normality will almost surely be bumpy, with yields going through
calm and volatile periods.”  Benchmark  10-year note yields  rose the most since December
2010 last month amid speculation that the Federal Reserve will
begin tapering its $85 billion a month bond-buying program.
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on May 22 that the central bank
could cut the pace of its purchases if policy makers see
indications of sustained improvement in growth.  “Volatility per se is not necessarily bad,” Cecchetti
said. “Price movements are an integral part of the price-discovery process in financial markets, especially when we are
faced with unprecedented events such as exit from the current
unconventional stance of monetary policy.”  Treasury 10-year yields climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.16 percent at 6:36 a.m. in New York. The
rate  climbed  46 basis points last month, the most since jumping
50 basis points in December 2010. Volatility, as measured by the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch  MOVE index , rose to 81.22 on May
29, the highest level in almost a year.  Securities in the bank’s Global Broad Market Index lost 1.5
percent in May, the steepest decline since April 2004.  “With the outstanding volume of government bonds greater
than ever, interest-rate risk” is at a record high in most
advanced economies, Cecchetti said. “These losses will be
spread across banks, households and industrial firms. Robust
balance sheets with high capital buffers are the best way to
guard against the possible disruptions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  