-- Regulators Snub Sign That May Predict Next Crisis, BIS Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-06-03T10:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/regulators-ignore-signal-that-may-forecast-next-crisis-bis-says.html
Regulators may be overlooking a
signal that could give them an opportunity to identify a new
financial crisis, according to the Bank for International
Settlements.  By focusing only on the gap between the size of an economy
and the amount of bank credit within it, policy makers are
ignoring contributions that foreign and non-bank lenders make to
credit booms that typically precede systemic banking crises,
according to Mathias Drehmann, a senior economist at the Basel-based institution. That role can be “significant,” as shown by
a new BIS database that shows domestic banks currently supply
only 30 percent of credit in the U.S. economy.  In the U.K., there was no bank-driven credit gap visible in
the run-up to the most recent crisis because the securitization
of assets was responsible for the surge in lending that took
place, Drehmann said in an article published in the latest BIS
Quarterly Review. Instead, the gap was apparent when  lending 
from all sources was considered and may have acted as an
indicator for regulators to push banks to build defenses,
according to the paper.  Both measures “provide powerful early warning indicators
for systemic banking crises,” according to the  Review . “Gaps
based on all sources of credit are likely to provide a more
accurate indication of impending systemic crises.”  False Alarms  As well as capturing imminent crises better, the measure
based on the gap between total credit and GDP doesn’t provide
“significantly” more false alarms, according to the study.  The BIS looked at what the indicators were signaling within
three years of the 33 crises since 1975 as a measure of their
success or failure.  While both gauges gave some false alarms under the criteria
by warning of crises that failed to materialize within three
years, in many cases the emergency instead happened after four
or five years, according to the paper. That would have justified
regulators forcing banks to build buffers or taking other action
to strengthen their balance sheets.  In other cases, while no crisis took place, there was
sufficient stress in the system to justify regulatory action,
according to Drehmann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Shelley Smith
at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
BIZ SW <Equity> 