-- Reliance Sees Payoff in U.S. Gas as India Output Slumps: Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-06-03T10:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/reliance-sees-payoff-in-u-s-gas-as-india-output-slumps-energy.html
  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owned by
 Mukesh Ambani  the world’s richest energy billionaire, spent the
last three years wagering  $5.7 billion  on North American shale
oil and gas. That may now be paying off as earnings from U.S.
output eclipses those in  India  for the first time.  The operator of the world’s biggest oil refining complex in
Gujarat, western India, doubled U.S. production of natural gas
and liquids in the last quarter from a year earlier, Mumbai-based Executive Director P.M.S. Prasad said. The yield from
Reliance’s biggest Indian field plunged 75 percent from its peak
in 2010, the year it  bought  U.S. shale assets.  “Earnings from oil and gas sales in the U.S. will be
sustained,” Prasad said in an interview. “In the next two
years, we may not be able to raise gas production in India,
while in the U.S. output will continue to gain.”  Reliance needs success in U.S. fields as its returns to
investors are the lowest among  Asia ’s nine biggest oil companies
with a market value of more than $20 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors in Reliance have lost 7.6
percent annually over the past three years, or since its gas
output in India started declining.  The stock has declined 6.2 percent this year, compared with
a 1 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)  The shares
dropped 2.3 percent to 787.90 rupees in Mumbai today.  Profit Engine  Reliance and its Asian peers including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
are producing more liquids such as ethane and propane from U.S.
shale rock and betting global demand will boost natural gas
prices. In the last five years, companies in the Asia-Pacific
have invested $115 billion in oil and gas in  North America ,
seeking to use some of the U.S.’s  record energy  output to feed
their economies.  “U.S. shale will become a significant contributor to
Reliance’s profit in the next five years because higher prices
there will lead to higher output,” said Neelabh Sharma, a
Mumbai-based analyst at BOB Capital Markets Ltd., who recommends
investors buy the stock. “While it’s primarily liquids
production now, gas could pick up once prices rise.”  Hydraulic fracturing of shale rock formations from  Texas  to
 West Virginia  boosted supplies of gas in the U.S., helping the
nation overtake  Russia  as the world’s biggest producer of the
fuel in 2009.  Natural gas in New York trading fell 6 percent last week to
$3.984 per million British thermal units. That’s still up 19
percent for the year after decade-low prices of $1.91 in April,
2012, forced explorers to cut production from shale deposits.  “ Gas prices  in the U.S. are sustainable at $5.5 to $6 per
unit, and at these prices, drilling and production of gas will
start buzzing,” Prasad said. “If prices do rise to these
levels, we will acquire more assets, drill more and produce
more.”  Mile Deep  Reliance sells gas from its biggest field in India at a
government-mandated price of $4.2 per million British thermal
units, a tariff that comes up for renewal in April. The company
has higher production costs in India, where it drills in sea
beds about a mile deep, while its U.S. wells are on land and
closer to the surface.  Production at Reliance’s KG-D6 block, billed as one of the
world’s  biggest  gas discoveries in 2002,  fell  39 percent to an
average 26 million cubic meters a day in the year ended March 31,
according to an April 16  report . Reliance attributed the drop to
unexpectedly difficult geology.  U.S. Profit  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded Reliance’s  credit rating  to two
levels above India’s on May 29, saying the company will spend a
part of its $30 billion investment over three years on
exploration to expand its shale business.  Ambani, who is worth $22.2 billion, is India’s wealthiest
man and the world’s richest energy tycoon, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization from Reliance’s U.S. business rose 85 percent to
$483 million in the year ended March 31. Profit from its Indian
oil and gas fields declined 45 percent to 28.9 billion rupees
($512 million). In the last quarter, U.S. earnings reached $155
million, compared with $81 million in India.  The contract to deliver natural gas in January 2018 is
trading at $5 per million Btu on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Prices may increase should the U.S. ease export
restrictions.  LNG Question  The quantity of gas the U.S. should allow for export has
been much debated in  Washington . The U.S. Energy Department is
weighing 20 applications for liquefied natural gas export
terminals.  The department in May conditionally approved the Freeport
LNG project in Texas, concluding overseas sales will bring net
economic benefits to the U.S.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s Sabine Pass
terminal in  Louisiana  is the only LNG project with full
government approval for exports.  “A lot of new gas demand from exports, domestic power
sector and industries is going to come up in the next five years,
and that could put some upward pressure on prices in the U.S.,”
said Will Pearson, London-based director for global energy &
natural resources at Eurasia Group. “As prices rise along with
demand, companies will drill more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  