-- Republicans Press Holder on Press Prosecutions Testimony
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/republicans-press-holder-on-testimony-denying-press-prosecutions.html
Republicans in the U.S. House are
questioning whether Attorney General Eric Holder misled Congress
by saying he’d never been involved in a potential prosecution of
a reporter for publishing classified information.  The  Justice Department  said on May 24 that Holder
participated in the decision to seek a search warrant for Fox
News reporter James Rosen’s e-mails as part of an investigation
into a 2009 leak about  North Korea ’s nuclear program. The
disclosure came after the attorney general told a congressional
panel that he had never been involved in a potential case
against a journalist for revealing state secrets.  During appearances on Sunday talk shows yesterday,  House
Republicans  said Holder needs to explain the discrepancy between
his testimony and the investigation into the North Korea case.  “It would be kind to say he misled Congress,” said
Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , the Republican
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
“It would be less kind and more accurate to say that would rise
to be a lie by most people’s standards. By the American people’s
standard, you don’t sign a warrant and then pretend you wouldn’t
know about it.”  The Justice Department has faced questions over how it has
handled investigations into the release of classified
information to the press.  Co-Conspirator  Investigators secretly subpoenaed records of calls during a
two-month period to and from the general office lines of four
Associated Press news bureaus, as well as reporters’ mobile and
home phones. A court also disclosed that the department obtained
a warrant to search the e-mail of Fox’s Rosen, who was described
in an affidavit as “an aider, abettor and/or co-conspirator.”  A week before the Justice Department mentioned Holder’s
involvement in the North Korea case, during a hearing on  Capitol
Hill , Holder was asked whether U.S. anti-espionage laws could be
used to prosecute those who publish classified information. He
said that, “with regard to the potential prosecution of the
press for disclosure of material, that is not something that
I’ve ever been involved in, heard of, or would think would be a
wise policy.”  No reporters have been charged with any wrongdoing. Senator
 Charles Schumer , a Democrat from  New York , said he didn’t think
there is any conflict between Holder’s testimony and the Justice
Department’s practices.  “I don’t think there’s perjury,” Schumer said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program yesterday. “There’s been no
prosecution or attempted prosecution of any journalist, so there
can’t be perjury.”  House Judiciary Committee Chairman Robert Goodlatte has
asked Holder to reconcile his testimony with the department’s
description of Rosen as a potential co-conspirator in a crime.
During an appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” Goodlatte said the
discrepancy between the affidavit and Holder’s previous comments
are “very troublesome” and raises concerns about whether the
attorney general committed perjury.  “It’s fair to say we are investigating the conflict in his
remarks,” the Virginia Republican said. “Those remarks were
made under oath. But it’s also very important that the attorney
general be afforded the opportunity to respond.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  