-- Roche’s Avastin Drug Fails to Add Time in Brain Cancer Study
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-06-03T07:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/roche-s-avastin-fails-to-add-time-in-brain-cancer-survival-study.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin failed to
extend the survival of patients with deadly brain tumors in a
study that found no advantage in using the drug as a first-line
therapy against the cancer known as glioblastoma.  In separate findings, the $6-billion-a-year treatment
helped prolong the lives of women with an aggressive form of
cervical cancer. Results from both trials were presented
yesterday at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting
in  Chicago .  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , is counting on new uses
of the medicine to help it reach the company’s projected $7
billion in peak annual sales. Avastin is already sold for use
against colon, lung and brain tumors. In November 2011, U.S.
regulators revoked the drug’s approval for use in  breast cancer 
because it failed to prolong life in patients with the disease.  In the glioblastoma study, “the bottom line is that it
didn’t show any benefit as a treatment for newly diagnosed
patients,” said  Mark Gilbert , a neuro-oncologist at the
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston who led
the study. “The survival benefit was not there.”  The government-sponsored study of 637 glioblastoma patients
found that those who got Avastin along with chemotherapy lived a
median of 15.7 months compared with 16.1 months for patients
given chemotherapy alone. Patients who received Avastin also had
a higher rate of side effects including hypertension, bleeding,
and pulmonary embolism.  Fast-Growing  Roche fell 2.4 percent to 233.30 Swiss francs at 9:10 a.m.
in Zurich. The stock has returned 61 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 36 percent
return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Avastin is approved in the U.S. for glioblastoma that has
returned after initial treatment, and Roche is seeking approval
in Europe and  Japan .  A fast-growing type of cancer, glioblastoma accounts for
about 15 percent of all brain tumors, according to the  American
Association  of Neurological Surgeons. Some 23,130 Americans will
probably be diagnosed with brain and nervous system cancers this
year, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  In the U.S., sales of Avastin for glioblastoma total about
$170 million a year, Daniel O’Day, head of Roche’s
pharmaceutical division, told investors in  New York  in February.  Apparent Shrinkage  Some of the apparent brain tumor shrinkage seen with
Avastin may actually be due to the drug’s tendency to make blood
vessels in the brain less leaky, said Gilbert. By preventing
fluid from leaking out, Avastin may make brain MRI scans look
better even when cancer cells are not dying, said Gilbert.  Nonetheless, most glioblastoma doctors suspect the drug has
a direct anti-cancer effect in at least some patients, Gilbert
said in a phone interview.  Because the trial allowed patients who were initially
assigned to chemotherapy alone to start taking Avastin after the
chemotherapy failed, the trial in effect ended up measuring
whether it made any difference to give Avastin sooner rather
than later, said Gilbert.  Because of the risk of additional side effects, Avastin
“can be reserved as a later treatment for most patients,” said
Gilbert in a statement.  Separately, Roche released final data from its own 921-patient study of Avastin as an initial glioblastoma treatment at
the conference. That study also found no improvement in survival
among patients who were treated first with Avastin. The drug did
delay the time it took the disease to spread further to a median
of 10.6 months from 6.2 months, one of the primary goals of the
study.  Cervical Cancer  Even if there isn’t a survival difference, “keeping a
patient’s brain cancer under control is important,” said Sandra Horning, global head of clinical development for cancer drugs at
Roche, in an interview. She said the company found no evidence
in the study that Avastin led to misleading brain scan results.  Meanwhile, Avastin helped women with an aggressive type of
cervical cancer live almost four months longer in a trial that
may give patients a new option for treatment.  Women whose cervical cancer had spread lived an average of
17 months with Avastin plus chemotherapy, compared to 13.3
months with chemotherapy alone, in a 452-patient study also
presented yesterday at the cancer meeting. The results were the
first time a drug like Avastin, also known as bevacizumab, was
shown to help women with a gynecologic cancer live longer, the
researchers said.  ‘Major Advance’  “This is a major advance when it comes to cervical
cancer,” said Jamie Bakkum-Gamez, an assistant professor of
obstetrics-gynecology who led the portion of the trial conducted
at the Rochester, Minnesota-based  Mayo Clinic .  Metastatic, or spreading, cervical cancer isn’t a curable
disease. Patients tend to be among the younger population of
people with gynecologic cancer, women in their 30s, 40s and 50s,
Bakkum-Gamez said.  “They’re women that may be mothers, still young with young
families,” she said.  Current standard care is chemotherapy alone, and perhaps
radiation therapy or surgery in some cases, with a goal of
relieving symptoms in the absence of a cure, she said. Debate
now may center on how to weigh the cost of Avastin with the
additional months of life the drug may be able to confer,
Bakkum-Gamez said.  The cost of a course of treatment with Avastin for cervical
cancer in the U.S. would be about $78,700, Roche said in an e-mailed statement. The company said it will discuss the cervical
cancer data with the  Food and Drug Administration  and other
regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  