-- Serena Williams Extends Run to 28, Ferrer Also Wins
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-02T13:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/serena-williams-extends-run-to-28-ferrer-also-wins.html
Women’s top seed Serena Williams
conceded four games to the world’s best doubles player as she
moved to the quarterfinals of the French Open.  Williams beat Italy’s Roberta Vinci 6-1, 6-3 on the main
Court Philippe Chatrier at  Roland Garros  in Paris. Williams, the
2002 champion, has only dropped ten games in four matches in
Paris. Her fourth-round win against the 15th-seeded Vinci
extended her unbeaten run to 28, the longest of her career.  “It wasn’t easy to win today but I am very happy,”
Williams said in French in a court-side interview. “I’m happy
to get to the second week, especially because I didn’t get there
last year.”  Williams was knocked out of the opening round of Roland
Garros in 2012, her worst ever Grand Slam defeat. Since then,
she’s only lost three matches, and won Wimbledon, the  U.S. Open 
as well as singles and doubles gold medals at the London
Olympics.  The 31-year-old American will next play Svetlana Kuznetsova, who earlier today upset Germany’s No. 8 seed
Angelique Kerber, 6-4, 4-6, 6-3. The unseeded Russian defeated
Williams in the quarterfinals of 2009 Roland Garros, when she
went on to win the title.  “She’s been playing unbelievable tennis,” Kuznetsova, who
also won the 2004 U.S. Open, told reporters. “But I believe
that I have the game. Let’s cross fingers I will have a good
day.”  Ferrer Through  Fifth-ranked  David Ferrer  of Spain moved to the
quarterfinals with a 6-3, 6-1, 6-1 win against South Africa’s
 Kevin Anderson .  Spain is guaranteed at least one player in the men’s
semifinals because Ferrer faces either Tommy Robredo or Nicolas
Almagro in the last eight. Ferrer is the only player inside the
top five who has yet to win a major singles title.  Two more former champions are scheduled to play later
today. 2009 winner  Roger Federer  of Switzerland faces France’s
 Gilles Simon , while 2008 champion Ana Ivanovic of Serbia plays
Wimbledon finalist Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland.  Sara Errani, the runner-up from Italy last year, meets
Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro while No. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of
France plays Serbia’s  Viktor Troicki .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros
through the London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  