-- Seven-Time NBA All-Star Grant Hill Retires After 19 Seasons
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/seven-time-nba-all-star-grant-hill-retires-after-19-seasons.html
Seven-time All-Star Grant Hill, at
age 40 the oldest active player in the  National Basketball
Association  in 2012-2013, has retired after 19 seasons.  Hill, who played his final season with the  Los Angeles
Clippers , ends his career after playing 1,026 regular-season
games averaging 16.7 points, 4.1 assists and 6.0 rebounds per
game. He also earned an Olympic gold medal as a member of the
1996 U.S. team in Atlanta.  “I’m completely at peace with my decision to retire, but
it was not arrived at lightly,” Hill said in a statement. “On
one hand, I’m 40 years old and still in great physical
condition. My body tells me that I can continue playing. On the
other hand, I’m 40 years old and still in great physical
condition - a rare parting gift in this sport.”  Hill played his rookie season in 1994 as a member of the
 Detroit Pistons  after being selected as the team’s third overall
pick.  He made NBA history as the first rookie to top the league
in fan voting for the All-Star game and was co-Rookie of the
Year. He played six years for the Pistons, another six for the
 Orlando Magic  and five for the  Phoenix Suns  before joining the
Clippers, who lost to the  Memphis Grizzlies  in the first round
of the NBA playoffs.  “For 19 years, Grant has always been the embodiment of
class, a true professional and not only one of the best players
- but one of the finest individuals I have been around,” said
Clippers Vice President of Basketball Operations Gary Sacks on
the team’s website. “We were fortunate to have Grant with us
last season, and we wish him all the best in his next
endeavor.”  Hill was elected to the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame
Board of Governors in 2011, the first and only active NBA player
to hold the position. He won’t be eligible for induction into
the Hall of Fame until 2018.  As a member of Duke University coach  Mike Krzyzewski ’s Blue
Devils, Hill played in three Final Fours, winning back-to-back
National Collegiate Athletic Association national championships
in 1991 and 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  