-- SNB’s Jordan Says Franc Still Highly Valued: Sonntag
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-06-02T14:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/snb-s-jordan-says-franc-still-highly-valued-sonntag.html
Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said the franc remains strong even after recent weakness
and pressure on it to appreciate may return,  Schweiz am Sonntag 
reported, citing an interview.  “We have seen some easing in the financial markets -- the
pressure on the franc has weakened,” Jordan told the paper.
“But at the current level it is still highly valued,” he said.
“We can’t exclude that in these uncertain times we experience
setbacks.”  The Swiss currency is seen as a haven against the euro at
times of heightened global stress, according to a study
published by the SNB in April. That pushed the franc near parity
with the euro in 2011 and caused the central bank to set a
ceiling of 1.20 against euro in September of that year to ward
off deflation and a recession.  Comments by Jordan last month that a shift in the cap and
negative  interest rates  were among possible steps the SNB could
take prompted the franc to weaken past 1.26 per euro for the
first time in two years on May 22.  “As a matter of principal we don’t exclude any measures
that will help us ensure appropriate monetary conditions,”
Jordan told Schweiz am Sonntag. The SNB’s policy on the franc
ceiling “isn’t one of fine-tuning,” he said.  The franc closed at 1.2414 per euro on May 31. The currency
has declined 2.7 percent against the euro this year. Against the
dollar it closed at 95.51 centimes.  Property Bubble  The cap has given Swiss companies “a certain amount of
security in planning,” according to Jordan. “Still, it’s a big
challenge for them to deal with the  exchange rate .”  Switzerland ’s  real estate market  is experiencing its
biggest gains in two decades, with the the SNB holding its
benchmark interest rate at zero since August 2011.  While the  property market  is demonstrating “very dynamic
development,” there’s a risk that “we are in fact headed
toward a bubble,” Jordan said. “At the same time, we have a
very low rate LEVEL which one can assume will remain that low
for a long time.”  The SNB has repeatedly urged banks to be cautious when
allotting mortgages. The government has also ordered lenders to
hold an extra 1 percent of risk-weighted assets linked to
domestic residential mortgages. They have until the end of
September to comply.  While real estate price growth had so far slowed
“insufficiently,” it’s too early to evaluate the impact of the
buffer, Jordan said in the interview.  Gold Holdings  “There is a considerable proportion of newly issued
mortgages” that have been granted to people who’ll be
challenged to repay them in the longer term, he said.  The central bank president also said the SNB has no plans
to buy or sell gold. It may purchase the precious metal in the
future should this become necessary, according to Jordan.  Regarding potentially saving Swiss lenders that may face
bankruptcy over fines paid to settle a dispute over untaxed
assets of U.S. citizens, Jordan said this wasn’t in the SNB’s
remit.  “It’s not the central bank’s responsibility to save banks
if they are insolvent,” Jordan told the paper. “It has the
duty of contributing to the system’s stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  