-- Swiss Seen Passing U.S. Bank-Tax Law to Avoid Worse Fate
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-06-03T07:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/swiss-probably-will-pass-u-s-law-to-avoid-worse-fate.html
The Swiss parliament will probably
pass a bill allowing banks to resolve a tax-evasion dispute with
the U.S., dropping opposition for fear of leaving the country’s
300 institutions to a worse fate, according to academics
including Peter V. Kunz of the University of Bern.  Members of the upper house’s economic committee will today
start debating the law, which authorizes Swiss banks  to
cooperate with U.S. authorities. In a break with usual
legislative procedure, it is set to be discussed by both
chambers of parliament in the same session, which runs through
June 21.  The country’s two biggest parties -- the Social Democrats
SP and the Swiss People’s Party SVP -- have already voiced
skepticism over the proposal. Still, the past has shown early
opposition eventually dropped: In 2010 a law enabling  UBS AG (UBSN)  to
hand over data on 4,450 accounts to the U.S. was approved after
initially being rejected.  “It’s normal that everything is topsy turvy now, but as
soon as the politicians reflect, they’ll give in, I’m
optimistic,” said Kunz, a professor of business and comparative
law at the University of Bern.  Wegelin Example  The upper house’s economics committee is expected to
announce its decision on June 6, following discussions behind
closed doors. The full upper house of parliament is scheduled to
discuss and vote on it on June 12, with the plenary of the lower
house giving its verdict on June 18, according to preliminary
information given by Marie-Jose Portmann of the parliamentary
services office.  Wegelin & Co., then the country’s oldest bank, closed its
doors after it pleaded guilty in a Manhattan federal court in
January to conspiring to help conceal more than $1.2 billion in
assets from the  Internal Revenue Service .  “If parliament doesn’t vote in favor of the agreement,
Swiss banks would be in a significantly worse position for
solving the tax dispute with the U.S.,” said Manuel Ammann, a
professor of banking at the University of  St. Gallen . “A no
vote would lead to U.S. indictments. That would surely mean the
end of several Swiss banks.”  Patrick Raaflaub, chief executive officer of financial
market supervisor Finma, on May 30 warned of the risks to banks,
were parliament to fail to pass the measure.  Spell of Uncertainty  Rejection is possible, according to Martin Janssen, a
professor of banking and finance at the University of Zurich.  “I’d be surprised if the parliament agrees,” Janssen said
in a telephone interview. “The matter will just drag on and on.
It’s the beginning of a long spell of uncertainty for all Swiss
banks.”  The SVP and its allies hold a total of 62 seats in
parliament, with the SP at 57, the  Christian Democrats , or CVP,
44 and the Free Democrats 41. There are also smaller parties.
There are  246 seats  in total. The matter cannot be put up for a
referendum.  On the Swiss public broadcaster’s Arena debate show on May
31, politicians -- including former Justice Minister  Christoph Blocher  of the SVP and Green Liberal Party President Martin
Baeumle -- voiced their anger over the bill.  “It’s a scandal,” Baeumle said. “The government has
handed the hot potato back to parliament.”  American Way  “The Americans dictate all the terms,” the anti-immigrant
SVP  said  on May 29.  “It can’t be that parliament in such an
unclear situation is forced via a cloak-and-dagger operation to
surrender” without knowing the key elements of the program, it
said.  The Swiss government is “convinced this is a solution that
gets us to the goal and makes it possible for us to get back
some room to manoeuvre,” Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said on May 29, adding that any terms -- such as
potential fines -- are confidential. “We believe that
parliament will judge this like we do -- that there is no other
reasonable, constitutional solution.”  Widmer-Schlumpf’s confidence in lawmakers’ approval can be
drawn from June 2010, when Swiss parliament approved a U.S. tax
treaty for UBS, the country’s biggest bank, ending a dispute
that threatened the business of the bank, which two years before
had been bailed out by the Swiss government.  More Palatable  The agreement’s signoff in parliament came after weeks of
wrangling, in which lawmakers dropped a demand for it be put up
for a nationwide referendum. At that time, both the SVP and the
SP initially voiced opposition to the measure. The SVP then
reversed course, saying the treaty was in the country’s higher
interest.  In a bid to make the framework bill more palatable to
parliamentarians, the  finance ministry  is planning to hold
information sessions that will divulge details on what the banks
may face, Der Bund newspaper reported on May 30, without saying
where it got the information.  The CVP sounded optimistic on passing the law last week,
saying that while they had not yet come to a final verdict they
shared the view that “banks should solve the problems they
caused themselves.”  Swiss lenders are in favor of the framework being approved.
The chairman of  Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP) , Andreas Albrecht, said the
plan should go ahead, as did the head of the Swiss Banking
Association, which has 350 members, including UBS and Credit
Suisse.  “We have no choice,” SBA CEO Claude-Alain Margelisch told
Neue Zuercher Zeitung. “We’d be in a situation in which we
wouldn’t be able to solve the tax dispute.”  The banking sector constitutes about 6 percent of the
economy, with stability vital to their wealth management
business. In the end, parliament won’t want to risk leaving them
in limbo, said Michael Hermann, a political scientist at the
University of Zurich.  “It is to be expected that in the end parliament bows due
to the expediency of the matter” Hermann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  