-- Syrian Rebels Clash With Hezbollah in Lebanon, Arabiya Reports
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-02T11:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/syrian-rebels-clash-with-hezbollah-in-lebanon-arabiya-reports.html
The rebel Free Syrian Army and
Hezbollah fighters clashed in Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley region as
the uprising to topple Syrian President Bashar al-Assad spilled
across the border for at least the third time in a week.  Several people died in the clashes, according to Al Arabiya
television, which cited unidentified security officials.
Fourteen Syrian opposition rebels were killed in overnight
clashes in Baalbek, a city in the region, while one Hezbollah
fighter was killed, the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation
International said on Twitter.  Hezbollah is fighting alongside Syrian government forces to
retake the strategic city of al-Qusair from the mainly Sunni
Muslim rebels. The militia’s leader,  Hassan Nasrallah , warned of
instability in Lebanon if “foreign extremist” groups control
areas in  Syria  along its border. The U.S. government classifies
Hezbollah as a terrorist organization.  The Syrian uprising against al-Assad has inflamed sectarian
tensions in Lebanon and sparked clashes between supporters and
opponents of the Syrian government. Lebanon suffered a 15-year
civil war that reduced parts of the capital to rubble.  At least 80,000 people have been killed in Syria since the
uprising began in 2011, Vuk Jeremic, president of the  United
Nations ’ General Assembly,  said  in May. U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  on May 22 said “upwards of 100,000 people” may have
been killed.  Rockets hit the Bekaa town of Hermel earlier today,
according to Lebanon’s official National News Agency. Hezbollah
uses parts of the town as a stronghold. Two rockets exploded in
a southern suburb of  Beirut , injuring five people, Al Jazeera
Television reported on May 26, citing its own correspondent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  