-- U.A.E., Qatar Potential Candidates for MSCI Upgrade, HSBC Says
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-02T09:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/u-a-e-qatar-potential-candidates-for-msci-upgrade-hsbc-says.html
The United Arab Emirates and Qatar
could be upgraded to emerging-market status at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  this
month after both nations improved market accessibility,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in a report.  Morocco could be reclassified to frontier market from
emerging market because of “diminished liquidity,” HSBC said.
The U.A.E. and Qatar have improved their delivery-versus-payment
systems and now include the buyer-cash-compensation procedure,
where the buying investor is paid in cash if a security is
unavailable for delivery on settlement day, the report said.  “An upgrade will potentially result in access to a larger
pool of investments,” HSBC analysts Vijay Sumon and Joaquim de Lima wrote in a research report dated May 31. The move could see
more than $430 million flowing into Qatar and about $370 million
into the U.A.E., they said.  Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, which has bourses in
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, are for a fifth year under consideration
for reclassification from frontier-market status. MSCI, whose
gauges are tracked by investors managing about $7 trillion, said
last year that foreign ownership limits in Qatar and operational
frameworks in the U.A.E. needed revising.  Last month,  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  said Dubai and Qatar
deserved the MSCI’s upgrade to emerging. “Both Dubai and Qatar
are in a better position and meet more of the criteria than
other countries that have been upgraded before,”  Oliver Bell,
London-based money manager at T. Rowe’s  Africa & Middle East
Fund, (TRAMX)  told Bloomberg on May 22.  Ownership Caps  Foreign ownership limits “are not seen as an issue in the
U.A.E.” as most stocks have caps at 49 percent, HSBC said.
Foreign ownership limits in Qatar are improved, still “foreign
institutional investor feedback may indicate that they are still
too low.”  Most companies in Qatar cap overseas holdings at 25
percent. Industries Qatar, the petrochemicals company with the
second-heaviest weighting on Qatar’s bourse, raised its foreign
ownership limit in September to 12.25 percent from 7.5 percent.  MSCI groups markets according to economic development,
trading volumes and market accessibility. The decision on the
U.A.E. and Qatar will be made as part of its annual market
classification review on June 11, it said in a statement last 
month . MSCI categorizes seven bourses in the Gulf Cooperation
Council as frontier markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  