-- U.K. Lawmakers Rebuke Cameron in Favor of Early Carbon Goal
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-03T08:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/u-k-lawmakers-rebuke-cameron-in-favor-of-earlier-pollution-cuts.html
Lawmakers in Prime Minister David Cameron’s coalition this week plan to rebel against the
government in favor of setting pollution targets earlier, a
measure industry groups say would hurt the economy.  Some members of the ruling Conservative and Liberal
Democrat parties plan to join with the Labour opposition in
demanding the government set by April 1 a target for removing
most carbon emissions from power generation by 2030. The
government wants to postpone that decision until 2016. A vote on
the legislation is due tomorrow in the House of Commons.  The rebels are concerned Britain risks delaying the
investment needed to curb emissions blamed for global warming.
Cameron, backed by some utilities and the Treasury, wants to
wait for the economy to recover before establishing a target.  “It will be a very tight vote,” Barry Gardiner, a Labour
lawmaker who is co-author of the proposal, said in an interview.
“If we don’t pass this amendment and put in place a clear 2030
target, it’s going to make it extremely difficult to meet our
legally binding obligations to reduce carbon emissions.”  The vote on an amendment to the government’s energy bill
comes as the legislation clears the lower house of Parliament
and moves to the House of Lords for consideration. The bill is
aimed at stimulating 110 billion pounds ($167 billion) of
investment in power stations and the electric grid needed as
aging generators retire from service.  Support Amendment  Manufacturers including Danish wind turbine maker  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and  France ’s nuclear reactor builder  Areva SA (AREVA) 
say the target is needed to send a signal to investors that the
government is committed to developing low-carbon power beyond
2020. Today, 55 organizations and companies, including SSE Plc,
one of the nation’s top six generators, called on lawmakers to
support the amendment.  “Wind projects have an investment horizon of 25 to 30
years,” said Brent Cheshire, chairman of the U.K. unit of Dong
Energy A/S, which operates offshore wind farms. “We cannot
undertake this type of large-scale, long-term investment if
political and regulatory frameworks are too short-term and leave
too much uncertainty.”  The target was recommended by the government’s own adviser
on carbon policy, the Committee on Climate Change. It recommends
ministers set a goal to reduce carbon from power output by 90
percent to 50 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour in 2030.  Yesterday, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  tried to stave off the
amendment, urging lawmakers to support the bill as it is, saying
it would lead to “massive” emissions cuts even without a 2030
target in place.  Reducing Emissions  The bill “will enable the U.K. to cut its economy-wide
emissions by 50 percent by 2030,” Davey said in an e-mailed
statement. It “will make the U.K. a destination of choice for
investors in low-carbon energy,” driving growth and jobs.  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, originally pushed for a
decarbonisation target before reaching an agreement with
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne to delay setting the
measure until at least 2016.  Industry is also divided. Spanish oil producer Repsol SA,
Cisco Systems Inc., the biggest maker of networking equipment,
and renewable energy developer EDP Renovaveis SA were among
companies joining Dong in signing today’s statement calling for
lawmakers to back Gardiner’s amendment. The U.K.’s biggest
business lobby, the Confederation of British Industry, said the
measure shouldn’t be allowed to derail the law.  Tied Down  “Debates about the effect of including a target in the
bill should not be allowed to prevent critical policy details
being tied down,” CBI Chief Policy Director Katja Hall said in
an e-mailed statement. “Vital investment decisions are hanging
in the balance.”  Investors in renewables argue the target is needed because
an existing European Union goal to get 15 percent of the
country’s energy needs from renewables expires in 2020, with no
certainty that the U.K. will still push clean energy beyond
then.  Vestas in March joined five other manufacturers in writing
to Davey and Osborne calling for the goal’s early introduction.
Areva,  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , Mitsubishi Power Systems
Europe Ltd., Alstom SA and Doosan Power Systems U.K. were the
other signatories.  Investment Decisions  “Manufacturers look to policy makers to create the market
conditions to sustain demand for products and services like
energy infrastructure that have long-term pay-back horizons,”
Vestas Chief Marketing Officer Morten Albaek said in an e-mailed
reply to questions. “Delaying until 2016 will result in higher
costs in the long run and missed investment opportunities in the
short run.”  Davey said investors already have certainty because the
government has pledged to triple support for low-carbon energy
to 7.6 billion pounds in the tax year ending in 2021 and to
guarantee prices paid for nuclear and renewable power.  Gardiner said that under the current wording of the
legislation, the government wouldn’t guarantee setting a
decarbonization target in 2016. He’s pushed the amendment along
with Tim Yeo, a Conservative who leads Parliament’s Energy and
Climate Change Committee, which scrutinizes the work of Davey’s
department.  At least 48 other lawmakers have put their name to the
proposal, including Conservatives Zac Goldsmith and Peter
Bottomley and Liberal Democrats Julian Huppert, Martin Horwood
and John Hemming.  Lawmakers are scheduled to vote on the amendment tomorrow
before sending the law to the upper chamber, the House of Lords,
for approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  