-- U.S. Men’s Soccer Team Beats Germany 4-3 in 100-Year Celebration
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-06-03T04:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/u-s-men-s-national-soccer-team-beats-germany-4-3-in-exhibition.html
The U.S. held on to defeat second-ranked Germany 4-3 behind two goals from  Clint Dempsey , while
Alex Morgan had two goals as the American women’s team beat
Canada 3-0 in exhibition matches to commemorate 100 years of
soccer in the U.S.  Jozy Altidore also got a goal for the U.S. men, who are
ranked 29th by soccer’s governing body FIFA, in front of 47,359
spectators yesterday at RFK Stadium in  Washington . Sydney Leroux
got the other goal for the women at BMO Field in Toronto.  The games commemorated the centenary of the formation of
the United States of America Foot Ball Association.  “Having a player like Clint Dempsey on your team is a
privilege, and if I look back I think this is one of the best
players in U.S. history,” U.S. men’s coach Juergen Klinsmann
told reporters. “Compliments to him and the entire team.”  Klinsmann made four changes from the team that lost 4-2 to
Belgium May 29. Klinsmann played for the Germany team that won
the 1990 World Cup and coached his native country to the
semifinals in 2006.  Germany, which is coached by Klinsmann’s successor Joachim Loew, was without players from European champion  Bayern Munich ,
 Borussia Dortmund , Real Madrid and Stuttgart for the game.  Altidore opened the scoring after 13 minutes with a first-time volley from Zusi’s low cross. Germany went 2-0 down four
minutes later on an own goal by goalkeeper Marc-Andre Ter
Stegen.  The visitors got a goal back six minutes into the second
half as substitute Heiko Westermann lost his marker at a corner
kick before heading the ball past U.S. goalkeeper  Tim Howard .  Dempsey Double  Dempsey, the U.S. team captain, restored the home team’s
two-goal lead eight minutes later with a first-time shot across
the goal from Altidore’s cross. After 64 minutes, Dempsey made
it 4-1 with a curling left-footed shot from about 25 yards (22
meters).  Dempsey has scored five times in as many games and has 13
goals in 19 appearances under Klinsmann, 10 more than any other
player. Yesterday’s goals took Dempsey’s tally for his country
to 35 and moved him past Eric Wynalda for the second-most all-time behind Landon Donovan, who has scored 49 times.  Max Kruse got his first goal for Germany in his second game
for the national team with a 20-yard right-foot shot in the 78th
minute.  Germany scored again in the 82nd minute as Julian Draxler
got his first goal for his country after Howard parried a shot
into his path.  World Cup  The U.S. has three  World Cup  qualifiers in the next two
weeks. It visits Jamaica June 7 before home games against  Panama 
four days later and against  Honduras  on June 18.  “They’re going to be tough games but we prepared by
playing two top teams,” Dempsey told reporters. “We’re going
to make sure we get as many points in these next three games as
possible and put ourselves in a good position in the table.”  Panama leads the six-team group with five points, with the
U.S.,  Costa Rica  and Honduras tied on four points. The top three
nations qualify for next year’s tournament in  Brazil , with the
fourth-placed team playing  New Zealand  in a home-and-away
playoff for another berth.  After an exhibition game against Paraguay Aug. 14, Germany
has World Cup qualifiers against  Austria  and the Faroe Islands
in September.  The women’s game in Toronto was scoreless until the 70th
minute, when Morgan collected a pass from  Abby Wambach  and beat
two defenders before shooting under Canada keeper Erin McLeod.
Morgan doubled the advantage two minutes later and Leroux made
it 3-0 three minutes into added time at the end of the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 