-- U.S. Airlines Ready to Attack After Combining, IATA Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-06-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/u-s-carriers-ready-to-go-on-attack-after-mergers-iata-predicts.html
U.S. airlines are poised to go on an
international offensive following mergers and job cuts that have
delivered leaner companies better able to compete with rivals
from  Asia  and the  Middle East , industry group IATA predicts.  Carriers based in the world’s biggest travel market are
ready to grab market share and make up for lost time in ordering
more fuel-efficient aircraft to trim costs, International Air
Transport Association Chief Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said.  “We’re going to see more competition now internationally
as the U.S. carriers operate from a stronger base,” Tyler said
in an interview in Cape Town, where IATA is holding its annual
general meeting. “It’s been very, very tough and there really
isn’t anything that they haven’t learned about how to operate
efficiently and how to add value to their product.”  U.S. carriers have seen their ranks thinned by a decade of
deals. In 2010,  United Airlines (UAL)  and Continental Airlines formed
United Continental Holdings Inc. and captured global No. 1
status from  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , which had acquired  Northwest
Airlines  in 2008.  American Airlines  may vault to the top when
parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  combines with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  this year.  While embroiled in domestic consolidation, U.S. operators
were able to do little to stem the rise of Gulf carriers such as
Dubai-based Emirates, the world’s No. 1 carrier by international
traffic, or further advances at Asian carriers such as  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Tyler said. They have also fallen behind in
ordering new jetliners, he said.  Fleet Catchup  “They’ve punched below their weight internationally, and
other carriers have been able to take advantage of that and grow
perhaps more easily than they would otherwise,” Tyler said.
“One of the big steps for them will be as they introduce more
modern aircraft because they have fallen a bit behind in the
fleet replacement race.”  Though the U.S. aviation market is reaping the benefits of
consolidation, “significant obstacles” remain to any trans-Atlantic or intercontinental mergers, the executive said. In the
face of government opposition to such deals, airlines within
global alliances such as Skyteam and Oneworld are using joint-ventures to create “virtual mergers,” Tyler said.  While air passenger traffic continued its recovery from the
global economic slump by growing 5.3 percent last year, boosted
by the expansion of Middle Eastern carriers and demand from
markets in  Latin America  and  Africa , it is likely to face more
crises going forward, Tyler said.  “The natural condition of this industry sometimes seems to
be crisis,” he said. “Volcanoes and earthquakes, famine and
disease, it’s almost been biblical, but we’ve come through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  Cape Town  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  