-- Vinegar Screening for Cervical Cancer Saves Lives at Low Cost
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-06-02T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/vinegar-screening-for-cervical-cancer-saves-lives-at-low-cost.html
A swab of vinegar and a lamp is all
that’s needed to perform cervical cancer screening, according to
a 15-year study in India that found the low-cost alternative to
Pap smears can save lives.  The vinegar-based screening approach lowered cervical
cancer death rates among Indian women 30 percent, researchers
found. The study presented at the American Society of Clinical
Oncology’s  annual meeting  in  Chicago  included 150,000 women.  While the Pap smear has reduced deaths from cervical cancer
by 80 percent in the U.S. and other developed nations, the
disease is the second most-common malignancy in less-developed
regions in the world after breast cancer,  according to  the World
Health Organization. Screening with vinegar doesn’t require
specialized laboratory equipment, making it cheaper and more
accessible in places where health-care infrastructure is poor.  “This is great news for developing countries, that you can
use simple, inexpensive technology and prevent thousands of
deaths,” said Carol Aghajanian, the chief of gynecological
medical oncology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in
New York. She wasn’t involved in the study. “It’s inexpensive,
it’s simple, and it allows for immediate action.”  Immediacy is important because many women have to travel
far in order to seek medical care, Aghajanian said. Pap smears
don’t provide instant results, and in the week it can take to
get findings, women are lost to follow-up.  “It’s not just cost, it’s the repeated visits,” she said.
“With Pap smears, you need further follow-up, and that’s a huge
problem when you lack infrastructure. You may not find that
woman again.”  Study Findings  Half of the women in the study received the vinegar
screening, and half got no screening, which is the current
standard of care in  India , the authors said. The incidence of
cancer was similar between the two groups, with about 27 cancers
for every 100,000 women in the screening group and 28 cancers
for every 100,000 in the non-screening group. That meant that
the screening didn’t lead to over-diagnosis, researchers said.  Pap smears work by scraping skin off the cervix and
examining it with a microscope, or doing a DNA test.  With vinegar, the test is done by applying it to a cotton
swab and brushing it onto the cervix. After 60 seconds, normal
tissue stays the same color, and cancerous tissue turns white.
This can be seen using a lamp. Because the results are known
immediately, this also provides an advantage to rural women who
may have to travel to seek further care.  Death Rates  About 11 percent of patients in the vinegar screening group
died from cervical cancer during the trial, compared with 16
percent who weren’t screened, according to the study.  When the study began in 1996, the Indian Council of Medical
Research found it wouldn’t be feasible to screen a quarter of
the population even if the existing Pap facilities were
multiplied 12-fold. The study, by researchers from Tata Memorial
Center in Mumbai, was supported in part by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health.  The vinegar strategy may aid many low-income women. The
screenings can be done by primary care workers, which further
lowers the cost. Last year, the  Geneva-based WHO reported  that
vinegar screenings had been successfully implemented in six
African countries, and made recommendations for more widespread
use of the practice, saying it’s safe and simple for women in
poor nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  