-- LVMH Counts On Lipstick for Growth as Handbag Sales Slow
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-06-03T12:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/lvmh-counts-on-lipstick-for-growth-as-handbag-sales-slow.html
Justine Le Sassier wouldn’t be caught
dead buying a Louis Vuitton handbag.  “They don’t have any appeal,” the 18-year-old art student
said of the label’s $1,340 monogrammed handbags while shopping
on the Champs Elysees in Paris.  Happily for Vuitton’s owner,  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , Le Sassier is crazy about the 13.90-euro ($18)
foundation sold by Sephora, the company’s fast-growing fragrance
and cosmetics retailer. “I love their makeup,” she said. “And
it’s reasonably priced.”  With Vuitton’s sales growth  slowing  from Barcelona to
Beijing, catering to beauty buyers like Le Sassier is getting
more important for LVMH. As shoppers curb spending on $940
Neverfull bags while splurging on $31 Dior Addict lipsticks,
Sephora will help LVMH’s Selective Retailing unit overtake
fashion and leather goods as its biggest business by 2018,
Sanford Bernstein estimates. That leaves LVMH better placed than
rivals such as PPR SA to weather stagnating luxury demand.  “Sephora is a category killer,” said  Sanford Bernstein 
 analyst  Mario Ortelli. Investors concerned that sales of the
Vuitton brand will keep fading are “overcautious about LVMH.”  The owner of more than 60 brands -- from Dom Perignon
champagne to Bulgari jewelry -- LVMH in April reported its
weakest fashion and leather goods sales in more than three
years. Its  shares  rose 0.1 percent to 136.8 euros at 2:25 p.m.
in Paris, trimming this year’s drop to 1.4 percent, versus 19
percent advances for both PPR and  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA. (CFR)   Expanding Middle  LVMH’s Selective Retailing division, which includes Paris
department store Le Bon Marche and duty-free shop operators DFS
and Miami Cruiseline Services, accounted for 28 percent of 2012
sales.  Ortelli recommends buying LVMH shares and holding PPR. LVMH
revenue is set to  advance  7.5 percent this year, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s faster than the 5.2
percent growth analysts predict for PPR.  Sephora is introducing services such as mobile payments and
enlarging its own-label assortment to keep shoppers spending.
It’s also expanding in  Latin America  and  Asia , aiming to attract
middle class consumers driving growth in  emerging markets .  PPR, by contrast, is  getting out  of mass retail. The
company aims to spin off its Fnac media and electronics chain
and dispose of online fashion seller La Redoute this year. It’s
also closing stores at sporting-goods maker  Puma SE (PUM)  as it
combats declining non-luxury sales.  Luxury Hangover  LVMH’s Selective Retailing division will have sales of 14.7
billion euros in 2017, Sanford Bernstein estimates. The unit’s
13 percent compound annual revenue growth, fueled by Asian and
Latin American shoppers, is almost double the brokerage’s
estimate for LVMH’s fashion and leather-goods’ business and
about three times Euromonitor’s forecast for luxury overall.  Slowing luxury demand isn’t unique to LVMH. After binging
on goods from Rolex watches to  Hermes (RMS)  Birkin bags, shoppers have
cut spending as the economy splutters. Consumption is weaker in
 Europe ,  Taiwan  and  Korea  and “ China  isn’t as buoyant as it was
two years ago,” PPR Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Duplaix
said in April after its Gucci brand reported its slowest sales
growth since 2009, excluding currency swings.  Yet Sephora and DFS keep growing. New stores in  Shanghai 
and  Hong Kong  fueled a 17 percent gain in first-quarter
comparable sales at the Selective Retailing division as the
region’s nascent middle class splurged on goods like Bobby Brown
cosmetics and Johnnie Walker whisky. LVMH declined to make
executives available to discuss the business.  Wide Appeal  Providing a broad range of skincare and fragrances has been
key to Sephora’s success since it was founded in 1969. Acquired
by LVMH in 1997, it has become the world’s biggest beauty
retailer, with about 1,300 shops in 27 countries. Sephora plans
to open about 120 stores a year through 2017, Sanford Bernstein
estimates.  There’s no multibrand competitor that covers as many
regions as Sephora, and rivals such as Ulta in the U.S. and
Nocibe SA in  France  lack the resources it enjoys with backing
from LVMH. Sephora has 27 percent of the beauty retail market in
France, 12 percent in the U.S. and 15 percent in China, Sanford
Bernstein says.  At Sephora’s outlet on the  Champs Elysees , products such as
30.30-euro Dior “Iconic” false eyelashes sit a row down from
the retailer’s house-label 9.90-euro extensions. Well-known
brands, loyalty cards and services such as nail bars near the
entrance lure shoppers inside, while arranging merchandise by
category lets clients choose from similar products at a wide
range of prices.  Vodka Tonic  “Their business model is very clever,” said Joel Palix,
president of Clarins Fragrance Group, which distributes its
Thierry Mugler scents through Sephora. Stocking exclusive
products means Sephora can limit discounts, while private-label
merchandise yields high margins, he said.  It’s a similar story at DFS. The company was founded in the
1960s, and LVMH bought a stake in 1996. Today, the retailer
distributes more than 100 brands, from  Juicy Couture  to Absolut
vodka, in 14 countries. New and upgraded stores at airports and
in downtown shopping districts, where travelers can buy goods
and claim back value-added tax when they leave the country, mean
“DFS is well positioned to benefit from growth in Asian
tourism,” said Magali Dubreil, an analyst at researcher  Planet
Retail .  Attractive Investment  While Selective Retailing’s  earnings  before interest and
tax will expand 24 percent annually through 2017, three times
the pace of LVMH’s fashion and leather goods’ division,
according to Sanford Bernstein, it’s less profitable than other
parts of the company. Vuitton alone accounted for more than half
LVMH’s 5.9 billion euros of Ebit in 2012, Exane BNP Paribas
estimates. Selective Retailing’s profit was 854 million euros
last year -- 14 percent of LVMH’s total.  Still, Sephora and DFS’s mass-market appeal makes LVMH an
attractive investment as Vuitton raises prices, uses more
leather in its collections and limits store expansion to appear
more exclusive, says Exane BNP Paribas analyst Luca Solca.  Fragrances and cosmetics are the primary tool for
attracting aspirational consumers, said Solca. As lipstick costs
a hundredth the price of a Vuitton handbag and a thousandth of a
Hublot watch, “fragrances and cosmetics are the luxury of the
masses,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  