-- Weaker Real to Have Limited Impact on Brazil CPI: Tombini
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-06-02T16:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/weaker-real-to-have-limited-impact-on-brazil-cpi-tombini.html
The depreciation of the real has been
more moderate than that of other currencies and should have a
limited impact on inflation,  Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said today.  “Our depreciation has been more moderate than some other
countries,” Tombini said in an interview at a conference in
Istanbul. “As far as pass-through to inflation, provided the
exchange regime is flexible, as is the case in Brazil, so the
pass-through should be limited.”  The country is prepared to handle the impact of a U.S. exit
from easy monetary conditions due to strong international
reserves and a financial sector that has low exposure to
interest rate and foreign currency risks, Tombini told the
conference. The real has lost 4.2 percent against the dollar
this year and the central bank has increased its benchmark
 interest rate  by 75 basis points since April.  The central bank’s board on May 29 unexpectedly accelerated
the pace of interest-rate increases in a bid to tame inflation
that has been forestalling economic recovery. Policy makers
raised their benchmark Selic rate by 50 basis points to 8
percent, as expected by only 19 of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Thirty-eight analysts expected a second straight 25
basis-point increase.  Annual inflation  in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
accelerated for nine straight months through March to 6.59
percent, above the top of the central bank’s target range of 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent. In April, year-on-year inflation eased
to 6.49 percent.  Inflation has helped undermine Brazil’s decade-long
consumer-led boom as families struggle to pay off rising debt
and higher prices erode purchasing power.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.55 percent in the first
quarter, less than 0.9 percent median forecast in Bloomberg
survey of 45 economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  