-- ZEW’s Fuest Sees Japan-Style Stagnation as ECB Tools Exhausted
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-02/zew-s-fuest-sees-japan-style-stagnation-as-ecb-tools-exhausted.html
Europe faces Japan-style stagnation
as governments delay reforms and the  European Central Bank  comes
close to exhausting its options, said Clemens Fuest, president
of the ZEW Center for European Economic Research.  “I would expect the politicians to really take the
problems in hand and face the need to restructure the banking
system,” Fuest said in an interview in Mannheim,  Germany . “But
I see the risk that what’s concentrated on now is shunting the
problems down the road and going the Japanese way, into
stagnation. The ECB has done its part to solve the crisis. The
central bank has used up most of its ammunition.”  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt this week will refrain
from cutting the  benchmark   interest rate  again after they
reduced it to a record low of 0.5 percent last month, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The euro area is
facing the  longest recession  since the single currency’s
creation 14 years ago.  Aside from trimming rates further and charging to hold  bank
deposits , policy makers might also consider measures to aid
lending to small businesses and rekindle the market for asset-backed securities.  Fuest, who took the helm of the research center from
outgoing president  Wolfgang Franz  in March, said the ECB is
sending the wrong signals with its activism.  “Maybe it would be good to refrain from comments that
suggest monetary policy can solve the crisis -- it can’t,” he
said. “I don’t think much of the ECB buying asset-backed
securities because that’s getting into an area which is
classically a business for the banks.”  ABS ‘Trickery’  The prospect of an ABS program is also “an invitation for
banks to do what they did before the financial crisis, namely to
grant loans, package them and hand them on,” Fuest said.  “I
fear it’s an attempt to get credit provision going, even though
the banking sector is so weak.”  “There are significantly more effective ways to stimulate
lending,” he said. “The right way would be to recapitalize
banks, not such trickery with ABS.”  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in an interview on
May 29 that expectations for an ABS program have become
inflated, adding that the market is “very small indeed.”
Officials are also “far away from any decision” on taking the
deposit rate below zero, he said.  Fuest, who also serves on an academic advisory council for
the German  finance ministry , urged policy makers to be wary of
negative rates because there are only very few prior examples.  Danish Example  The Federal Reserve and Bank of  Japan  have avoided negative
deposit rates, and Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker 
said last month they are “most unlikely” to be deployed in the
U.K. Denmark is the only country in  Europe  to currently have a
rate below zero.  “One mustn’t forget, that something like that also
reflects how the central bank assesses the economic situation,”
Fuest said. “It’s not a step that should be taken now. The
signal would be very negative.”  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation region fell 0.2
percent in the three months through March, the sixth consecutive
quarterly decline. With unemployment at a record 12.2 percent
and a gauge of services and factory output signaling
contraction, the ECB’s scenario of a gradual economic recovery
in the second half of the year is increasingly at risk.  “I don’t care too much if it comes in the second half of
2013 or in the first half of 2014; I see the danger that it
doesn’t come at all,” Fuest said. “I don’t think that the U.S.
will recover quickly or that the economy in  Asia  will pick up to
generate a demand pull in Europe. And I don’t see a recovery in
its own right.”  The ECB in March predicted the economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year before growing 1 percent in 2014. It will
publish new projections after its decision on June 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  