-- AirAsia Ends ANA Tieup Over Operating Disputes at Carrier
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-06-25T09:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/airasia-ends-ana-tieup-amid-disputes-on-running-low-cost-carrier.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
budget airline, said it will dissolve a low-cost carrier venture
with  ANA (9202)  Holdings Inc. amid disputes over operating the company.  Senior managers appointed by ANA “just didn’t understand
the low-cost business,” Tony Fernandes, AirAsia’s group chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview today. ANA will
buy out AirAsia’s stake in the airline, the Tokyo-based carrier
said today in a statement, without giving a reason.  AirAsia  Japan  has struggled to fill as many seats as low-cost carriers Peach Aviation Ltd., partly owned by ANA, and
Jetstar Japan Co., which also began budget flights in Japan last
year. While the Malaysian discount carrier has successfully
expanded its low-cost model to countries including Thailand and
 Indonesia , its strategic partnership with Malaysian Airline
System Bhd. was terminated last year after union protests.  AirAsia Japan’s partners couldn’t agree on domestic routes
to fly out of Narita, said Fernandes, without providing
specifics. Differences between the two companies stemmed from
ANA’s background as a full-service carrier versus AirAsia’s
experience with budget services, he said. He also said allowing
ANA to appoint the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer was a mistake.  “We just couldn’t agree on the right people to manage the
business and the right way to manage the business,” he said,
speaking from Jakarta. “The load factor was very good, if you
look going forward. It’s just that we had the wrong cost
structure.”  Full Refund  The Malaysian carrier will get a full refund for its
investment, including debt, and this may have a “positive”
effect on earnings, Fernandes said. ANA will keep operating low-cost carrier services from  Tokyo ’s Narita airport until the end
of October under the AirAsia brand, according to the Japanese
airline’s statement.  AirAsia, based in Sepang, Selangor, fell 1 percent to close
at 3.03 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur trading. The shares have risen
18 percent this year, outperforming a 2.4 percent gain in the
 benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. ANA fell 2 percent to
197 yen in Tokyo and is up 8.8 percent this year.  Adding Services  AirAsia Japan, which began operations in August, has five
domestic services. It also flies to Seoul and Busan in South
Korea. The carrier planned to add flights to  Taiwan  next month
and was considering another overseas flight before the end of
March as it more than doubles its fleet to nine planes from
four, Yoshinori Odagiri, chief executive officer of the carrier,
said earlier this month.  AirAsia will return to the Japanese market and has been
approached by three or four potential partners, said Fernandes.
Its next partner may not even be an airline, he said.  “It’s shown that legacy airlines cannot run low-cost
carriers,” said Fernandes. “A like-minded airline maybe, but
not a full-service airline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  