-- Taiwan Lawmakers to Examine China Economic Agreement Provisions
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-06-25T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/taiwan-lawmakers-to-examine-china-economic-agreement-provisions.html
Legislators in  Taiwan  will
deliberate on services sector agreements signed last week
between negotiators from China and Taiwan in the first detailed
legislative review of a cross-strait cooperation pact.  Lawmakers from Taiwan’s political parties emerged from
closed-door negotiations with an understanding to review and
vote on each provision in the June 21 agreement, the  Central
News Agency  reported yesterday. The pact, which allows companies
to take controlling stakes in joint ventures across the Taiwan
strait, streamlines approvals and expands geographic operations
in sectors including banking and hospitals, can’t be put in
effect until the review is complete.  Opposition party legislators in Taiwan won the
reexamination, the first such move in 19 agreements signed
between China and Taiwan, amid concern that competition from
Chinese service providers will hurt domestic industries,
including Chinese medicine, printing and tourism.  “Striking a deal with another country and then having the
legislature revoke it seldom happens in international trade
negotiations,” said Chaw-hsia Tu, research fellow at the Chung-hua Institution for  Economic Research ’s Taiwan WTO and RTA
Center. “It hurts the legitimacy and the authority of the
negotiator and the country it represents.”  The Straits Exchange Foundation, Taiwan’s negotiator in the
deal, said it respects the decision while asking for lawmakers
to understand the needs of the economy. “For Taiwan to stay
competitive globally such economic pacts are necessary,” Shaw-chang Maa, its deputy secretary-general said by phone.  The services trade agreement was signed under the Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement inked by cross-strait
negotiators in 2010. A trade in goods agreement is still under
discussion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  