-- Taiwan’s Prodigal Companies Return as China Costs Rise: Economy
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-06-26T03:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/taiwan-s-prodigal-companies-come-home-as-china-labor-costs-rise.html
For eight years, the former Taroko
Textile Corp. factory in Hsinchu County,  Taiwan , has been empty,
a victim of the migration of manufacturing to the mainland. Now,
as  China ’s supply of cheap labor wanes, work is returning.  ITEQ Corp. (6213) , which makes materials electronics companies
need to build circuit boards, is installing equipment as part of
a NT$2 billion ($66 million) refurbishment to begin production
by the end of 2014, said Eric Liu, head of  investor relations .
It will be the company’s first new factory in Taiwan since 1998.
ITEQ began moving work to Guangdong in southern China in 2002.  “People went to China because the costs were lower,” said
Liu. “But labor costs there have been rising over the past few
years. We’re returning to Taiwan also because of the good supply
of skilled workers.”  ITEQ, bicycle maker  Giant Manufacturing Co. (9921)  and contact-lens maker  Ginko International Co. (8406)  are among companies tapping
Taiwan’s pool of engineering talent as China’s labor supply
tightens and rising costs force manufacturers to make more
sophisticated products. They are being encouraged by Taiwanese
President Ma Ying-jeou, who has introduced tax cuts and other
incentives in an effort to boost wages as his popularity slumps.  “The move to make it easier and attractive for overseas
Taiwan companies, especially those with higher value added, is a
positive step that will ensure the economy stays on a
sustainable growth path,” said  Tony Phoo , a Taipei-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. Bringing factories home is
“one way to kick-start the economy,” he said.  Investment Rising  Private investment will reach a record NT$2.3 trillion this
year, up from NT$1.6 trillion in 2009, even as a global slowdown
hurts  exports , the Statistics Bureau estimates. Taiwan expects
to lure about $5 billion in 2013 from companies moving back.
Last year, Taiwanese government-approved investment in China
fell to $12.8 billion, from $14.4 billion in 2011.  Ma has simplified investment procedures, pursued trade
agreements with the U.S. and  Asia  and relaxed immigration rules.
He has also boosted ties with the mainland by allowing domestic
banks to conduct business in  yuan  and agreeing to lower tariffs
on items from auto parts to textiles. An agreement signed June
21 on services has been questioned by opposition lawmakers, who
yesterday won a parliamentary review of the pact, the island’s
 Central News Agency  said.  The president is trying to stem a slump in popular support
to 14 percent in May, a year into his second and final term.
Growth slowed in 2012 to 1.32 percent, while average wages
adjusted for inflation fell in the first four months of this
year to a four-year low.  Tax Incentive  In the seven months since the president’s tax and labor
measures took effect, at least 34 companies including camera-lens maker  Largan Precision Co. (3008) , and tire producer  Kenda Rubber
Industrial Co. (2106)  have filed proposals to invest NT$182.6 billion
on the island. That’s more than triple the amount for 2011, the
Economic Affairs Ministry said.  The shift shows how relations between Taiwan and China have
changed. During Taiwan’s era of martial law from 1949 to 1987,
executives could be tried for treason for investing in China.  The island, once the source of Mattel Inc.’s Barbie dolls
and Nike Inc. sports shoes, has been ruled separately since
Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang nationalists fled in 1949 after a
civil war against Mao Zedong’s Communist Party, which still
considers Taiwan a breakaway province.  Since 1991, Taiwanese companies including Foxconn
Technology Group and Want Want China Holdings Ltd. built
factories on the mainland and hired at least seven million
workers there, according to Taiwan’s Investment Commission.
Taroko Textile makes synthetic fabric in Shandong province,
according to the company’s website.  Changing Times  “Times have changed from 20-30 years ago when
manufacturers left Taiwan,” said Wang Wen Yuen, deputy chairman
of Taipei-based Chinese National Federation of Industries.
“With the worsening global economy, we want the competitive
companies to come back.”  ITEQ, Taiwan’s biggest maker of copper-clad laminates for
printed circuit boards after  Nan Ya Plastics Corp. (1303) , plans to
double the proportion of capacity in Taiwan to 20 percent with
the new plant, said Liu.  Last August, Ginko started up a new factory in Central
Taiwan, and will add three more production lines this year. The
company entered the mainland in 1995 through acquisitions and
built up China’s most popular brand of contact lens, Hydron.  “We’re hoping to sell Taiwan-made products to China,”
said spokeswoman Chiaoju Huang.  China Liquidity  In China, Taiwan’s top export destination, the central bank
this week pledged to keep liquidity levels reasonable after a
jump in money-market rates sparked concern of a deeper economic
slowdown. The monetary authority told lenders to handle
fluctuations in liquidity “calmly” and avoid “irrational
behavior,” according to a statement on its website yesterday.  Elsewhere in the region,  South Korea ’s manufacturers’
confidence fell to its lowest since March, a report showed today.
Singapore’s industrial production growth probably slowed in May
from a year earlier, while  Thailand ’s  customs exports  dropped
last month, according to Bloomberg surveys.  The U.S. Commerce Department will release its third
estimate of growth for the first quarter.  France  will also
release gross domestic product data.  Taiwan Wages  Taiwan’s real average monthly wage for the services and
industrial companies was equivalent to about $1,500 in 2012, or
3.4 percent lower than in 2000, according to the Council of
Labor Affairs. In China, average  wages  rose to about $577 a
month in 2011, more than four times the level in 2000, data from
the country’s National Bureau of Statistics show.  Taiwan’s wages are too high to compete with countries such
as Cambodia and  Vietnam  for lower-skilled work.  “Many manufacturers are still looking for low-cost
production bases to expand in, rather than considering Taiwan as
the first destination.” said Raymond Yeung, Hong Kong-based
senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  In Vietnam, the average worker earns about $206 a month,
and in  Bangladesh  about $39, according to government data.  “Our economy is in a bottleneck and hasn’t evolved,” said
Wang at the National Federation of Industries. “We’re more
interested in the value-added part of the supply chain, the R&D
side, for which we can provide skilled labor.”  Long Term  Ma’s policies may take years to show their full effect as
factories are constructed and equipped. Even if successful, they
may only boost growth by 0.1 percentage point this year,
according to Barclays Plc. Taiwan forecast  GDP (TWGDCONY)  will expand 2.4
percent in 2013.  The government estimates returning companies will bring
back more than 28,000 jobs over three years.  Giant, which began investing in China 20 years ago, is
building a new headquarters and research and development center
in Taichung, central Taiwan. When it’s completed in three years,
the company will increase production of its top-end models at
its factory, said Chief Executive Officer Antony Lo.  “It’s not economical any more to make high-end bicycles in
Kunshan” in China’s Jiangsu province, Lo said in an interview
in Taipei. “Taiwan has talent, artisans with good skills. It’s
hard to find people in China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  