-- Alberta Farm Damage Not ‘Widespread’ After Worst Flood on Record
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-06-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/alberta-farm-damage-not-widespread-after-worst-flood-on-record.html
Damage to farmland in southern
 Alberta  is not “widespread” after the region’s worst floods on
record, according to Katrina Bluetchen, a spokeswoman for the
provincial agriculture ministry.  Reports collected by the ministry suggest most of the
flooding in agricultural areas is along waterways and not over
land, Bluetchen said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Lethbridge, Alberta. Damage to crops will be limited, she said.  “It’s not going to be widespread, and it’s not going to be
the kind of disaster we’re seeing in the towns,” Bluetchen
said. “Not that it doesn’t affect rural Alberta, because those
towns are a big part of agriculture in Alberta. That’s the big
downside here today.”  Alberta accounts for 40 percent of  Canada ’s  cattle herds 
and is also a grower of wheat and canola, among other crops,
provincial  data  show. The provincial government has approved
spending C$1 billion ($951 million) in the first phase of
emergency recovery from the floods, according to a  statement 
yesterday.  Gains in moisture may boost crops after dry conditions
earlier this year, Stephen Vandervalk, Alberta’s vice-president
of the Western Canadian Wheat Growers Association, said in a
telephone interview from his farm southeast of Calgary. While he
expects to lose as much as 3 percent of his durum, malt barley,
canola and yellow mustard crop to flooding, Vandervalk said the
rest of his acres will probably benefit from the rains.  Significant rainfall in many areas of Manitoba over the
past several days may impact crops depending on their stage of
growth and the duration of excessive moisture, the province’s
agriculture ministry said in a  report  on June 24.  Manitoba Floods  Manitoba this week issued an overland flood  warning  for the
northwest, Interlake and southwest regions of the province after
as much as 107 millimeters (4 inches) of rain fell. Another 15
to 75 millimeters of precipitation is expected in the next few
days, the province said.  “We had such a massive amount of rain in a few hours,”
Murray Downing, a second-generation grains and oilseed farmer,
said in a telephone interview from his 2,700-acre farm eight
miles north of Reston, Manitoba. “When the water starts
running, you just can’t control it.”  It’s still too wet to get into the fields to assess the
crops, Downing said, though he estimates that 30 percent to 50
percent of his 1,800 canola acres have been damaged by excess
moisture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  