-- Halwani Gains on Bets Ramadan Feasts to Spur Sales: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-06-25T15:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/halwani-gains-on-bets-ramadan-feasts-to-spur-sales-riyadh-mover.html
Halwani Brothers Co. (HB)  climbed the
most in more than two weeks on bets the Saudi Arabian food
producer’s sales will increase next month during Ramadan, when
Muslims fast in the daytime and hold feasts in the evening.  The Jeddah-based company’s shares climbed 4.9 percent, the
biggest advance since June 9, to 59.5 riyals at the close in
Riyadh. The stock was the  second-biggest  gainer in percentage
terms on the benchmark Tadawul All Share Index, which rose 0.2
percent. Volume in the stock increased to 2.1 times the three-month daily average.  Retailers in the kingdom, which is home to Islam’s two
holiest sites, tend to post greater sales during Ramadan, which
is set to start around July 9. The country of about 28 million
people also hosts more than 10 million Muslim pilgrims
throughout the year, many of whom journey to Mecca during
Ramadan to perform the umrah pilgrimage. The Tadawul All Share
Agriculture & Food Industries Index  has jumped  19 percent this
year, outpacing the main index’s 11 percent advance.  “There’s strong seasonality in the month of Ramadan for
all food companies, including dairy, poultry and other food
categories,” Montasser Khelifi, Dubai-based senior manager for
global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone
today. The trend affects financial results “as usually the
quarter that includes Ramadan has the highest profit for these
companies,” he said.  Halwani Brothers’ profit is expected to grow 17 percent
this year, the fastest pace of expansion since 2010, according
to the  median estimate  of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Two analysts have a buy rating on shares, while the same number
 recommend  investors hold the stock, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  