-- American Spitters Pose Challenge to Swedish Match’s Snus
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-07-02T15:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/american-spitters-pose-challenge-to-swedish-match-s-snus.html
(Corrects spelling of name in fifth paragraph of story
originally published on June 26.)  Josh Pedigo likes to spit. The 27-year-old handyman from Wentworth, North Carolina, started using
Skoal snuff when he was 10 years old, and now he spits even when
he doesn’t have a wad of tobacco in his lower lip.  “It’s just a habit,” he said while building a dog fence
-- and dipping tobacco -- in the heat of the afternoon.  Pedigo’s habit poses a problem for  Swedish Match AB (SWMA) , the
world’s largest maker of spitless tobacco called snus, as it
accelerates its U.S. expansion. Traditional American snuff like
Copenhagen and Skoal goes in the lower lip, triggering salivary
glands that prompt users to spit to avoid swallowing tobacco
juice. Snus, more popular than cigarettes in  Sweden , is tucked
in the upper lip and doesn’t require spitting.  Taking a dip of tobacco without spitting isn’t enough to
convince the likes of Pedigo to switch to Swedish Match’s
General, the top-selling brand of snus (rhymes with “moose”).
The reluctance makes it harder for the Stockholm-based company
to win consumers of American brands like  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI) ’s Camel and  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Marlboro and Skoal.  “It will be a long haul to get Americans to switch to the
upper lip,” said Pat Shehan, owner of Tar Heel Tobacco, which
operates seven tobacco stores in North Carolina and  Virginia .
“Americans use the lower jaw going way back to farmers chewing
a big wad of tobacco.”  Smoking Outside  Mostly sold in pouches that look like miniature teabags,
snus is used by more than a quarter of adult men in Scandinavia.
Now, Swedish Match aims to increase its share of the $80 billion
U.S. tobacco market, with some 42 million smokers. Americans buy
1.2 billion cans of smokeless tobacco a year, more than triple
sales in Scandinavia, according to Swedish Match.  “It is a significant opportunity for us,” said Clark
Darrah, a vice president in the company’s American division in
Richmond, Virginia. “U.S. consumers are looking for a more
discreet alternative to traditional tobacco products.”  Success in the U.S. could help boost Swedish Match’s
sluggish shares, which have fallen 14 percent over the past 12
months. That  trails  the  STOXX Europe 600 Index (OMX) ’s 15 percent
increase as well as gains from Richmond, Virginia-based Altria
and Winston Salem, North Carolina-based Reynolds American. The
stock rose 0.3 percent to 236.5 kronor at 9:08 a.m.  Tobacco Knots  Swedish Match’s plan includes selling snus in thousands
more U.S. stores, doling out free samples, and cutting the price
of General from the typical $3.79 a can to 99 cents in new
markets from  New York  to  Los Angeles . The company is also
pitching snus as more convenient than smoking, which these days
often means stepping outside, and traditional smokeless tobacco
that requires spitting.  Swedish Match, which also makes cigars, matches and related
products, hasn’t disclosed its spending on the U.S. snus
expansion, but the company has said that the additional expenses
hurt operating profit in the first quarter. Its snus and snuff
unit last year accounted for 40 percent of its 12.5 billion
kronor ($1.86 billion) in sales.  Before the commercial production of cigarettes, American
farmers twisted tobacco into knots and nursed it for nicotine.
Swedes brought their tobacco across the Atlantic in the 1900s,
yet snus still holds a small share of a U.S. smokeless market
dominated by moist snuff and chewing tobacco.  Tingling Sensation  The snus market is about $175 million in the U.S. and has
grown about 9 percent annually in recent years, according to
Darrah. Over the past year Swedish Match has boosted General’s
U.S. market share to about 7 percent from less than 1 percent.
Camel snus dominates with about 81 percent, while Marlboro and
Skoal account for the remaining 12 percent, Darrah estimates.  Steven Shaffer, a Greensboro,  North Carolina , real estate
investor, says he’s dipped snuff for almost 30 years.  “I like to spit,” he said. “It’s ingrained in my
psyche,” said Shaffer, 47, who spits Reynolds’ Grizzly snuff
into an empty plastic water bottle when in meetings and says
he’s more likely to quit using tobacco than switch to a spitless
product.  To get dippers like Shaffer to give its spit-free variety a
try, Swedish Match passes out samples at hundreds of concerts,
NASCAR races and other events every year, Darrah said.  The Swedish company started to sell snus in the U.S. in
2006, focusing on high-end tobacco shops. It aims to be in
almost 20,000 U.S. stores by the end of this year, up from
13,000 in March. In stores, brochures advise users to place the
snus “discreetly under your upper lip. Wait for a slight
tingling sensation. Experience up to 30 minutes of satisfying
flavor.”  Snus Fridges  Altria and Reynolds, the biggest U.S. sellers of tobacco,
dominate cigarette racks in stores, leaving Swedish Match with
less visibility and forcing the company to pay retailers for
shelf space, according to Darrah. In a Sheetz Inc. convenience
store in Greensboro, General isn’t in the tobacco display that
stretches for about 20 feet along the wall behind the checkout
counter. General’s sign, tucked in the corner of an adjacent
wall, can be hard to spot among the clutter of brands.  General snus is more visible at retailers that devote
counter space to small display coolers, which Swedish Match says
are needed to ensure freshness.  With such a small presence in stores, the company is using
direct mailings and social media marketing conveying that
General “allows you to stay in the moment,” Darrah said. “You
don’t have to miss out during a basketball game or at a party to
step outside and smoke.”  Pedigo, the North Carolina handyman, came to that
conclusion after first trying General snus last month. He said
he’ll “probably keep a can of it around” for occasions when
spitting isn’t appropriate, even though Skoal Berry Blend
remains his regular dip.  “It would be really good to take to the movies,” Pedigo
said. “You don’t want to be seen spitting in a can because they
may throw you out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  