-- Man. United Prepares $77.1 Million Cavani Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-25T04:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/man-united-prepares-77-1-million-cavani-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Chasing Cavani  Manchester United  is preparing a 50 million-pound ($77.1-million) bid for Napoli striker Edinson Cavani, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  United faces competition from  Real Madrid  and Chelsea to
sign the Uruguay forward, who has a release clause of 54 million
pounds in his contract, the newspaper added.  Deal Done  Chelsea and Napoli have agreed on a 58 million-euro ($76-million) deal for Cavani, the  Daily Mail reported , citing the
Italian club’s official radio station Radio Marte.  The Premier League club will pay Cavani about 8.5 million
euros a season plus image rights and Napoli will announce the
move once it’s secured a replacement for the striker, the Mail
cited Radio Marte as saying. Paris Saint-Germain is also
interested in signing Cavani, the Mail added.  ‘Suits My Style’  Tottenham Hotspur is said to have agreed on a 17 million-pound deal with Corinthians to sign Brazilian midfielder
Paulinho and the player is keen on the move, the  Sun reported .  “Tottenham have a reputation as one of the great clubs in
 England , who play exciting, attacking football which suits my
style,” the Sun cited Paulinho as saying. “I couldn’t turn
them down if they made me an offer. It would be a fantastic
opportunity.”  Pellegrini Blow  Manuel Pellegrini was dealt a blow on his first day as
Manchester City manager as Malaga midfielder Isco signaled his
intention to join Real Madrid, the  Guardian reported .  Should Real sign Isco, Pellegrini is said to be content
with the midfield options already in his squad and won’t seek an
alternative to the 21-year-old, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  