-- Mandela Remains in Critical Condition as Family to Meet
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-06-25T13:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/mandela-remains-in-critical-condition-as-family-to-meet.html
Nelson Mandela ,  South Africa ’s first
black president, remained in a critical condition in a Pretoria
hospital as a Johannesburg newspaper reported family members and
advisers had called a meeting at his rural home.  “Former President Nelson Mandela’s condition remains
unchanged in hospital and doctors continue to do their best to
ensure his recovery, well-being and comfort,” the Presidency
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Mandela’s health deteriorated during the weekend after
spending more than two weeks in the hospital receiving treatment
for a recurring lung infection. The Nobel Peace prize winner,
who will turn 95 on July 18, was admitted to the intensive care
unit on June 8 -- his fourth time in a hospital since December.  “We must support him and support his family,” President
 Jacob Zuma  said in the statement. “We must demonstrate our love
and appreciation for his leadership during the struggle for
liberation and in our first few years of freedom and democracy
by living out his legacy and promoting unity, non-racialism,
non-sexism and prosperity in our country.”  Mandela’s daughter, Makaziwe, called a meeting to discuss
“sensitive matters” today in Qunu, Eastern Cape, the
Johannesburg-based Sowetan reported, citing people it didn’t
identify.  Mandela became the nation’s first black president in 1994
after spending 27 years in jail for fighting white minority
rule. Most of his imprisonment was spent on Robben Island where
he contracted tuberculosis. Mandela stepped down in 1999 after a
five-year term as president.  Zuma called for Mandela and his family to “be accorded the
necessary sensitivity, dignity and privacy at this time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  