-- Anglo’s Cutifani Sees Grim Outlook for Mine Sector
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-27T23:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/anglo-american-ceo-says-outlook-grim-for-mining-sector.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show that the comments relate
to Australia in story originally published June 26.)  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Cutifani  said the outlook is grim for mining in
Australia as companies adapt to lower prices and weakening
demand.  “It does look pretty grim, certainly for the thermal coal
industry,” Cutifani said in a speech today to a mining industry
forum in Canberra.  Anglo is cutting jobs and halting production at its Aquila
coal mine in Australia’s central Queensland, while  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s largest exporter of power-station coal,
is shedding staff at its Ravensworth mine in New South Wales
state, the company said in a statement yesterday.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal company by
sales, is cutting 450 contractors in New South Wales and
Queensland, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.
“The reductions are a response to current market conditions and
ongoing actions to reduce costs,” the statement said.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company,
has cut about 40 managers and senior staff in its iron ore
division in Western  Australia , as it seeks to cut $2 billion in
costs this year across its mining and corporate offices.  “In the past 12 months alone, close to 9,000 mining jobs
have been lost in New South Wales and Queensland,” Cutifani
said. “Based on current press coverage, those numbers look like
they are about to rapidly increase.”  Cutifani, who replaced Cynthia Carroll in April, said
mining companies in Australia were still adjusting to a
“slowdown in demand for commodities and lower prices.”  “We need a united plan of attack to counter this,” he
said.  Glencore Xstrata  Companies across the mining sector are seeking to cut
costs, Peter Johnston, head of nickel assets at Glencore
Xstrata, told the same Canberra meeting.  “We have clearly entered a more demanding phase. Commodity
prices and profits are down,” Johnston said. “It’s having an
impact right across the industry.”  The resources sector must focus more on increasing returns
to shareholders, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  