-- Tanzania to Upgrade Dar es Salaam Port to Compete With Mombasa
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-06-25T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/tanzania-to-upgrade-dar-es-salaam-port-to-compete-with-mombasa.html
Tanzania will spend 343 billion
shillings ($211 million) over the next 12 months upgrading  Dar
es Salaam  Port as it seeks to match the efficiency of  Mombasa  in
neighboring Kenya, the Tanzania Ports Authority said.  Improvements in the year through June 2014 will include
strengthening and deepening seven berths, a new conveyor belt
and silos, and construction of additional berths, Janeth
Ruzangi, manager of corporate communications for the authority,
said in an interview yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the country’s
commercial capital.  “We need to accommodate big ships with investments in
areas such as dredging,” she said. “Otherwise, we won’t be
competitive and all we will be attracting is small ships.”  Dar es Salaam is the fourth-largest container port on
 Africa ’s eastern seaboard after Durban in  South Africa , Mombasa
and Djibouti, according to the  International Association of
Ports and Harbors ’ website. Tanzania could generate $1.8 billion
of additional annual revenue if efficiency levels were improved
to match Mombasa, the World Bank said last month.  The Tanzanian facility handles mainly agriculture products,
particularly grains, while other key cargo items include fuel,
copper and cobalt. The port is used by companies including  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s largest container line,
Mediterranean Shipping Co. and  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104)   In May, Transport Minister Harrison Mwakyembe said the East
African country plans to boost cargo volumes by 80 percent over
the next two years at the port. To reach that capacity, an
investment of about $1.5 billion is needed over the next five
years to improve efficiency, upgrade existing facilities and
build new ones, according to Jacques Morisset, lead economist at
the World Bank in Tanzania, Burundi and  Uganda .  Increased Cargo  Dar es Salaam port, which services landlocked countries
including Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe,
handled about 12.1 million metric tons in 2012. The TPA expects
it to handle 13 million tons in 2013, Ruzangi said.  Compared with the port in Mombasa, delays and additional
monetary costs at Dar es Salaam are equivalent to a tariff of 22
percent on container imports and about 5 percent on bulk
imports, according to the  World Bank .  Tanzania faces even stiffer competition from neighboring
Kenya after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced on June 20 that
the country will take steps to reduce transit times from Mombasa
port. Traffic at the facility, East Africa’s biggest, grew 10
percent to 21.9 million tons last year.  “Tanzania and Kenya are serving the same landlocked
countries,” Ruzangi said. “Firms are going to choose to use
the facilities that will handle the goods with the most speed.
It is natural that we have to work towards improving our port in
order to attract these firms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 