-- Army to Cut 12 Combat Brigades by 2017 in Postwar Move
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-25T19:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/army-to-cut-12-combat-brigades-by-2017-in-postwar-move.html
The U.S. Army will reduce its core
combat units to 33 from 45 by 2017 as part of a drawdown from
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and in response to  federal
budget  cuts.  The elimination of 12 brigade combat teams announced today
at the Pentagon will help deliver on plans to pare the active-duty service to 490,000 troops. That’s 80,000 fewer soldiers
than currently and about 10,000 more than at the time of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The Army also will reduce troops in
other units not yet specified.  “We’ve tried to make it as small an impact as possible”
on communities in states from New York to Texas and Washington
that will lose units from local bases, General  Ray Odierno , the
Army chief of staff, said today at a Pentagon press conference.
No bases will be closed, he said.  A brigade combat team is a self-contained unit, complete
with its own headquarters, intelligence operations and medical
capabilities. A team typically has 3,000 to 5,000 troops plus
support personnel.  The reduction reflects in part the Pentagon’s increased
emphasis on  Asia . The strategy unveiled in January 2012 puts
greater emphasis on naval and long-range air forces.  Deeper cuts will be needed if $500 billion in defense cuts
over a decade remain in effect under the process called
sequestration, Odierno said. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is
considering options for further cuts as part of a strategic
management review. Pentagon proposals for that document have
been submitted to Hagel.  Bases Affected  The U.S. brigade combat teams to be deactivated are based
at Joint Base Lewis-McCord in Washington State;  Fort Bliss  and
Fort Hood in Texas; Fort Riley in Kansas; Fort Stewart in
Georgia; Fort Drum in New York State; Fort Carson in Colorado;
Fort Campbell and Fort Knox in Kentucky; and Fort Bragg in  North
Carolina , according to Army documents. All of the bases except
Fort Knox will continue to have brigade combat teams.  Among specific units being deactivated are the 4th Infantry
Brigade Combat Team of the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg
and the 3rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team at Fort Drum.  Two of the 12 brigades are based in Grafenwoehr and
Baumholder in  Germany  and will complete their deactivations this
year, leaving two brigades in  Europe  to support North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and U.S. missions, according to the
documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  