-- Las Vegas Sands Says Chief Financial Officer Kay Leaving
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-06-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/las-vegas-sands-says-kay-is-out-as-chief-financial-officer.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino
company under investigation for violations of the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and alleged money-laundering, said Chief
Financial Officer Kenneth Kay will leave effective July 31.  The company didn’t give a reason. Kay will provide
transition services as part of a six-month consulting agreement,
the Las Vegas-based casino and resort company said in a
 regulatory filing  yesterday. He’ll receive one year of salary
and a pro-rated bonus for 2013.  Kay’s exit follows the April resignation of auditor
Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP and the March disclosure by Las
Vegas Sands that an internal probe had found “likely violations
of the books and records and internal provisions” of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A U.S. grand jury in Los Angeles
is examining whether the company broke money-laundering laws,
the  Huffington Post  said on June 5.  Ron Reese , a Las Vegas Sands spokesman, said the departure
of Kay, the company’s finance chief since 2008, had “nothing to
do with any of those things.”  Las Vegas Sands, which has casinos in the U.S.,  Singapore 
and China’s Macau, said in April it had improved its practices
with respect to books and records, and is cooperating with all
investigations. The company said it had no reportable
disagreements with Pricewaterhouse going back to 2011. Sands,
controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson , plans a search for Kay’s successor.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles, didn't respond to a message seeking comment 
on the probe.  ‘Another Headline’  “While this is another negative headline, we do not think
investors should read into this personnel change that it relates
to any negative event,”  Joseph Greff , an analyst with J.P.
Morgan Securities, said in a research note.  Greff, who has a buy recommendation on the stock, noted
that other executives have left after falling out of favor with
Adelson, and that Kay had been working without a contract for
two years.  Las Vegas Sands, the world’s largest casino company based
on market value, gained 2.5 percent to $50.71 yesterday in  New
York , before the filing. The shares have risen 9.9 percent this
year, compared with the 11 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The company is asking a Nevada judge to set aside a $101.6
million verdict in favor of a Hong Kong businessman who won a
trial over claims that he helped the casino operator win its
gaming license in Macau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  