-- Asian Stock Futures Rise on U.S. Data as Yen Boosts Exporters
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-25T23:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/asian-stock-futures-rise-on-u-s-data-as-yen-boosts-exporters.html
Asian stock futures rose after
better-than-estimated U.S. data bolstered the outlook for the
world’s largest economy and as concern over  China ’s cash crunch
eased.  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, advanced 1.5 percent as the yen fell
against the dollar, boosting the earnings outlook for Japanese
exporters. ADRs of Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore oil producer,
gained 2.3 percent from the close in Hong Kong as crude climbed
for a second day as U.S. durable goods orders rose more than
forecast in May. Those of BHP Billiton Ltd., the No. 1 mining
company, increased 1.9 percent.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 13,170 in  Chicago , up from 12,940 at the
close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
13,200 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.6 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.8 percent. Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
gained 1 percent.  “Chinese shares are at a turning point,” Eiji Kinouchi, a
technical analyst at Daiwa Securities Co., wrote in an e-mail.
“We may safely say at least that Japanese shares are attractive
enough to spur buying interest from world investors.”  Chinese stocks yesterday fell after posting the biggest
swings in 22 months as the Shanghai Composite Index reached a
four-year low and investors speculated the government will take
steps to bolster financial markets. Japan’s Topix Index lost 1
percent yesterday, extending this month’s decline to 5 percent.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent. The S&P 500 added 1 percent yesterday after bookings
for U.S. durable goods rose 3.6 percent in May, government data
showed, while separate reports on house prices, new-home sales
and  consumer confidence  topped economists’ estimates.  China’s central bank will closely monitor the money-market
rate and keep it at reasonable levels, Ling Tao, deputy director
of the Shanghai branch of the People’s Bank of China, said
yesterday.  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong advanced 1.2
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 1.9 percent in New York
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, dropped 13 percent through yesterday from this
year’s high on May 20 after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said the U.S. central bank may start dialing down
stimulus, and as money-market rates in China surged to records.  That left the gauge trading at 12.1 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.4 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 12.4 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for August delivery
settled at $95.32 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Index gained 0.2
percent yesterday.  The yen fell 0.4 percent to 98.16 per dollar as of 7:31
a.m. in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  