-- Aspirin Benefit in Colon Cancer Tied to Gene Variant
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-06-25T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/aspirin-benefit-in-colon-cancer-tied-to-gene-variant.html
Aspirin’s benefit in thwarting  colon
cancer  is driven by a gene mutation that makes tumor cells less
sensitive to the drug’s effects, according to a study that may
lead to personalized prevention strategies.  Developing colon cancer with a mutation of the gene BRAF was
similar for both regular aspirin users and non-users, according
to research published today in the  Journal of the  American
Medical Association . Regular aspirin users had a 27 percent
reduced risk of developing cancer without the mutation compared
with those who didn’t regularly take the drug, the study found.  The finding, one of the first to show that aspirin use
doesn’t prevent colon tumors with the BRAF defect, may help
guide doctors when recommending the drug’s use to prevent the
disease, said  Andrew Chan , a study author. More studies are
needed to better understand the role aspirin plays in cancer
prevention, who is most at risk and which polyps may develop
into tumors with a BRAF mutation, he said.  “We’ve entered a new era in which we would potentially
start to think about personalizing preventive intervention,”
said Chan, an associate professor of medicine at  Harvard Medical
School  in  Boston , in a telephone interview. “That’s something
we haven’t been doing so far. We’ve been really trying to
develop one size fits all treatment.”  Previous Research  A study last year in the New England Journal of Medicine
showed that the protective effect of aspirin was limited to
those whose tumors had a gene defect called PIK3CA. About 20
percent of colon cancers have genetic mutations in the PIK3CA
gene. That compares to 10 percent to 15 percent of cancers with
a defect in the BRAF gene, today’s authors said.  Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed
malignancy in both U.S. men and women, excluding skin cancers,
and the third leading cause of cancer death, according to the
 American Cancer Society . About 102,480 new cancers of the colon
and 40,340 cases of rectal cancer will be diagnosed this year.
About 50,000 people are expected to die of the disease.  Researchers in the study collected questionnaire data on
aspirin use among participants of the  Nurses’ Health Study  and
the  Health Professionals Follow-up Study . Of the 127,865 people
in the study, 1,226 cases of rectal and colon cancers were
identified and made available for molecular data.  They found that the more aspirin participants used each
week the less chance of developing cancer without the mutation
compared with those who didn’t take the medication. There was no
benefit in increasing aspirin use on the development of cancer
with the mutated gene.  “These results identify biomarkers of response to aspirin
administered either preventively or therapeutically and are
likely to help tailor the use of aspirin in the prevention and
treatment of colorectal cancer,” wrote  Boris Pasche , a
professor of medicine at the  University of Alabama at Birmingham 
and a contributing editor for JAMA, in an accompanying editorial  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  