-- AT&T Opening Two Research Centers in Bid to Spur More Innovation
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/at-t-opening-two-research-centers-in-bid-to-spur-more-innovation.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is opening research
centers in Atlanta and Plano,  Texas , part of an attempt to shed
its stodgy Ma Bell image by innovating in such areas as home
security, inventory tracking and in-car online services.  The two new sites bring its total number of innovation
centers to five, the company said today in a statement. The
Atlanta location, affiliated with the Georgia Institute of
Technology, will focus on wireless products such as Digital
Life, a home-security service, as well as Internet-connected car
technology. The Plano center expands an existing facility where
AT&T has been developing what it calls machine-to-machine
services, including cargo and inventory tracking.  AT&T and its technology partners, including Cisco Systems
Inc., have spent about $100 million trying to jump-start the
development of new products, said Abhi Ingle, the Dallas-based
company’s vice president of innovation.  “We are speeding up ideas from research to development by
harnessing some innovation from outside,” Ingle said.  AT&T, the largest U.S. telephone company, is counting on
new markets to help stimulate sales and offset its 11 percent
decline in landline subscribers last year. It’s also confronting
slowing wireless customer growth, which had served as the
company’s growth engine in recent years. Verizon Wireless ranks
first in that market.  The research centers are designed to put the final touches
on product ideas developed through a companywide crowdsourcing
process, Ingle said. That means AT&T is counting on all its
employees to help cultivate ideas, rather than using
conventional research-and-development labs.  The company also has research centers, known as foundries,
in  Israel  and Palo Alto,  California . There are 71 employees
working at the foundries now, and AT&T expects that total to
reach 92 by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  