-- Aussie Dollar Volatility Nearing 18-Month High on China Concern
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-06-25T07:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/aussie-dollar-volatility-near-18-month-high-amid-china-concern.html
The Australian dollar swung between
gains and losses against its U.S. counterpart, with the currency
pair’s volatility near the most in 1 1/2 years, as a cash
squeeze in  China  roiled demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie struggled to sustain a two-day rally as China’s
central bank signaled it will keep efforts to curb credit growth
and the nation’s shares sank into a bear market. Australia’s
government bonds rebounded after Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said investors shouldn’t overreact to
the U.S. central bank’s plan to slow bond purchases.  “Volatility in a lot of asset classes is here to stay,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Singapore. “Commentary from the likes of Fisher provided some
relief for the Aussie, but the market is still going to be
focused on the China issue, and that’s still looking quite
downbeat. We’re still looking to sell into rallies back up
toward 93.50 and 94 cents.”  The Aussie dollar rose 0.1 percent to 92.55 U.S. cents as
of 5 p.m. in Sydney, after earlier dropping by as much as 0.6
percent. Yesterday it touched 91.48, the lowest since September
2010, before rallying 0.3 percent. The currency pair’s one-month
implied volatility held at 15.3 percent from yesterday, when it
reached 15.5 percent, the highest since December 2011.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar was little changed at 77.48 U.S.
cents from yesterday, when it touched 76.84, the weakest level
since June 2012.  The  yield  on  Australia ’s 10-year government bond fell 24
basis points to 3.80 percent, the biggest drop since August
2011. The benchmark rate reached 4.04 percent yesterday, the
highest since April 2012. The three-year rate fell 12 basis
points to 2.87 percent.  China Concern  The CSI 300 Index of China’s biggest companies fell 0.8
percent, paring an earlier plunge of as much as 6.8 percent, as
investors speculated the government will take steps to bolster
the market. The gauge slid 6.3 percent plunge yesterday, taking
its drop from this year’s high to more than 20 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and China International Capital
Corp. joined banks from Barclays Plc to HSBC Holdings Plc in
paring growth projections for China this year to 7.4 percent,
below the government’s 7.5 percent goal. The cuts followed a
tightening in central bank liquidity that yesterday left the
overnight repurchase rate more than double the year’s average.  “Some of the recent pressure on the Aussie does seem to
reflect market concern on the tighter liquidity in China,” said
Todd Elmer, a currency strategist in  Singapore  at Citigroup Inc.
“I expect that to remain a negative factor for Aussie.”  China is the biggest trading partner for both Australia and
New Zealand.  ‘Dialing Back’  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled on June 19 the Fed
may “moderate” its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases,
known as quantitative easing, later this year and end it
mid-2014 if economic improvement continues.  U.S.  durable-goods orders  probably increased 3 percent in
May after rising a revised 3.5 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department report today.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of home values for 20 cities
climbed 10.6 percent for the year ended April after a 10.9
percent gain in March that was the biggest since 2006, a
separate survey showed.  “What we’re talking about here is dialing back,” Dallas
Fed President Fisher said in  London  yesterday of the central
bank’s stimulus program. “The word ‘exit’ is not appropriate
here,” he said.  Aussie ‘Handbrake’  Australia’s dollar has fallen 11 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency indexes. The kiwi dollar sank 5.7 percent, the
second-biggest loser.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said today that the Aussie
“is still putting handbrake” on some industries, even as it
weakened below parity to the greenback.  “It’s good to see the Australian dollar depreciating, as
it should as our terms of trade weaken and as the U.S. begins
the very long journey back to normal monetary policy settings,”
Swan said in Canberra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  