-- Austria Starts New Stimulus After Insolvency Shows Not Immune
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-25T12:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/austria-starts-new-stimulus-after-insolvency-shows-not-immune.html
Austria  committed to increase
spending by as much as 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) until
2016 for construction projects after a builder filed for the
country’s biggest post-World War II insolvency and put 5,000
jobs at risk in an election year.  The measures decided in the weekly government meeting in
Vienna today include both new projects and bringing forward
planned ones to this year and next year, Chancellor Werner Faymann told journalists today. Faymann said he still plans to
balance the budget by 2016.  “Our budget goal is intact but we have to act to avoid
unemployment from rising,” Faymann said. “That’s devastating
for those who are affected, and for the budget it’s a disaster
because of rising payments and lost revenue.”  The decision by Faymann and his conservative coalition
partner led by Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger comes ahead
of a national vote scheduled for Sept. 29 in the country that
sports the euro area’s lowest unemployment rate. Their parties
are fighting to keep a majority and stay ahead of opposition
groups. These include Austro-Canadian billionaire Frank Stronach, the populist Freedom Party and the Greens.  Alpine Bau GmbH, Austria’s second-biggest builder, filed a
2.6 billion-euro insolvency last week, caused mostly by losses
in eastern European projects. The company, owned by Spain’s
 Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA , will be liquidated
after funds were found to be insufficient for a restructuring
and neither FCC nor creditors were ready to provide liquidity.  The stimulus measures include subsidies for social-housing
projects, care facilities for children and the elderly, tunnels,
road and rail projects as well as repairwork for flood damage
and flood-protection measures, Faymann said. The government will
tap revenue from a mobile-phone spectrum auction later this
year. It will also release reserves at ministries and in state-owned companies.  The Finance Ministry had no immediate comment about the
impact the package will have on the 2013 and 2014 deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  