-- Bank Profits to Drop as Basel III Adds to Lending Lull, LMA Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-06-25T08:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/bank-profits-to-drop-as-basel-iii-adds-to-lending-lull-lma-says.html
Global banks’ profits and lending
will be hurt by Basel III capital rules as lower borrowing costs
push companies away from loans to the bond market, the London-based Loan Market Association said.  Return on equity will probably drop to between 12 percent
and 15 percent from 20 percent before the global credit crisis,
Nick Voisey, a director at the association, said in an interview
in Dubai. Lenders will be required to hold more capital to back
loans, with $13 million needed for every $100 million of credit
extended, up from $8 million, he said. Banks in most developed
countries will phase in the rules in the next few years.  “Not only is 13 percent higher than the 8 percent, it will
also be more expensive to raise because it will have to be
higher-quality capital,” Voisey said. “Systemically important
banks will need to hold even more.”  Regulations from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
are designed to help prevent a repeat of the bank rescues that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
While Basel rules don’t specifically target lending, loan
volumes may be affected by new leverage-ratio standards
requiring banks to hold cash or high-quality assets to support
revolving credit facilities, Voisey said.  Syndicated lending, which declined across the world as bond
sales surged in the past two years, will “definitely pick up”
once there’s a revival in mergers and acquisitions, he said.
Global bond sales advanced 7.6 percent in 2012, while loan
volumes dropped 14 percent in the U.S. and 34 percent in Europe,
Middle East and  Africa , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “One of the main uses of the syndicated loan is
acquisition financing, and there is very little of that going on
at present because of the general lack of confidence in the
global economy,” Voisey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  