-- Bashneft Drops to Record on Rosneft Sale Concern: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-25T13:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/bashneft-drops-to-record-on-rosneft-sale-concern-moscow-mover.html
Preferred shares of OAO Bashneft,
the oil producer owned by AFK Sistema, plunged to a record low
on concern an acquisition by OAO Rosneft may mean no dividend
payout for minority shareholders.  The preferred stock dropped as much as 5.7 percent, trading
down 5.3 percent to 984 rubles by 4:15 p.m. in Moscow, the
lowest since the stock’s listing in November 2011. Sistema
increased as much as 9.1 percent before trading up 0.9 percent
at 27.535 rubles.  State-run Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, may
buy Bashneft, Vedomosti reported today, citing people it didn’t
identify. Sistema Chairman  Vladimir Yevtushenkov  said he was
unaware of the possible purchase when contacted by phone by
Bloomberg. Rosneft’s spokesman declined to comment.  “The biggest risk from this speculative acquisition is
that Bashneft’s minorities won’t get a payout,” Alexei Yazikov,
head of research at Aton Capital LLC, said by phone from Moscow.  Rosneft became the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer by output in March when it bought TNK-BP from  BP Plc (BP/) 
and a group of billionaires in the country’s largest
acquisition. Rosneft’s Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin 
proposed last month that the state-run company be accountable
for TNK-BP’s dividends starting only from March 21, the day it
acquired the venture in the $55 billion deal. OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) 
has slumped 36 percent over the past 12 months.  “Like TNK-BP, Bashneft pays good dividends,” Yazikov
said. “With Rosneft’s arrival, minority shareholders are
unlikely to get any cash.”  Sistema’s 87 percent stake is valued at about 322 billion
rubles ($9.8 billion) based on today’s market price.  “Without buyback optionality, pref holders are in a much
riskier position,” Andrey Gromadin, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in an e-mailed note today. “They should be
prepared for a period of uncertainty, similar to TNK-BP Holding
minorities, should an acquisition materialize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  