-- Bayer to Use Seattle Genetics Armed-Antibody Technology
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-06-25T09:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/bayer-to-use-seattle-genetics-armed-antibody-technology.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  will use  Seattle Genetics
Inc. (SGEN) ’s armed antibody anti-cancer technology, seeking a foothold
in a new class of drugs designed to be more effective and less
destructive by ferrying chemotherapy straight into tumor cells.  Bayer agreed to pay Seattle Genetics up-front fees of as
much as $20 million, plus about $500 million in development and
commercialization milestones and royalties on any products that
emerge from the collaboration, the Leverkusen, Germany-based
drug and chemical maker said in a statement today.  The deal adds Bayer as a pharmaceutical user of Seattle
Genetics’ processes for creating new targeted cancer drugs known
as antibody-drug conjugates. The technology is a focal point for
Bayer, Andreas Busch, head of the company’s global drug
discovery, said in the statement.  “We are looking forward to strengthening our portfolio,”
Busch said.  Bayer  rose  as much as 1.3 percent to 79.13 euros and was
trading up 1.2 percent at 11:49 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has
gained 10 percent this year.  Seattle Genetics, based in Bothell, Washington, sells its
own targeted cancer drug, Adcetris.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  are among its customers.  Roche won approval in February for its own antibody-drug
conjugate, breast cancer therapy T-DM1. Cowen & Co. investment
bank estimated at the time that the medicine, sold under the
name Kadcyla, could be “one of the biggest biotech drugs” and
generate sales of more than $5 billion.  Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, used an antibody-drug
conjugate technology from  ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  for its breast cancer
drug. ImmunoGen, which has its headquarters in Waltham,
Massachusetts, also has partnerships with  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  