-- GSW Says Top Executives Resign After Investor Rebuke
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-26T10:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/berlin-s-biggest-homeowner-says-chairman-ceo-to-resign.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) , Berlin’s largest
residential landlord by market value, said both its chairman and
chief executive officer will quit after investors protested how
the CEO was hired. The shares rose the most since November 2011.  CEO Bernd Kottmann and Chairman Eckart John von Freyendwill leave in July, GSW said in a statement after the market
closed yesterday. The decision ends two months of conflict that
culminated at a meeting in Berlin last week at which
shareholders passed a no-confidence motion against Kottmann and
voted to dismiss Freyend. GSW’s supervisory board plans to
appoint an independent legal adviser to investigate Kottmann’s
hiring, according to a separate statement.  “I respect the vote at the last shareholder meeting and as
chairman accept the political responsibility for it,” Freyend
said in the statement issued by the board.  The ouster represents a rare show of force by shareholders
in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy. Corporate-governance rules
there lag behind U.K. and U.S. standards, said Peter Papadakos,
an analyst with Green Street Advisors in  London .  Shares Jump  GSW shares rose as much as 5.3 percent to 30.1 euros in
 Frankfurt trading,  increasing the Berlin-based company’s market
value to 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion). The shares have
declined  about 10 percent  since Kottmann’s appointment was first
questioned by GSW shareholder PGGM NV on May 15. The  EPRA
FTSE/NAREIT index  of German property stocks fell 14 percent
during that time.  “It’s good that the company made a swift decision and you
can see by the share price reaction that the decision was taken
well,” said Hans Op ’t Veld, head of listed real estate
companies at PGGM, by phone.  Freyend’s and Kottmann’s replacements will be hired with
help from an external adviser, according to the board’s
statement. Internal candidates for the CEO job will be
considered, and the company will be led by Chief Operating
Officer Joerg Schwagenscheidt and Chief Financial Officer
Andreas Segal until a choice is made.  GSW, which owns 60,000 apartments in Berlin, said on March
11 that CEO Thomas Zinnoecker would resign and a week later
announced that Kottmann would succeed him. PGGM, which  owns
about 3 percent  of GSW, called for votes on the appointment,
saying the speed with which Kottmann was chosen raised questions
about the thoroughness of the search.  IVG’s Woes  The Dutch pension administrator also criticized Kottmann
and Freyend over their tenure at  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , a German
real estate company that’s lost about 98 percent of its market
value since 2008 and is in talks to restructure 3 billion euros
of debt.  Freyend repeatedly defended Kottmann’s hire, saying by
phone on June 7 that there was a “careful and systematic
selection process.”  The search for a CEO began on Feb. 13 after former chief
executive Zinnoecker told Freyend that he was considering
leaving, Freyend said at the shareholder meeting.  Bafin, Germany’s financial regulator, is investigating why
GSW didn’t inform shareholders about the possible CEO change
immediately after the search began on Feb. 13, a Bafin
spokeswoman said by phone on May 17.  At GSW’s shareholder meeting on June 18, the no-confidence
motion against the CEO got 63.3 percent of votes, exceeding the
50 percent required for passage. While the vote represented a
rebuke for GSW over Kottmann’s hiring, it didn’t require him to
resign. A motion to oust Freyend, who supervised Kottmann’s
recruitment, received 69.6 percent of votes, falling short of
the 75 percent needed.  GSW’s biggest shareholders are  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Singapore ’s wealth fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  