-- Blackhawks Win NHL’s Stanley Cup With Two Goals in Final Seconds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-25T04:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/blackhawks-score-two-late-goals-to-win-stanley-cup-championship.html
The Chicago Blackhawks had the
hottest start to a season in National Hockey League history,
recording a point in a record 24 straight games. They ended it
with a second Stanley Cup title in four years.  The  Boston  Bruins were about a minute away from forcing a
decisive Game 7 in the championship series before the Blackhawks
scored two goals in the final 76 seconds last night to pull out
a 3-2 victory and stun the home crowd in Boston.  The Blackhawks’ fifth Stanley Cup title caps a lockout-shortened season in which they started 21-0-3, won the
Presidents’ Trophy with an NHL-best 36-7-5 record and had to
erase a 3-1 series deficit against the Detroit Red Wings in the
second round of the playoffs.  “This is special because they had such a special season,”
Scotty Bowman, the Blackhawks senior adviser of hockey
operations, said in a televised interview after capturing his
13th Stanley Cup title as an executive or coach. “I’ve never
seen a team score a couple goals in the last couple of moments
to win. It’s not easy to win the Presidents’ Trophy and then go
on to win the Stanley Cup with that pressure.”  The Blackhawks trailed 2-1 last night after Milan Lucic of
the Bruins scored his seventh goal of the playoffs with about
eight minutes left in the third period.  With the Bruins on the verge of tying the best-of-seven
series at three games apiece, the Blackhawks struck for the
tying goal with 1:16 left after pulling goaltender Corey Crawford for an extra skater. Bryan Bickell evened it with his
ninth goal of the postseason off a pass across the mouth of the
net from Duncan Keith, quieting the hometown crowd.  Winning Goal  Chicago scored again 17 seconds later as  Dave Bolland 
stuffed home a rebound of a slapshot off the goalpost, easily
beating Bruins netminder Tuukka Rask.  “Seeing that puck bounce around, I just had to tap it
in,” Bolland said.  Patrick Kane of the Blackhawks won the Conn Smythe Trophy
as the Most Valuable Player of the postseason after collecting
nine goals and 10 assists in the playoffs.  “It was the best year of my life just playing with these
guys,” Kane said in a televised interview. “Starting off the
season like we did with so many wins and the pressure of winning
the Presidents’ Trophy, and hanging on to that pressure all the
way to the end -- you’re down 2-1 in the last minute and you
come through with the 3-2 win, it’s unbelievable.”  Chris Kelly opened the scoring for the Bruins midway
through the first period. The Blackhawks’ Jonathan Toews, who
sat out the third period of Game 5 with an upper-body injury,
tied the game 1-1 with 4:24 gone in the second period as Chicago
was finishing off a penalty kill.  Cup Raising  Toews was later the first player to lift the trophy for the
Blackhawks, who also won the title in 2010. The Bruins were
denied their second Stanley Cup in three years, having won in
2011.  Boston was the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference and
swept the top-seeded Pittsburgh Penguins in the conference
finals to reach the championship round. That series win came
after the Bruins fought past the Toronto Maple Leafs 5-4 in
overtime of Game 7 of their first-round playoff series. They
erased a three-goal third-period deficit in that decider and
scored twice in the final 1:22 to force overtime.  “It wasn’t meant to be tonight,” Bruins coach Claude Julien said. “But they shouldn’t hang their heads, there were
so many good things that happened to our team this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  