-- Taliban With Fake ID Attack Kabul District Home to Karzai Palace
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-06-25T15:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/blasts-rock-afghan-capital-as-taliban-attack-presidential-palace.html
Taliban insurgents detonated a car
bomb and traded gunfire with police in an attack on targets
including the presidential palace after gaining access to the
fortified center of Kabul with fake identification cards.  Three security guards were killed and another injured in an
hour-long gun battle between police and the militants, the
Afghan  Interior Ministry  said in a statement. All five Taliban
guerrillas who took part in the strike were shot dead, it said.
Explosions and gunfire echoed through an area of the capital
that also houses the U.S. Embassy and government buildings.  The Taliban claimed responsibility in an e-mailed
statement, saying it deployed  suicide bombers  and other fighters
to target President  Hamid Karzai ’s palace and the Afghan defense
ministry. The attack occurred soon before Karzai was to brief
journalists on peace talks proposed by the Taliban to end
Afghanistan’s 12-year war.  Today’s strike came a week after the Taliban opened a
political office in Doha, Qatar, on June 18 as a venue for peace
talks after more than a year of stalled efforts toward a
dialogue. While signaling it’s ready for negotiations with the
U.S. and Karzai’s government, the guerrilla movement has
continued its offensive, striking Kabul at least four times this
month.  The insurgents got past government checkpoints into the
center of Kabul using fake uniforms and ID cards for their
vehicles, the city’s police chief Ayub Salangi said. They threw
grenades toward the presidential palace, the defense ministry
and foreign military bases, he said.  The attackers were stopped in Ariana Square, at least 500
meters and several checkpoints away from the palace, the
 Associated Press  reported. The suicide squads were traveling in
at least two vehicles similar to those used by international
soldiers in Afghanistan, the  New York  Times reported.  Pakistan Talks  Within 24 hours of the opening of the Taliban’s Qatar
office, the plan for talks hit its latest obstacle. A sign
attached to the building labeling it as the political office of
the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, the formal name of the
Taliban government the U.S. toppled in the 2001 invasion,
angered Karzai.  The president called off talks on a long-term security pact
with the U.S. and said he wouldn’t send a delegation to talk to
the Taliban. The U.S. special representative for Afghanistan and
 Pakistan , James Dobbins, held talks in Kabul yesterday in a bid
to rescue the process.  Dobbins arrived in Islamabad today, state-run Radio
Pakistan reported and will hold talks with newly elected Prime
Minister  Nawaz Sharif  and other leaders.  Kerry Visit  U.S. and Afghan officials say Pakistan has provided Afghan
Taliban militants with a refuge in weakly governed tribal areas
in its northwest. Taliban leaders, including its chief Mullah
Omar, continue to be based near the Pakistani city of Quetta,
American officials have said.  Speaking in Qatar on June 22, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the office could be an “important step.” In a press
conference with  India ’s foreign minister in  New Delhi  yesterday,
Kerry assured the country it would be consulted as and when
peace talks progressed.  The U.S. has called publicly for reconciliation talks with
the Taliban since early 2010 and pursued covert contacts with
insurgents. The outreach was set back by numerous events,
including the assassination of the Afghan government’s chief
peace envoy and high-profile attacks on U.S. troops and the
American embassy in  Afghanistan .  It’s unclear whether the Taliban are seeking a deal with
the Afghan government or are trying to run out the clock as the
U.S.-led coalition winds down its role with the withdrawal of
combat forces by the end of 2014. The talks were announced as
Afghan forces formally made the transition on June 18 to assume
responsibility for their country’s security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  