-- BNP Expands Japan Equity Business With Traders, Analysts
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-06-25T02:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/bnp-expands-japan-equity-business-with-traders-analysts.html
BNP Paribas S.A. (FORAMAN)  said it hired two
traders and will add two analysts to ramp up coverage of
Japanese equities, the best performing among developed markets
this year even after dropping from recent highs.  With the new hires,  France ’s biggest bank now has three
staff for facilitation trading in  Tokyo , Kyoya Okazawa, head of
global equities and commodity derivatives at BNP Paribas
Securities (Japan) Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. A
consumer analyst is due to start July 1 and a technology analyst
will join Aug. 13, although Okazawa declined to name the new
personnel, saying the facilitation team is still developing.
Yukiko Kishino, a spokeswoman based in Tokyo, today said a real
estate analyst was also hired in May.  Japanese stocks will regain upward momentum as a U.S.
economic recovery drives up Treasury yields and weakens the yen,
and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe aims to strengthen and
deliver his growth strategy, or the “third arrow” of his
policy package, Okazawa said. He has added about 30 staff in
 Japan  since joining the bank from Credit Suisse Group AG in
March 2011.  “Whether Abenomics will succeed or not, Japanese stocks
will undertake a structural recovery with the U.S. economic
recovery,” Okazawa said. “If the third arrow comes on top of
that, Japanese equities will surge.”  Okazawa said he expects the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  to
climb as high as 18,000 by the end of this year, up 38 percent
from yesterday’s close. The measure has gained 26 percent this
year after slumping 16 percent from this year’s high on May 22.  In March, Okazawa said the bank hired Mattia Ciancaleoni
from Citigroup Inc. as a senior equity salesman and Hiroaki Iwasa from Deutsche Bank AG to sell stocks to institutional
investors.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  plans to expand its corporate and investment
banking operations in  Asia , as well as its investment solutions
operations in the region. The Paris-based lender is seeking
annual revenue growth in those businesses of 12 percent to more
than 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) by 2016, it said in
February. BNP Paribas plans to add about 1,300 staff in Asia by
the end of 2016, Kishino said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  