-- Bond Yields Guiding Mortgage Rates Climb for Fifth Straight Day
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-25T20:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/bond-yields-guiding-mortgage-rates-climb-for-fifth-straight-day.html
Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates rose for a fifth
day to the highest level since August 2011, extending a surge
sparked by a potential slowing of the  Federal Reserve ’s debt
buying.  A Bloomberg  index  of Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year
securities climbed 0.03 percentage point to 3.5 percent as of
4:05 p.m. in  New York , up from 2.98 percent on June 18. Bonds
have tumbled worldwide after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the next day at a news conference that the central bank may
“moderate” the pace of its $85 billion of monthly debt buying
later this year and end the  purchases  around the middle of 2014.  The Fed has been buying $40 billion of debt each month from
the roughly $5.5 trillion market for U.S. government-backed
mortgage bonds. The risks now range from bond fund withdrawals
and selling by real-estate investment trusts to higher
volatility and relative yields that remain below historical
averages, according to Bank of America Corp. analysts.  “Positives are developing, though will take time to drive
 market sentiment ,” the New York-based analysts led by Satish
Mansukhani wrote in a June 21 report.  The positives include the potential for higher yields to
create buying by banks and insurers and less risk of policy
makers stoking refinancing amid higher loan rates, they said.  The  average cost  of new 30-year, fixed-rate home loans
climbed yesterday to 4.51 percent from a record low 3.36 percent
in December, according to Bankrate.com data.  A measure of spreads on the  Fannie Mae  current coupon debt,
or bonds trading closest to face value, remained at about the
highest since June 2012. Relative yields on the securities fell
about 0.01 percentage point to 1.46 percentage point higher than
an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  