-- Borregaard Explores Partner Options for Potential Biorefinery
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-06-25T09:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/borregaard-explores-partner-options-for-potential-biorefinery.html
Borregaard ASA (BRG) , the Norwegian maker
of wood-based chemicals, is considering potential partners for a
biorefinery project that will diversify its raw-material
sources, Chief Executive Officer Per Sorlie said.  The company began a demonstration plant in April using
enzymes to breakdown farm and forestry waste into lignin and
chemicals used in adhesives and coatings, and the unwanted
sugars produced in the process could go to a partner for
bioethanol, Sorlie said in a telephone interview  Borregaard is “rejuvenated” since separating from  Orkla
ASA (ORK)  and listing shares almost nine months ago, the CEO said. It
can use a 1 billion-krone ($162 million) debt facility to
finance expansion, including upgrading its trial biomass plant
to a commercial one in a raw-material rich area such as  North
America . Sorlie may also scale up production of a cellulose-based gel that can replace fat in foods.  “We’re approaching a period where we will have to make a
decision on capex,” said the the executive, who joined the
company in 1990. Both projects are on schedule and a decision on
investing in increased capacity will be made in the second half
of 2014, he said.  Borregaard, whose origins date back to a wooded country
estate owned by Olav the Holy in 1016, is patenting a process
whereby fibers are broken down under pressure to form small
particles that are then converted into a gel. This gel has water
retaining properties and is already being used in Orkla’s range
of low-fat dressings. Borregaard hasn’t got the capacity to roll
out the product to a wider client base, as scaling up production
carries “significant business risk,” Sorlie said.  Niche Business  Shares of the Sarpsborg-based company, which also makes
chemicals for  car batteries , printing inks and tile adhesives,
have increased 31 percent this year, giving it a market value of
2.72 billion kroner. Borregaard competes with  Solvay SA (SOLB)  in the
market for the flavoring vanillin.  Though Borregaard attracted attention from potential buyers
once Orkla announced its intention to carve out the business,
it’s focus on niche products meant it wasn’t an ideal fit with
any company, Sorlie said. It went on to list shares in Oslo on
Oct. 18. By contrast, Georgia-Pacific LLC in April  agreed  to
acquire  Buckeye Technologies Inc. (BKI) , a close competitor of
Borregaard in North America, to expand its specialty pulp
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  