-- BP Backs Texas Carbon Capture as Skyonic Gets $128 Million Funds
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-25T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/bp-backs-texas-carbon-capture-as-skyonic-gets-128-million-funds.html
BP Plc (BP/)  part-funded an emissions
project at a Texas cement plant, betting that plans to turn the
gases into chemicals for sale will succeed where traditional
 carbon-capture  proposals have failed.  BP,  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  and other investors in developer
Skyonic Corp. pledged a total of $128 million, Skyonic Chief
Executive Officer Joe Jones said in Austin, where the company is
based. It plans to trap 83,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide a
year from Capitol Aggregates Inc.’s plant in  San Antonio .  Skyonic expects to profit from global efforts to curb
industrial emissions by trapping and “mineralizing” CO2 into
byproducts such as hydrochloric acid and baking soda. While
countries including the U.S. and Britain have sought to capture
carbon from  power plants  for burial underground, such projects
are yet to operate on a commercial scale.  “It signals to the whole world that we have another
alternative for carbon capture besides the pipeline-it-and-pump-it-in-the-ground solutions that have failed to take off,” Jones
said in a telephone interview.  BP is supporting the venture even after scrapping a carbon-capture project in Scotland. It has developed a “portfolio of
investments that could yield valuable innovations in carbon
capture and storage, carbon conversion and solutions for carbon
markets,” the London-based company said on its website.  The Skyonic funding includes $80 million of loans from
 Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV)  and Maxus Capital Group LLC, according
to Jones. It also won financing from new investors Bluecap
Partners, Toyo-Thai Corp. PCL and Energy Technology Ventures.
PVS Chemicals Inc., the Detroit-based chemicals maker that will
buy the hydrochloric acid, contributed funds too, he said.  Skyonic plans to start production next year. The facility
will capture CO2, acid gases and metals from the flue gas and
turn them into products for sale that will generate profit at
the plant within three years, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  