-- Brazil Further Dismantles Capital Controls as Real Weakens
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-06-25T23:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/brazil-eliminates-reserve-requirement-on-bets-against-the-dollar.html
Brazil  dismantled capital controls
for the third time this month in a bid to temper the biggest
decline among major currencies.  The central bank starting July 1 will eliminate  reserve
requirements  on short dollar positions held by local banks. The
new rule comes after the government earlier this month removed
taxes on currency derivatives and foreign purchases of bonds.  Brazil is unwinding capital controls that it began putting
in place in 2010 to defend itself from policies Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  then characterized as a “currency war” that was
hurting domestic manufacturers. Speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve will dial back its bond-buying program coupled with slow
growth and quickening inflation in Brazil led the real to drop
more than all 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg in
the past month. The weaker real could fan inflation by raising
the costs of imports.  “It may have some short-term impact but it won’t prevent
the overall trend,”  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America
economist at 4cast Ltd, said in a phone interview from
Washington about scrapping the reserve requirements.
“Eliminating the measure doesn’t mean traders will abandon
their long dollar positions.”  The real weakened 7.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in
the past month and rose 0.6 percent today to 2.2139.  Inflation  Annual inflation accelerated to 6.67 through mid-June, the
fastest pace since November 2011. It has remained above the
central bank’s 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range in two of
the past three months.  To tame inflation, policy makers responded by raising the
benchmark  interest rate , after keeping borrowing costs at a
record-low 7.25 percent from October to March. The board lifted
borrowing costs by a total of 75 basis points in its past two
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  