-- Brazil’s World Cup Scorn Deepens Rout as Budget in Danger
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-06-25T18:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/brazil-s-world-cup-scorn-deepens-rout-as-budget-in-danger.html
The record rout in Brazilian bonds
is deepening on speculation President  Dilma Rousseff ’s vow to
boost spending to placate protesters will swell the  budget
deficit  at a time when a stagnating economy saps  tax revenue .  Brazil ’s real-denominated bonds due 2023 have plunged this
month, causing yields to jump to a 15-month high of 11.63
percent on June 21 even as the Treasury offered to buy back the
notes in five unscheduled auctions this month. In the same span,
the cost to protect its sovereign dollar debt against losses for
five years soared to a 20-month high and exceeded that of lower-rated  Turkey  for the first time in seven years.  Rousseff, whose government recorded the biggest deficit in
almost four years in April, urged fiscal restraint in a meeting
with governors and mayors and then pledged to earmark 50 billion
reais ($22 billion) more to upgrade urban transportation.
Demonstrations that began over a bus-fare increase have drawn
hundreds of thousands of protesters with calls for a halt to
spending on soccer stadiums for next year’s  World Cup 
tournament, an increase in funding for health care, education
and public transportation and an end to corruption.  “It’s all about, ‘Let’s spend money on transport, let’s
spend on this and that,’”  Tony Volpon , the head of Americas
research at Nomura, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“That’s all fine and good, but where’s that money going to come
from?”  Widening Deficit  Brazil’s budget shortfall widened to 132 billion reais in
April, equal to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product and up
from 103 billion reais a year before.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said June 12 the country was
ready to cut spending to meet its target for the primary
surplus, which excludes interest payments, of 2.3 percent of GDP
for 2013. The gauge fell to the equivalent of 1.9 percent of the
economy in April after averaging 3.1 percent in the past decade.  Economists in a weekly central bank survey published
yesterday cut their median forecast for growth this year to 2.46
percent from 2.49 percent. The economy grew 0.9 percent last
year after expanding 2.7 percent in 2012.  Mayara Longo Vivian, a member of the Passe Livre movement
that has helped organize the protests, said demonstrations will
continue after Rousseff was unprepared to discuss concrete
public transportation reforms in a meeting with members of the
group yesterday. Following that meeting, Rousseff proposed a
pact for fiscal responsibility, the first of five accords she
put forth in discussions with governors and mayors.  Plebiscite Proposal  She said in a post on the official presidential blog that
fiscal restraint “is especially important at the current
moment, when the prolonged global economic crisis is still
punishing nations with volatility.” Rousseff also called for
improved quality of health care, public transportation and
education, and proposed a plebiscite to ask voters whether they
support holding a constitutional assembly to overhaul the
nation’s political system.  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Rousseff is struggling to contain the largest
demonstrations in  Latin America ’s biggest economy in two
decades. Rio de Janeiro and  Sao Paulo  are among cities that have
already relented to demands by protesters and scrapped increases
in public-transport fares. Sao Paulo state Governor Geraldo Alckmin also said yesterday he’s canceling a toll-road increase.  Quickening Inflation  The government exempted beans from import tariffs yesterday
in a bid to cool inflation that accelerated to 6.67 percent
through mid-June, above the 6.5 percent upper level of the
central bank’s target range.  The tariff change follows a decision by the central bank to
raise its target lending rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, on May 29 to 8 percent to curb inflation,
surprising 38 of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg who had
expected a second straight increase of 25 basis points.  Brazil’s Ibovespa stock index is down 24 percent this year,
the worst performance among benchmarks in the 20 largest equity
markets. The real has dropped 9.4 percent against the dollar in
the past three months, the biggest decline among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The government bought
back 380 million reais of zero-coupon bonds yesterday to support
the securities.  Rating Outlook  Rousseff’s fiscal policy is stuck between a “rock and a
hard place,”  Christopher Garman , Latin America director for
Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“How do you construct a political agenda that can be consistent
with protester demands and overcome a crisis of confidence in
the market place? Now the economy is her biggest vulnerability.
The protests can further exacerbate a slowdown in private
investment and jeopardize the recovery.”  Lackluster growth and rising debt levels are making it
“more difficult to support” the positive outlook on Brazil’s
Baa2 credit rating, which is two levels above junk,  Mauro Leos ,
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a
June 19 phone interview from New York. Standard & Poor’s cut the
outlook on its equivalent BBB rating for Brazil to negative on
June 6.  Brazil’s gross debt was equal to 59.2 percent of GDP in
March, close to a two-year high of 59.8 percent in November.  David Beker , an economist at  Bank of America , says the
government can still reach its primary surplus goal if it starts
to receive revenue from concessions this year and is able to
freeze more spending.  Spending Freeze  Rousseff said in August the government will sell licenses
to build and operate 7,500 kilometers of roads and 10,000
kilometers of railways, requiring as much as 133 billion reais
in investment over 30 years.  The government froze 28 billion reais in its 2013 budget to
meet the primary surplus target, Mantega told reporters in
Brasilia May 22.  “Their message of trying to bring the primary surplus from
1.8 percent to 2.3 percent this year is a good one,” Beker
said. “They may need to freeze more spending to get it done.”  The government withdrew 12.4 billion reais from its
sovereign wealth fund and discounted 34.9 billion reais in
infrastructure investments to meet its target last year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 12 basis
points to 258 basis points at 2:31 p.m. in New York, according
to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global index.  ‘Embarrassing’ Violence  The cost to protect Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose 68 basis points in the past month to 201 basis
points, the biggest jump since late 2008. In May, Brazilian
default swaps surpassed Turkey’s for the first time since 2006.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rousseff called on Brazilians last week to reciprocate the
kind of hospitality the national squad for decades received
abroad in the World Cup, calling violence related to the
protests “embarrassing.” Protestors have demonstrated outside
stadiums before games in the Confederations Cup, an
international tournament being held in Brazil that in part
serves as a World Cup rehearsal for the country.  FIFA Secretary General Jerome Valcke responded yesterday to
street protests by saying the World Cup is creating thousands of
jobs and “doing plenty of good things” for Brazil, which is
spending almost 30 billion reais on infrastructure projects for
the event.  ‘Enormous Doubts’  A continuation of the protests would make it impossible for
Rousseff to reach her primary surplus target, according to  Pedro Tuesta , the second-most-accurate forecaster of the measure
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There were enormous doubts that the government would hit
the target, even prior to all these protests,” Tuesta, a senior
economist for Latin America at Washington-based 4Cast, said in a
telephone interview. “The protests can increase the pressure to
spend more. The protests make it almost a certainty that the
government won’t meet its target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  