-- Brazil Soccer Coach Goes From ‘Donkey’ to Savior With Young Team
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-26T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/brazil-soccer-coach-goes-from-donkey-to-savior-with-young-team.html
When  Brazil  soccer coach Luiz Felipe Scolari’s young Confederations Cup squad struggled in exhibition
matches, thousands of fans booed the team and some called the
coach a “donkey.”  Record five-time World Cup champion Brazil came into the
tournament ranked 22nd, its lowest placing ever in soccer
governing body FIFA’s national team rankings. Many in the
soccer-mad country feared a flop at next year’s World Cup, the
first hosted by Brazil since 1950.  Now, with his team one win away from the Confederations Cup
final, Scolari is trying to lower expectations for a squad that
had a perfect record in its three group games in the World Cup
test event.  “We are earning back the history of the Brazil team,”
Scolari told reporters yesterday at the Mineirao stadium in Belo
Horizonte. “But we still have a long way to go to say we are as
good as the top four or five teams in the world.”  Brazil coasted into today’s semifinal against Uruguay,
outscoring opponents 9-2 in its three group games -- including a
4-2 win against Italy on June 22 in which 21-year-old striker
Neymar continued his streak of scoring in every game.  Scolari, who guided the team to its last World Cup title in
2002 and returned as coach this February after Mano Menezes was
fired, faced fierce questioning on May 14 when he announced his
23-man Confederations Cup roster. He left out established stars
such as  World Cup  winners Kaka and Ronaldinho in favor of
younger talent, which struggled to find a winning formula in the
buildup to the tournament and was booed as recently as an
exhibition game with  England  on June 2.  Public Turnaround  “What’s going to happen is people are going to criticize
me if I choose A, B or C, and if things go wrong I know it will
get ugly,” he said at the time.  Instead, Scolari’s team has earned the support of the
public. Led by Neymar, who’s been chosen man of the match in
each game Brazil has played in the Confederations Cup, the
national team has boosted hopes for a sixth World Cup success
next year.  Neymar is drawing attention for more than his goal-scoring
ability. Uruguay captain Diego Lugano yesterday accused the
Brazilian of feigning being fouled and warned officials to be
aware that Neymar “is very lightweight, he can drop to the
ground and fool the referee.”  If Brazil makes it to the June 30 final, it would meet the
winner of the semifinal between world and European champion
Spain and  Italy , who meet tomorrow.  The national team’s success has come against the backdrop
of Brazil’s biggest street protests in more than two decades.
Demonstrators have rallied against corruption, poor public
services and transport costs, as well as criticizing the amount
of money spent on hosting the World Cup. Brazil’s President,
Dilma Rousseff, was jeered during the Confederations Cup opening
ceremony on June 15, and the tournament has provided a focus for
protestors.  Protests Expected  As many as 100,000 protestors are expected on the streets
of Belo Horizonte today, and authorities said they plan to
deploy 5,000 security personnel to prevent a repeat of the
violence that occurred when some demonstrators tried to storm
the stadium as  Japan  played  Mexico  on June 22.  “Brazilians have been with us, but everything we have done
to build a better country will not be in vain if we can keep
this run up,” Scolari said. “We must find a way of working
together, I repeat together. Not fighting with each other. Maybe
in five or 10 years’ time we can have a better country.”  Striker Fred, who scored twice against Italy, told
reporters he was concerned about the scale of today’s planned
protest.  “The forecast is for a very strong rally,” he said.
“That makes me worried. We asked the people to be united and
give only joy for at least 90 minutes of this game. But they are
fair claims. All I can hope is that they are peaceful and there
are no clashes with the police.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at Minerao Stadium in Belo Horizonte at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  