-- Brazil's Rousseff Seeks Political Plebiscite After Unrest
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-06-25T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/brazil-s-rousseff-seeks-political-plebiscite-after-unrest.html
President  Dilma Rousseff , seeking to
meet the demands raised by Brazil’s biggest protests in two
decades, called for a plebiscite to bring about political
changes aimed at wringing endemic corruption out of Brazil’s
institutions.  Rousseff, at a meeting with governors and mayors in
Brasilia yesterday, said she would classify corruption as one of
the country’s most serious crimes. She also pledged 50 billion
reais ($22.5 billion) for urban transport upgrades, one hundred
percent of oil royalties to education and the formation of a
national public transportation council.  Marches are scheduled to continue this week after protests
claimed two lives yesterday. While demonstrators first railed
against an increase in bus fares, protesters have expanded their
grievances, from teachers marching for better pay to gay-rights
activists opposing a bill to allow medical treatment for
homosexuality. Rousseff received leaders of the Free Fare
Movement yesterday before meeting with municipal authorities.  “Campaign finance will likely be tackled,” Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, an analyst at political risk company Eurasia
Group, said by phone from  Washington . “There will be harsher
punishment for corrupt politicians, and more transparency and
accountability.”  Corruption  Rousseff, 65, said she supports organizing a plebiscite to
ask voters whether they support holding a constitutional
assembly to overhaul the nation’s political system, which is
blamed for corruption and excessive spending.  “The people are in the streets saying they want changes,
they want more citizenship,” Rousseff said at the start of
yesterday’s meeting at the presidential palace in Brasilia.
“They want quality public services and more effective tools for
fighting corruption.”  A political overhaul was one of the five accords proposed
by Rousseff, with other measures focusing on fiscal
responsibility, health care, transportation and public
education. Authorities agreed to accelerate 90 billion reais in
transportation investments,  Brazil ’s Cities Minister Aguinaldo Ribeiro told reporters after meeting with the president.  Still, Rousseff called on local authorities to maintain
fiscal austerity after inflation this month breached the upper
limit of the central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent.  ‘Short Blanket’  “The situation is not easy,” Andre Pereira Cesar, the
director of business strategy and public policy company
Prospectiva, said by phone. “It’s a short blanket: if you pull
it up, it uncovers your feet.”  Two women were killed during a protest yesterday outside
Brasilia, bringing the total number of protest deaths nationwide
to four, according to the federal highway police. New protests
also broke out in cities including Rio de Janeiro and Porto
Alegre.  Rousseff’s speech represented an early step in addressing
public discontent, according to Eurasia Group’s Castro Neves.  “There is space for the debate to grow,” he said. “These
protesters target the political class, and she is offering to
reform the political class. It is a start.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  