-- British Airways Faces Pilot Strike Threat Over New Fatigue Rules
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-25T10:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/british-airways-faces-pilot-strike-threat-over-new-fatigue-rules.html
Pilots for British Airways and other
U.K. carriers may increasingly scrap flights to protest against
European rules that would ease limits on time spent in the
cockpit, the union representing crew said.  The actions could start in 2015 if crew fail to convince
European legislators to block the extension of flight time
limits, Jim McAuslan, head of the British Airline Pilots
Association told reporters in  London  today. Pilots may
increasingly invoke their discretion not to fly over safety
concerns, he said.  The European Aviation Safety Agency is due to submit a set
of rules on flight time limitations as it seeks to end years of
wrangling between airlines and the cockpit over the terms.
Carriers have been seeking greater flexibility in their use of
crew, with pilots saying a relaxation would jeopardize safety.  “I could see this becoming a battleground company by
company,” McAuslan said. “We believe fatigue threatens flight
safety and will affect pilots.”  The new regulations give airlines more leeway in scheduling
crew, even if they don’t add to time in the cockpit, McAuslan
said. Pilots could be asked to fly more hours in a two-week
period than is currently the case, and hard limits on duty time
may also be relaxed, he said.  Timing of strikes would depend on the degree to which
airlines try to use the rules to adjust pilot schedules,
McAuslan said. The regulations may come into force in January,
he said.  The European Parliament is due to take up the piloting
rules in October or November and will likely approve the EASA
proposal, McAuslan said.  Balpa has set aside about 10 million pounds ($15.5 million)
to finance legal challenges against the rules next year in
British and European courts. It will also contest the rulemaking
process through a European ombudsman, although a ruling may not
be forthcoming until the end of 2014, he said.  “We have tried not to make this an industrial issue but
there is a groundswell of resistance,” McAuslan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  