-- Canada Dollar Falls as U.S. Economic Strength Supports Fed View
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-25T21:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/canada-dollar-pares-gain-as-orders-for-u-s-goods-top-forecasts.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
most of its major peers after reports showed the  U.S. economy  is
strengthening, fueling speculation the nation’s largest trading
partner has room to slow monetary stimulus.  The currency erased an earlier advance versus its U.S.
counterpart after orders for U.S. durable goods rose more than
forecast and consumer  confidence (CONCCONF)  climbed, adding to evidence the
 Federal Reserve  may taper its bond-buying. Crude oil, the
nation’s largest export, was little changed after gaining
earlier in New York trading.  “We’ve moved into a world where data prints have become
the be-all and end-all, with the focus on the Fed putting us all
into data-watching mode,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, said by phone.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, fell 0.1
percent to C$1.0515 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
loonie buys 95.10 U.S. cents.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing 10-year note yields
up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.54 percent,
the highest level since August 2011. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 lost 44 cents to C$90.96.  The yield has climbed 48 basis points in June on
speculation the U.S. central bank is preparing to pare its bond
purchase program.  Economic Data  Bookings for U.S. goods  meant to last at least three years
climbed 3.6 percent for a second month, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . The  median forecast  of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3 percent
increase.  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed in June to 81.4,
the highest level in more than five years, exceeding all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey and signaling spending will
probably accelerate after cooling this quarter. The  median
forecast  of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
reading of 75.1.  “The U.S. data this morning was cause for a little bit of
volatility for dollar-CAD,” Greg T. Moore, a currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto.
“Durable goods reinforces the theme that the U.S. recovery is
gaining traction and the U.S. is viewing any development in
terms of what it means for QE tapering.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the U.S. central
bank may begin tapering bond purchases this year and end them in
mid-2014. The central bank has been buying $40 billion of
mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion of  U.S. government
debt  each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  China Demand  Canada’s commodity-driven economy is being undermined by
slowing demand from China, the world’s biggest consumer of
metals and energy, while exports of crude oil are hampered by
pipeline bottlenecks.  A government report due June 28 is forecast to show gross
domestic product growth in April slowing to an annualized pace
of 1.4 percent from 1.7 percent in March, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “ Canada  underperforming growth in the U.S. this year has
been a major theme for the year, so GDP becomes a very important
data print,” Sutton said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities has
fallen 5.4 percent this year. Crude-oil futures were 0.1 percent
higher at $95.28 per barrel in New York, after rising as much as
1 percent.  “If the commodity selloff does pick up, then the Canadian
dollar has more room to fall,” Moore said. TD downgraded its
Canadian-dollar forecast in April to C$1.06 by the end of the
first half and to C$1.10 at year-end.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 1.3 percent during the past
month against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. It trails only the
currencies of fellow commodities exporters  New Zealand , Norway
and Australia, down 4.2 percent, 4 percent and 3.8 percent. The
U.S. dollar gained 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  