-- Canadian Stocks Gain, Rebounding From Seven-Month Low
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-25T16:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/canadian-stocks-gain-rebounding-from-seven-month-low.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, rebounding
from a seven-month low, after  China ’s central bank said it will
ensure stable money markets and better-than-forecast U.S. data
bolstered optimism in the world’s largest economy.  BlackBerry rose 1.8 percent after a Morgan Stanley analyst
raised his rating on the stock. CML Healthcare Inc. surged 48
percent after LifeLabs Medical Laboratory Service agreed to buy
the diagnostic services provider for about C$1.22 billion ($1.2
billion). Enbridge Inc. gained 2.3 percent after restarting part
of its oil-sands pipeline system in  Alberta .  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index climbed 129.52
points, or 1.1 percent, to 11,966.38 at 12:28 p.m. in Toronto.
Trading was 30 percent higher than the 30-day average.  “It’s like a tug of war between the bullish and the
bearish factors out there,” Irwin Michael , portfolio manager
with ABC Funds, said from Toronto. The firm manages about C$800
million. “People are worrying a lot about China. The economic
data indicating that the  U.S. economy  is getting better is not
linear.”  The benchmark gauge for Canadian equities dropped 1.3
percent yesterday to the lowest level since November as
commodities producers slumped amid concern a cash crunch in
China would hurt growth in the world’s biggest consumer of
materials and energy.  China’s central bank said today it has provided liquidity
to some financial institutions to stabilize money-market rates
and will use short-term liquidity operations and standing
lending-facility tools to ensure steady markets. China is
Canada’s second-biggest trading partner behind the U.S.  U.S. Data  U.S. economic data released today showed orders for durable
goods rose more than forecast in May and sales of new homes
climbed more than estimated to the highest level in almost five
years. A separate report showed confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed in June to the highest in more than five years.  The S&P/TSX has fallen 5.4 percent this month to erase a
gain for the year and is on track for the first quarterly loss
since the same period last year.  All ten industries in the index advanced, led by technology
shares. BlackBerry, formerly known as Research in Motion Ltd.,
rose 1.8 percent to C$15.12 after Morgan Stanley analyst Ehud
Gelblum said he expects sales of the company’s new BB10
smartphone to meet or beat his firm’s first-quarter estimates,
citing strong global sales.  CML Healthcare surged 48 percent to C$10.63. Closely held
LifeLabs agreed to buy the company in an acquisition that
combines two of  Canada ’s largest medical diagnostic laboratory
operators. Health-care stocks advanced 1.9 percent as a group.  Pipeline Network  Enbridge rose 2.3 percent to C$43.60 after the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S. restored operations on
a segment of an Alberta pipeline network and said it will
restart other lines over the next “several days,” according to
a statement yesterday.  The Calgary-based company shut the Athabasca and Waupisoo
systems, which have total capacity to move as much as 1.17
million barrels a day, after finding a 750-barrel spill caused
by severe flooding.  Producers of raw materials rallied 1.2 percent after a 3.8
percent rout yesterday as metals prices rebounded on the U.S.
data and signs of relief in the Chinese cash crunch.  Teck Resources Ltd. gained 1.6 percent to C$21.56 and
Silvercorp Metals Inc. rose 3.9 percent to C$2.66. Copper jumped
1.9 percent and silver added 0.3 percent. Aluminum, nickel, lead
and tin also climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Brennan in  New York  at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  