-- Carnival’s Arison Steps Down as CEO After Cruise Mishaps
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-06-25T20:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/carnival-profit-beats-estimates-after-price-cuts.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the cruise operator
beset by mishaps at sea this year, said Micky Arison will step
down as chief executive officer next week after 34 years while
remaining chairman. The stock rose the most in almost two years.  Arison, 63, Carnival’s  largest  shareholder, will hand the
job on July 3 to Arnold W. Donald, a director for 12 years, the
company said in a statement today. Arison, son of founder Ted Arison, said he suggested splitting the roles to align the
world’s largest cruise operator with best practices. The company
didn’t conduct an outside search, he said on a conference call.  Arison steps aside after mishaps at sea led to worldwide
publicity and forced the Miami-based company to cut prices to
fill berths. An engine-room fire on the Triumph in February left
3,100 passengers stranded at sea for days with limited food and
toilet service. Separate incidents forced at least two other
Carnival ships to cancel voyages and refund fares.  “It’s not their ideal choice, but a better one than
keeping the autocratic, insular Micky Arison on the job,” said
Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a management professor at Yale University,
citing the new CEO’s lack of cruise-industry management
experience.  Donald, 58, founded and led Merisant, which makes the
tabletop sweetener brands Equal and Canderel. He held senior
management roles at  Monsanto Co. (MON)  over more than 20 years,
including president of the consumer and nutrition unit and
president of its agricultural division.  Family Ownership  Arison, whose family owns 29 percent of Carnival stock, has
“lots of skin in the company and must believe that the hand-picked successor is the best person for the job,” said  D.
Daniel Sokol , an associate professor who teaches corporate law
at the University of  Florida  in Gainesville.  Donald may bring fresh perspectives to Carnival’s practices
and processes, Steven Wieczynski, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a report to clients. He said the change
may also pull Arison, who is also owner of the Miami Heat
basketball team, out of the media’s spotlight.  “Investors we have spoken to in recent months,
particularly in light of the company’s recent mishaps, expressed
it could work to the company’s advantage to bring about change
in the executive suite,” said Wieczynski, who recommends buying
the stock.  Second Quarter  Carnival rose 5 percent to $34.89 at the close in New York,
the biggest one-day gain since September 2011, after also
reporting results that beat analysts’ estimates. The shares have
declined 5.1 percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has gained 11 percent.  Second-quarter  profit  topped estimates that had been
lowered by analysts in the wake of the Triumph incident.
Bookings for the remainder of the year are running behind 2012,
at lower prices, the company said.  Howard Frank, Carnival’s vice chairman, said on the call
the company’s troubles this year would reduce profit by 50 cents
a share, compared with what the company expected before any of
the incidents, citing lower revenue and increased repair and
marketing costs.  The Carnival brand continues to see lower bookings, Frank
said, and it may be two to three years before that line sees
business return to previous levels.  For the quarter ended May 31, Carnival reported net income
almost tripled to $41 million, or 5 cents a share, from $14
million, or 2 cents, a year earlier, when the company was still
dealing with the fallout from the shipwreck of its Costa
Concordia off the coast of  Italy .  Fuel Derivatives  Excluding unrealized losses on fuel derivatives, profit
fell to 9 cents a share from 20 cents, while exceeding the 7-cent average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 1.7 percent to $3.48 billion in the quarter
ended May 31. Analysts had projected revenue of $3.56 billion.  Carnival last month lowered its profit forecast for the
second half of 2013, saying revenue per customer fell after the
price cuts. The company reiterated its full-year profit will
total $1.45 to $1.65 a share.  The company has made other personnel changes including
naming a new head of corporate communications last week.  “There isn’t much encouraging news in today’s earnings
release, other than, perhaps, new blood at the top,” Nomura
Securities analyst Harry Curtis said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  