-- Cerberus Failure to Win Seibu Seats Shows Japan Challenge
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-06-26T09:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/cerberus-failure-to-win-seibu-seats-shows-japan-challenge.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
biggest shareholder of Seibu Holdings Inc., failed to get its
representatives appointed to the Japanese hotel operator’s
board, highlighting the challenges overseas investors face in
the world’s third-biggest economy.  New York-based Cerberus, which raised its stake in Seibu to
35.5 percent last month, had all its eight director candidates
turned down by shareholders yesterday, after Seibu President
Takashi Goto vowed no concessions to the fund that helped bail
out the company in 2006.  The private-equity firm, which said it is aiming to help
improve Seibu’s profitability, is the latest overseas fund that
failed to win board seats in a Japanese company after T. Boone Pickens, Christopher Cooper-Hohn’s Children’s Investment Fund
Management UK LLP and Warren Lichtenstein’s Steel Partners
suffered setbacks in the past. Seibu was backed by investors
such as Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, once the world’s richest man, who
support the company’s management.  “These guys aren’t the first overseas investors to come
here to  Japan  and be disappointed,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief
executive officer of Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which
manages about $19 billion. “They miscalculated from beginning
to end.”  Record Long Meeting  Cerberus had recommended Dan Quayle, former U.S. Vice
President, John Snow, former U.S. Treasury Secretary, and six
others become directors at the unlisted company. The plan was
blocked by investors at Seibu’s annual shareholder meeting near
Tokyo, which lasted a record four hours and 50 minutes. The
shareholders elected the four directors proposed by Seibu.  The fund’s representatives won 39.8 percent of the votes
cast, while the hotel operator’s nominees all won at least 59
percent of the vote, according to a statement from Seibu today.  The fund, which oversees more than $20 billion in
investments, announced a tender offer in March to increase its
stake in Seibu from 32.4 percent to boost its commitment to the
company. A month later Cerberus said it would increase the
maximum amount of shares it could buy and extended the offer.  “The various players would have benefited from more
consideration and training, at many levels, about how to foster
a collaborative board that truly considers the needs of all
stakeholders,” said Nicholas Benes, a representative director
of The Board Director Training Institute of Japan. “This
particular event probably says more about the unique history of
this company than the overall trend of corporate governance in
Japan, which, in general, is improving.”  ‘Exactly Contrary’  Cerberus’s failure comes at a time when Japan Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe seeks to reform company boards. Abe plans to
require companies to have at least one outside director as he
aims to double foreign direct investment in Japan to 35 trillion
yen ($359 billion) by 2020. Billionaire investor Daniel Loeb is
also trying to force change at  Sony Corp. (6758)   “We think this posture is exactly contrary to the spirit
and practice of Abenomics,” Louis J. Forster, a senior managing
director at Cerberus, told reporters in Tokorozawa, near Tokyo,
after the meeting. “They took a very hostile approach. Seibu is
a big company and is a great company and can do much better.”  In addition to Quayle, chairman of Cerberus Global
Investments, and Snow, Cerberus had recommended directors
including Hirofumi Gomi, a former commissioner of Japan’s
Financial Services Agency, Yuji Shirakawa, former chairman of
Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc., and Forster.  Chrysler Stake  Stephen A. Feinberg’s fund has spent about 120 billion yen
building its stake in Seibu, which was delisted from  Tokyo ’s
stock exchange in 2004 for breaking exchange rules by misstating
stakes. In comparison, Cerberus spent $7.4 billion to buy an
80.1 percent stake in Chrysler LLC in 2007.  Cerberus in 2006 led a bailout of Seibu, the seventh-largest railway operator in the Tokyo area, with Nikko Principal
Investments Japan Ltd. Cerberus had said it’s willing to wait as
long as three years for an initial public offering of Seibu,
while the Japanese company said it’s already “financially
prepared.”  During yesterday’s meeting, Seibu’s Goto confirmed his
opposition to the Cerberus plan. A total of 940 shareholders
attended the event, compared with 363 last year.  The outcome of the meeting is “good for Seibu in the
medium to long term,” Goto said. “We want to get ourselves
into a good position to list. We believe Cerberus wants the same
thing.”  Seibu’s current business strategy was backed by Tsutsumi,
who holds 36 percent of Seibu’s second-largest shareholder NW
Corp. The investor amassed a $16 billion personal fortune while
at the helm of Seibu and was named the world’s richest man by
Forbes magazine in 1990.  “With Abenomics, the spotlight is back on the Japanese
market,” said Kengo Nishiyama, senior strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “I expect more of these kinds of
proposals to be made by foreign funds and the focus would be how
Japanese companies would react to those proposals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  