-- Cerberus Plan to Boost Seibu Control Rejected by Investors
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-06-25T08:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/cerberus-plan-to-boost-control-of-seibu-rejected-by-shareholders.html
Seibu Holdings Inc. shareholders
rejected Cerberus Capital Management LP’s candidates to the
 board , thwarting the private-equity firm’s attempt to boost
control of the Japanese rail and hotel operator.  Cerberus, Seibu’s largest shareholder with a 35.5 percent
stake, had recommended Dan Quayle, former U.S. Vice President,
John Snow, former U.S. Treasury Secretary, and six others become
directors at the unlisted company. The plan was blocked by
investors at Seibu’s annual shareholder meeting near  Tokyo 
today, which lasted more than four hours and had a record number
of participants.  The plan was opposed by Seibu President Takashi Goto and
investors such as Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, once the world’s richest
man, who support the company’s management. Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe has called on Japanese companies to open up boardrooms and
billionaire investor Daniel Loeb is trying to force change at
 Sony Corp. (6758)   “Overseas funds that invest in Japan usually find things
don’t go that well,”  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the
equivalent of about $500 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co., said before investors voted.
“Shareholders are seen as just one of several stakeholders,
including banks and employees.”  ‘Hostile Approach’  During the meeting, Seibu’s Goto confirmed his opposition
to the Cerberus plan. More than 900 shareholders attended the
meeting, compared with 363 at last year’s event. The meeting
beat the previous record for duration, 154 minutes in 2008, as
Goto answered questions from investors before the vote on
directors.  Stephen A. Feinberg’s fund has spent about 120 billion yen
($1.2 billion) building its stake in Seibu, which was delisted
from Tokyo’s stock exchange in 2004 for breaking exchange rules
by misstating stakes. In comparison, Cerberus oversees more than
$20 billion in investments and spent $7.4 billion to buy an 80.1
percent stake in Chrysler LLC in 2007.  “They took a very hostile approach,” Louis J. Forster, a
senior managing director at Cerberus, told reporters in
Tokorozawa, near Tokyo, after the meeting. “Seibu is a big
company and is a great company and can do much better.”  2006 Bailout  In addition to Quayle, chairman of Cerberus Global
Investments, and Snow, Cerberus had recommended directors
including Hirofumi Gomi, a former commissioner of  Japan ’s
Financial Services Agency, Yuji Shirakawa, former chairman of
Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc., and Forster.  Cerberus in 2006 led a bailout of Seibu, the seventh-largest railway operator in the Tokyo area by ticket sales, with
Nikko Principal Investments Japan Ltd. Cerberus had said it’s
willing to wait as long as three years for an initial public
offering of Seibu, while the Japanese company said it’s already
“financially prepared.”  The outcome of the shareholders’ meeting is “good for
Seibu in the medium to long term,” Goto said. “We want to get
ourselves into a good position to list. We believe Cerberus
wants the same thing.”  Seibu  management  submitted its own list of candidates for
the board who will be more profitable for the company, Shuhei Akasaka, a spokesman for the company, said last week. Four
directors and two auditors proposed by Seibu were elected by the
shareholders today.  Prince Hotels  That list and Seibu’s current business strategy was backed
by Tsutsumi, who holds 36 percent of Seibu’s second-largest
shareholder NW Corp. The investor amassed a $16 billion personal
fortune while at the helm of Seibu and was named the world’s
richest man by Forbes magazine in 1990.  Seibu lowered earnings forecasts on March 26, five days
before the end of the fiscal year, cutting its estimate for
operating profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization by  3 billion yen  to 78.1 billion yen, from at least
81.3 billion. Two months later, its reported earnings beat that
prediction by  2.1 billion yen .  Prince Hotels Inc. , owned by Seibu, runs a chain of 50
hotels in Japan and around the world, including the  Hawaii
Prince Hotel Waikiki . Seibu got  155 billion yen , about a third
of its revenue of 459 billion yen, from its hotel and leisure
businesses in the year ended March, according to the company.  The resistance Cerberus faced shows domestic opposition to
the influence of foreign funds remains strong. T. Boone Pickens
gave up his attempt to gain a board seat in the 1990s at  Koito
Manufacturing Co. (7276) , while Christopher Cooper-Hohn’s Children’s
Investment Fund Management UK LLP failed in 2008 as did Warren Lichtenstein’s Steel Partners in 2010 with separate Japanese
companies.  Prime Minister Abe wants to add outside directors to
companies to increase independence and aims to double foreign
direct investment in Japan to 35 trillion yen by 2020, according
to the government’s strategy for economic growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  