-- Chevy Move Shows CEO’s Jabs to Get GM Into Fighting Shape
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-06-26T20:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/chevy-move-shows-ceo-s-jabs-to-get-gm-into-fighting-shape.html
As  General Motors Co. (GM)  chief
executive officer, Dan Akerson, a former boxer, has avoided a
hallmark of old GM: Trying to solve problems with a knockout
punch. He displayed his style of relentless jabs by promoting
Alan Batey to lead the Chevrolet brand globally.  Yesterday’s announcement that Batey, the U.S. sales chief,
is moving into a new post is just Akerson’s latest tweak to GM
since becoming CEO in 2010. Along with creating a similar role
to make Cadillac a global brand and management changes to the
top levels of product development, manufacturing and  information
technology , GM looks quite different than when he took over.  “These are much more quiet actions that are more likely to
bear fruit, in my opinion, than the ‘We’re going to throw a hand
grenade in there and dynamite the whole place,’” said  Maryann Keller , an industry consultant, who has been a vocal critic of
Akerson’s early days as CEO.  Batey’s appointment may be the linchpin of GM’s
reorganization under Akerson, who began about a year ago
signaling the need for a new corporate structure to allow GM to
better compete on a global basis against  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)   “To have global brands, you have to have a global
perspective, a global, unified vision,” Akerson told reporters
today at a company event in Warren, Michigan. “I go around the
globe and I just see the anomalies all over in how we position
the product.”  Warring Fiefdoms  Akerson, 64, has said he wanted to eliminate warring
fiefdoms within the company and, people familiar with his
thinking have said, was looking to reconstruct GM around global
functions to move away from regional controls.  While yesterday’s  announcement  doesn’t abolish regional
controls, it does elevate the Chevy brand leader to the highest
ranks of GM management, the executive operating committee, and
he reports directly to Akerson.  The geographic units remain measured by whether they
generate profits or losses and “that’s why the region structure
still stays in place,” Akerson said.  GM needs to keep regional leaders on the ground who
understand local markets and tastes while having an overarching
brand leader who can devise a strategy that applies to multiple
countries, Keller, who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview.  Motivating People  “This has a shot at working,” she said. “It makes a lot
more sense, because if you put the right person in place that
person is going to be the one to understand what the goal is and
get people motivated to actually buy into it.”  Akerson has set several ambitious mid-decade goals that
include boosting GM’s North American operating margins to 10
percent, ending losses in  Europe  and increasing sales in  China .
He also wants to remake Chevrolet and Cadillac as global brands
that compete in mainstream and luxury markets around the world.  A former telecommunications-industry executive, Akerson
hasn’t been shy in complaining about the need for changes at GM
after its 2009 bankruptcy reorganization.  He rose to CEO in 2010 when  Ed Whitacre  decided he didn’t
want to steer GM through an initial public offering that year.  ‘Crystal Clear’  As a board member, Akerson “said he thought GM was one of
the worst companies he’d come across in his entire life,”
Whitacre, 71, wrote this year in his book “American
Turnaround.” “And he was not a fan of GM cars -- he made that
crystal clear.”  Akerson likes to tell people that in some ways GM’s quick
trip through bankruptcy wasn’t long enough to address all of the
issues that needed fixing.  “To correct systemic issues that permeated the company for
10 years, 20 years and 30 years, it’s taken awhile to do that,”
Akerson told analysts and investors gathered in suburban  Detroit 
this month.  Past GM efforts have often involved major revampings. An
April 1992 announcement of changes to GM’s North American
operation, for example, ran three pages, including a detailed
organization chart in small type.  “Grand, sweeping reorganizations, we know, don’t work,”
Keller said.  ‘Dramatic Transformation’  “General Motors has always been the company that’s looked
for the dramatic awakening, the dramatic transformation.
Throughout its history, it was going to cure its problems by
acquiring its way out, or reorganizing its way out of a problem:
Let’s buy EDS, let’s buy Hughes, let’s invent Saturn, let’s
reorganize the company. All of this stuff never really addressed
the very basic issue of how do you manage this company.”  Batey’s selection as head of Chevrolet is evolutionary, not
revolutionary. Batey, 50, has led GM’s U.S. sales operations
since June of last year and became interim global chief
marketing officer in August after  Joel Ewanick  was ousted after
a disagreement about a Chevrolet sponsorship.  Batey’s career, which began as a mechanical engineering
apprentice with GM’s operations in the U.K. in 1979, has
included leadership roles in Europe,  Asia ,  Australia  and the
 Middle East . In the U.S., he was sales leader for Chevy before
to taking over as sales chief last year.  Since Akerson named Bob Ferguson global head of Cadillac in
October, Batey has essentially been performing many of the
duties of Chevy global leader. Batey led an effort to create a
new ad slogan for the brand, announcing in January that “Find
New Roads” would be its global slogan.  International Growth  Chevy’s worldwide sales totaled 4.9 million vehicles last
year, according to yesterday’s statement about Batey’s
appointment. The figure was 3.6 million in 2002, Batey told
analysts earlier this month. Chevy is sold in more than 140
countries, while a decade earlier it was just in 70, Batey said.  GM gained 2.3 percent to $32.55 at the close in  New York .
The shares have risen 13 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sixty-three percent of Chevy sales were  outside  of the U.S.
last year up from 27 percent a decade earlier, Batey told the
analysts. Yet Chevy isn’t one of Interbrand’s Top 10 global
brands, a list that includes  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Apple Inc. and
Toyota, Batey said.  Batey’s comments about the brand also foreshadowed his new
position.  “A lot has happened in 10 years, how do we now take it to
the next level?” Batey said. “We believe we need to do that by
unifying this brand.”  Chevrolet Europe  One of the challenges for Batey will be positioning
 Chevrolet  in Europe where GM also sells vehicles under the Opel
brand. He will get help from Thomas Sedran, who was named  today 
as head of Chevy operations in the region, effective July 1, a
move from his role as Opel strategy chief. He replaces Susan Docherty, who is leaving the company.  “We’re taking a hard look at Chevrolet in Europe,”
Akerson said. “We need a fresh perspective.”  Sedran understands the conflicts between Opel and Chevrolet
in Europe and will work to make changes, Akerson said.  “We’re committed to Opel,” he said. “We’re going to
assess Chevrolet and its relationship not only in terms of price
but content and positioning and in what markets do we want to
have them to compete.”  Akerson’s piecemeal reorganization may be paying off. He’s
overseen 13 quarters of net income that boosted its  stock  to a
two-year high earlier this month. The company has returned to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and is introducing redesigned
high-margin models in the U.S., such as the Chevrolet Silverado
and GMC Sierra full-size pickups.  “When we first came out of bankruptcy, we were playing a
lot of defense,” Akerson told analysts this month. “Now, we’re
playing offense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  