-- China’s Stocks Extend Bear Market Slump as Minsheng Bank Falls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-25T02:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/china-s-equity-futures-signal-bear-market-in-stocks-to-deepen.html
China’s stocks fell, deepening their
slump into a  bear market  amid concerns elevated money-market
rates will worsen the country’s economic slowdown.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. sank to the lowest level since
January, pacing declines by financial shares. Gree Electric
Appliances Inc. led consumer stocks lower. Telecommunications
stocks rallied as ZTE Corp. climbed 3.2 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 1 percent to 1,942.99 as
of 10:14 a.m. local time, while the CSI 300 declined 1.5 percent
to 2,171.21. The gauges had their biggest slumps yesterday since
August 2009 after the central bank signaled it will maintain
efforts to curb speculative lending. The CSI 300 has fallen 23
percent from this year’s closing high on Feb. 6, while the
 Shanghai  Composite is down 20 percent.  “We are likely to see a technical rebound after the market
slumped so much in such a short period of time,”  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai, said by
phone today. “Valuations are low and that’s appealing to short-term speculators. But the overall trend remains downward as the
financial system is still in a money crunch that may hurt
economic growth.”  Losses have accelerated this month after preliminary
manufacturing data showed a contraction and on concern surging
money-market rates will deepen the slowdown. The  overnight
repurchase rate  of 6.65 percent yesterday was more than double
this year’s average. It reached 30 percent on June 20, the
highest intraday level in at least a decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  No Rescue  China shouldn’t ease liquidity to rescue the stock market,
the People’s Daily reported today. It would be hurt if the
central bank eased liquidity or regulators continue a suspension
of initial public offerings, according to a commentary published
on the newspaper written by Gao Yuncai, who wasn’t identified.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  gained 0.2 percent after retreating 3.2
percent yesterday. The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure
of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 2.7
percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite is valued at 7.99 times projected
12-month earnings, the lowest since Bloomberg began to compile
the  data  since 2006. The 14-day relative strength measure for
the index, measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped
during a specified time period, was at 15.9 yesterday. Some
investors use readings below 30 as a signal to buy.  The number of Shanghai Composite stocks with RSI readings
below 30 reached 586 yesterday, the highest level since Dec. 15,
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The index had 266
members trading at new 52-week lows, the most since Dec. 4,
according to the data.  Low Valuations  The tumble in Chinese  stocks  is set to continue as tight
credit deepens the nation’s economic slowdown, according to Bank
 Julius Baer  & Co. and  Societe Generale  SA. The CSI 300’s average
bear-market retreat is 36 percent and the mean duration is 241
days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Money market rates that have more than doubled in the past
six weeks will weigh on China’s indebted developers and
manufacturers, said David Poh, who helps oversee $113 billion as
the regional head of portfolio-management solutions at Societe
Generale’s private bank. While the CSI 300 is valued at a record
low versus the MSCI All-Country World Index, shares will only
rally once the cash crunch subsides, said Kelvin Wong, an
analyst at Julius Baer, which manages $290 billion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  China  International Capital
Corp. yesterday joined banks from Barclays Plc to HSBC Holdings
Plc in paring their growth projections this year to 7.4 percent,
below the government’s 7.5 percent goal.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 22 percent
higher than the 30-day average while 30-day  volatility  was at
22.6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volatility
gauge reached 23 yesterday, the highest level since April 2.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Darren Boey, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  