-- Chinese Billionaire Says Nicaragua Canal Has Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-26T03:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/chinese-billionaire-says-nicaragua-canal-attracts-global-funding.html
Wang Jing, the Chinese billionaire
behind a $40 billion plan to cut a canal through  Nicaragua , said
he’s successfully attracted global investors for a project that
has been on the drawing board for more than 150 years.  Work on the waterway should start by the end of 2014 and be
completed within six years, Wang, chairman of Hong Kong-based
 HKND Group , a privately-held infrastructure development company
he wholly owns, said at a press briefing in Beijing yesterday.
He didn’t identify any of the investors.  “To realize this dream there have to be a lot of
conditions met, and today the conditions are at their most
mature, including mankind’s need for seaborne commerce,” Wang
said in an interview following the event. “Country to country
and industry to industry interactions have been transformed.”  The project has political, financing and engineering risks,
Wang said, without elaborating. Nicaragua’s government estimates
the cost will be $40 billion, or more than four times the
country’s 2011 gross domestic product. It would compete with
Panama’s century-old canal, which is undergoing a $5.25 billion
expansion, and with a plan by  Honduras  to build a railway with
Chinese help to link its Atlantic and Pacific coasts.  Nicaragua’s Congress earlier this month granted a 50-year
concession to Wang for rights to build the canal. The Central
American country has attempted to construct an inter-oceanic
channel on several occasions since the mid-1800s without
success.  ‘Plenty of Obstacles’  The 286-kilometer (178-mile) canal will cut through river
valleys in the eastern part of the country and pass through Lake
Nicaragua, according to a promotional video shown to journalists
at a luxury Beijing hotel yesterday. It will be dug to a depth
of 27.6 meters (91 feet), have a width of 520 meters and
accommodate ships displacing as much as 400,000 tons, according
to the video.  “There are plenty of obstacles,” said Margaret Myers,
director of the  China  and Latin American program for the
Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue. “First of all, is
there any need for a canal? Attracting sufficient investment is
likely to be a major obstacle.”  Another barrier: China and Nicaragua don’t have diplomatic
ties -- Nicaragua recognizes rival  Taiwan  -- which may present a
hurdle for some Chinese companies entering the country. HKND’s
solution is to handle all government contacts through a wholly-owned subsidiary in the Netherlands, Wang said in the interview.  Probability  “The concession was given to what is basically an unknown
company,” said Esteban Polidura, a Latin America analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Mexico City. “Given what we have seen thus
far, the probability of this project becoming a reality, in my
opinion, is very low.”  Wang, 40, said he is “very optimistic” that HKND would be
able to attract enough investors to pay for the project. They
include international banks and other financial companies,
investment firms as well as shipping, logistics and energy
companies, he said.  Nicaragua’s government gave HKND “a lot of guarantees and
a lot of benefits” in areas including land use and tax
incentives, Wang said, adding that there is no relationship
between HKND Group and the Chinese government.  “Facing unprecedented challenges, we confidently head
forward,” Wang said at a June 14 ceremony in Managua with
President Daniel Ortega, according to a transcript on Xinwei’s
website. “Let us join hands to the great trumpet sound of human
self-improvement.”  Opposition  The benefits granted to HKND have led Ortega opponents,
including former presidential candidate Fabio Gadea, to say it
violates national sovereignty. In a phone interview from
Managua, Gadea called for a referendum on the canal once
environmental studies have been completed, citing the vote that
 Panama  held in 2006 on its canal expansion.  “We have to do a referendum like they did in Panama, like
any democratic government would do,” he said. “No one knows
anything about this enormous megaproject that threatens our
sovereignty and environment.”  Wang pledged transparency for the project but gave very few
details about his own background. He refused to answer a
reporter’s question about where he attended school.  Wang said he made his fortune mining gold, iron ore and
precious stones in Cambodia and  Thailand  and other countries in
Southeast Asia before turning his attention to the
telecommunications industry. He said that while in Nicaragua, he
encountered a sixty-something “ordinary Nicaraguan” woman who
asked if she could give him a hug, telling him that the
agreement brought a “day of hope for the poor of Nicaragua.”  Environment  “It is no longer a pure investment, it has become a
historical milestone,” Wang told reporters. “So I don’t want
it to become a joke or an example of a failed overseas Chinese
enterprise.”  When asked about the environmental impact he said they
would take steps to protect the environment.  “Neither I nor the investor group wants our names dragged
through the mud of history,” Wang said.  Other companies may benefit more from the canal project
than his, said Wang, a Beijing native. The idea to construct the
canal did not originate from him, he said, without elaborating.
In 1850, the U.S. and Great Britain negotiated a treaty over a
proposed canal through Nicaragua, according to the U.S. State’s
Department website. The plan failed and, backed by President
Theodore Roosevelt, the Panama Canal was later completed as a
shipping route through Central America.  Wang has business interests in infrastructure, mining,
aviation and telecommunications, according to HKND’s website. He
controls or serves as board chairman of more than 20 companies
in 35 countries around the world, the website shows.  Telecom  Wang is the chairman and biggest shareholder of closely
held  Beijing Xinwei Telecom Technology Co. , which owns core
technology used in China’s homegrown standard for third-generation mobile services. Wang said the company’s goal is to
become one of the world’s top three telecommunications companies
in five to 10 years, according to the company’s website. Xinwei
signed a contract last year worth as much as $300 million to set
up a phone network in Nicaragua.  His 37 percent stake in the company is worth about $1.1
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . A
coterie of China’s top leaders, including President Xi Jinping,
Premier Li Keqiang, Vice Premier Zhang Dejiang and top anti-corruption official  Wang Qishan  have  visited  the company,
according to its website.  Wang, in the interview, said that Xinwei’s investors did
not have “a political background.”  Responding to questions about his background, Wang said
that he had no government connections and had studied
traditional Chinese medicine in Beijing.  “I am a very ordinary Chinese person,” he said. “I can’t
be any more ordinary.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  