-- China Rate Swap Declines for Third Day as PBOC Halts Bill Sales
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-06-25T09:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/china-rate-swap-declines-for-third-day-as-pboc-halts-bill-sales.html
The cost of locking in  China ’s
interest rates fell for a third day, the longest run of declines
in a month, as the central bank refrained from selling bills
amid the worst cash crunch in at least a decade.  The People’s Bank of China sold three-month bills on May 9
for the first time since 2011 and has held twice-weekly auctions
of the securities in all but one of the last six weeks. It won’t
sell bills or conduct open-market operations today, according to
traders at primary dealers required to bid at the auctions. The
nation’s liquidity risk is controllable and money-market rates
will be kept at a “reasonable” level, PBOC official Ling Tao
said today in Shanghai.  “The previous high rates were not sustainable as the
central bank won’t let the system fail,” said  Ju Wang , a
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “But the downside
is also limited as banks still continue to struggle. The
improvement will only be gradual.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, slid 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 4.10 percent in Shanghai,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It reached an all-time high of
5.06 percent on June 20.  The rates banks charge one another for loans surged to
record highs last week and subsequently declined as policy
makers injected funds to selected lenders. Transactions were
recorded at levels below prevailing market rates for one- and
seven-day repos in the final hour of trading on June 20 and 21,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Crisis Risk  The overnight repurchase  rate  dropped 47 basis points to 6
percent in  Shanghai , according to a daily fixing compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It reached a record 12.85
percent on June 20 and has averaged 3.12 percent this year. The
seven-day rate rose 68 basis points today to 8 percent,
following a decline of 345 basis points in the past two days, a
separate fixing showed.  Ling, deputy director, of the PBOC’s Shanghai branch, said
liquidity risks are controllable and the central bank will
closely monitor money-market rates. Policy makers shouldn’t
ignore the possibility of a crisis arising from the recent cash
squeeze, according to a commentary posted on China Securities
Journal’s front page today. At least five companies canceled or
delayed scheduled bond sales totaling some 32.1 billion  yuan 
($5.2 billion), according to statements posted online yesterday.  “The liquidity drought has already hit the economy,” said
Shao Jiamin, the Shanghai-based head of fixed income at HFT
Investment Management, which oversaw some 28 billion yuan as of
March 31. “The situation is going to last for a while as the
inaction of the PBOC in terms of open-market operations will go
on for a while. The central bank is determined to improve or
even eliminate companies with unhealthy balance sheets or cash
flows.”  ‘Fine-Tune’  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign debt using five-year
credit-default swaps jumped 20 basis points yesterday in  New
York  to a 17-month high of 147 basis points, CMA prices show.
The yield on the government’s 2.62 percent bonds due April 2014
slid 10 basis points today to 3.85 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank said in a statement on June 23, after the
monetary policy committee’s second-quarter meeting in Beijing,
the nation should “appropriately fine-tune” its policies.
There is a reasonable amount of liquidity in the financial
system and banks should control risks from credit expansion,
including those associated with maturity mismatch, the monetary
authority said in a June 17 statement posted yesterday on its
website.  Discipline Banks  “The message is that the credit crunch is going to
persist, that the PBOC is not going to precipitously ease,”
said  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at ING Groep NV in
Singapore. “This message is consistent with the view that the
PBOC engineered the crunch to discipline banks. We could see
more spikes as banks have to roll over maturing obligations.”  Chinese regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth
managers to shift assets into publicly traded securities as they
seek to curb lending that doesn’t involve local banks, so-called
shadow banking, according to  Fitch Ratings . More than 1.5
trillion yuan of wealth management products will mature in the
last 10 days of June and mid-tier banks, with an average of 20
percent to 30 percent of deposits in such products, face the
most difficulty, the ratings company said on June 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  