-- China State Construction Plans to Invest in Dubai Island Project
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-06-25T12:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/china-state-construction-plans-to-invest-in-dubai-island-project.html
A China State Construction
Engineering Corp. unit agreed to invest in a $1 billion hotel
and luxury-residential project on Dubai’s man-made island.  The state-owned  developer , based in Beijing, formed a
venture with SKAI Holdings, the project’s owner, the companies
said today in a statement. The resort will include a 481-room
hotel and 221 suites as well as 250 serviced apartments on the
trunk of the palm-tree-shaped island known as the Palm Jumeirah.  “We can’t disclose the size of the investment,” SKAI
Holdings Chief Executive Officer Kabir Mulchandani said by phone
today. “It’s large enough to give the Chinese company joint
management control of the project.”  Dubai’s property market is rebounding from a property slump
that saw prices slide by 65 percent on average. Tourism and
retail sales are bolstering the economic recovery and
construction work in the desert sheikhdom is reviving after the
global credit crisis put some projects on hold.  The resort will be the Viceroy Hotel Group’s first property
in Dubai and is due to open in 2017, the company said on May 15,
when it announced the project. Construction of Viceroy Dubai
Palm Jumeirah started last month as buyers paid deposits of 10
percent of the value of the apartments. About 2.1 billion
dirhams ($570 million) of properties have been sold in the
project, the companies said today.  “The resort has a unique investor model that enables
buyers to purchase hotel rooms, which are then leased back in
exchange for 40 percent of the room revenue,” the companies
said today. “Investors’ annual rate of return is estimated at
12 percent.”  The regional unit, China State Construction Corp. ( Middle
East ), is also the main contractor on the project, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  