-- Cisco China Sales Vulnerable as Media Urge Domestic Shift
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-25T03:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/cisco-china-sales-vulnerable-as-media-urge-domestic-shift.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  faces a backlash
in  China , where it generates about $2 billion in annual sales,
after state-run media said the company poses a security threat
and urged a shift toward domestic suppliers.  While Cisco has said it didn’t participate in U.S.
surveillance programs revealed earlier this month by former
government contractor Edward Snowden, state-owned Chinese media
outlets are calling for the company to face restrictions there.  China should develop its own Internet technology, the
Global Times newspaper wrote in an editorial this week, alleging
that the U.S. can “attack China almost at will.” U.S.
companies, including Cisco, represent a “terrible security
threat,”  China Daily   reported , citing an industry source it
didn’t identify. Shenzhen-based Huawei Technologies Co. is
poised to benefit from any clients seeking Cisco alternatives.  “Huawei will take this and run with it, to leverage its
position with customers in its home turf,” said Ray Mota,
 founder  of ACG Research, a networking-equipment industry
consulting firm.  The media attacks add to Cisco’s challenges in the world’s
second-largest economy, where the company has been losing share
to local competitors, including  ZTE Corp. (000063)  Even as the Chinese
market for switches and routers surged 20 percent to $2.58
billion last year from 2010, Cisco’s market share fell to 18
percent from 21 percent, according to Infonetics Research Inc.  While Huawei also lost ground, its 2012 share was more than
double Cisco’s. ZTE’s share climbed to 29 percent from 18
percent over the two-year period.  Obama’s Ban  Cisco has suffered in China over the past year as the U.S.
has blocked wireless carriers from using Chinese-made equipment
to build mobile networks, citing security concerns. President
 Barack Obama  signed into law a spending bill in March that
prohibits federal agencies from buying IT systems from Chinese
companies without approval from the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  or other federal cyber-espionage investigators.  “We also continue to see challenges in China,” Cisco
Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said on a May 15
conference call. “We do believe we are making progress,
although we expect these challenges in China to last for several
more quarters.”  Even so, China accounts for less than 5 percent of Cisco’s
revenue and profit, according to John Earnhardt, a spokesman for
the  San Jose , California-based company. He also denied any
involvement in the U.S. surveillance initiatives, outlined in
articles in the Guardian and Washington Post this month.  No Monitoring  “Cisco does not monitor communications of private citizens
or government organizations in China or anywhere in the world,”
Earnhardt said in an e-mailed statement. “We sell the same
equipment globally, including both China and the  United States ,
with no customization for purposes of such programs.”  Snowden, a former  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) 
employee, has identified himself as the source for revelations
about National Security Agency programs to collect data on
foreigners, relying on U.S. phone and Internet companies. He
later said the U.S. had hacked Chinese and  Hong Kong  targets
since 2009 and had tapped Chinese mobile phone companies to
steal millions of  text messages ,  according  to the  South China
Morning Post .  Cisco could be insulated from a sustained backlash in China
because of its long history there, said Mota at ACG Research.
Cisco worked closely with the Chinese government to develop the
country’s Internet infrastructure in the 1990s and continues to
teach thousands of Chinese technicians to use its products.  China Mobile  Sales to carriers such as  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. will not disappear entirely, as these
customers can’t risk doing without Cisco’s innovative new
products, according to Infonetics co-founder  Michael Howard .
Cisco recently announced an upgrade of its largest router, the
CRS-X, that can process 10 times more data than it did ten years
ago.  “Cisco gear is always going to be in China’s backbone
networks,” Howard said. Big Chinese carriers “don’t want to
wind up having just Huawei and ZTE.”  Scott Sykes, a spokesman for Huawei, and David Dai, a
spokesman for ZTE, both said they couldn’t comment specifically
on Cisco’s business in China, or how it would be affected by the
reports on U.S. spying.  “For cybersecurity in general, it is a global challenge
which requires a collaborative approach by governments and the
industry to address,” Huawei’s Sykes said in an e-mail.
“Governments, operators and vendors need to each take
responsibility to raise the standards for cyber security
protection.”  ZTE Gains  Snowden’s leak should boost ZTE’s share of network projects
at Cisco’s expense, said Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan
International Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong, who hasn’t yet
produced a detailed forecast for the impact on ZTE. He rates
shares of ZTE buy.  Mounting criticism in state media over the past week
indicate Cisco’s Chambers has his work cut out in China.  “Recent events mean that it may be quite a long time
before we can trust Cisco again,” the Global Times wrote in
June 20  editorial  titled “Cisco Under a Cloud of Suspicion.”
“We can probably expect Chinese authorities to tighten their
supervision over Cisco’s operations in the domestic market. It
also wouldn’t be surprising to see Cisco soon eclipsed by local
competitors Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763) ”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  