-- Cisco Granted New Trial in $63.8 Million Patent Verdict
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-25T16:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/cisco-granted-new-trial-in-63-8-million-patent-verdict.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  won an appeals
court ruling that throws out a $63.8 million patent-infringement
verdict and gives it a new chance to argue it didn’t infringe a
 Texas  company’s patent for wireless-transmission technology.  The trial judge in the case gave jurors erroneous
instructions on the legal standard for infringement of Commil
USA LLC’s patent, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit said in an  opinion  posted on its website today.  The patent, issued in 2002, covers a way of maintaining
network connections through a series of base stations, so a
person with a laptop computer, mobile phone or device using a
wireless-transmission feature such as Bluetooth doesn’t lose the
signal while walking through a building. Commil claimed that the
infringement occurred through the use of Cisco’s Wi-Fi access
points and controllers.  A key issue in the appeal was whether Cisco knew it was
actively inducing others to infringe the patent, a standard set
by the U.S. Supreme Court in a 2011 ruling. The jury was
instructed that it could find liability if Cisco “knew or
should have known” that its action could lead others to
infringe the patent.  “It is clear that the jury was permitted to find induced
infringement based on mere negligence where knowledge is
required,” Circuit Judge Sharon Prost wrote for the three-judge
panel. “This erroneous instruction certainly could have changed
the result.”  Two Trials  Cisco, the biggest maker of networking equipment, is based
in  San Jose ,  California . Kristin Carvell, a spokeswoman for
Cisco, didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  “I expect the result to be similar to the last trial,”
said Commil lawyer Mark Werbner of Sayles Werbner in  Dallas .
“Under the facts of the case, this is not a significant issue.
Obviously Cisco thinks so. There is ample evidence that Cisco’s
conduct was knowing and not just negligent.”  This was the second trial in the case. A first trial, which
Cisco also lost, was thrown out by the magistrate who presided
over the case because Cisco’s lawyers made inappropriate
religious comments before the jury about the inventors of the
patent, who are Israeli.  The Federal Circuit, in today’s opinion, upheld the
magistrate’s decision, saying he didn’t abuse his discretion to
act on the continued comments by Cisco lawyers even after they
were warned the comments were improper. The verdict in that case
was $3.7 million.  The case is Commil USA LLC v. Cisco Systems Inc., 12-1042,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The
lower court case is Commil USA LLC v. Cisco Systems Inc.,
07cv341, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 