-- Coeure Says No Doubt ECB Loose Monetary Policy Exit Distant
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-25T10:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/coeure-says-there-should-be-no-doubt-ecb-policy-exit-is-distant.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said loose monetary policy and non-standard measures will remain as long as needed, as the euro
area struggles to emerge from its longest-ever recession.  “Economic growth is projected to remain weak this year and
inflation is expected to remain clearly below 2 percent for the
euro area as a whole,” Coeure said in a speech in  London  today.
“There should be no doubts that our ‘exit’ is distant and our
monetary policy is and will remain accommodative.”  Bonds tumbled around the world last week after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. policy makers may end
asset purchases in mid-2014. While warning that interest rates
will eventually increase, Coeure said the current volatility is
“excessive in view of the current economic conditions.”  Spanish and Italian bonds advanced for the first time in
four days today on bets ECB officials would re-affirm an
accommodative monetary policy. ECB President  Mario Draghi  is due
to speak at 2:15 p.m. in Berlin. Spanish  10-year yields  extended
declines after Coeure’s comments, falling to as low as 4.95
percent after earlier touching 5.13 percent, the most since
March 28. The euro slid to $1.3118 at 12:17 p.m. in Frankfurt,
compared with $1.3137 before Coeure’s speech.  ‘Market Turmoil’  The ECB is “technically ready” to introduce a negative
 deposit rate , Coeure said in response to a question at the
conference hosted by Euromoney. Draghi has in recent months held
out the possibility of charging lenders to hold cash at the
Frankfurt-based central bank. The rate has been at zero since
July. That’s one of a range of tools, including further long-term lending operations and adjusting collateral requirements,
that the ECB is mulling as the 17-member euro area struggles to
emerge from six quarters of contraction.  At the same time, lax monetary policy maintained for too
long can distort market price mechanisms and encourage excessive
risk-taking, Coeure said, citing research including studies by
the ECB.  “Persistent liquidity sows the seeds for market turmoil,”
he said in the speech. “The continuation of the current low
level of government bond spreads cannot be taken for granted,
and countries’ efforts towards sustainable fiscal positions
should thus continue unabated.”  ‘Credible Backstop’  In the current low-rates environment, unexpected events
such as a shift in monetary policy will inevitably affect the
yield curve and may lead to an abrupt unwinding of risk-taking
positions, Coeure said, adding that governments should be ready
for an eventual rise in the cost of borrowing.  “The financial system should however be able to operate
under a different constellation of yields.” he said. “The
current period of low  interest rates  should be used to prepare
for it.”  While accommodative monetary policy remains, the best way
to adjust for rising interest rates is to repair bank balance
sheets, Coeure said. As part of the European Union’s nascent
banking union, the ECB will conduct a health check on banks’
balance sheets this year before it assumes responsibility for
financial supervision in 2014.  “A comprehensive stress testing exercise will then be
launched in cooperation with the European Banking Authority that
covers a wide range of scenarios,” Coeure said. “Prior to
these exercises, a credible backstop facility needs to be in
place that can address potential capital shortfalls.”  European Union finance ministers will re-convene tomorrow
for talks on how to assign losses at failing banks, after
negotiations in Luxembourg last week broke down. A European
Union summit will take place in Brussels on June 27.  “Governments that are lagging in their effort to
consolidate debt and deficits should keep in mind that the
current levels of yields cannot be taken for granted,” Coeure
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  