-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-06-25T15:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-june.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed in June to the highest level in more than five years, an
indication spending will probably accelerate after cooling this
quarter.  The Conference Board’s  index  rose to 81.4, exceeding all
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and the highest since January
2008, from a revised 74.3 in May, data from the New York-based
private research group showed today. The  median forecast  of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a reading of 75.1.  Rising residential property values and stock prices,
combined with gains in employment, have spurred demand for
housing and automobiles as households gain confidence the
expansion will be sustained. Nonetheless, the recent slump in
shares and surge in  interest rates  pose a risk to sentiment
should hiring also suffer.  “Unambiguously, the economy is showing signs of
improvement despite sizable fiscal drag,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla,
 New York , who is the top-ranked forecaster of confidence in the
past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among
the positives “has been the improving labor market, but in
addition, wealth in general has been rising, at least up until
the last week.”  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of economists ranged from
72 to 79.5 after a previously reported 76.2 in May. The measure
averaged 53.7 in the recession that ended in June 2009.  The Conference Board said the cutoff day for responses to
be included in the report was June 13. Since then equities have
declined.  Stocks held gains after the figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rebounding from a nine-week low. The  S&P 500 
rose 0.9 percent to 1,586.91 at 11:08 a.m. in New York.  Other Data  Other figures today showed  home prices , new-home sales and
durable goods orders climbed more than forecast.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  increased
12.1 percent the 12 months ended in April, the biggest year-over-year gain since March 2006, after advancing 10.9 percent a
month earlier. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 28
economists called for a 10.6 percent advance.  Sales of new homes rose to the highest level in almost five
years, the Commerce Department said. Purchases increased 2.1
percent to an annualized pace of 476,000 homes, exceeding all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey and the most since July 2008.  Durable Goods  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at least three years
increased 3.6 percent for a second month in May, according to
the Commerce Department. Economists estimated a 3 percent gain,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Demand excluding
transportation equipment, which is volatile month to month, rose
0.7 percent, also topping projections.  The Conference Board’s gauge of consumer present conditions
rose to 69.2 in June, the highest in five years, from 64.8 in
May. The measure of expectations for the next six months climbed
to 89.5 this month, the strongest reading since February 2011,
from 80.6.  Today’s figures are in line with the Bloomberg Consumer
 Comfort Index (COMFCOMF) , which has been hovering around a five-year high
reached in late April. American households last week were the
least pessimistic about the current state of the economy in more
than five years, the Bloomberg index showed.  The share of consumers expecting more jobs to open up in
the next six months climbed to an eight-month high of 19.6
percent in June from 16.3 percent in May.  Jobs Plentiful  The number of respondents who said jobs are currently
plentiful increased to 11.7 percent in June, the highest since
September 2008, from 9.9 percent.  Those expecting business conditions to improve in the next
six months rose to a seven-month high of 20.3 percent in June
from 18.7 percent the prior month.  “Consumers are considerably more positive about current
business and labor market conditions than they were at the
beginning of the year,”  Lynn Franco , director of economic
indicators at the Conference Board, said in a statement.
“Expectations have also improved considerably over the past
several months, suggesting that the pace of growth is unlikely
to slow in the short-term, and may even moderately pick up.”  The  Kroger Co. (KR) , a supermarket and convenience store chain
based in Cincinnati, says it’s keeping an eye on how the
economy, gas prices, taxes and political uncertainty affect
consumer optimism.  ‘Better Economy’  “While there are signs of a better economy, the
improvement is not robust,” said David B. Dillon, the chairman
and chief executive officer in a June 20 earnings call.
“Consumer sentiment is gradually improving, but remains
fragile. We continue to see high variability in sales
comparisons between days and weeks.”  Household spending  in the first quarter increased at a 3.4
percent annualized rate, the biggest gain since the fourth
quarter of 2010, Commerce Department figures showed May 30. That
helped gross domestic product grow at a 2.4 percent during the
three months.  The economy is projected to expand at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, based on the median forecast in a
Bloomberg economist survey from June 7 to June 12.  Consumer
spending  is projected to grow at a 1.9 percent pace, based on
the survey median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 Abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  