-- Corn Advances in Chicago Before USDA Plantings; Wheat Also Gains
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-25T11:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/corn-wheat-advance-as-rains-in-midwest-may-curb-u-s-acreage.html
Corn rose for the first time in four
days before planting and stocks reports later this week. Wheat
and soybeans also gained.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will publish its
estimates for the country’s corn, wheat and soybean planting on
June 28, as well as report quarterly grain and oilseed stocks.
Farmers in the U.S., the world’s largest grower, will probably
sow 95.4 million acres of land with corn, less than the 97.28
million predicted by the USDA in March, after rains disrupted
field work, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Traders are looking forward to the planted acreage report
because the discussion on prevent planting and switching from
corn to beans will be over,” Paul Georgy, president of
Allendale Inc., wrote in a market comment. “Harvested acres
will be the real number to watch as it will be considerably
higher than last year for corn no matter what the planted
acreage.”  Corn for delivery in December rose 0.6 percent to $5.50 a
bushel at 5:54 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. Volume was 31
percent below the average for the past 100 days for this time of
day, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Futures fell 4.2 percent
in the past three days.  “The market will not want to get too far ahead of itself
ahead of Friday’s report,” Jaime Nolan-Miralles, a commodity
risk manager at FCStone Commodity Services ( Europe ) in Dublin,
wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions. “It’s customary noise
in the market on what is a clear downward trend.”  Soybeans for November delivery gained 0.5 percent to
$12.795 a bushel and wheat for September delivery rose 0.8
percent to $6.935 a bushel. Milling wheat for November delivery
traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris advanced 0.9 percent to 198.25
euros ($260.26) a metric ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  