-- Corzine May Face CFTC Lawsuit Over MF Global, NYT Reports
-- B y   J a m e s   G u n s a l u s
-- 2013-06-25T07:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/corzine-may-soon-face-cftc-lawsuit-over-mf-global-nyt-reports.html
Former MF Global Holdings Ltd.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine may soon
face a lawsuit from U.S. regulators over the brokerage’s
collapse, the  New York  Times reported.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the federal
agency that regulated the firm until its bankruptcy in 2011, is
set to approve a lawsuit as soon as this week, the newspaper
said, citing unidentified law enforcement officials. Corzine,
the former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., could face
millions of dollars in fines and a ban from trading commodities
if he is found liable, the newspaper reported.  The agency has informed Corzine’s lawyers that it plans to
file the case without giving him an opportunity to settle, which
may result in a protracted legal fight, the Times said. The suit
against Corzine, 66, would be another blow to the Wall Street
veteran, once a senator and governor of  New Jersey .  “The CFTC apparently intends to bring what would be an
unprecedented and meritless civil enforcement action against Mr.
Corzine,” Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for the former governor,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The CFTC has not alleged that
Mr. Corzine engaged in any wrongdoing or directed anyone to
engage in any wrongdoing with regard to customer funds.”  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment outside of normal business hours.  Client Funds  The commission will probably blame the CEO for not
preventing MF Global’s misuse of customer money, without
directly linking him to the disappearance of more than $1
billion in client funds in the firm’s final days, the newspaper
said, citing the officials.  Corzine spent 24 years at Goldman Sachs, rising to become
co-head of the firm with  Henry Paulson , who later became
Treasury secretary. Corzine left Goldman Sachs in 1999 with an
estimated $400 million as the firm went public. He then turned
to politics, winning election to the Senate in 2000.  After five years in  Washington , he became New Jersey’s
governor in 2006 until his November 2009 loss to Republican
 Chris Christie  in the governor’s race. Corzine was named
chairman and CEO of MF Global in March 2010, remaking the
futures brokerage into a smaller version of an investment bank.  “It’s a huge fall from grace,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said by telephone.
“In a certain sense, he is already tainted because his company
failed.”  Porous Controls  Following almost two years of gathering evidence, criminal
investigators concluded that porous risk controls at the firm,
rather than fraud, allowed the customer money to disappear, the
newspaper said, citing the law enforcement officials with
knowledge of the case.  The commission hasn’t told other top MF Global executives
that they will be sued, the Times reported, citing lawyers
briefed on the case. The CFTC is more likely to focus on lower-level employees in charge of protecting customer accounts, the
newspaper said.  “In essence, the CFTC intends to allege that Mr. Corzine
was negligent in failing to supervise experienced professionals
who were in MF Global’s back office in  Chicago  and who did not
report to Mr. Corzine,” Goldberg said. “This allegation is
nothing more than another example of Monday morning
quarterbacking and is without any factual or legal basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Gunsalus in Tokyo at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  