-- Crocs Answers Clog Haters With Leopard-Print Ballet Flats
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-06-25T20:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/crocs-answers-clog-haters-with-leopard-print-ballet-flats.html
Search online for “hate crocs” and
you’ll quickly see why  Crocs Inc. (CROX)  is eager to transcend the
clunky clogs it unleashed on an unsuspecting world 11 years ago.  Bloggers have denounced Crocs as ugly and an escalator
tripping hazard. On YouTube, a woman cuts a yellow pair into
pieces and then feeds them to a blender. A Facebook page is
called “Let’s Burn Crocs!”  Chief Executive Officer John McCarvel is all too aware of
the Crocs animus and how it complicates his strategy to attract
new customers and double sales in five years. The clogs still
generate 47 percent of sales because lots of people like them,
especially medical professionals and kids. Yet to hit his
target, McCarvel must persuade the haters to buy the company’s
other footwear. That’s why Crocs is telling the world all about
its wedges, sneakers and leopard-print ballet flats -- and
putting Crocs in the back of stores the way grocers do with
milk.  “Our milk are those clogs,” McCarvel said in a telephone
interview on June 5. “If someone wants them, make them walk
through all the new stuff first.”  McCarvel, who became CEO in March 2010, has been credited
with helping revive the Niwot, Colorado-based  company  and making
it profitable again. Still, even though sales rose 12 percent
last year to $1.12 billion and  net income  was the highest since
2007, investors are wary.  They watched the shares roar past $70 in 2007 and Crocs
reach a market value of $6 billion. A year later the bottom fell
out amid the financial crisis, competition from knockoff clogs
and the company’s propensity to sell Crocs everywhere, including
gas stations. By November 2008, the shares were trading at less
than $1.  Erratic Forecasts  Since then, the company has issued erratic forecasts. In
the third quarter of 2011 Crocs cut its sales projection four
days before it reported results. The shares plummeted 39 percent
the next day to $16.15 and rose 0.7 percent to $15.57 at the
close today in New York. They’ve fallen 1.8 percent in the past
12 months compared with a 24 percent advance for the Russell
1000 Textiles Apparel & Shoes Index.  “The story is certainly different than it was years ago,
and some people have yet to grasp what it is now,” said Michael Swartz, an analyst with  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in Atlanta who
recommends holding the shares. “The stock collapsed and
obviously people lost a lot of money. There’s still kind of that
gut reaction to the stock.”  In the interview, McCarvel acknowledged investor concerns
and said the company might be better served giving forecasts on
an annual basis rather than quarterly. He also said that
discussions with investors and analysts are often focused on its
U.S. business though  most sales  come from outside the U.S.  Asia Expansion  Crocs plans to open 90 locations around the world this year
with about half in Asia, where sales jumped 34 percent in the
first quarter. That would boost total locations by 20 percent to
more than 500. Crocs had about half that in 2011.  “I don’t doubt they need to have stores in different parts
of the world,” said  Sam Poser , an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. in New York, who also recommends holding the shares.
Given that same-stores sales fell 5.2 percent in the most recent
quarter, Crocs needs to improve existing locations “before
opening a ton of new stores,” he said.  Foreign markets are key to the company’s growth, McCarvel
said. He pointed out that it has little presence in several
warm-weather regions that could help it have less of a seasonal
business because in places like Kuwait and Brazil people wear
sandals year round. The Middle East, Central America and South
America now only account for about 8 percent of total sales.  Fur-Lined Boots  Crocs isn’t relying just on hot climates to keep growing
either. The company has done well in  Russia  because shoppers
there didn’t get to know Crocs as the ugly clog company; they
first embraced its fur-lined boots, McCarvel said.  And in  China , where sales will pass $100 million this year
after entering the country in 2006, Crocs are known more as an
American brand similar to  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  without the fashion
faux-pas history, said McCarvel, who joined Crocs in 2004 and
led its Asia expansion before becoming CEO.  “There’s a much bigger audience out there,” Swartz said.  To grab it, Crocs increased its global marketing budget by
30 percent this year with such slogans as “A Shoe For Every
You.” The aim is to become a lifestyle brand and introduce
potential customers to Crocs’s more than 300 styles and convince
those who think they know the brand, that they don’t.  Preppy Couple  A  recent catalog  could easily be mistaken for a mailer from
J. Crew. On the cover, a preppy couple sits on a wooden boat.
Grinning while in a half embrace, their legs dangle over the
side, pulling the reader’s eye to their Crocs docksiders. The
following pages are filled with strappy sandals and loafers.
Clogs aren’t featured until the back.  To succeed, Crocs will surely need more customers like Jodi
Karr. The 33-year-old bartender with tattooed arms recently
visited a Crocs store in Toronto’s trendy Queens West
neighborhood to buy another pair of navy blue sandals.  “People never think I’m wearing Crocs,” Karr said. “They
usually just think about those original clog Crocs shoes. I love
these things, though.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  