-- Crude Rises as U.S. Durable Goods Orders Gain
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-06-25T20:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/crude-rises-for-second-day-as-durable-goods-orders-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for a second day as U.S.  durable goods  orders gained more than
forecast in May and on expectations that crude stockpiles fell
last week.  Futures increased 14 cents as bookings for goods meant to
last at least three years climbed 3.6 percent in a Commerce
Department report from  Washington . Crude inventories probably
shrank by  1.75 million barrels , a Bloomberg survey showed before
a government report tomorrow. Volume exceeded the three-month
daily average for a fifth day.  “The durable goods number is better than expected and it
looks like the economy is improving,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“There are expectations that you are going to see a draw in
crude stocks. It looks like oil wants to go higher right now.”  WTI for August delivery settled at $95.32 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume of all futures traded
was 36 percent higher than the 100-day average for the time of
day at 4:54 p.m. Prices have slipped 2 percent this quarter,
curbing the gain in 2013 to 3.7 percent.  Futures were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  said U.S. inventories slid 28,000 barrels last week to
392 million. The August contract rose 3 cents to $95.21 at 4:42
p.m. in electronic trading. The contract was at $95.40 before
the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  WTI-Brent  Brent for August settlement increased 10 cents to end the
session at $101.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 27 percent below the 100-day
average. Brent’s premium to WTI shrank to $5.94, the least since
January 2011.  “The spread has been very volatile over the last few
days,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New
York  hedge fund that focuses on energy. “We’ve had a huge move
in the spread and a lot of what we’re seeing today is due to it
coming in too much.”  Excluding  transportation  equipment, where demand is
volatile month to month, durable orders advanced 0.7 percent,
also topping projections, Labor Department data showed.  The median  forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
called for a 3 percent increase in total orders.  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country,
accounted for about a fifth of global demand last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Durable Goods  “Durable goods orders were better than expected and that
did give oil the demand aspect a boost,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago .
“The anticipation that the Enbridge pipeline is coming back is
putting pressure on WTI.”  Crude inventories probably shrank last week to 392.4
million as refiners boosted gasoline production to meet rising
demand, the Bloomberg survey showed. The government is scheduled
to release its weekly petroleum report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow.  World oil demand will rise in the second half of this year
as economic growth continues to recover, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said today.  “Global demand is picking up,” Stefan Wieler, a Goldman
Sachs commodity analyst in New York, said in an e-mailed report.
“We expect fundamentals to improve further going into the
second half of 2013.”  Enbridge Pipelines  Prices fell as much as 0.6 percent earlier as  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB) , the largest transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S.,
restarted a segment of its oil-sands pipeline system in Alberta
shut after a leak that followed flooding in the region.  “Enbridge is restarting the pipeline and it makes sense
why we would see more weakness in prices,” said Jacob Correll,
a Louisville, Kentucky-based commodity analyst at energy
management firm Schneider Electric Professional Services.  Enbridge restored operations on the southern segment of the
Athabasca pipeline network and said that it will restart other
lines over the next several days, according to a company
statement yesterday.  Enbridge, based in Calgary, shut the Athabasca and Waupisoo
systems, which have total capacity to move as much as 1.17
million barrels a day, after finding a 750-barrel spill on June
22 from Line 37, a link serving Nexen’s Long Lake oil-sands
complex. The incident was related to severe flooding in Alberta
last week. Oil jumped 1.6 percent yesterday on news of the
pipeline shutdown.  Restart Plan  Enbridge needs to provide a plan for its shut line to the
Alberta Energy Regulator, Darin Barter, spokesman for the
agency, said by e-mail today.  “People tend to jump at things like news about
pipelines,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 21.1 percent, down from 22.2 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 728,798
contracts as of 4:54 p.m. It totaled 723,734 contracts
yesterday, 17 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  