-- Curt Schilling Debt Vote to Test Rhode Island on Bonds
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y ,   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/curt-schilling-debt-vote-to-test-rhode-island-on-bonds.html
Rhode Island stands on the brink of
becoming the first state since Reconstruction to renege on its
debts, if it doesn’t cover $75 million in bonds that backed ex-Boston Red Sox pitcher  Curt Schilling ’s failed 38 Studios LLC.  Lawmakers must pass a $2.5 million appropriation to make
payments next year on the debt, incurred by a state development
agency to get Schilling to move his video-game developer to
Providence in 2010. The money is part of a $3.4 billion fiscal
2014 general-fund budget set for a vote today in the state House
of Representatives. Some legislators have balked at its passage.  Debate on the issue already led Moody’s Investors Service
to put the state’s Aa2 credit rating under review for a cut,
saying that an unwillingness to cover payments on bonds backed
by the state’s “moral obligation pledge” would undermine the
credit quality of  Rhode Island ’s more than $2 billion in debt.  “There’s a cloud over whether or not they’re going to
fully meet this obligation for the remaining eight years,” said
Robert Kurtter, a managing director at Moody’s in New York. “If
this appropriation is included in the budget but it’s approved
so that a couple of votes one way or another could alter the
course of this, it might create concern for the rating for
future years.”  If the payment is rejected, Rhode Island would join cities
in Pennsylvania, California and  Washington  in showing a
political unwillingness to put bondholders ahead of essential
services for residents with budgets still showing the lingering
effects of the longest recession since the 1930s. The cities
chose to skip debt payments even though they may have had the
resources to make them, according to Moody’s.  Mismanagement Complaints  Schilling’s 38 Studios entered Chapter 7 bankruptcy in June
2012 amid allegations of mismanagement and unmet obligations. In
addition to what Rhode Island must appropriate to service the
debt next year, the cost will rise to about $12.5 million
annually through 2021, Kurtter said. He said the ballooning
expense may lead to wavering on meeting future commitments.  Rhode Island would be the first state since the aftermath
of the Civil War to willingly halt debt payments, said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors, who spoke to Ocean State officials
this month about the possible investor backlash from defaulting.  Former Confederate states were among those to repudiate
debt payments in the 1870s, Fabian said.  Arkansas , which
defaulted on its bonds during the Depression of the 1930s,
eventually repaid investors, he said by telephone.  ‘Precedent-Setting’  Just debating a state-level default on a moral-obligation
bond is “precedent-setting,” Fabian said. “The reasonable
investor can’t assume the state is more willing to pay now.”  Legislative leaders aren’t saying whether they have the
votes needed to pass a spending plan that includes the payment.
They need at least 50 out of 75 members, only six of whom are
Republicans.  “We’ll wait and see,” Larry Berman, a spokesman for House
Speaker Gordon D. Fox, a Providence Democrat, said June 21 when
asked about the level of support in his chamber.  The House Finance Committee last week voted 12-0 to approve
the budget with the payment, with two Republicans abstaining.  Not all the panel’s members plan to support the measure for
final passage.  “This stinks,” Representative Ray Hull, a Providence
Democrat, said by telephone. “Something about it just doesn’t
sit well with me. Don’t lie to the general public and say we
need to pay this back.”  Insured Bonds  The 38 Studios bonds, Hull and other opponents point out,
are insured. That means investors would get paid even if the
legislature decides not to provide the cash.  “ Assured Guaranty ’s insured bondholders will be paid their
scheduled principal and interest on time and in full,” even if
the state reneges on its obligation, Robert Tucker, a company
spokesman, said yesterday in a statement.  USAA Life Insurance Co., based in  San Antonio , owned about
$36 million of the 38 Studios debt as of March 31, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. USAA anticipates the amount owed on the
bonds, which were sold by the Rhode Island Economic Development
Corp. on behalf of 38 Studios, will be covered by the state or
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , which backs the debt.  “We believe that Rhode Island will remain committed to
their economic development bondholders,” Matt Walters, a USAA
spokesman, said by e-mail.  Serious discussion of default began when Representative
Karen MacBeth, a Cumberland Democrat, introduced a bill to erase
the payment from the 2014 budget.  “I know we made promises but we don’t have the money,”
MacBeth said by telephone. “We don’t have the ability to pay.”  Workers’ Pensions  The lawmaker, also a high school principal, pointed to the
2011 pension law, which cut benefits to state workers, and a
provision in the proposed spending plan that would freeze
inflation-based increases in nursing home payments as items that
should be covered by the state before the 38 Studios debt.  “We are doing it on the back of the taxpayers,” she said.  MacBeth also objected in 2010 when the legislature voted to
let the state development agency borrow the $75 million to back
38 Studios and cover its move to Providence from  Massachusetts .  Then-Governor Donald Carcieri, a Republican, had offered
the financing to Schilling as an incentive to bring hundreds of
jobs to Rhode Island, where post-recession unemployment peaked
at almost 12 percent in January 2010. About 400 jobs were lost
when the company collapsed, while the jobless rate  remained  at
almost 11 percent, compared with 8.2 percent nationally.  ‘Scary’ Debate  Rhode Island’s deliberations are “the sort of thing that
you can’t have happen” in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market, said Adam Stern, director of municipal research at
Breckinridge Capital Advisors in  Boston . “Because it’s so
affordable for the state, and because of how that deal was
issued, it’s a little scary that somebody wouldn’t pay that.”  House approval would send the budget to the state Senate,
where there has been less debate on the 38 Studios debt.  Governor Lincoln Chafee, 60, supports covering the
obligation, said Christine Hunsinger, a spokeswoman. She stopped
short of saying he’d veto a budget that excludes the payment.  “I suspect it is something he’d have to think long and
hard about,” Hunsinger said of Chafee, who switched to Democrat
from independent last month.  State Treasurer Gina Raimondo, 42, who is expected to
challenge Chafee for the Democratic nomination for governor next
year, also supports repaying the bonds.  Moody’s cut its rating on the 38 Studios securities two
levels to Baa1 from A2 on June 18 because of the debate over
appropriating funds for debt service.  Investors are demanding less additional yield to own the
state’s debt rather than top-rated municipal bonds. Rhode Island
general-obligation bonds maturing in August 2022 were valued
yesterday at a yield of about 0.5 percentage point higher than a
benchmark index, down from 0.7 percentage point at the start of
the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  