-- Cytokinetics-Astellas Agree to Develop Muscle Treatments
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/cytokinetics-astellas-agree-to-develop-muscle-treatments.html
Cytokinetics Inc. (CYTK)  and  Astellas
Pharma Inc. (4503)  said they agreed to a deal worth as much as $490
million plus royalties to develop drugs for muscle weakness.  Astellas, Japan’s second-largest drugmaker, may pay South
San Francisco, California-based Cytokinetics as much as $40
million in the first two years of the deal, plus an additional
potential $450 million tied to development and commercial goals,
the companies said today in a statement.  The deal gives Tokyo-based Astellas exclusive rights to
CK-2127107, a Cytokinetics drug in the first stage of clinical
trials, for indications other than neuromuscular disorders such
as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS. The companies also
will work together to find new potential therapies.  The partnership will explore treatments for diseases
associated with muscle weakness and wasting, which could include
sarcopenia, an age-related condition, and cachexia, loss of
muscle mass due to heart failure, cancer and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, Cytokinetics Chief Executive Officer Robert Blum said.  These problems affect “many millions of patients,” Blum
said in a telephone interview. “Currently there’s nothing
pharmaceutically for these patients to improve muscle
performance.”  Cytokinetics gained 53 percent last week after the company
said it expanded its relationship with  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  to develop
drugs for heart failure. The company also has a drug for ALS,
also known as  Lou Gehrig ’s disease, in the second stage of
testing.  Cytokinetics fell 5.1 percent to $2.05 at the close
yesterday in  New York . The shares have tripled this year.
Astellas declined 1.6 percent to 4,990 yen yesterday in Tokyo
and has gained 29 percent this year. The drugmaker is the second
largest in Japan by market value, after  Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. (4502)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  