-- Dish T-Mobile Bid Seen as Ergen’s Last Resort: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-25T20:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/dish-t-mobile-bid-seen-as-ergen-s-last-resort-real-m-a.html
Charlie Ergen  may have one last shot
at being a hunter before he’s forced to turn  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) 
into prey.  Dish, the satellite-TV company controlled by Chairman and
co-founder Ergen, dropped a takeover attempt of  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  last week after a boosted offer from rival bidder SoftBank
Corp. Dish also is unlikely to prevail in a separate fight with
Sprint over  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  after driving up the price, leaving
 T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  as Ergen’s last shot at buying a national
wireless carrier, according to Stifel Financial Corp.  Ergen has said he’s willing to spend billions to enter the
mobile-phone industry as a way to boost Dish’s revenue growth,
which is projected to lag behind that of 89 percent of peers
through 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While T-Mobile has become a bigger target after its market value climbed
36 percent to $16 billion since buying MetroPCS Communications
Inc., a purchase would give Dish the fourth-biggest U.S.
wireless provider. Without a deal,  Pacific Crest  Securities said
Ergen could sell Dish’s rights to airwaves or even the entire
company to AT&T Inc., and TMF Associates Inc. said a merger with
satellite-TV rival  DirecTV (DTV)  is another possibility.  “If Charlie does want to go into wireless and he’s hell-bent on doing it, it certainly looks like T-Mobile is the only
option left on a national scale,”  Chris King , a Baltimore-based
analyst at Stifel, said in a telephone interview. “The pay-TV
business in the U.S. is shrinking. That will almost certainly
continue to be the case. It’s not good being essentially 100
percent exposed to that.”  Sprint Pullout  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment on the company’s strategy.  Dish said last week it was pulling out of the bidding for
Sprint after the wireless provider rejected its offer in favor
of a sweetened $21.6 billion deal with Japanese mobile carrier
Softbank.  The fight for Clearwire also soured for Dish last week
after Sprint countered Dish’s offer of $4.40 a share with a $5
proposal for about 50 percent of the company it doesn’t already
own. Sprint has won approval from outside investors controlling
about 22 percent of Clearwire stock.  Sprint’s sweetened proposal, which values Clearwire at
about $14 billion, is up from an initial bid of $2.90 a share
and 116 percent more than the stock’s average price in the 20
days before the offer was disclosed Dec. 13. That would be the
highest premium paid in a deal for a telecom services provider
valued at more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Clearwire Retreat?  While Ergen hasn’t formally bowed out of the bidding for
Clearwire, a deal at this point would be expensive, said  Tuna Amobi , a New York-based equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  “It seems like for Dish, as far as Clearwire is concerned,
it’s kind of the end of the road,” Amobi said in a phone
interview. “At some point you want to retreat from the chase,
and it really seems to be close to that point where Dish may
have to explore other options.”  Today, Clearwire shares rose 0.4 percent to $5.05, while
Dish climbed 2.2 percent to $40.03.  Ergen is unlikely to abandon his quest for a wireless phone
network and will likely seek a deal for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile, according to  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor
at the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor. The billionaire has
amassed spectrum, or airwaves, in a bet that mobile-phone
capacity will help jumpstart  sales  amid rising programming costs
and limited expansion opportunities in pay-TV.  Slower Growth  Dish’s  revenue  is poised to grow about 10 percent to $15.7
billion through 2015 from $14.3 billion last year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That increase
compares with an average growth rate of 35 percent for global
cable and satellite companies with market values of more than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even as the bidding for Sprint and Clearwire escalated,
Ergen pushed ahead with other deals that positioned him to enter
the wireless market, according to  Craig Moffett , a New York-based analyst at Moffett Research LLC. Dish said last month that
it will work with rural mobile-phone provider  NTelos Holdings
Corp. (NTLS)  to develop high-speed Internet technology that would be
the wireless equivalent of landline broadband connections.  The deal suggests “he’s nowhere close to throwing in the
towel yet on wireless just because he didn’t get Sprint,”
Moffett said in a phone interview. “You certainly get the sense
that he’s going to leave no stone unturned in pursuing a
wireless network.”  Spectrum Bid  Another sign of Dish’s commitment to wireless is Ergen’s $2
billion offer for spectrum owned by bankrupt LightSquared Inc.,
which failed to build a mobile network after regulators feared
its airwaves would interfere with global-positioning system
signals. LightSquared hasn’t acted on the bid, a group of the
company’s lenders said last week.  A takeover of T-Mobile would satisfy Ergen’s desire for a
wireless carrier, according to  Andy Hargreaves , a Portland,
Oregon-based analyst at Pacific Crest.  “We have to take him at his word and if he wants into the
mobile business, that’s the only one left,” Hargreaves said of
T-Mobile in a phone interview.  Dish informally approached Deutsche Telekom about a
possible merger with T-Mobile before the carrier sweetened its
bid for MetroPCS, people familiar with the matter said in April.  Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges
said last month that the company has the option to sell its T-Mobile stake to a third party before an 18-month share lock-up
period expires.  Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom, and Anne Marshall, a spokeswoman for T-Mobile, declined
to comment on a potential tie-up between T-Mobile and Dish.  Deutsche Telekom shares rose 2.2 percent to 8.62 euros in
Frankfurt today, while T-Mobile rose 3.5 percent to $23.02 in
New York.  Airwaves Sale  If Dish doesn’t strike a deal with T-Mobile, Ergen could
sell the company’s spectrum, with AT&T as the most logical
buyer, said King of Stifel. Ergen said in February he would
“hang a ‘for sale’ sign on the spectrum” if efforts to partner
with a wireless company failed.  “If he sells the spectrum for a huge profit, I’m not
necessarily sure shareholders view that as a bad thing,” King
said. “That’s probably the best case for Dish shareholders,
certainly in the near term, if they’re able to get a nice
premium for that spectrum.”  Ergen could also sell the entire $18 billion company to
AT&T, said Hargreaves of Pacific Crest. The Dish chairman said
in May that a sale was “always an option.”  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment on the company’s potential interest in Dish or its
assets.  Eying DirecTV  Ergen’s failed bid for Sprint and a possible similar defeat
in the fight for Clearwire may lead him to seek a merger with
DirecTV, Tim Farrar, a satellite-industry analyst with TMF
Associates in  Menlo Park , California, said.  A combined Dish-DirecTV would have 34 million U.S. TV
subscribers, giving it leverage over programmers to lower rate
increases for content. While regulators blocked a proposed tie-up in 2002 because a deal would reduce competition, several U.S.
markets now have other pay-TV options, including the Internet.  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-based DirecTV, declined to comment about a potential merger.  Still, Dish and DirecTV are among the largest U.S. pay-TV
providers and the elimination of a national competitor may
create an obstacle with regulators,  Leo Hindery , the former CEO
of Tele-Communications Inc. and AT&T Broadband, said in an
interview yesterday with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television.  Not Done  AT&T buying Dish’s spectrum less than a year after the
government approved its use or acquiring the entire company also
could draw objections, said Stifel’s King.  With the bidding for Clearwire escalating, T-Mobile may
look like a more attractive way to marry its spectrum with a
wireless network, said Gordon of the University of Michigan.  “Is Charlie Ergen done? No, I don’t think so,” Gordon
said. “He’s stated plainly that a spectrum deal is key to
Dish’s future. Once you say that, you can’t say, ‘Nevermind,
we’re not going to do a spectrum deal.’ At that point, you have
to put the company on the block.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  