-- Doc Rivers Becomes NBA Clippers’ Coach as Celtics Get Draft Pick
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/doc-rivers-becomes-nba-clippers-coach-as-celtics-get-draft-pick.html
Doc Rivers is leaving  Boston  for Los
Angeles in the National Basketball Association’s first swap of a
coach for compensation since 2007.  The Celtics agreed to release Rivers from the final three
years of his contract in exchange for a 2015 unprotected first-round draft pick from the Clippers. He’ll sign a three-year, $21
million deal with the Clippers, ESPN said, citing people
familiar with the situation it didn’t identify. The Clippers
didn’t disclose contract terms on their website yesterday.  “Sometimes you’ve got to let your good people go to pursue
what they need to pursue to make themselves happy,” Celtics
President Rich Gotham said. “While it’s tough to see Doc go, I
think we feel good about what he did here. We will be lucky to
find as good a coach as Doc was.”  The transaction requires league approval and Rivers’s move
already has drawn scrutiny. ESPN said last week that the
Clippers and Celtics were working on a second trade that would
send 37-year-old forward Kevin Garnett to Los Angeles. NBA
Commissioner David Stern said such parallel deals would violate
league rules.  Getting Rivers as coach may be a key to the Clippers
retaining Chris Paul, their All-Star guard who becomes a free
agent on July 1. Yahoo Sports, citing unidentified people, said
Paul had urged management to get Rivers as the successor to the
fired Vinny del Negro.  Rivers’s Success  Rivers, 51, coached the Celtics for the past nine seasons,
guiding the team to seven playoff appearances and the 2008
championship.  “We don’t have a championship without Doc Rivers
coaching,” said Danny Ainge, the Celtics’ president of
basketball operations. “He has a long history of great success
with us in the last nine years, and we wish him the best in Los
Angeles.”  The last time an active NBA coach went to another franchise
was in 2007, when the Miami Heat received a second-round draft
pick for letting Stan Van Gundy join the Orlando Magic.  Rivers succeeds Del Negro, who was let go by the Clippers
last month after leading the team to 56 wins and a division
title for the first time in its 42-year history.  Victory List  Rivers has a 587-473 record over 14 seasons as an NBA coach
with the Celtics and Orlando Magic. His 416 wins in Boston rank
as the third most in franchise history behind Red Auerbach (795)
and Tommy Heinsohn (427).  Rivers won the championship in his fourth season in Boston
with a team led by Garnett, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen, and
returned to the NBA Finals two years later. The Celtics had
their run of five straight division titles end last season and
they lost in the first round of the playoffs to the New York
Knicks, four games to two.  Pierce is 35 and the rebuilding Celtics have the option to
buy out his contract for $5 million by June 30. He is under
contract for $15.3 million next season and is coming off a
campaign in which he averaged the fewest minutes per game of his
15-year NBA career, all in Boston.  The Celtics have been seeking to trade Garnett, who’s set
to make $23.5 million over the next two years, ESPN said.
Garnett last season averaged his second-fewest points and
rebounds since his rookie year in 1995-96.  While trading a coach is unusual, it’s not the oddest deal
involving these two franchises. They were swapped for each other
in 1978, when the Clippers were based in Buffalo, New York, and
nicknamed the Braves. After the trade, the club was moved to San
Diego and became the Clippers, then transferred to Los Angeles
in 1984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  