-- Dollar Rises as Economic Data Above Forecasts Bolsters Fed View
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-25T21:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/dollar-rises-versus-euro-after-durable-goods-orders-top-forecast.html
The dollar rose against the euro for
a fifth day after the U.S. reported stronger-than-forecast
economic data, spurring speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce bond purchases.  The greenback erased an earlier loss as U.S. factory orders
rose more than forecast in May and consumer  confidence (CONCCONF)  for June
exceeded projections. The 17-nation currency weakened as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro-area
economy’s condition still requires a stimulative monetary
policy. Sweden’s krona rose from the weakest since November
against the dollar as producer prices fell less in May than
economists forecast.  “Some good economic news helped the dollar versus the G-7,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It
really helped take some anxiety away from the tapering debate,
which has really been the dominant theme. It reminded investors
of the underlying U.S. economy, where we’ve seen pockets of
growth relative to other global economies.”  The U.S. currency appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3077 per
euro at 5 p.m. in  New York , after earlier declining as much as
0.2 percent. The greenback increased 0.1 percent to 97.81 yen
after falling 0.8 percent. The euro slipped 0.2 percent to
127.93 yen.  Market Periods  The yen has gained 2.7 percent to the greenback this month,
while Norway’s krone has declined 3.6 percent. This quarter, the
euro has led all major gainers with a 2.1 percent increase,
while the worst-performing Australian dollar has slipped 11
percent. The greenback is the best-performing currency in 2013
and South Africa’s rand has plunged 16 percent.  The Swedish krona rose for the first time in five days as
 Statistics Sweden  said producer prices fell 0.1 percent in May
from April, when they dropped 1.1 percent. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predicted a decline of 0.2 percent.  The krona climbed 0.7 percent to 6.7148 per dollar after
sliding yesterday to the weakest since Nov. 16.  The Malaysian ringgit strengthened versus all 31 of its
most-traded counterparts, rebounding from a three-year low, as
some investors judged this month’s losses excessive. The
currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 3.1825 per dollar, the
biggest gain in more than seven weeks.  Option Positions  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $25.2 billion, compared with $31.9 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.5 billion, the
largest share of trades at 18 percent. Euro-dollar options were
the second most-actively traded, at $3.5 billion, or 14 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 42 percent below the average
for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
average.  Volatility in currencies surged since the Fed signaled last
week it may start reducing stimulus this year. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index , based on currency option
premiums, reached 11.82 percent after rising to 11.96 percent
yesterday, the highest since January 2012.  Fed Policy  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the Fed may begin
tapering bond purchases this year and end them in mid-2014. The
central bank has been buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities and $45 billion of  U.S. government debt  each month to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  “What we’re talking about here is dialing back,”  Richard
Fisher , president of the Fed Bank of  Dallas , said in London
yesterday. “The word ‘exit’ is not appropriate here,” he said.
Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said yesterday
the Fed must emphasize in its statement that policy will remain
accommodative “for a considerable time.”  Bookings for goods  meant to last at least three years
climbed 3.6 percent for a second month, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . The  median forecast  of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3 percent
increase.  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed in June to 81.4,
the highest level in more than five years, exceeding all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey and signaling spending will
probably accelerate after cooling this quarter. The  median
forecast  of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
reading of 75.1.  Economic View  “The stronger U.S. numbers are boosting the dollar,”
 Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York, said in a phone interview. “With the
Fed’s tapering signal being strongly data-dependent, markets
will continue to be particularly sensitive to high-frequency
U.S. data.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, gained 0.2 percent to 82.611, after climbing yesterday
to the strongest since June 5.  John Taylor , the founder of foreign-exchange hedge fund FX
Concepts LLC, who previously called for the euro to weaken to
parity versus the dollar, has become bullish on the 17-nation
currency.  “The fact of the matter is, if you’re running a large
 trade surplus , if capital inflows are large, and if your central
bank is tight -- and that one is tighter than the U.S. -- then
your currency just won’t go down,” Taylor said during an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “Even I own the euro.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators last week shifted
their  bets  to an advance for the euro against the dollar for the
first time since February, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  