-- Draghi Says Economy Still Warrants ECB’s Accommodative Policy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-25T12:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/draghi-says-economy-still-warrants-ecb-s-accommodative-policy.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said the euro-area economy’s condition still
requires a loose monetary policy.  “Price stability is assured, and the overall economic
outlook still warrants an accommodative stance,” Draghi said in
a speech today in Berlin. “We expect that monetary stimulus and
improvements in financial markets will support a recovery later
in the year.”  Draghi’s commitment to a policy that includes a record-low
benchmark interest rate follows a slump in global bond markets
since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week
that U.S. policy makers may end asset purchases in mid-2014.
Against that backdrop, Draghi defended the ECB’s as-yet-unused
Outright Monetary Transactions bond-purchase program, signaling
its presence could help ward off volatility.  “I would say that OMT is even more essential now as we see
potential changes in the monetary policy stance with associated
uncertainty in other jurisdictions of the integrated global
economy,” he said.  Spanish bonds rose and yields fell today before Draghi’s
comments, and as fellow ECB board member Benoit Coeure and
outgoing Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said central banks
are a long way from unwinding their crisis policies. Italian
bonds erased an advance after borrowing costs increased at a
debt sale.  “Lowered Risks”  Draghi said the OMT program has helped core countries as
well as those hardest hit by the crisis. The plan is under
scrutiny at the German Constitutional Court after plaintiffs
brought a case arguing it contravenes the country’s basic law.  “The OMT announcement has lowered risks for core
countries: the risks of a euro area break-up; the risks arising
from Target balances in such a scenario; and the risks from
market interest rates distorted by safe-haven flows,” he said  Draghi said that while monetary policy has laid the
foundation for economic growth, governments need to improve
their nations’ competitiveness and consolidate budgets in a way
that fosters business activity.  “Fiscal consolidation can be made much more growth-friendly by cutting unproductive expenditures, by establishing
credible and detailed medium-term fiscal plans and by lowering
the tax burden where it is harming economic activity and job
creation in particular,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  