-- Dutch Economy Contracts More Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-06-25T13:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/dutch-economy-contracts-more-than-initially-estimated.html
The Dutch economy, the fifth largest
in the euro area, contracted more than initially estimated in
the first quarter, as estimates of  consumer spending  and
investment were revised down.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.4 percent from the previous
three months, according to final figures published by the
national statistics bureau in  The Hague  on its website today.
All eight economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast that the
bureau would maintain its initial estimate of a 0.1 percent
contraction released on May 15.  “This number shows the economy is going through heavier
times than we expected,” said Jacques van de Wal, head of the
Dutch economic bureau at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “And we
cannot say yet the lowest point is behind us.”  The Netherlands is going through its third recession in
four years. Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s coalition government is
trying to narrow its budget gap with a four-year, 16 billion-euro ($21 billion) austerity package. The coalition also has to
agree on additional austerity measures of 6 billion euros to
meet the European Union’s deficit limit of 3 percent of GDP in
2014.  GDP fell 1.8 percent in the first quarter on an annual
basis, compared with a drop of 1.7 percent in the first estimate
in May.  Government spending  was slightly higher in the quarter than
initially estimated, the statistics bureau said. Estimates of
output in mining, trade, transportation and services were
revised downward, while the construction sector, financial
institutions and the government produced more, it said.  The number of jobs fell in the first quarter by 51,000,
more than the 34,000 estimated in May, with the extra losses
mainly in services industry, trade and transportation.  The governments planning agency said on June 14 GDP will
decline 1 percent this year. For 2014 it foresees growth of 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Pals at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net  