-- The Supreme Court Matters Less Than You Think
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-06-25T16:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/the-supreme-court-matters-less-than-you-think.html
In a classic “Doonesbury” cartoon
from July 1973, the chief justice of the U.S. prefaces the
reading of an opinion with these words: “Well, we’ve been
conferring like crazy, and I think we have got ourselves another
snappy 5-4 decision.” And, lo, here we are, almost exactly 40
years later, at the end of yet another Supreme Court term full
of snappy -- and controversial -- 5-4 decisions.  We’re accustomed to following the court closely, as if the
course of the world’s future is determined every time the
justices, from the mysterious peak of their Capitol Hill
Olympus, toss down one of their constitutional thunderbolts. We
take surveys on how people want the court’s more controversial
decisions to come out -- a strange exercise in a country where
more Americans  can correctly name  the Three Stooges than the
three branches of government.  And when a vacancy occurs, of course, activists on the left
and the right gear up for a huge bloodletting. The terms are
Manichean: All that is good and right and fair and true in the
world is at stake. If the bad guys get another of their wicked
functionaries on the court, then all of the snappy 5-4 decisions
we’ve won will become 5-4 the other way; those where we’ve lost
will suddenly be 6-3. And justice will be delayed, and the
mountains will fall.  To be sure, the Supreme Court is important. But it’s
possible to exaggerate its ability to effect the vast social
changes for which it is either celebrated or derided, depending
on one’s persuasion. Indeed, the courts can fix a lot less than
we like to pretend. Consider two contemporary issues that should
have more salience than they do.  Recess Appointments  Issue one: The justices have  agreed to hear  the
government’s appeal in National Labor Relations Board v. Noel
Canning in order to consider the scope of the president’s power
to make recess appointments -- that is, to name officials to
positions requiring Senate confirmation at times when the Senate
isn’t in session.  President  Barack Obama  has used the recess-appointment
technique to put into power individuals the Senate was unlikely
to confirm. President  George W. Bush  had done the same. The
method is pretty simple: Is your favorite nominee tied up in
committee? Not a problem. Wait for the senators to go away for a
few days, announce that this constitutes a recess and, presto,
make your appointment without worrying about any silly
constitutional system of checks and balances.  Of course, this isn’t the process that the Framers
contemplated, and it has few defenders other than (at the
moment) partisan Democrats and (in the past) partisan
Republicans. The Senate, meanwhile, has made occasional farcical
attempts to stop it -- for example, by holding pro forma
sessions during what looks to the world like a recess, in which
a trio of senators is on the floor, or on call, just in case.  It’s entirely possible that the  Supreme Court  will rule
that such appointments are unconstitutional. But a decision
either way won’t make much difference. The tendency of
presidents to ignore the forms of the Constitution when making
appointments is simply part of a larger shift of power away from
Congress and to the executive. Congress could end the abuse of
recess appointments in one shot by adopting a statute cutting
the salary of all White House aides by 5 percent each time the
president uses the recess-appointment power. That’s how a branch
of government acts like a branch of government.  By way of contrast, suppose Congress, in a fit of
ideological anger, were to strip the Supreme Court of its
jurisdiction over, say, abortion cases. Nobody doubts that the
justices would strike down such a statute unanimously, with
anti-abortion and pro-abortion-rights types alike voting to
protect the institution.  But Congress has become incapable of protecting itself.
Members will rail and complain, and now and then maybe sue. They
won’t stand up and defend their prerogatives. That’s why it
doesn’t really matter how the court decides the recess-appointments case. If the court strips away this particular
means of executive assertiveness, the president will find
another -- and Congress, in all likelihood, will angrily and
helplessly allow it to happen.  Segregation Concerns  Issue two: Consider Brown v. Board of Education, perhaps
the most iconic decision in the history of the Supreme Court.
Next year will mark half a century since Brown outlawed racial
segregation in public schools. But segregation in the U.S. is
getting worse, not better, especially  in the so-called blue
states , where parents of means can purchase private education
for their children while supporting a political model that
denies money for similar opportunities to poor parents -- who,
by remarkable coincidence, are disproportionately nonwhite.  Strangely, concerns about resegregation rarely point to
this glaringly obvious cause. For example, an  excellent report 
by the Civil Rights Project detailing drastically increased
racial segregation in the schools of true-blue  Massachusetts 
makes no mention in its lengthy set of recommendations of any
efforts to improve access to private education.  The tendency of families who can afford it to opt out of
public education entirely is a market-based solution to a
problem of some complexity. The increased segregation these
individual choices leave behind is a consequence the courts
can’t fix, and efforts to do so only drive more families to
exercise their  constitutional right  to choose private education
instead.  What we see in these two examples -- recess appointments
and school resegregation -- are the limits that the choices of
both individuals and institutions place on the efficacy of
constitutional decisions. The same rule applies in this term’s
most controversial cases. For example, the court may have  struck
down  the formula used to determine which states and counties are
subject to “pre-clearance” under the Voting Rights Act, but
Congress, if so inclined, can write a new formula supported by
new factual findings. And even if Congress doesn’t act,
activists will continue to register black voters and get them to
the polls.  I am not saying that Supreme Court decisions don’t matter -
- only that, in the long run, they matter less than the
responses to them by public and private actors. Something to
think about, surely, the next time a vacancy arises and the
organized forces of the left and the right warn us that with the
wrong appointment, the Apocalypse will lie before us.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 