-- Lebanese Canadian Bank to Pay $102 Million to Settle Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-25T22:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/lebanese-canadian-bank-to-pay-102-million-to-settle-suit.html
Lebanese Canadian Bank agreed to pay
$102 million to settle a U.S. government lawsuit alleging it
took part in a scheme to launder drug-trafficking money and
other funds for terrorists, prosecutors said.  The now-defunct Beirut-based bank will forfeit the funds to
the U.S. under an agreement approved today by a federal judge,
according to a statement from the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara. The U.S. claimed the bank helped launder
at least $329 million through a scheme linked to Hezbollah,
which is designated a foreign terrorist  organization  by the U.S.
State Department.  “Today’s settlement shows that banks laundering money for
terrorists and narco-traffickers will face consequences for
their actions, wherever they may be located,” Bharara said in
the statement.  The scheme, carried out from January 2007 to early 2011,
involved the purchase of used cars in the U.S. that were resold
in West Africa, according to prosecutors. Cash from the car
sales, along with proceeds of drug trafficking, were funneled to
Lebanon through Hezbollah-controlled money-laundering channels,
in which the bank played a key role, the U.S. said.  Proceeds Seized  In August, the U.S. seized $150 million from the proceeds
of the sale of the bank’s assets to Societe Generale de Banque
au Liban. The U.S. will keep $102 million of the funds under the
settlement approved today. The rest of the money plus an
additional $12 million will go to Societe Generale de Banque au
Liban, prosecutors said.  “Drug trafficking profits and terror financing often grow
and flow together,” Michele M. Leonhart of the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration said in the statement. “One of the
DEA’s highest priorities will always be to promote U.S. and
global security by disrupting these narco-terror schemes and
protecting the systems they abuse.”  The bank is satisfied with the way the settlement was
reached, according to a statement forwarded by a New York-based
attorney,  Evan Barr .  Lebanese Canadian Bank “has resolved the civil forfeiture
based on consistent denial of allegations of wrongdoing or
management complicity or involvement in terrorist or money
laundering activities,” the bank said. By reaching the deal, it
“marked its disassociation with terrorist and money laundering
activities,” the bank said.  No claims have been asserted against any of the bank’s
shareholders, board members, its chairman or general manager,
the bank said.  The case is U.S. v. Lebanese Canadian Bank SAL, 1:11-cv-09186, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  