-- Hedge Fund Finds Buyer for Manhattan Lehman Mansion
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-06-25T16:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/hedge-fund-finds-buyer-for-manhattan-lehman-mansion.html
A Manhattan  mansion  owned and
restored by hedge fund Zimmer Lucas Capital LLC is under
contract more than a year after it was put on the market.  The buyer of the five-story townhouse at 7 W. 54th St. is a
local firm that paid cash and is seeking to use it as  office
space , said  Carrie Chiang , a residential broker with Corcoran
Group who handled the sale. The property was first put on the
market last May for $65 million and was relisted in December for
$49.9 million.  “It’s somebody who wants a signature building to be their
office,” Chiang said in an interview, declining to disclose the
sale price or the buyer.  Zimmer Lucas Capital acquired the limestone building, once
home to the son of a Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. founder, for
$13 million in 2005, according to New York City property
records. Within a year, the company began renovations estimated
at $2.1 million, including $50,000 to replace windows, $375,000
to install heating and air-conditioning systems and $200,000 on
an elevator, according to mortgage documents. It  demolished  all
the walls and finishes inside the mansion and added a sixth
floor, data from the city Department of Buildings show.  The owners, who had operated their hedge fund from the
landmarked space known as the Philip and Carrie Lehman House,
have partially moved out and will vacate by September, she said.  The  Metropolitan Museum  of Art consulted on the
redevelopment of the landmark building, according to property
listings website StreetEasy.com.  Price Cut  The owners  listed  the 16,600-square-foot (1,540-square-meter) mansion in May 2012, seeking $65 million, according to
StreetEasy. They withdrew it from the market in November and a
month later shaved 23 percent from the asking price, relisting
the property at $49.9 million, or $3,006 a square foot.  The founding partners of Zimmer Lucas split last year into
two competing firms, after citing “philosophical differences,”
Hedge Fund Alert reported in March.  Stuart Zimmer, a founding partner of the fund, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail or telephone call seeking
comment on the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  