-- Telenor Rises as Nordea Cites Asia Phone-Market Expansion
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-06-25T10:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/telenor-rises-as-nordea-cites-asia-phone-market-expansion.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  gained the most in eight
months in Oslo trading as Nordea AB advised investors to buy
shares in the Nordic region’s largest mobile-phone operator as
growth in Norway,  Thailand  and Pakistan improves earnings.  Telenor rose as much as 4.1 percent to 119.7 kroner, the
 biggest intraday jump since Oct. 24 , and traded up 3.7 percent
as of 12:31 p.m. in the steepest gain on the OBX index of
Norway’s 25 most-traded stocks. Volume was 78 percent of the
three-month daily average.  “Telenor is outperforming its European peers on growth and
has one of the most solid balance sheets in the sector,”
analysts at Nordea, including Stefan Gauffin in  Stockholm , said
in an e-mail today. “We argue that Telenor deserves to trade at
a premium and we upgrade our rating to strong buy from buy.”  The mobile operator is seeking growth in  Russia ,  India  and
other parts of  Asia  as competition intensifies in the Nordic
region, where almost everyone already has a mobile phone. The
Fornebu, Norway-based company is also cutting costs in an effort
to maintain earnings growth and plans to find savings of 5
billion kroner ($821 million) over the next four years, it said
in September.  Second-quarter earnings are likely to benefit from stronger
profitability and wider market share in Thailand, the Nordea
analysts said. Gauffin has a 144-krone price estimate on Telenor
stock.  Telenor is scheduled to announce second-quarter figures on
July 23. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will probably total  8.82 billion kroner , according
to the average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 7.84 billion kroner in Ebitda a year earlier
and 8.16 billion kroner in the first quarter.  The total dividend payout may rise 18 percent on a compound
annual growth basis from 2012 through 2015, analysts at Morgan
Stanley, including Terence Tsui, said on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  