-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise From One-Year Low on China
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-25T21:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/emerging-stocks-drop-to-19-month-low-as-chinese-stocks-tumble.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from the lowest level in a year and bond yields fell as  China ’s
central bank said it will ensure market stability. Brazil’s
Ibovespa jumped while Turkey’s lira snapped a six-day plunge.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.3 percent to 885.85.
The Shanghai Composite Index pared a decline of as much as 5.8
percent, while Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA led
Brazilian steelmakers higher. The lira rose from a record low,
while Russia’s 2030 Eurobond yield tumbled from an 18-month
high. The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slumped, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  China’s central bank said it will use tools to safeguard
stability in money markets and tight liquidity is set to ease,
in a sign of relief for a cash squeeze in the world’s second-largest economy. Today, the nation’s stocks posted the biggest
swings in 22 months. Emerging-market shares also gained after
better-than-forecast reports on American durable-goods orders,
housing and  consumer confidence .  “It’s encouraging that the government is recognizing those
risks and taking proactive steps to return to normalcy,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said
by phone from Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48 billion.
“What is also encouraging for emerging markets is the data out
of the U.S. this morning.”  Mark Mobius , who oversees $53 billion in emerging markets,
said he has confidence in China’s central bank and is keeping
his overweight position following a five-day tumble.  ‘Cleaning Up’  “We should be confident about what the government is doing
and they are cleaning up the system,” Mobius, the executive
chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in a phone
interview today from  Monaco . “We are looking to add to Chinese
exposure if the price is right. If the price comes down
substantially, we would.”  Eight out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose today as consumer-staple and energy shares had the biggest
gains. The measure, which has fallen 12 percent this month, is
trading at 9.2 times  estimated  earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Shares in the MSCI World Index of
developed markets are valued at 12.9 times projected profits.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund rose 2.1 percent to $37.43. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 15 percent to 32.35.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  rose after the biggest two-day drop since
July 2012 as Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, gained
10 percent. The real climbed a third day as the government
reported stronger budget figures than economists forecast.  Russian equities rose from the lowest in a week as OAO
Gazprom, the nation’s biggest company, climbed and crude oil
advanced. The yield on Russia’s Eurobonds due March 2030 sank
after climbing to the highest since December 2011 yesterday.  Benchmark stock gauges in  South Africa (JALSH) , Turkey and Poland
gained, while stocks in the Czech Republic retreated. The
Turkish lira snapped a six-day losing streak.  The Shanghai Composite lost 0.2 percent, after fluctuating
114 points between its high and low, the biggest intraday swing
since August 2011. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , which entered a  bear
market  yesterday slipped 0.3 percent. Ping An Bank Co. led a
gauge of financial shares to its biggest two-day rout since
August 2009. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies slid 0.8 percent after yesterday falling to its lowest
since October 2011.  Bear Market  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  tumbled 3.1 percent,
entering a bear market, amid the biggest monthly foreign sell-off on record. The peso rose as the central bank said it’s not
considering measures to curb outflows.  India’s rupee held at yesterday’s record closing low as a
slowdown in inflows leaves the currency vulnerable to a current-account deficit. The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rose, led by energy
companies and consumer goods makers, as some investors bet the
drop to a 10-week low was excessive.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries lost 12 basis points to 363 basis points, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  