-- Emirates NBD Hires Standard Chartered’s Shayne Nelson as CEO
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-06-25T14:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/emirates-nbd-hires-standard-chartered-s-shayne-nelson-as-ceo.html
Emirates NBD PJSC, (EMIRATES)  Dubai’s biggest
bank, hired Shayne Nelson from  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc as chief
executive officer to succeed  Rick Pudner , who is scheduled to
leave at the end of the year after eight years in the job.  Nelson was the CEO of  Standard Chartered  Private Bank with
additional responsibilities for small- and medium-sized
enterprise banking, the lender  said in a statement  to Nasdaq
Dubai today. In 2006, Nelson was the regional CEO for the  Middle
East  and North Africa as well as the CEO of the United Arab
Emirates for Standard Chartered, the company said.  “Shayne’s years of experience and expertise in the
financial-services industry will drive Emirates NBD to continue
delivering excellent results,” Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Emirates NBD’s chairman, said in the statement.  Nelson’s appointment comes after state-controlled  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest lender
by assets, hired Alex Thursby in April from  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  as CEO. Thursby will next month
succeed Michael Tomalin, who retires after 14 years in the job.  Emirates NBD suffered from a rise in debt defaults and a
surge in loan-loss provisions after the 2008 global credit
crisis triggered a real estate crash in Dubai, one of seven
emirates that make up the U.A.E. Dubai’s economy is now
recovering as its tourism, trade, retail industries rebound.  Emirates NBD’s  shares  fell 1 percent to close at 4.85
dirhams today, paring gains this year to 70 percent. Dubai’s
benchmark share index has risen 40 percent this year.  Profit Outlook  Nelson previously held a number of positions in two of
Australia’s major banks,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and National
Australia Bank, according to today’s statement.  The U.A.E., the second-largest Arab economy, has the
biggest banking market in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which also includes  Saudi Arabia . Annual profit at
Emirates NBD may climb 10 percent to 2.81 billion dirhams ($764
million), according to the mean estimate of seven analysts.  Pudner joined the bank when it was called Emirates Bank
International PJSC and oversaw its merger with National Bank of
Dubai PJSC in 2007 that created Emirates NBD. He helped the bank
expand in Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy, where Emirates
NBD has both a retail and investment banking license.  Emirates NBD in December acquired the Egyptian unit of
French bank  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in a $500 million deal, helping it
enter the most populous Arab country. Emirates NBD is keen to
expand in the Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Islamic
nations in south and south east Asia, the bank said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  