-- Enbridge Line Shutdowns Sap Output as U.S. Crude Gains on Europe
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-06-25T23:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/enbridge-line-shutdowns-sap-output-as-u-s-crude-gains-on-europe.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s shutdown of Alberta
pipelines capable of moving 1.17 million barrels a day toward
U.S. markets is shrinking output and boosting U.S. crude to the
highest level against  Europe ’s benchmark oil since 2011.  The company’s Athabasca and Waupisoo lines, carrying oil
from northern Alberta’s rapidly expanding oil-sands operations
to hubs farther south, remained closed today, with the exception
of a segment from Cheecham to Hardisty. Nexen Inc. and  Suncor 
Energy Inc. (SU) , facing transportation limits, cut output.  Restricted pipeline flows to the U.S., dependent on  Canada 
for 25 percent of oil imports, are buoying U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate crude to the highest level against European
counterpart North Sea Brent in almost 30 months. A prolonged
outage would support a further narrowing of the WTI-Brent gap,
already forecast to shrink to $5 a barrel this year as new
conduits bring Canadian and U.S. shale oil to the Gulf Coast.  “It’s still unclear how long they’re going to be
completely down,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston, said by telephone yesterday. “Every additional
day that Enbridge Canada is down supports the WTI price.”  Alberta, where oil output is on course to more than double
to 3.8 million barrels a day by 2022, sent 1.7 million a day to
the U.S. in 2011,  provincial government  figures show.  Kinder
Morgan Inc. (KMI) ’s Trans Mountain and  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
pipeline expansions are being proposed to help move Alberta’s
growing oil volumes to markets elsewhere in Canada and the U.S.  West Texas Intermediate for August delivery on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange climbed 14 cents to settle at $95.32 a
barrel yesterday. The oil’s  discount  versus Brent narrowed 4
cents to $5.94, the smallest since January 2011, and was back
above $6 in electronic trading late yesterday.  WTI Rises  The WTI-Brent gap will narrow to $5 by the end of 2013 as
pipeline capacity moving oil from Canada and U.S. shale plays to
the Gulf Coast increases and demand for the crudes rise, Vikas Dwivedi, a Houston-based global energy strategist for  Macquarie
Group (MQG) , said in a research note June 24.  “Fast-moving, bearish macro factors and corresponding
central bank responses are pushing Brent crude fundamentals to
the sidelines this summer,” he said. “The WTI-Brent spread will
continue to tighten on supply-demand and logistics 
fundamentals.”  TransCanada’s Keystone project, facing opposition from
environmental groups and under review by the U.S. State
Department, will be built only if it doesn’t “exacerbate”
 carbon emissions , President  Barack Obama  said yesterday at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington .  Obama’s Stand  “The net effect of the pipeline’s impact on our climate
will be absolutely critical to determining whether this project
is allowed to go forward,” he said.  Enbridge, the largest transporter of Canadian crude to the
U.S., shut the Athabasca and Waupisoo systems after finding a
750-barrel spill on June 22 from Line 37, a link on the
Athabasca system serving Nexen’s Long Lake oil-sands complex.  The shut lines restricted Suncor’s ability to move product
out of the region, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said
in a statement June 24. Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. said
yesterday that operations are stable.  Nexen is running the Long Lake complex at reduced rates as
the company works with Enbridge to determine when repairs on
Line 37 will be completed, Patti Lewis, a Nexen spokeswoman in
Calgary, said by e-mail June 24.  Startup Plan  Enbridge will need to submit a startup plan to the Alberta
Energy Regulator before returning Line 37 to service, Darin
Barter, a spokesman for the agency in Calgary, said by e-mail
yesterday. The company restarted the southern section of the
Athabasca system from Cheecham to Hardisty late June 23.  Operations on the system north of Cheecham remain down, the
company said yesterday.  Enbridge’s Ozark pipeline from the oil hub of Cushing,
 Oklahoma , to Wood River,  Illinois , has been shut for maintenance
that was extended to June 29, mitigating the effect of the
Canadian constraints on WTI, Lipow said.  “Every day that the Ozark pipeline is down has a
countervailing effect,” he said.  Enbridge said June 24 that it may clear the Waupisoo line
to  Edmonton  from Cheecham for startup as early as yesterday. The
Long Lake lateral may be down for an “extended period” because
of wet conditions, the company said in a statement.  Long Lake  “Other options to support the Long Lake project’s
requirements are being evaluated,” Enbridge said.  Western Canada Select strengthened a second day against the
U.S. benchmark WTI, gaining 25 cents to a discount of $16.50 a
barrel yesterday, its highest level in almost a week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Syncrude also advanced 25 cents
versus WTI yesterday, to a premium of $3.50.  Suncor said it doesn’t expect the temporary output
reduction to affect annual production. Oil-sands output will
total 350,000 to 380,000 barrels a day this year, with Syncrude
output totaling 34,000 to 38,000, the company said April 29.  Flooding in  Alberta  may have affected the integrity of Line
37,  according to Enbridge. Line 36, which parallels Line 37,
was already shut at the time of the leak, Whelan said by e-mail
June 22.  Athabasca Line  The 30-inch Athabasca pipeline, also known as Line 19, has
a capacity of 570,000 barrels a day, depending on the viscosity
of the crude flowing through it, according to the  company’s
website . The line runs from the Athabasca terminal to the
Hardisty terminal.  The 237-mile (381-kilometer) Waupisoo pipeline, operating
since June 2008, runs from Enbridge’s Cheecham terminal to
Edmonton. The line, also known as Line 18, has an annual
capacity of 600,000 barrels a day depending on the viscosity of
the crude load, Whelan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  