-- Lennar Earnings Beat Estimates as Housing Sales Surge
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-06-25T20:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/lennar-earnings-beat-estimates-as-housing-sales-surge.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, reported fiscal second-quarter earnings
that  beat  analysts’ estimates as sales and prices jumped in a
recovering U.S. real estate market.  Net income was $137.4 million, or 61 cents a share, in the
three months through May, compared with $452.7 million, or
$2.06, a year earlier, when Lennar booked $403 million in
deferred tax assets, the Miami-based company said in a statement
today. Excluding a tax-related gain in the recent quarter,
profit was 43 cents a share, more than analysts’ median forecast
of 33 cents, based on 20  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lennar and other builders have benefited from revived
demand for new houses amid tight  inventories  of existing homes
on the market and a move by buyers to lock in low  interest rates 
before an expected increase. U.S. new-home  sales  climbed 29
percent from a year earlier in May to an annual pace of 476,000,
the highest since July 2008 and exceeding all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, the Commerce Department reported today. While
some shareholders are spooked by rising borrowing costs, higher
rates are a sign that the economy is becoming healthier, which
will boost housing demand, Lennar Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said on a conference call today.  “Interest rates are moving higher in the context of
economic improvement,” he said. “We’re looking at a supply
shortage, so that means that even in the context of rising rates
and a better economy, we’re likely to see price increases and
rental increases.”  Share Gain  Lennar rose 0.7 percent to $35.23 at the close in  New York .
The 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index advanced 1.1 percent.  Homebuilder shares had been falling since May amid concerns
that the U.S. housing recovery will stall as interest rates rise
in anticipation of  Federal Reserve  plans to taper off purchases
of mortgage-backed securities. Lennar  tumbled  20 percent from a
May 14 high through yesterday.  Lennar’s second-quarter revenue rose to $1.43 billion from
$930.2 million a year earlier. The company delivered 4,464
houses, compared with 3,222. The average sales price of homes
sold increased to $283,000 from $250,000 a year earlier. Orders
climbed 27 percent to 5,705 homes.  Gross margin as a percentage of home sales improved to 24.1
percent from 22.5 percent a year earlier.  ‘Strong’ Margin  Lennar “delivered a strong gross margin, reaching levels
not seen since 2006,” Adam Rudiger, an analyst with  Wells Fargo
& Co . in  Boston , wrote in a note today. Rudiger, who  rates 
Lennar market perform, or hold, expected earnings of 28 cents a
share.  While higher borrowing costs are unlikely to derail the
housing recovery, it is “too early to dismiss the risks of
rising mortgage rates” based on Lennar’s results, Rudiger said.  Lennar has diversified under Miller into a land and
apartment developer and an investor in distressed real estate.
That can add to “future growth potential, but it is difficult
to get a read what the potential will be –- and in our
experience additional complexity in a story can deter some
investors,” Eli Hackel, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst who
also has a neutral rating on Lennar, the equivalent of a hold,
wrote in a note.  “We remain upbeat on the company’s continued
diversification of revenue, which we believe will truly
differentiate the company from competitors over time,” Stephen Kim, a Barclays Plc analyst, wrote in a note to investors
yesterday. Kim, who has an overweight rating on Lennar, the
equivalent of a buy, expected earnings of 40 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  