-- Erdogan Confronts Ataturk in Turmoil While Emulating Him
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-06-26T09:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/erdogan-confronts-ataturk-in-turmoil-while-trying-to-emulate-him.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s plan to reshape Istanbul is being challenged by an
adversary more ubiquitous than any political opponent and he’s
been dead for 75 years: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.  The centerpiece of Erdogan’s proposed development of Taksim
Square in Turkey’s largest city is the rebuilding of the Topcu
or Artillery Barracks at Gezi Park, where unprecedented month-long protests against the Islamist-rooted premier began. The
 barracks  were caught up in a 1909 revolt by soldiers supporting
Islamic Sharia law. It was crushed by secular-minded officers,
including the man who would later call himself Ataturk as he
founded the republic 14 years later in place of the  Ottoman
Empire . The shell-damaged building was torn down in 1939.  After three election wins, the 59-year-old Erdogan sketched
an agenda for his second decade in power that would transform
 Turkey . It includes ending the three-decade Kurdish war,
expanding the powers of the presidency, and digging a canal to
create a Manhattan-type island in Istanbul. The past month’s
wave of unrest, which saw city centers repeatedly engulfed in
tear gas as police confronted protesters, has called into
question Erdogan’s ability to put the plans into action.  At the root of the crisis is “Erdogan’s determination to
accumulate all power in his hands and to stay in power as
president, with quasi-dictatorial powers, until the republic’s
centenary in 2023, rivaling Ataturk as a leader who shaped
Turkey,” said Andrew Mango, author of seven books on modern
Turkey including “Ataturk,” the biography of the national
hero, in an e-mail on June 12. “Naturally authoritarian,
success has turned his head.”  Extremists, Speculators  In the past week, Erdogan has been bringing his supporters
onto the streets by the hundreds of thousands, in a series of
rallies aimed at showing he represents the national will. In the
capital Ankara and Istanbul, he defended a record that includes
a decade of  economic growth  averaging more than 5 percent a year
and the clearing of Turkey’s debts to the  International Monetary
Fund . And he attacked opposition parties, extremist groups and
financial speculators for fueling the unrest. The main Istanbul
 stock index  has dropped 15 percent this month.  While many of the mostly youthful protesters had carried
Turkish flags overlaid with Ataturk’s portrait, Erdogan told
crowds in the central city of Kayseri on June 21 that his
supporters should stick to the plain flag. While they should
hang the national symbol on windows and balconies, he said flags
should conform to regulations. “I mean, there will be nothing
else on them.”  Gezi Park  Erdogan’s plans for Taksim include a mosque. Many of the
demonstrators in adjoining Gezi Park, before the police drove
them out on June 15, were gathered under giant pictures of
Ataturk, strung up amid the trees whose threatened uprooting
sparked the first protests.  “Erdogan is here to destroy what Ataturk built, but we
won’t let him,” Devrim Oncu, a 22-year-old member of the small,
leftist People’s Salvation Party, said in an interview in the
park beneath one such banner. “We’ll fight against him and we
will defeat him like Ataturk defeated his ancestors, who also
wanted to continue their autocratic rule.”  Many protesters accuse the government of eroding Turkish
secularism by easing curbs on Islamic-style headscarves while
tightening them on alcohol, devoting more school time to
religion, and jailing hundreds of officers from the secular army
on charges of plotting a coup.  Ataturk’s Mausoleum  Erdogan’s supporters, including women wearing headscarves,
often pose for pictures at Ataturk’s giant mausoleum in Ankara,
pointing fingers at a Kemalist motto inscribed on a wall that
reads: “Sovereignty belongs unconditionally to the nation.”  Erdogan says his government has turned that slogan into
reality by extending democracy in a country where the army has
pushed four administrations out of office since 1960. While a
survey by MetroPOLL found a drop in support for his party since
protests started, it remains 13 percentage points ahead of the
main opposition party with local elections due in March.  “Although protests are expected to continue, they have not
presented a serious threat to the AKP government or its
electoral legitimacy,” Naz Masraff, an analyst at political-risk assessor Eurasia Group in  London , said in an e-mail. The
AKP “continues to be the most popular party in the country,”
she said.  Changing Politics  Erdogan’s chance of creating a presidential system by
changing the constitution is “greatly diminished,” Masraff
said. “He is less likely to push forward controversial laws or
decisions that would trigger a near-term negative public
reaction,” she said, referring to some of the Istanbul projects
such as the proposal for a third Bosporus bridge.  At an Istanbul rally on June 16, while police were tear-gassing protesters a few kilometers across the city, Erdogan
made a brief reference to Ataturk while dwelling longer on Adnan Menderes, premier during the 1950s. Menderes, who like Erdogan
won three elections, presided over an economic boom and eased
some of Ataturk’s curbs on Islam, was overthrown by the military
in 1960 and executed a year later.  “They say ‘the prime minister talks too harshly’,”
Erdogan said, referring to criticism of his response to
protests. “Well, Adnan Menderes was a very polite, very
courteous man. And they took him to the gallows.”  Erdogan also has evoked the pre-Ataturk past when Turkey
was the center of the Ottoman Empire, which ruled much of
eastern  Europe , North Africa and the  Middle East . Last month he
named the planned new Bosporus bridge after the Ottoman Sultan
Selim I. At a rally in Erzurum on June 23, while proscribing the
Ataturk portrait on the national flag, he said the Ottoman
symbol -- three crescent moons -- was acceptable for supporters
to hang outside their homes.  ‘Domineering Father’  Erdogan’s plans for the Taksim barracks are part of that
emphasis on the pre-republican period. They “symbolize the
clash between old and new in Turkey,” Taner Akcam, a professor
of history at  Clark University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said
in an e-mail.  Erdogan’s government has downplayed Ataturk’s legacy, with
lower-key celebrations of national holidays associated with the
republic’s founder, without openly confronting it. When riot
police tore down protest banners in Taksim, they were careful to
leave posters of Ataturk intact, and a giant one now hangs on
the Ataturk Cultural Center, one of the square’s landmarks.  Erdogan, though, has said that in order to build a new
opera house, he’ll tear down the whole building.  “Erdogan styles himself a patriarch who knows best,”
Akcam said. “And like a domineering father, he solicits
opinions but imposes his own decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in Istanbul at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  