-- Almunia Aide Says EU Oil Raids Based on ‘Decent Information’
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-06-25T17:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/eu-oil-raids-based-on-decent-information-official-says.html
The European Union wouldn’t have
conducted raids in its probe of manipulation of oil benchmarks
without “potentially decent information,” said a senior aide
to EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia .  Information from the industry was analyzed by regulators
before last month’s raids on  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,
 Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, Cecilio Madero, the EU’s deputy
director-general for antitrust, said in Brussels today. The EU
is currently reviewing “thousands of pages” of documents from
the raids, he said.  The probe, which extends to undisclosed crude-derived
products and biofuels, underscores how pricing in some energy
markets lacks the transparency of financial products such as
stocks and U.S. corporate bonds. The U.S. Federal Trade
Commission opened an investigation that mirrors the EU review,
two people familiar with the matter said.  To decide whether to open a formal case or drop the matter
“takes time,” said Madero, who is two ranks below Almunia in
the European Commission’s hierarchy and who manages the
antitrust section that led the raids. “We are now checking”
the information available, he said.  Platts, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) , provides benchmark assessments on physical markets, using
data on actual trades and its own editorial judgment.  Platts has not been accused of any wrongdoing and is
cooperating fully with the commission’s review, spokeswoman
Kathleen Tanzy said by e-mail.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  The EU probe marks the third time global pricing benchmarks
have drawn the regulators’ scrutiny in the past year following
investigations into bank manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, and ISDAFix, the benchmark for the $379
trillion swaps market.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  