-- EU Says Turkey Returns to Entry Path With Delay on Talks
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-25T09:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/eu-says-turkey-returns-to-entry-path-with-delay-on-talks.html
European Union governments postponed
the resumption of  Turkey ’s membership talks by at least four
months, protesting Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s heavy-handed treatment of peaceful dissenters.  Turkey got a symbolic declaration that the entry process,
on hold since mid-2010, will proceed once Erdogan’s government
obtains a positive progress report from the EU in October.  “We cannot neglect that we have strategic long-term
interests, and we have to weigh everything precisely and make a
clever diplomatic decision,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters before the EU  announcement  in
 Luxembourg  today.  EU governments are trying to salvage the notion that Turkey
is headed to membership, both to support the 27-nation bloc’s
closest ally in the Muslim world and to show that EU expansion
remains on track.  Germany  floated the compromise after threatening to block
the restart of the talks, which had been scheduled for tomorrow.
Egemen Bagis, Turkey’s EU negotiator, had warned that an EU snub
would lead Turkey to consider “other options.”  While the EU door is open, Turkish membership is far off.
Since starting the entry bid in October 2005, Turkey has
completed talks in only one of 35 EU policy areas.  Another policy area, covering regional affairs, was
declared “open” today. The normal step of immediately starting
face-to-face talks with Turkey in that area, however, was put
off until a separate October decision that any EU government
could block.  EU Limbo  As a result, Turkey, which first applied to join the EU in
1987, found itself in a new form of EU limbo. The Ankara
government has watched as  Croatia , which started entry talks on
the same day as Turkey in 2005, sped ahead en route to becoming
an EU member next week.  “It is an insufficient step but in the right direction in
relations with the EU, which have been going through difficult
times due to inactivity for a long time,” Turkish Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told reporters in Ankara.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  