-- European Stocks Rebound as China Allays Crunch Concern
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-25T16:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/europe-stock-futures-drop-as-chinese-shares-extend-slump.html
European stocks climbed from a six-month low as the People’s Bank of  China  allayed concern over a
cash crunch, and as U.S. data on durable goods, new-home sales
and confidence increased more than economists had projected.  PSA Peugeot Citroen rose 4.9 percent after saying it
received more than 26,000 orders for its 2008-model crossover in
Europe. Vinci SA rose 3.9 percent after Berenberg Bank initiated
coverage of the stock with a buy rating.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  gained
3.6 percent as Investec Plc recommended buying the shares.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 1.5 percent to 279.69
at the close of trading, its biggest gain in two months. The
benchmark gauge entered a correction yesterday, having slumped
more than 10 percent since May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  commented on the possibility of paring bond
purchases. It has dropped 4.8 percent this quarter, the most
since September 2011.  “We’ve been risk-off since April, so at this moment it
becomes more about when you go in and buy,” Fredrik Nerbrand,
London-based head of  asset allocation  at HSBC Holdings Plc, told
Anna Edwards and  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television. “Before I
can even contemplate adding risk, I need to see some
stabilization in markets, and that’s going to be on the back of
a more stable growth outlook. That will take some time.”  The Stoxx 600 is heading for a loss this month of 7
percent, its biggest monthly drop since August 2011 and the
worst June in five years.  China’s stocks fell after posting the biggest swings in 22
months as the Shanghai Composite Index reached a four-year low
and investors speculated the government will take steps to
bolster financial markets.  Market Rates  China’s central bank said it will keep money-market rates
at a “reasonable” level and seasonal forces that have driven
them up will fade.  The People’s Bank of China has provided liquidity to some
financial institutions to stabilize money market rates and will
use short-term liquidity operation and standing lending facility
tools to ensure steady markets, according to a statement posted
to its website today.  Orders for U.S.  durable goods  rose more than forecast in
May. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
climbed 3.6 percent, after increasing a revised 3.6 percent the
prior month, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median  forecast  of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 3 percent increase.  New Homes  Sales of new U.S. homes also climbed more than estimated in
May, to the highest level in almost five years.  Purchases (NHSLTOT)  rose
2.1 percent to an annualized pace of 476,000 homes, exceeding
all estimates in a Bloomberg survey and the most since July
2008, the Commerce Department said today in Washington.  The Conference Board’s  index  of U.S.  consumer confidence 
increased to 81.4 in June from 74.3 a month earlier, data from
the New York-based private research group showed today. The
 median forecast  of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a reading of 75.1.  Richard Fisher , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas , and Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  late
yesterday emphasized that the central bank’s monetary policy
remains accommodative.  The two presidents, who differ over the need for more
stimulus, will vote next year on the  Federal Open Market
Committee , when the members may decide when to end asset
purchases.  Draghi Speech  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro-area economy still requires a loose monetary policy from the
central bank.  “Price stability is assured, and the overall economic
outlook still warrants an accommodative stance,” Draghi said in
a speech today in Berlin. “We expect that monetary stimulus and
improvements in financial markets will support a recovery later
in the year.”  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets except  Italy . The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1.2
percent, while  France ’s CAC 40 advanced 1.5 percent.  Germany ’s
DAX increased 1.6 percent.  The volume of shares traded on companies listed in the
Stoxx 600 was 12 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peugeot rallied 4.9 percent to 6.11 euros, its biggest gain
in more than a month.  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker said it
has received more than 26,000 orders in Europe for the 2008-model crossover. Peugeot is betting that the new 208 compact
city car and the 2008, a derivative of that vehicle, will help
it keep market share in Europe.  Automakers Advance  Fiat SpA rose 3 percent to 5.49 euros and Renault SA
increased 6.3 percent to 53.53 euros, for its largest advance
since Feb. 14. A gauge of  auto companies  climbed the most since
November and was the biggest gainer of the 19 industry groups on
the Stoxx 600.  Vinci rose 3.9 percent to 37.60 euros. Berenberg initiated
coverage of Europe’s largest builder with a buy rating, saying
that the company’s size, balance sheet and technical expertise
give it a competitive advantage over its European peers.  ARM, whose chip designs power Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad,
added 3.6 percent to 786 pence. Investec  upgraded  the company to
buy from hold, citing the stock’s recent decline. The shares are
still 28 percent below their high in May.  Icade SA (ICAD)  advanced 3.1 percent to 60.19 euros. UBS AG raised
its recommendation on the company to buy from neutral, with
analysts led by Kristian Bandy saying the shares look cheap
before a court ruling this week on the office landlord’s
takeover of Silic SA.  European lenders rose, after the Stoxx 600 Banks Index
yesterday dropped to its lowest level since November, with HSBC
adding 2.3 percent to 670.6 pence and UBS gaining 2.7 percent to
15.86 Swiss francs. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest bank,
gained 1.3 percent to 32.91 euros.  Rexam Plc, a maker of beverage cans, fell 2.5 percent to
453.7 pence after saying that full-year results will be lower
than it previously estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  