-- Ex-AIG CEO Greenberg Must Face N.Y. Suit, Top Court Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-06-25T16:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/ex-aig-ceo-greenberg-must-face-n-y-lawsuit-court-rules.html
Ex- American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg must face a
fraud lawsuit brought by the New York attorney general’s office,
the state’s highest court ruled.  The state can pursue its case over Greenberg’s role in a
sham reinsurance transaction and can seek an injunction banning
him from the securities industry and from serving as an officer
or director of a public company, the state Court of Appeals
 ruled today .  The decision is a blow to Greenberg, who has long argued
that the lawsuit, originally filed in 2005 by then-Attorney
General  Eliot Spitzer , is groundless.  Eric Schneiderman, who took over the case when he became
attorney general, contends that Greenberg and former AIG Chief
Financial Officer Howard Smith bear responsibility for the
transaction with General Reinsurance Corp. in 2000 and 2001 that
inflated AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million.  “We are confident that the action will be dismissed by the
lower courts because the state cannot demonstrate that it is
entitled to injunctive or disgorgement remedies,” Greenberg’s
attorney,  David Boies  of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, said in
a statement.  Greenberg, 88, argued the suit was fatally flawed after
court approval of a $115 million settlement of a class-action
lawsuit that resolved claims against him and Smith.  State’s Aim  After the settlement was approved, the attorney general’s
office said in an April letter to the appeals court that
although it was withdrawing its claim for damages in the case,
it seeks to hold Greenberg and Smith personally accountable and
ban them from the securities industry and from serving as public
company officers or directors.  “Attorney General Schneiderman is committed to ensuring
that anyone who commits fraud is held accountable for their
actions no matter how wealthy they are or how many powerful
friends they have,”  Damien LaVera , a spokesman, said in a
statement. “Today’s decision means we will have an opportunity
to establish in court  Hank Greenberg ’s role in this fraud and
hold him accountable.”  Boies argued that the state abandoned any effort to get an
injunction and was trying to “resuscitate a case that is dead”
after the shareholder settlement. Greenberg also consented to a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission injunction that is
broader than what the state seeks, Boies wrote in April to the
appeals court.  ‘No Merit’  “There is no merit to the case and no basis for any
injunctive relief,” Smith’s attorney, Vincent Sama at Kaye
Scholer LLP, said in a statement. “The  New York  attorney
general has never actively pursued any injunctive relief against
the defendants during the eight years this action has been
pending.”  The appeals court rejected the argument that the state
failed to preserve its bid for an injunction.  “There is no doubt room for argument about whether the
lifetime bans that the attorney general proposes would be a
justifiable exercise of a court’s discretion; but that question,
as well as the availability of any other equitable relief that
the attorney general may seek, must be decided by the lower
courts in the first instance,” the appeals court said.  The original case is State of New York v. Greenberg,
401720-2005, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 