-- Ex-Anglo Irish Executive Sang Praises of State and German Money
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-06-25T11:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/ex-anglo-irish-executive-sang-praises-of-state-and-german-money.html
A former executive at Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. said it would be “fantastic” if the state took over
the lender, as “we’d all get to keep our jobs” and sang
‘Deutschland ueber alles’ as the bank won German deposits,
according to tapes of 2008 conversations released today.  John Bowe, former head of capital markets, spoke in
conversation to two other executives in September and October
2008, three months before the government took over the bank, the
Irish Independent, which  released  the tapes said. The recordings
indicated the lender planned to seek an initial 7 billion euros
($9.2 billion) from the central bank because a commitment that
size would make the authorities unwilling to let the lender
fail. Bowe, who left the bank in 2012, said the bank probably
needed more to avert a collapse.  “In hindsight, I deeply regret that the language and tone
I used in these internal bilateral telephone calls was both
imprudent and inappropriate,” Bowe said in an e-mailed
statement. “I categorically deny the allegation that I, at any
time, misled the Central Bank or was aware of any strategy to do
so.”  The tapes prompted both of the largest opposition political
parties to call for an inquiry into the collapse of the
financial system, which cost the country its economic
sovereignty. Deputy Prime Minister Eamon Gilmore said today that
the tape’s contents may hurt the government’s campaign to win a
refund from Europe of some of the 64 billion euros the state
spent on saving the banking system.  “It’s quite clear there was an attitude, a couldn’t-care-less attitude, which is demonstrated by what’s come out on these
tapes,” Gilmore told reporters in Luxembourg.  German Song  At one point, Bowe sings ‘Deutschland ueber alles’ a line
of the German national anthem that isn’t sung anymore after the
regime used it to glorify  Germany  in the 1930s, in response to
comments by another executive that he is using the state
guarantee of the banking system to win funds in Germany.  The executives laugh off concerns by the country’s
regulator on how the guarantee was viewed outside Ireland.
Alistair Darling, who was the U.K.’s Chancellor of the Exchequer
at the time of the guarantee, said Ireland’s decision to cover
its banks smacked of panic rather than a plan, according to his
memoirs, published in September 2011.  Ireland guaranteed its banks’ deposits and debts on Sept.
30, 2008 in a bid to calm investor concern after banking shares
in Dublin fell by more than a quarter the previous day.  On one call, Bowe tells the other executive that he has
instructed his staff not to “overtly pump it so that somebody
can quote you” though the lender “wants to get liquidity
ratios up.”  The conversations also suggested that the executives
suspected that the lender would have difficulty repaying some of
the liquidity granted by the central bank.  “So it is bridged until we can pay you back which is
never,” Bowe said. “It has to happen because if it doesn’t
happen we’re going to hit a wall in the next week”  In all, the bank cost the state about 30 billion euros to
save, and is in the process of being liquidated after being
nationalized in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  