-- Ex-Candidate Pleads Guilty in Phony Facebook Share Scam
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-25T17:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/ex-candidate-pleads-guilty-in-phony-facebook-share-scam.html
Craig Berkman, who once ran for
governor of Oregon, pleaded guilty in a scam to sell interests
in non-existent shares of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and other technology
companies to investors.  Berkman, 71, told a judge in Manhattan today that he
defrauded 120 investors out of $13.2 million to pay personal
expenses, creditors in his personal bankruptcy and earlier
investors. He pleaded guilty to one count each of  securities
fraud  and  wire fraud , each of which carries a maximum of 20
years in prison.  “I deeply regret my actions,” Berkman, who was weeping,
told U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin Nathaniel Fox. “I devastated
my family. I apologize to them and to the investors, some of
whom were dear friends. I’m very, very sorry.”  Berkman admitted that from 2010 to March 2013 he defrauded
investors by selling shares in companies he claimed were set up
to hold pre-IPO shares of Facebook. He told investors he also
had access to shares of  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA) , according to the government.  Berkman was arrested March 19 at his home in Odessa,
Florida. He remains in custody, appearing today in tan prison
clothing. Fox set Oct. 1 for a sentencing hearing. Berkman
agreed to forfeit $13.2 million as part of a plea agreement with
prosecutors.  Republican Candidate  Berkman, a Republican, ran for governor of Oregon in 1994.
He lost his party’s primary election to former U.S. Congressman
Denny Smith, who then lost the general election to Democrat John Kitzhaber.  Prosecutors said Berkman was forced into bankruptcy in 2009
by creditors who won a civil suit claiming he had taken their
money in an earlier fraud. Berkman used much of the money raised
in his later schemes to fund a $4.75 million settlement reached
for the benefit of victims of the earlier fraud, according to
the government.  John Mattera, another  Florida  man, was sentenced June 21 to
11 years in prison after pleading guilty to a separate scam to
sell non-existent shares in Facebook and Groupon.  The case is U.S. v. Berkman, 13-mj-00732, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  