-- Mexico Peso Gains as U.S. Economic Reports Boost Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-25T22:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/mexico-peso-gains-as-u-s-economic-reports-boost-export-outlook.html
Mexico’s peso rose for a third day
as data showing the  U.S. economy  is improving boosted the
outlook for the Latin American nation’s biggest export market.  The currency rose 0.5 percent to 13.2226 per  U.S. dollar  at
4 p.m. in Mexico City. Today’s rally pared the loss this quarter
to 6.7 percent and 3.1 percent in June. Yields on government
bonds maturing in 2042, the nation’s longest-dated peso debt,
increased nine basis points to 7.43 percent.  Better-than-forecast reports today on U.S. durable-goods
orders, housing and  consumer confidence  bolstered optimism in
the world’s biggest economy. U.S. bookings for durable goods
climbed 3.6 percent, Commerce Department data showed, while
separate reports on house prices, new-home sales and consumer
confidence topped estimates. Mexico sends about 80 percent of
its exports to its northern neighbor.  “The market understands that the data have improved and
that the economy is getting better,” Roberto Galvan, a currency
trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City.  The Mexican currency has fallen in the past month amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its latest round of
stimulus, known as QE3, which had fueled demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said June 19 that policy makers could end the $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases if economic risks in the U.S. abate.  Galvan said that initially the “very good” U.S. data
caused the peso to pare gains as it fueled speculation about the
Fed tapering its stimulus. “The market in reality doesn’t know
what to do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  