-- MF Global’s Corzine Said to Face CFTC Suit on Collapse
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r ,   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J a m e s   G u n s a l u s
-- 2013-06-25T16:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/mf-global-s-jon-corzine-said-to-face-cftc-lawsuit-on-collapse.html
Jon S. Corzine, the former  New
Jersey  governor and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman,
probably will be sued by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission for his role in the collapse of MF Global Holdings
Ltd., said a person with direct knowledge of the situation.  The CFTC, the federal agency that regulated MF Global until
the brokerage filed for bankruptcy in 2011, could sue Corzine as
soon as this week, said the person, who asked for anonymity
because the case isn’t public yet.  Steve Adamske , a spokesman
for the CFTC in  Washington , declined to comment.  The suit against Corzine, 66, would mark a new low for the
Wall Street veteran, who rose to the top of Goldman Sachs before
being elected a New Jersey senator and then governor. He could
face millions of dollars in fines and a ban from trading
commodities if he’s found liable, the New York Times reported
late yesterday.  “The CFTC apparently intends to bring what would be an
unprecedented and meritless civil enforcement action against Mr.
Corzine,” Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for the former governor,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The CFTC has not alleged that
Mr. Corzine engaged in any wrongdoing or directed anyone to
engage in any wrongdoing with regard to customer funds.”  The Times, citing unidentified law enforcement officials,
said the agency told Corzine’s lawyers it plans to file the case
without giving him an opportunity to settle, which may result in
a protracted legal fight.  Client Funds  The commission probably will blame the former chief
executive officer for not preventing MF Global’s misuse of
customer money, without directly linking him to the
disappearance of more than $1 billion in client funds in the
firm’s final days, the newspaper said, citing the officials.  “Better late than never,” said James Koutoulas, CEO of
Typhon Capital Management LLC in  Chicago  and president of the
Commodity Customer Coalition. The group urged regulators to
pursue civil and criminal action following MF Global’s collapse
and improve customer protection. The CFTC typically is
conservative about taking such actions, “so the fact that
they’ve done this bodes well that they think they can win,” he
said.  Corzine’s Career  Corzine spent 24 years at Goldman Sachs, rising to become
co-head of the firm with  Henry Paulson , who later became the
U.S. Treasury secretary. Corzine left Goldman Sachs in 1999 with
an estimated $400 million as the firm went public. He then
turned to politics, winning election to the Senate in 2000.  After five years in Washington, he became New Jersey’s
governor in 2006 until his November 2009 loss to Republican
 Chris Christie  in the governor’s race. Corzine was named
chairman and CEO of MF Global in March 2010, remaking the
futures brokerage into a smaller version of an investment bank.  “It’s a huge fall from grace,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said by telephone.
“In a certain sense, he is already tainted because his company
failed.”  Following almost two years of gathering evidence, criminal
investigators concluded that porous risk controls at the firm,
rather than fraud, allowed the customer money to disappear, the
newspaper said, citing the law enforcement officials with
knowledge of the case.  The commission hasn’t told other top MF Global executives
that they will be sued, the Times reported, citing lawyers
briefed on the case. The CFTC is more likely to focus on lower-level employees in charge of protecting customer accounts, the
newspaper said.  “The CFTC intends to allege that Mr. Corzine was negligent
in failing to supervise experienced professionals who were in MF
Global’s back office in Chicago and who did not report to Mr.
Corzine,” Goldberg said. Investigators are second-guessing
decisions made during the company’s crisis and the allegations
are “without any factual or legal basis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
James Gunsalus in Tokyo at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  