-- Farmers Seen by OECD as Improving Environmental Performance
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-25T16:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/farmers-seen-by-oecd-as-improving-environmental-performance.html
Farmers in developed economies have
improved their environmental performance in the past decade,
using fewer inputs such as pesticides per volume of food
produced, according to an OECD report.  Use of fertilizer, pesticides, energy and water per unit of
production have fallen in the 10 years through 2010 from the
previous decade, the Paris-based Organization for  Economic
Development  and Cooperation  wrote . Environmental indicators
provide “some encouraging signs that agriculture is capable of
meeting future environmental challenges,” it said.  Widespread use of techniques such as conservation tillage,
improved manure storage and drip irrigation have improved
environmental performance, the OECD said. Rising prices through
to 2021 may provide farmers incentives to boost output, which
could increase environmental pressure, according to the report.  “There are a number of recent encouraging developments,
however, that may lower environmental pressure from agriculture
in the future,” the OECD wrote. “For example, improved
efficiency in use of farm inputs.”  More effort is needed to address water pollution and a
decline in farmland breeding bird populations in some regions,
according to the report. Absolute levels of pollution remain a
challenge, the OECD said.  About 20 percent of arable and permanent crop land in the
OECD was planted with genetically-modified crops in the
2008-2010 period, while organic farming accounted for less than
2 percent of area, according to the report.  Pesticide sales in OECD countries have declined by more
than 1 percent a year between 2000 and 2010, after climbing an
average 0.2 percent annually in the previous decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  