-- Fed Should Target Spending, Not Inflation
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-06-25T15:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/fed-should-target-spending-not-inflation.html
The idea that what this economy
needs is more inflation will sound odd to most ears, but a lot
of smart people are voicing it. They’re right that we need
looser money, but wrong about why.  The  Federal Reserve  has interpreted its mandate to promote
“stable prices” to mean that it should shoot for an inflation
rate of roughly 2 percent per year. The latest “core inflation”
number -- which excludes energy and food prices because they’re
more volatile -- was 1.68 percent. The Cleveland Fed  estimates 
that the market expects inflation to average 1.55 percent over
the next decade.  Some economists want a looser monetary policy so that the
Fed hits its target, or even exceeds it. Within this group, some
advocate above-target inflation temporarily as a way to help the
economy, which they consider to still be depressed. Others say
the Fed should permanently raise its target to 4 percent.  Their reasoning is that faster inflation today is a way to
reduce real interest rates when nominal rates, being roughly
zero, can’t fall. Faster inflation should also spur spending on
both consumption and investment because it raises the price of
just leaving money idle. These effects would stimulate the
economy in the short run.  The advantage of a permanently higher inflation rate is
that it would raise nominal interest rates: If you expect higher
inflation, you’ll want to charge a higher  interest rate  to
compensate for it. So in future recessions, the Fed will have
more room to reduce interest rates before hitting zero. A 4
percent target would come with some costs. Taxes on capital
aren’t adjusted for inflation, for instance, so faster inflation
would make those taxes higher and more distortionary in real
terms.  Nominal Spending  But the main reason the Fed shouldn’t adopt a higher
inflation-rate target is that targeting any inflation rate at
all is a mistake.  Instead, the Fed should target nominal spending so that the
total amount of dollars spent in the economy grows by about 5
percent a year. How much of that spending growth would represent
inflation and how much would represent real economic gains is
out of the Fed’s control, so it shouldn’t seek any particular
mix.  Compared to an inflation-rate target, a nominal-spending
target would respond better to changes in  productivity . If the
Fed were following a strict inflation-rate target, reduced
productivity would force it to tighten money when the economy is
suffering, and higher productivity would force it to loosen
money when the economy is booming. If the Fed were following a
nominal-spending target, it would neither loosen nor tighten:
All that would change is the ratio of inflation to real growth.  The arguments for higher inflation are actually better
arguments for higher nominal spending. People consume and invest
more when they expect higher inflation, but also when they
expect higher rates of real economic growth. In other words,
it’s higher expectations of nominal spending that stimulate
them.  Low interest rates don’t prevent the Fed from loosening
money, as several rounds of  quantitative easing  (not to mention
other countries’ currency depreciations) show. So we don’t need
a higher inflation-rate target to get higher interest rates that
the Fed can then lower in future recessions. And we certainly
shouldn’t adopt a higher target just because the Fed is
uncomfortable changing the way it operates.  To return to reality for a moment: The Fed isn’t hitting
its 2 percent inflation target now, let alone coming close to 4
percent. People who think the economy remains depressed -- and
think it’s depressed largely because money is too tight -- have
to urge the Fed to do something different. In some sense, we
have to push the central bank out of its comfort zone.  Avoiding Backlash  It may be that a nominal-spending target is further outside
that zone than a higher inflation-rate target. But remember that
inflation is extremely unpopular. A deliberate Fed policy of
raising inflation rates, especially permanently, seems likely to
yield a backlash -- or even a frontlash that keeps it from
happening in the first place. A Fed policy that seeks to raise
incomes and spending seems likely to meet less resistance.  And it seems to me that higher incomes and spending are
what we should really want in today’s circumstances. Faster
inflation is valuable to the extent that it produces higher
nominal spending, and higher nominal spending would be valuable
even if it didn’t involve more inflation.  The inflationists generally argue that the Fed needs a
better communications strategy. They should take their own
advice.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 