-- Fed’s Fisher Urges Bank Breakup Amid Too-Big-to-Fail ‘Injustice’
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-25T19:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/fed-s-fisher-urges-bank-breakup-amid-too-big-to-fail-injustice-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said an implicit government guarantee
for the biggest U.S. banks is an “injustice” that prompts them
to take excessive risks and that they should be allowed to fail.  The largest financial firms should be restructured so each
of their units “is subject to a speedy bankruptcy process,”
and creditors should be notified their investments won’t be
guaranteed by the government, Fisher said in testimony prepared
for a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington
tomorrow on the risk of taxpayer-funded bailouts for banks.  Fisher reiterated his view that the government should break
up the biggest institutions to safeguard the financial system.
He is one of the central bank’s most vocal critics of the “too-big-to-fail” advantage he says large firms have over smaller
rivals.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act hasn’t fixed a system in which the
biggest banks are “seen as critical to the proper functioning
of our economy” and deserve rescues, he said.  “Less than a dozen of the largest and most complex banks
are each capable -- through a series of missteps by their
management -- of seriously damaging the vitality, resilience and
prosperity that has personified the  U.S. economy ,” Fisher said.
“Any of these megabanks, given their systemic footprint and
interconnectedness with other large financial institutions,
could threaten to bring down the economy, again.”  Lawmakers should level the playing field with “reduced
regulatory costs for all competitors, encourage greater
innovation by all members of the banking industry and minimize
the downside consequences to the economy of megabank failures,”
Fisher said in the testimony.  Split Up  Thomas Hoenig , vice chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., also scheduled to testify tomorrow, repeated
his call for splitting up investment and commercial banking.  “There remain systemically important financial firms that
are of a size and complexity that would expose the broader
economy to overwhelming consequences should they encounter
problems,” he said in testimony prepared for the hearing.
Hoenig said banks’ investment activities shouldn’t benefit from
a government safety net.  “The public should not accept the premise that it must
subsidize highly risky financial activities in order to compete
for international dominance,” Hoenig said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  