-- Fed’s Clark Says Stress Test Credibility Depends on Openness
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-06-25T08:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/fed-s-clark-says-stress-test-credibility-depends-on-openness.html
Bank supervisors need maximum
transparency in stress testing for such exercises to carry
credibility with markets, said  Timothy Clark , a Federal Reserve
official who helped lead stress tests of the biggest U.S. banks.  “When you’re doing something like this you have to have
credibility,” Clark said on a panel organized by the Institute
of International Finance in Paris. “The expectations out there
in the markets as you’re doing this are very high. You have to
be prepared to be quite transparent, both in terms of scenarios
you are using and the results.”  The Fed is stress-testing the largest banks and has set up
teams to look for risks across financial markets and
institutions, switching to a more industry-wide approach from
one that looked at banks individually, while the European
Central Bank is preparing a similar set of tests before it takes
over supervision of euro-area banks next year.  Clark, a senior associate director in the Fed’s Division of
Banking Supervision and Regulation, said today that the central
bank’s key objective is to make sure banks can withstand
financial turbulence.  The goal is for banks “to be able to withstand stress and
be able to come out the other side able to function,” he said.
It’s important that “we as supervisors and the firms themselves
don’t forget that really bad things can and do happen.”  The Fed said in March that 17 of the 18 largest U.S. banks
could withstand a deep recession and maintain capital above a
regulatory minimum.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a May 10  speech  that risks
persist in wholesale funding markets used frequently by Wall
Street brokers to finance securities trading.  The Fed chief has elevated market and institutional
surveillance to an equal footing with macroeconomic research and
forecasting, establishing the Office of Financial Stability
Policy and Research headed by economist Nellie Liang.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  