-- Fed Presidents Say Dodd-Frank Failed to Dispel Too-Big-to-Fail
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-06-25T22:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/fed-presidents-say-dodd-frank-failed-to-dispel-too-big-to-fail.html
Two Federal Reserve district bank
presidents said the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act hasn’t eliminated
creditor expectations for federal bailouts of financial firms,
perpetuating the idea that large banks are “too big to fail.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in testimony
prepared for a hearing tomorrow by the House Financial Services
Committee that the ability of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. to pay creditors at its discretion creates an incentive
for bondholders and lenders to pay “insufficient attention to
risk and invest in fragile funding arrangements.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said in testimony
prepared for the same hearing that an implicit government
guarantee for the biggest U.S. banks is an “injustice” that
prompts them to take excessive risks and that they should be
allowed to fail.  Regulators and legislators are still trying to ensure the
largest banks won’t derail the economy or need taxpayer-funded
bailouts almost three years after the July 2010 enactment of the
Dodd-Frank Act. Their challenge grew as big banks expanded with
the rescue of failing firms during the financial crisis.  New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  bought Bear Stearns
Cos., Charlotte-based Bank of America Corp. purchased Merrill
Lynch & Co. and Wachovia Corp. was purchased by San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The four largest U.S. banks -- JPMorgan, Bank of America,
Wells Fargo and New York-based Citigroup Inc. -- held total
assets exceeding $7.9 trillion at the end of the first quarter
this year, equal to almost half of U.S. nominal gross domestic
product. U.S. bank regulators including the Fed are trying to
use higher capital, liquidity and risk management standards to
curb risks from the size and complexity of big banks.  Tighten Standards  Some members of Congress are considering legislation that
would further tighten capital standards. Senators  Sherrod Brown ,
a Democrat from  Ohio , and  David Vitter , a Republican from
 Louisiana , introduced legislation in April that proposes a 15
percent capital requirement for the largest banks to remove the
perception they would get a taxpayer-funded bailout in a crisis.  The Richmond Fed has studied how the federal safety net
shapes incentives in the financial system for more than 20
years. Lacker advocates bankruptcy as a primary tool for dealing
with failing large banks, and wants explicit limits on the
federal safety net.  “Given widespread expectations of support for financially
distressed institutions in orderly liquidations, regulators will
likely feel forced to provide support simply to avoid the
turbulence of disappointing expectations,” Lacker said. “We
appear to have replicated the two mutually reinforcing
expectations that define ‘too big to fail.’”  Smooth Dismantlement  The Richmond Fed president has said regulators need to
ensure banks are organized in ways that would allow for smooth
dismantlement. Resolution plans, or so called living wills, are
the key tool for that process, he said.  “Some recent proposals to address the ‘too big to fail’
problem would make structural changes to financial firms -―
imposing quantitative limits on their size or prohibiting
certain risky activities,” Lacker said in his testimony. “I am
open to the notion that such restrictions may ultimately be
necessary to achieve a more stable financial system, but I do
not believe we have a strong basis yet for determining exactly
what activity and size limits should be adopted.”  The proportion of total U.S. financial firms’ liabilities
covered by the federal financial safety net has increased by 27
percent during the past 12 years, according to Richmond Fed
estimates.  Safety Net  The safety net covered $25 trillion in liabilities at the
end of 2011, or 57.1 percent of the entire financial sector.
Almost two-thirds of that support is implicit and ambiguous, the
Richmond Fed said in research published this year.  Sheila Bair , FDIC chairman during the financial crisis,
said in remarks prepared for testimony to the committee that the
Dodd-Frank Act has reduced the chances of a taxpayer bailout.  “Implicit and explicit too-big-to-fail policies were in
effect under the legal structure that existed before Dodd-Frank,” said Bair, now a senior adviser to the Washington-based
Pew Charitable Trusts. “Dodd-Frank has abolished them.”  During the financial crisis, the Fed used emergency powers
to expand the safety net beyond banks to provide loans to U.S.
corporations, money market mutual funds and government bond
dealers.  Safety Net  The Dallas Fed proposed earlier this year that the safety
net be limited to commercial banking activities inside financial
holding companies, and not their non-bank subsidiaries.  The largest financial firms should be restructured so each
of their units “is subject to a speedy bankruptcy process,”
and creditors should be notified their investments won’t be
guaranteed by the government, Fisher said in his prepared
testimony.  Fisher reiterated his view that the government should break
up the biggest institutions to safeguard the financial system.
He is one of the central bank’s most vocal critics of the “too-big-to-fail” advantage he says large firms have over smaller
rivals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  