-- Fish Tie Kremlin to New Owner of Facebook’s Russian Rival
-- B y   I r i n a   R e z n i k
-- 2013-06-26T12:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/fish-tie-kremlin-to-new-owner-of-facebook-s-russian-rival.html
While  Facebook Inc. (FB)  founder  Mark Zuckerberg ’s motto is “move fast and break things,” his new
Russian rival says his is “stay discreet and reel them in.”  Ilya Sherbovich, who’s helped craft deals for people close
to  Vladimir Putin  throughout his career, is the biggest
shareholder in VKontakte, the social network with four times
more subscribers in Russia than Facebook. Unlike Zuckerberg, the
38-year-old investor, who manages $3.5 billion of assets,
doesn’t yet use his group’s product because he’s less interested
in connecting people worldwide than he is in catching fish.  “My real passion is Atlantic salmon,” Sherbovich said in
interviews in April after his Moscow-based United Capital
Partners bought 48 percent of VKontakte from co-founders
Vyacheslav Mirilashvili and Lev Leviev for an undisclosed sum.  Sherbovich’s love of fishing led to the 2006 purchase of
 Ponoi River Co.  His customers have included  Sergei Ivanov , the
former KBG spy who’s now President Putin’s chief of staff, and
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , whose photographs with
Sherbovich are featured on the  website  for Ponoi’s Arctic
fishing camps on the Kola Peninsula near the Barents Sea. Former
U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney  and former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker  have also been guests at Ponoi, where a
week’s lodging can exceed $13,000.  ‘Ignite Strife’  Those fishing trips and Sherbovich’s tenure on the board of
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the state oil champion run by long time Putin ally
Igor Sechin, suggest he’s backed by a Kremlin that’s keen to
control the Internet the way it does television, according to
Yevgeny Minchenko, an independent political analyst in Moscow.  “Of course the Kremlin wants loyal owners at VK,”
Minchenko said. “Putin’s entourage knows the opposition could
use VK’s 50 million users to ignite political strife.”  Case in point is Alexei Navalny, who emerged as a leader of
the opposition during protests in Moscow in 2011 and 2012 that
were organized via VKontakte, where he and his supporters have
300,000 followers. Those demonstrations, which peaked when tens
of thousands of people took to the streets Feb. 4, 2012, are the
largest Putin has faced since coming to power in 2000.  Navalny, 37, has since been put on trial for defrauding a
state timber company out of about $500,000, charges that could
lead to 10 years in prison. He denies any wrongdoing and links
the prosecution to his politics. Navalny said VKontakte’s
popularity is partly tied to the maverick attitude of its
creator and chief executive officer, Pavel Durov, who was 15
when Putin succeeded  Boris Yeltsin  in the Kremlin in 2000.  FSB Snub  “When the FSB demanded that Durov shut down our VK blog,
Durov refused to do it,” Navalny said in an interview in
Moscow, referring to the  Federal Security Service (SFDL) , the main
successor to the Soviet-era KGB. “Naturally, authorities are
not happy about that.”  Durov responded to the FSB by posting a photo of a panting
German shepherd wearing a hoodie. Earlier, after billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov ’s Mail.ru Group Ltd., which owns 40 percent of
VKontakte, offered to buy out Durov and his partners, Durov
posted a picture of himself with his middle finger extended,
calling it his “official answer to trash holding Mail.ru.”
Usmanov later ceded the voting rights of his stake to the 28-year-old Durov, who owns 12 percent of the company.  Zuckerberg, Durov  Durov and Zuckerberg, who is five months older, both opened
their networks to the public at about the same time in 2006.
VKontakte, which is based in  St. Petersburg , now has 78 million
monthly users, including 46 million in Russia, according to
researcher comScore Inc. Facebook, based in Menlo Park,
California, has 818 million users, though just 11.7 million in
Russia, comScore data show.  Less than two weeks before Durov’s partners closed the sale
to Sherbovich, police in St. Petersburg opened a criminal probe
into Durov for allegedly being the driver of a car that injured
a traffic cop. TV Rain, a channel focused on young adults, said
the CEO left the country to avoid questioning. Investigators
later dropped the case and fined Durov, who hasn’t spoken
publicly since the incident, about $30. VKontakte’s spokesman,
Georgy Lobushkin, said June 13 he wouldn’t comment on the case
or Durov’s whereabouts.  Sherbovich, who joined Rosneft’s board last year and owns
about $50 million of the  oil company ’s stock, said his VKontakte
investment has nothing to do with politics and that he has no
plans to seek Durov’s dismissal.  Control Rights  “No one in the Kremlin, in the government or in the
business community asked me to buy the VK shares,” Sherbovich
said. “There are no undisclosed third parties with ownership or
control rights over our stake.”  Neither Putin nor Rosneft had anything to do with the VK
deal, according to Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, and
Vladimir Tyulin, a spokesman for Rosneft. Natalya Timakova,
Medvedev’s spokeswoman, said that while the prime minister and
Sherbovich are “acquainted” with each other, she isn’t aware
of any contact between the two about VKontakte.  “The deal has no political component,” said Mikhail
Mirilashvili, who co-owned the stake his son Vyacheslav sold to
Sherbovich. “It’s pure business, not politics.”  Still, Sherbovich has gotten rich by serving the interests
of officials and businessmen close to Putin. How rich, though,
he declined to say. Three bankers who’ve worked with United
 Capital Partners  said his personal fortune has risen about
fivefold in the past six years to almost $1 billion. They asked
not to be identified, saying the information is private.  Goldman Sachs  “Ilya’s main advantage is that even though he knows a lot
of senior officials, he never gets involved in politics,” Nick Jordan, co-head of Russia for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in
an interview in Moscow. “Unlike many Russian businessmen, he
maintains complete confidentiality,” said Jordan, who’s known
Sherbovich for more than a decade. “He simply executes orders
and can be fully trusted.”  Sherbovich entered the Plekhanov Academy of Economics in
Moscow at the age of 16 in 1990, just as the  Soviet Union  was
unraveling. His first job came two years later, after Iosif Bakaleinik, a friend of his father, arranged an interview at the
International Finance Corp., a World Bank unit. Bakaleinik would
later become chief financial officer of TNK, the oil company
that formed part of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian venture, TNK-BP, until
Sechin’s Rosneft bought it for $55 billion this year.  In 1995, Sherbovich joined United Financial Group, one of
Russia’s first brokerages, which had just been set up by U.S.
investor Charles Ryan and former Finance Minister Boris Fedorov.  Gazprom Limits  Russia limited foreign ownership of  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  at the
time, so UFG and Sherbovich pioneered ways to capitalize on the
growing demand for stock of the world’s largest gas producer.
Those limits created price disparities between local and
foreign-listed shares that UFG and Sherbovich exploited using
legal loopholes, said Vadim Melkumov, who worked then at UFG.  By 2001, UFG and its clients had accumulated more than 10
percent of Gazprom, enough to get its co-founder Fedorov elected
to the board. UFG lobbied for greater transparency and
efficiency and hired Gazprom’s first outside auditor, efforts
that were backed by Alexey Miller, the man Putin had just
selected to replace Rem Vyakhirev, a Yeltsin appointee, as CEO.  Two years later, Deutsche Bank AG bought 40 percent of UFG
for less than $70 million and renamed it Deutsche UFG. By then,
Sherbovich had become the largest shareholder after Ryan and
Fedorov, with about 20 percent.  Sibneft Acquisition  In 2005, Sherbovich helped organize Gazprom’s purchase of
oil producer OAO Sibneft from  Roman Abramovich  for $13.1
billion, the largest takeover in Russia at the time. Medvedev
was Gazprom’s chairman then, as well as first deputy premier.
While UFG’s fees were less than $1.5 million, about what it made
trading stocks on a good day, it brought prestige.  “Consulting Gazprom is about building a professional
reputation, not money,” Sherbovich said.  When Deutsche Bank exercised its option to buy the
remaining 60 percent of UFG in 2006, it valued the company at
about $1 billion, former colleagues said, asking not to be
identified because the information is private. The deal earned
Sherbovich more than $200 million, they said.  Sherbovich stayed on at Deutsche UFG as president, for
another year, during which time he entered into the biggest
corporate battle of the Putin era -- the dismantling of OAO
Yukos, once the country’s largest company by market value, after
the jailing of its billionaire CEO  Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  Yukos Offer  As Yukos, which had already lost its largest asset to the
government over tax claims, jockeyed to avoid complete
liquidation in 2006, Sherbovich sent a letter to then-Yukos
Chairman Viktor Gerashchenko offering to buy what was left of
the company, debt and all.  “We were seriously studying the bankruptcy situation,”
Sherbovich said. “We thought the assets could be worth more
than the debt obligations so we sent the letter, but it didn’t
go anywhere.”  He left Deutsche UFG in 2007 to start United Capital
Partners with the money he earned from selling his stake.  Sherbovich’s skills have been appreciated by senior
officials, who last year asked him to become a director at three
state-run companies -- Rosneft, OAO Transneft and  Federal Grid
Co. (FEES)  He said he agreed, “but only for a year,” which in the
case of Rosneft lasted until June 20.  For now, Sherbovich plans to focus on increasing the value
of his VKontakte stake, which Forbes Russia estimated at about
$1 billion. He told state television April 29 that he’s aiming
to boost the value of the company as a whole to $10 billion
within a decade.  That is, of course, unless he sells out first -- to anyone
who can afford it.  “We would be ready to sell the stake at any moment at a
good price, assuming someone makes a relevant proposal,”
Sherbovich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  