-- Foreign Funds Erase Inflow Into Indonesia Stocks This Year
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-06-25T09:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/foreign-funds-erase-inflow-into-indonesia-stocks-this-year.html
Foreign fund  flows  into Indonesian
equities turned negative for the first time this year after
investors pulled money from the stock market for a 22nd day.  Foreigners sold a net $68 million worth of Indonesian
stocks yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
taking total outflows this year to $20 million. The  Jakarta (JCI) 
Composite Index fell for a fifth day, dropping 0.2 percent to
4,418.872, its lowest close since Jan. 28.  The  Jakarta gauge  has slumped 15 percent since reaching a
record on May 20. The nation’s stocks have mirrored declines in
other emerging markets after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 the U.S. central bank could consider
paring stimulus. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has plunged 15
percent since Bernanke’s statement.  “It is a clear sign that foreign investors are
underweighting Southeast Asian stocks, including  Indonesia ,”
John Teja, a director at Ciptadana Securities in Jakarta, said
by phone. “The outflow will continue and the index will remain
under pressure. I think an index level of 4,200 would be a good
point to re-enter the market,” he added, referring to the
Jakarta index.  PT Astra International, the largest company in the index by
market capitalization, fell 2.4 percent, the biggest  drag  on the
benchmark gauge. PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia, the country’s
largest telecom company, slipped 2.5 percent, while PT Bank
Central Asia sank 1.7 percent.  Valuation Drop  The Jakarta index  trades  at 12.9 times projected 12-month
earnings, the cheapest since Aug. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compares with a peak of 15.9 times on May 20. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at 9.2 times, a one-year low.  PT Jamsostek, the country’s biggest pension fund, expects
the benchmark index to extend losses before stabilizing at 12
times to 13 times forecast earnings, its President Director
Elvyn Masassya said in an interview on June 17.  PT Nomura Indonesia is recommending investors add positions
in Indonesian stocks as structural reforms gain momentum and
earnings growth will remain strong, Wilianto Ie, head of
research, wrote in a report today.  “We are turning bullish again on Indonesia equity.” Ie
wrote. “The correction in the JCI is near the tail-end as
foreign investors have sold nearly a quarter of their positions
bought since 2010, based on our calculations.”  Ie said  currency risk  remains investors’ top concern given
the strong dollar and high historical volatility in the rupiah.
The currency has weakened 3.1 percent this year, and traded at
9,943 per dollar at 11:41 a.m. local time, prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency reached 9,958 on
June 18, the weakest level since September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  