-- Freddie Mac Said to Prepare Mortgage Securities Sharing Risk
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-25T20:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/freddie-mac-said-to-plan-start-of-mortgage-risk-sharing-deals.html
Freddie Mac (FMCC)  is preparing to market
mortgage securities that will share with investors the risk
homeowners don’t repay their government-backed loans, according
to a person with knowledge of the plans.  The government-controlled mortgage financier, which
typically covers losses after  defaults , hired Credit Suisse
Group AG to manage its first deal and plans to meet with
potential investors in cities including New York,  Boston ,
 Chicago  and  London  starting next week, said the person, who
asked not to be named because terms aren’t set.  The offering reflects an effort by the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  to reduce the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
in the residential-mortgage market, where government-backed
loans now account for more than 85 percent of lending. The FHFA,
which has overseen the firms since they were seized in 2008, has
been directing them to raise how much they charge to guarantee
their traditional mortgage bonds and asked them to each attempt
to share risk this year on $30 billion of home loans.  Insurers and bond buyers, including hedge funds and  real-estate investment trusts , have been awaiting the transactions
and expressed interest in profiting from the new program, in
which firms other than Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will bear some
of the initial losses after mortgage defaults. The bonds may pay
more than traditional mortgage securities.  Deals Expected  “There hasn’t been a deal yet, but we’re expecting there
to be at least a couple this year,”  Invesco Mortgage Capital
Inc. (IVR)  Chief Investment Officer John M. Anzalone said during an
investor conference on June 12.  Freddie Mac’s first deal could be part of a series of
transactions known as Structured Agency Credit Risk issuance,
the person said. It would provide protection to the McLean,
Virginia-based company on a pool of recently originated
mortgages and have characteristics similar to senior-subordinated structures in the so-called  non-agency market , the
person said.  Thomas Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, said it
would be premature to comment on any potential deals. Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae, said the
company is discussing plans with the FHFA. He declined to
comment further.  Wind Down  The risk-sharing transactions would be similar to the new
system of mortgage finance in the U.S. envisioned under
legislation to be introduced today by Senators Bob Corker of
 Tennessee  and Mark Warner of Virginia. The bill would wind down
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, replacing them with a new federal
entity that would insure mortgage debt and require private firms
to take the first 10 percent of losses.  In 1998, Freddie Mac issued  securities  backed by
derivatives known as Mortgage Default Recourse Notes, or
Moderns, which transferred the initial losses on $20 billion of
loans to private investors. The deal type was abandoned as a
global crisis that year sparked by Russia’s debt default roiled
markets. The market for private, non-agency bonds thrived during
the 2000s, until collapsing in 2008.  To meet the goals this year for executives set by the FHFA,
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac must conduct “multiple types” of
risk-sharing transactions, Edward J. DeMarco, the regulator’s
acting director, said in a  speech  last month. That would include
deals with private mortgage insurers, derivative-linked bonds
and securities with varying levels of risk backed by the same
loan pool known as senior-subordinated structures, he said.  “The goal for 2013 is to move forward with these
transactions and to evaluate the pricing and the potential for
further execution in scale,” DeMarco said. “What we learn in
2013 will set the stage for the targets for 2014, and I fully
expect to move from a dollar target to a percentage-of-business
target at some point in the future.”  The transactions may also be viewed as “pilot tests” to
one type of approach to reforming mortgage finance over the
longer term, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  