-- Carney’s FSB Sets Up Benchmarks Task Force After Libor Abuse
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-25T13:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/fsb-to-examine-alternatives-to-scandal-hit-benchmark-rates.html
Mark Carney , the next  Bank of
England  governor, said global regulators will set up a  task
force  with banks in a bid to repair or replace tarnished
benchmarks in the wake of Libor and other rate-rigging scandals.  The Financial Stability Board, chaired by the Canadian, has
recruited Martin Wheatley, chief executive officer of the U.K.’s
Financial Conduct Authority, and Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  to lead a probe into “options for robust reference
rates,” with an initial focus on interest-rate benchmarks.  They will review options for reliable rates “that meet the
private sector’s needs,” said Carney, who takes the helm at the
Bank of  England  next month. “We have to recognize that even
some transaction-based benchmarks could be manipulated; it
depends on the depth of the market.”  Global regulators have fined  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  about $2.5 billion for distorting
Libor and similar benchmarks. At least a dozen firms remain
under investigation around the world. Probes into potential
rigging have extended beyond interbank lending rates to include
markets ranging from  oil prices  to foreign exchange.  Carney said the  task force  would include a “market
participants group” drawn from the industry and would report
back with its findings by “summer of next year.”  Under the FSB plan, banks and other market players “will
lead analysis and potentially make suggestions for
alternatives,” including improvements of existing benchmarks,
Carney said.  Tougher Regulation  The FSB probe will examine whether existing benchmarks --
and possible alternatives -- meet international standards and
would also study “any transition issues between rates,” he
said.  The FSB’s work “needs to result in tougher regulation
based as far as possible on real transactions,”  Arlene
McCarthy , a U.K. lawmaker at the European Parliament, leading
its work on rules to combat market abuse, said today. “We do
not need a non-binding principles-based approach or optional
options because this will not install confidence.”  Research on benchmarks, particularly on Libor, “shows
there are no single, perfect substitutes,” said  Richard Reid , a
research fellow for finance and regulation at the  University of
Dundee  in  Scotland .  No Substitute  “The peculiarities of possible alternatives to Libor for
example, suggest that it would be difficult for any of them to
fully substitute” for the rate “in all cases,” he said by e-mail.  Instead of designing replacements, the final outcome of
regulators’ work may be a “much more robust, transparent and
accountable process for the setting of key, current
benchmarks,” Reid said.  The FSB’s move adds to a wave of interlocking international
initiatives to toughen regulation of benchmark-setting in the
wake of the rate-rigging scandals.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions,
which brings together financial market regulators from over 100
nations, is also working on global principles for benchmark
setting.  Gensler, Wheatley  Iosco’s work has been led jointly by Wheatley and  Gary Gensler , the chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Gensler has urged that that benchmarks such as Libor and
Euribor that are based on banks’ estimates are “unsustainable”
and need to be rapidly replaced with alternatives based on real
data.  Wheatley has suggested a dual-track system, in which Libor
would run in parallel to an alternative, transactions-based
benchmark and be phased out over time.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, is
seeking legislation to enforce public oversight of rate setting.  “The EU is due to come forward with a legislative
proposal” and “it would be prudent if we had a coordinated and
coherent effort and result on benchmarks,” said McCarthy, a
Labour member of the EU parliament.  While authorities from the U.S. to  Singapore  grapple with
the aftermath of the rate-rigging crisis, regulators are also
continuing their efforts to curtail bankers’ excessive risk
taking.  Bankers’ Pay  Carney said further work is needed at the FSB to ensure
that international standards designed by the FSB on pay are
effective.  Carney said it was a mistake “to have the view that
somehow you can design a perfect compensation scheme.”  “And that’s why you need the right culture within
institutions,” he said. “It’s also why you need a host of
other measures that we put into place at the FSB.”  The board said it will publish a “progress report” on
banker pay when the leaders of the Group of 20 meet in
September.  The FSB also agreed to publish plans next month for
bolstering the solvency of globally systemically important
insurance companies. This would include a list of the insurers
in that category, Carney said.  Market Volatility  Carney also said that plans by the  European Central Bank  to
conduct an analysis of banks’ balance sheets would be important
for strengthening the euro-area banking system.  The ECB exams should be accompanied by “clarity on the
availability of adequate capital backstops” for lenders
revealed as having weaknesses, the FSB said in its post-meeting
statement.  The FSB also called on supervisors to ensure that scenarios
applied in bank stress tests are tough enough, especially to
reflect market volatility witnessed over the “last several
weeks.”  Stress tests should “involve considerably elevated
interest rate risk, widening credit spreads, falls in asset
prices, and material volatility in foreign exchange markets and
capital flows,” the FSB said.  The FSB comprises regulators, central bankers and finance
ministry officials from the Group of 20 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  