-- Gensler Rejects Cross-Border Compromise as Delay for Wall Street
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/gensler-rejects-cross-border-compromise-as-delay-for-wall-street.html
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman Gary Gensler insisted the agency push
through its cross-border derivatives rules next month, a goal he
said would be delayed by a fellow Democrat’s proposal.  Gensler told senators yesterday the commission should
finish its cross-border guidance by July 12, when an exemption
from the proposal expires. Commissioner Mark Wetjen said earlier
in  London  the CFTC should adopt “interim final guidance” that
could be amended based on additional industry and public
feedback.  “It means delay and I think we’ve had a year to do this,”
Gensler told reporters after testifying at a Senate
Appropriations subcommittee in Washington. “The American public
should hold us to task if we can’t get this done by July 12.
They should say, ‘Why does it take so long and are we doing too
much to accommodate Wall Street?’”  The five-member commission’s two Republicans, Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia , have said they want to delay final
action on the cross-border guidance. Republican senators
yesterday also pressed Gensler to take more time. The guidance
document explains how the CFTC’s derivatives rules apply to
foreign banks and affiliates of U.S. banks and hedge funds.  In his London speech, Wetjen said it is “absolutely
essential” that the interim final guidance gives the
marketplace time to adjust.  Discouraging ‘Reforms’  “We must consider carefully whether stepping in front of
the regulatory process discourages the very financial reforms
that we are trying to implement, which could in turn needlessly
complicate the commission’s efforts to contain systemic risk and
protect the U.S. taxpayer,” he said.  The Republican senators said the CFTC should try to
harmonize its rules with those written by overseas regulators
and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the 2010
Dodd-Frank law, the CFTC and the SEC are writing rules to
regulate the $633 trillion global swaps market, with the CFTC
given authority over most of the activity.  “Is the marketplace truly ready for action to be finalized
on the 12th?” Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican,
asked at the hearing. “Or should we follow the advice of one of
your colleagues on the commission who says let’s take a deep
breath here and gather some more input before we drop the hammer
on this.”  Gensler said market participants, including big banks and
other swaps dealers, are prepared to comply with the CFTC’s
rules. He said the rules are needed to police derivatives trades
that are often conducted overseas but guaranteed by a U.S.-based
parent company.  “It is not a surprise that Wall Street and yes, the
financial firms overseas, will say this is so confusing, we need
more time,” Gensler said. “What they are really saying behind
that is don’t apply these common-sense reforms when we operate
in our offshore jurisdictions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in  Washington  at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  