-- German Stocks Gain After U.S. Durable-Goods Orders Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-25T15:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/german-stocks-advance-before-u-s-housing-goods-reports.html
German stocks  advanced, rebounding
from a two-month low, as reports from the U.S. showed that
orders for durable goods and sales of new houses climbed more
than economists had forecast.  Hochtief AG (HOT) , the German builder controlled by Spain’s
Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA, gained 3.5 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 1.6 percent to 7,811.3 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , rebounding from its lowest level since
April 23. The equity benchmark retreated 4.2 percent last week,
erasing its gain for the quarter, as investors prepared for a
potential paring of stimulus this year by the Federal Reserve.
The broader HDAX Index also increased 1.6 percent today.  “This is probably a short-term rebound after the DAX
suffered heavy losses since last Thursday,” said Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and fund manager at Clairinvest in Geneva.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
bookings for goods meant to last at least three years climbed
3.6 percent for a second month. The median  forecast  of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for durable goods to
increase 3 percent. Excluding transportation equipment, where
demand is volatile month to month, orders advanced 0.7 percent.
That also exceeded projections.  A separate release showed that  sales of new properties  rose
in May more than forecast, increasing to the highest level in
almost five years.  Purchases (NHSLTOT)  increased 2.1 percent to an
annualized pace of 476,000, according to the Commerce
Department. That exceeded every estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer Confidence  The Conference Board’s  index  of  consumer confidence  rose to
81.4 this month, its highest level since January 2008, from a
revised 74.3 in May, data from the New York-based research group
showed today. The  median forecast  of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had called for a reading of 75.1.  Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota and Richard Fisher, president of the Fed Bank of  Dallas , emphasized that the
central bank’s monetary policy remains accommodative. The two
presidents, who differ over the need for more stimulus, will
vote next year on the Federal Open Market Committee, when the
members may decide when to end the program of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing.  “Today’s advance is slightly to do with two members of the
Fed saying, don’t worry stimulus will be there for a while,”
Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $220 billion as a senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said by phone.  PBOC Comments  In Asia, an official from the People’s Bank of  China  said
that it can control liquidity risks in the financial markets and
seasonal forces affecting interest rates will fade.  The central bank will closely monitor the money-market rate
going forward and keep it at reasonable levels, Ling Tao, deputy
director of the Shanghai branch of the PBOC, said at a briefing
in the city today.  “It is significant that China’s central bank has started
communicating with the markets, so we don’t have to guess that
much,” Drusebjerg said. “The main comment was that it was just
a temporary short-term adjustment of liquidity and they are in
control of the situation.”  Hochtief gained 3.5 percent to 47.92 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe’s biggest carmaker , added 3.1 percent
to 151.50 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker
of luxury cars, increased 2.9 percent to 65.92 euros.
 Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts supplier,
rose 2.6 percent to 97.02 euros.  A gauge of carmakers rose the most among the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  advanced 1.2 percent to 79.03 euros. The drugmaker
said it has agreed to pay Seattle Genetics Inc. to use the
American company’s anti-cancer technology to develop a new class
of treatments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  