-- Ghosn Pay Little Changed After Nissan’s Profit-Growth Stalls
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-06-25T09:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/ghosn-compensation-little-changed-as-nissan-profit-growth-stalls.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Ghosn reported his smallest raise in compensation
since Japanese companies began disclosing CEO pay three years
ago as profits stalled.  Ghosn, 59, earned 988 million yen ($10 million) in salary
and bonuses for the fiscal year ended March 31, up 0.1 percent
from a year earlier, he said at the company’s annual general
meeting today in Yokohama,  Japan . By comparison,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda ’s compensation rose 35 percent to
184 million yen, while Honda Motor Co. President Takanobu Ito
got an 18 percent raise to 145 million yen.  Nissan, which sells more cars in  China  than Toyota or Honda
Motor Co., reported the smallest profit growth among Japanese
automakers last fiscal year after a wave of anti-Japan sentiment
spread across China. Also hindering earnings, U.S. sales of
Nissan’s flagship Altima midsize sedan missed company
expectations.  “Ghosn’s compensation should reflect Nissan’s business
performance last year,” Takashi Aoki, a fund manager at Mizuho
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $33 billion, said
before the disclosure. “There have been issues with new models
in America that affected the company’s profit so management has
to take responsibility.”  Since 2010, publicly traded companies in Japan have been
required to disclose annual executive pay exceeding 100 million
yen.  Average Compensation  While the compensation puts Ghosn on track to be among the
highest-paid executives in Japan, the company said the amount is
lower than the industry average. Comparable global carmakers
paid an average of $15.3 million to their CEOs in 2012, Nissan
said, citing estimates at consultant  Towers Watson & Co. (TW)   Ghosn’s compensation wouldn’t even put him among the  top
100  American chiefs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  CEO Alan Mulally received $21 million in
compensation last year, according to Ford’s proxy.  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , the largest European automaker, paid CEO Martin Winterkorn
14.5 million euros ($19 million) in 2012.  Nissan said its directors, including Ghosn, received a
combined 1.84 billion yen, down 1.1 percent from a year earlier.
The final payment to directors was 61.5 percent of the total
compensation approved by shareholders.  Last fiscal year, Nissan’s net income climbed 0.3 percent
to 342.4 billion yen. That’s about 64 percent less than what
Toyota earned and 7 percent below Honda.  Nissan, along with other Japanese exporters, have a
brighter outlook this year as the weakening yen bolsters the
value of overseas sales. Nissan has forecast profit to rise 23
percent to a six-year high of 420 billion yen and analysts
expect the company to  beat  those projections, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  