-- Gitanjali Gems Plunges as Gold Curbs Reduce Demand: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-06-25T06:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/gitanjali-gems-plunges-as-gold-curbs-reduce-demand-mumbai-mover.html
Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG)  paced declines
among Indian gold retailers on concern that demand for jewelry
and coins will fall after the government restricted imports and
as bullion traded near the lowest price since September 2010.  Shares of Gitanjali,  India ’s biggest gold and diamond
jeweler by revenue, slumped by the 20 percent daily limit for
the second day in Mumbai to 320.75 rupees, the lowest since
August. Shares of  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN)  fell as much as 1.5
percent to 219.25 rupees,  Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Ltd. (TBZL)  slid
as much as 6.5 percent to 169 rupees,  Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX)  fell
as much as 2.7 percent to 114 rupees, and  Shree Ganesh Jewellery
House Ltd. (SGJ)  decreased as much as 5.4 percent to 70.50 rupees.  Morgan Stanley lowered its forecasts for gold, joining
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG in paring estimates on
prospects that the U.S. Federal Reserve will scale back monetary
stimulus as the economy recovers. Spot gold has fallen 23
percent in 2013 after rallying for 12 years, while prices in
Mumbai have declined 14 percent.  “The retailers have traditionally followed a practice of
holding a lot of inventory and they benefited when the  gold
prices  were rising,” said Nitin Mathur, an analyst at Espirito
Santo Securities in Mumbai. ‘Prices have corrected so much in
the international markets, and the risk is now coming to them as
the gold in their inventory is worth less than what they bought
it for.’’  Bear Market  Gold tumbled to $1,269.46 last week, the cheapest since
Sept. 16, 2010, after entering a  bear market  in April as
investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value. The
precious metal was at $1,281.90 at 11:27 a.m. in Mumbai.  India raised the import duty on gold to 8 percent this
month, a fourfold increase from January last year, and the
central bank curbed overseas purchases on a consignment basis
and limited imports for local consumption against cash only.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram on June 13
appealed to Indians to “resist the temptation to buy gold” for
a year, saying reduced imports may help tackle a record current-account deficit of $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012 and
the weakness in the rupee.  The central bank’s curbs on import financing has meant that
the company needs to take on additional short-term loans to fund
purchases, said Ravi Ramalingam, vice president for  investor
relations  at Gitanjali. “We need to first pay off the existing
credit for the gold in our inventory and only after that will we
be able” to buy additional gold, he said.  Suspending Sales  Shares probably fell as investors may also be concerned
that the company will not be able to sustain sales growth, he
said. Gitanjal’s inventories were worth 43.5 billion rupees and
gold was about 18 percent of it, he said.  Jewelers and bullion dealers will be asked to suspend sales
of coins and bars to retail investors to support government
efforts to narrow the current-account deficit, the  All India
Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation  said yesterday. The curbs may
reduce demand by about 20 percent, said Haresh Soni, chairman of
the trade body said.  “In the current scenario some changes in the product mix
with a reduction in the gold jewelry segment are inevitable,”
Mehul Choksi, Gitanjali’s chairman said in an e-mailed statement
today. “The company has plans to introduce more value added
gold jewelry rather than selling it as coins.”  Gold jewelry and coin sales accounted for as much as 30
percent of Gitanjali’s sales, Choksi said. The company will
focus more on selling diamond jewelery, he said.  “Working capital requirement and cost of capital will
shoot up significantly and will suppress return ratios as well”
for jewelers, said Paras Bothra, vice president of equity
research at Ashika Stock Broking Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  