-- Glenview Seeks to Oust Health Management Associates Board
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m ,   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-06-25T20:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/glenview-seeks-to-oust-health-management-associates-board-1-.html
Glenview Capital Management LLC
today proposed ousting the board and management of hospital
operator  Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) , criticizing the
leadership’s “substandard strategic and financial approach.”  Glenview, which owns about 15 percent of Health Management,
nominated eight directors and urged that outside consultants
Alvarez & Marsal Inc. be hired to serve as interim managers, the
New York-based hedge fund said in a statement. Earlier, the
money manager suggested the hospital chain ease its poison pill
defenses against a hostile takeover.  Health Management, which has hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP to review strategic alternatives, is
seeking a chief executive officer to replace Gary Newsome, who
said on May 28 he would leave. That’s spurred speculation the
company, which runs 71 hospitals, may be bought as the industry
faces pressure to consolidate under the 2010 health-care law.  “There is significant room for improvement at HMA,”
Glenview said in the statement, referring to Health Management
by its stock ticker. “For over a decade, despite the best
efforts of well-intentioned individuals at the company, HMA has
fallen short in their financial returns delivered to
shareholders, their financial management and focus, our shared
aspirational goals on regulatory compliance and the pursuit of a
stable and effective leadership team.”  Health Management declined less than 1 percent to $15.40 at
the close in  New York . The Naples, Florida-based hospital chain
has  advanced  39 percent since May 24, when it announced steps to
prevent an unwanted takeover.  Gearing Up  Hospital operators are gearing up for an influx of new
customers in 2014, along with cuts to Medicare funding, under
President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act. Yesterday, Dallas-based Tenet Healthcare Corp. agreed to buy hospital chain
Vanguard Health Systems Inc. for about $1.8 billion as it seeks
to grow in new markets.  Glenview hasn’t recommended a sale in its conversations
with Health Management’s leaders, the  money manager  said in an
open letter to shareholders made public today. The investor
doesn’t have a position on whether selling the business would be
a better move than simply changing management, the fund said in
its letter.  Other  hedge funds , including Jana Partners LLC, have
 acquired stakes  in Health Management since Glenview’s holdings
were disclosed, according to a person familiar with the trading
who asked not to be identified because the holdings are not yet
public. Jana, which now owns more than 5 percent, supports
Glenview’s proposals, the person said.  ‘Right Approach’  Health Management, the fifth-largest hospital operator by
market value, had a capitalization of $3.98 billion as of the
close of New York trading yesterday.  “Glenview is taking the right approach,”  Sheryl Skolnick ,
an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC,
said in an interview. “They’re better stewards of shareholders
interest, but also patient and employee interests as well, than
HMA management today.”  Pushing to sell the company wouldn’t make sense because it
has underperformed, Skolnick said. “You don’t know if potential
buyers will come in and do due diligence and run away in fear
and loathing,” she said.  HMA spokesman Eric Waller declined to comment in a
telephone interview.  Advisers Hired  Health Management said in a June 12 statement that it had
hired advisers to help it consider “strategic alternatives and
opportunities” in connection with share purchases made by
Glenview. It also formed a committee to find a replacement for
Newsome, who is leaving after five years at the helm.  “We continue to believe that HMA remains a potential
acquisition target,” Chris Rigg, a Susquehanna Financial Group
analyst in New York, today told clients in a research note, with
“the most logical buyer” being  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) ,
the Franklin, Tennessee-based hospital company.  At a May 30 investor conference,  Community Health ’s chief
financial officer, W. Larry Cash, said the company is open to a
“friendly” merger to tap the potential business from the
health-care law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  