-- GM Names Batey as Global Chief of Chevrolet Brand
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-06-25T16:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/gm-names-batey-as-global-chief-of-chevrolet-brand.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  named Alan Batey
global head of  Chevrolet , creating a new senior executive
position to strengthen Chevy as a worldwide brand.  Batey, who has been GM’s U.S. sales chief and interim
marketing head, will continue overseeing U.S. sales and
marketing of Chevy, Buick and GMC, the Detroit-based automaker
said today in a statement.  “Chevrolet is our mainstream global brand, and with the
growth we are experiencing and the barrage of new products we
have coming, the time is right for us to have a single leader
responsible for managing the brand around the world,” Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in the statement.  Batey’s new job mirrors a move Akerson made in October when
he named Bob Ferguson as worldwide chief for the company’s
Cadillac luxury line as the CEO is pushes to reposition both as
GM’s two global brands. Batey had led GM’s U.S. sales operations
since June of last year and became interim global chief
marketing officer in July after  Joel Ewanick  was ousted over a
disagreement about a Chevrolet sponsorship.  Batey’s career, which began as a mechanical engineering
apprentice with GM’s operations in the U.K. in 1979, has
included leadership roles in Europe, Asia,  Australia  and the
 Middle East . He was Chevy’s sales leader in the U.S. prior to
taking over as sales chief.  Chevy’s worldwide sales totaled 4.9 million vehicles last
year, according to today’s statement. The figure was 3.6 million
in 2002, Batey told analysts earlier this month. Chevy is sold
in more than 140 countries, while a decade earlier it was just
in 70, Batey said.  ‘Next Level’  Sixty-three percent of Chevy sales were  outside  of the U.S.
last year while a decade earlier it was 27 percent, Batey told
the analysts. Yet Chevy isn’t one of Interbrand’s Top 10 global
brands, a list that includes  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Apple Inc. and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Batey said.  Batey’s comments about the brand also foreshadowed his new
position.  “A lot has happened in 10 years, how do we now take it to
the next level?” Batey said. “We believe we need to do that by
unifying this brand.”  GM rose 1.5 percent to $31.89 at 12:06 p.m.  New York  time.
The shares gained 9 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the 10 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  