-- Google May Get Win in Case Over Privacy Data on Other Websites
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-06-25T08:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/google-may-win-eu-case-over-data-control-top-court-aide-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  can’t be forced to
remove material from its search engine that was legally posted
on other websites, an adviser to the European Union’s top court
said in a case that may set boundaries between free speech and
data-protection rights.  Google can’t be considered “the controller” of personal
data from other websites, Advocate General Niilo Jaeaeskinen of
the EU Court of Justice said in a non-binding opinion today.  “A national data protection authority cannot require an
Internet search engine service provider to withdraw information
from its index,” Jaeaeskinen said. The Luxembourg-based court
follows this legal advice in a majority of cases.  The dispute before the EU’s top court raises questions
about the scope of EU privacy rules related to personal data on
the Internet and the rights of search engines to use any online
data to remain commercially successful. The case was triggered
by about 200 instances of  Spain ’s data-protection authority
ordering Google to remove information on people.  Google faces privacy investigations around the world as it
adds services and steps up competition with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  for
users and advertisers. The  Mountain View , California-based
company created a uniform set of privacy policies last year for
more than 60 products, unleashing criticism from regulators and
consumer advocates over whether it was properly protecting data.
Possible privacy issues with Google Glass, its new web-enabled
eyeglasses, are also being reviewed.  The information in today’s case concerned a Spanish man
whose house was auctioned off for failing to pay taxes.
Newspaper La Vanguardia published the information in 1998 and
years later it could still be found through a  Google search .  “This is a good opinion for free expression,” Bill Echikson, a spokesman for Google, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We’re glad to see it supports our long-held view that
requiring search engines to suppress ‘legitimate and legal
information’ would amount to censorship.”  The case is:  C-131/12 , Google Spain, S.L., Google Inc. v.
Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos, Mario Costeja Gonzalez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  