-- Google Rivals Urge EU Regulators to Reject Antitrust Settlement
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-06-25T13:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/google-rivals-urge-eu-regulators-to-reject-antitrust-settlement.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  rivals urged the
European Union to reject the company’s bid to settle an
antitrust probe, saying the proposed changes to its Internet
search services are “totally inadequate.”  The proposed settlement will still give Google “too much
scope” to prioritize its own products, according to the
companies, which filed complaints that triggered the initial EU
investigation. The EU has said Google is  dominant  in Web search
and search advertising in  Europe  and that the  Mountain View ,
California-based company may harm competition.  While EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has
sought a deal to end the case, Google rivals have stepped up
pressure to block any settlement. The commission has received
“very negative” feedback from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and other
companies, Cecilio Madero, the EU’s deputy director-general for
antitrust, said in Brussels today.  “We expect that the commission will reject them in their
entirety,” Sylvie Fodor, executive director of the Centre of
the Picture Industry, said on a joint conference call with other
complainants today.  Google, the owner of the world’s largest search engine, in
April  offered  to label its branded search services and show
links “to three rival specialized search services close to its
own” as part of a series of  commitments  to end the almost
three-year-old probe. Rivals and users have until June 27 to
send comments on the proposed remedies.  Almunia said last month that his office will analyze the
responses from consumer and industry groups as part of a market
test and that it’s almost certain that Google will be told to
“improve your proposals.”  ‘Inadequate’ Commitments  “We consider the commitments, in total, inadequate to end
the concerns,” Moritz von Merveldt, head of antitrust in the
legal department of ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, said on the call.  Google’s remedies seek to address allegations that the
company promotes its own products, such as Google News and
Google Finance, in search results, and copies rivals’ travel and
restaurant reviews. The EU also says Google has agreements with
websites and software developers that stifle competition for
advertising.  Kent Walker, Google’s senior vice president and general
counsel, in a blog posting yesterday said Google is seeking a
“sensible solution” and thinks “we did a pretty good job” in
addressing the commission’s concerns.  European publishers also urged Almunia to reject the
proposals “outright.”  “If Google does not come up with fundamentally improved
proposals very soon, we call on the commission to use its full
legal powers, including an immediate statement of objections
with effective remedies,” Hubert Burda, president of the German
magazine publishers’ association, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The conference call today was organized by the FairSearch
Coalition, which represents technology companies including
Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  