-- LifeLabs Agrees to Buy Diagnostics Provider CML Healthcare
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-25T20:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/lifelabs-agrees-to-buy-diagnostics-provider-cml-healthcare.html
LifeLabs Medical Laboratory Services
agreed to buy  CML Healthcare Inc. (CLC) , an Ontario-based diagnostic
services provider, for C$10.75 a share, a premium of 49 percent
to the closing price yesterday.  The transaction value, including debt of C$255 million
($242 million), is about C$1.22 billion ($1.16 billion), CML
said today in a statement. The purchase, under an “arrangement
agreement,” has been approved by the boards of CML, LifeLabs
and the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System, an
indirect owner of LifeLabs, CML said.  The acquisition combines two of  Canada ’s largest medical
diagnostic laboratory operators. Closely held LifeLabs serves
approximately 10 million patients across Ontario and British
Columbia. CML, currently trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange,
operates 112 client care centers and 82 imaging centers in the
same area.  “This is a very fair price for CML,” said Trevor Johnson,
an analyst at National Bank Financial in Toronto. “When I do
the math for CML, the metrics are very compelling if you’re a
shareholder in terms of valuation.”  CML shares rose 47 percent, the largest one-day increase
since November 1996, to C$10.60 at the close of trading in
Toronto.  ’Natural Fit’  Patrice E. Merrin, CML’s chairman, called the acquisition
“a natural fit for two strong companies,” in a statement.
LifeLabs President and Chief Executive Officer Sue Paish said
that “coming together, we can be even stronger partners with
government and health-care partners in the planning and delivery
of high quality and accessible diagnostic services for
Canadians.”  The purchase is expected to be completed in September,
pending regulatory approval, the company said. Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. is acting as financial adviser, and legal counsel
will be provided by Goodmans LLP for CML and Bennett Jones LLP
for the Special Committee of the Board of Directors.  Douglas Loe, an analyst with Byron  Capital Markets  in
Toronto, said in an investment note that the deal would probably
gain the endorsement from Canada’s Competition Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  