-- High Court Bolsters Property Owners’ Land-Use Protection
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-06-25T21:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/high-court-bolsters-property-owners-land-use-protection.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  set new
limits on local governments’ ability to require property owners
to make a payment in exchange for a land-use permit, the U.S.
Supreme Court said.  The court ruled 5-4 today in favor of a Florida man who
sought in 1994 to develop part of almost 15 acres he owned in
the Orlando area. Because some of the property was classified as
a wetland, the local water-management district said that to get
a permit, Coy Koontz must develop a smaller amount of land or
pay to make improvements on a separate piece of land owned by
the district.  Koontz sued for damages, saying the agency’s demand
violated the U.S. Constitution’s rule that governments can’t
take private property without paying fair compensation.  The Supreme Court ruled in two cases in 1987 and 1994 that
when governments require property owners seeking  land-use 
permits to give up other land in exchange, such as by granting a
conservation easement, there must be a connection and “rough
proportionality” between the land use and the government’s
demand.  In today’s decision, the Supreme Court said that standard
also applies when the government demands a financial payment in
exchange for a land-use permit.  Justice  Samuel Alito , writing for the majority, said the
court was “mindful of the special vulnerability of land-use
permit applicants to extortionate demands for money.”  Vote Breakdown  His opinion was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy and  Clarence Thomas .
Dissenting were Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer ,
 Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan .  Writing for the dissenters, Kagan said the ruling
“threatens to subject a vast array of land-use regulations,
applied daily in states and localities throughout the country,
to heightened constitutional scrutiny.”  The court ordered the case returned to Florida courts to
determine whether the water district owes financial damages to
Koontz’s estate, which is being represented by his son.  The case is Koontz v. St. John’s River Water Management
District, 11-1447.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  