-- India Panel Said to Recommend 50% Increase in Iron Ore Royalty
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-25T10:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/india-panel-said-to-recommend-50-increase-in-iron-ore-royalty.html
An Indian government panel has
recommended a 50 percent increase in royalty fees for iron ore
miners, two officials familiar with the proposals said.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  and  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , and steelmakers with their own
mines such as Tata Steel Ltd. and  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) ,
may have to pay 15 percent of sales to provincial governments,
compared with 10 percent now, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the matter is confidential. The panel’s report
will be submitted to Mines Minister Dinsha J. Patel this month
and later for Cabinet approval, they said.  Higher taxes threaten to further crimp earnings of iron ore
miners and steelmakers as they grapple with falling prices of
the alloy and its key raw material. A cost increase for miners
will also erode their export competitiveness against bigger
rivals, including Brazil’s Vale SA and Australia’s  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO)  and BHP Billiton Ltd.  “The biggest victims will be the steelmakers, which will
find it difficult to pass on the burden because of a highly
competitive market,” said Abhisar Jain, an analyst at Centrum
Broking Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai. “This isn’t a good environment to
increase levies.”  Steel Authority’s average selling price fell 11 percent
from a year ago to 34,489 rupees ($579) a ton in the three
months ended March 31, Chairman C.S. Verma said in May.  The increase will precede the country’s new mining law,
which will require miners to set aside an amount equal to
royalty payments for social welfare programs. The law is
awaiting parliament’s approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  