-- India Rupee Trades Near Record Low as Fed Risk Slows Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-25T04:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/india-rupee-trades-near-record-low-as-fed-risk-slows-inflows.html
India ’s rupee traded 0.01 percent
weaker than yesterday’s record closing low as a slowdown in
inflows leaves the currency vulnerable to a current-account
deficit.  Global funds have cut rupee debt holdings by $5.4 billion
since May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
first signaled stimulus could be scaled back, and are set to end
12 months of net buying of Indian stocks, exchange data show.
The shortfall in India’s current account widened to an
unprecedented 5 percent of gross domestic product in the year
through March, the government estimates before data due June 28.  A Fed stimulus cut poses a risk not just to India’s capital
account, especially given its current-account gap, but is also a
“big negative for the rupee as flows dwindle further,”
Religare Capital Markets Ltd. analysts including Mumbai-based
Tirthankar Patnaik wrote in a report today. “We see the pain on
the rupee continuing for now, with some short-term support
provided by lower gold imports in June.”  The rupee fell 0.1 percent to 59.7350 per dollar as of
10:04 a.m. in Mumbai, compared with yesterday’s all-time closing
low of 59.6750, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It sank
to an unprecedented 59.98 on June 20 and declined 5.4 percent
this month,  Asia ’s worst performance.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.56 percent.  The rupee could stay at the current levels for some time,
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s economic advisory council, said in a Bloomberg TV India
interview today. Global flows are still adequate to fund India’s
needs, he added.  Gold Demand  The All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, a group
that represents about 300,000 gold jewelers, manufacturers,
wholesalers, retailers and distributors, will send notices to
members asking them to halt sales of coins and bars to retail
investors until the current-account gap stabilizes, Chairman
Haresh Soni said by phone from  New Delhi  yesterday. The curbs
may reduce demand by about 20 percent in the world’s largest
bullion consumer, he said.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.1 percent from
yesterday to 60.69 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 0.5 percent
to 60.88. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  The  Reserve Bank  of India sold dollars in the onshore
forwards market yesterday, according to two traders familiar
with the matter who asked not to be named as the information
isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  