-- Indonesia to Allow More Flights From Airport in East Jakarta
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-25T08:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/indonesia-to-allow-more-flights-from-airport-in-east-jakarta.html
Indonesia  will allow more commercial
carriers to operate from a Jakarta airfield used for
presidential flights, as it seeks to ease congestion at the
city’s main Soekarno-Hatta International Airport.  Halim Perdanakusuma airport, located in east Jakarta, will
be revamped to service short-haul and all-business-class flights,
Vice Transport Minister Bambang Susantono said in an interview
today. It could be ready in the first half of next year, he said.  Soekarno-Hatta handled 58 million passengers last year,
twice the number it was built to service, according to the  CAPA
Centre for Aviation  in Sydney. Carriers including PT Lion
Mentari Airlines and PT Mandala Airlines are adding planes to
tap growing demand for travel in  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, which has expanded by more than 6 percent for the last
10 quarters.  “The infrastructure is not adequate enough for the growth
that this country is undergoing in terms of air traffic,”
Mandala Airlines President Director Paul Rombeek said in an
interview today with Bloomberg TV’s  Rishaad Salamat .  “It is a
problem today and the problem will only become bigger in the
near future.”  Lion Air, which has the world’s biggest order backlog for
559 narrow-body aircraft, and state-owned PT Garuda Indonesia
are interested in starting services from Halim, Susantono said,
adding that the facility could also be used for flights to
Singapore. Mandala Airlines is also looking at flying from
airfields such as Halim to beat congestion, Rombeek said today.
The carrier plans to grow its fleet to 25 Airbus SAS A320s by
2015 from eight now, he said.  Indonesian airlines carried 70 million passengers in 2012,
up from 37 million in 2008, according to figures from the  CAPA
Centre . Some 26.2 trillion rupiah ($2.6 billion) will be
invested to triple the capacity at Soekarno-Hatta, Tri S. Sunoko,
president director of PT Angkasa Pura II, the facility’s state-owned operator, said today. The development plan includes adding
more runways and expanding cargo terminals at the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  