-- Intel Confident of Obtaining Programs for Web TV Service
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-25T21:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/intel-confident-it-will-obtain-programs-for-internet-tv-service.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  said it plans to begin
selling a set-top box offering Internet-based television service
this year and is confident it can obtain programming.  Eric Free, a vice president and general manager of the
Santa Clara, California-based chipmaker, outlined plans for the
product and service today at the TV of Tomorrow conference in
San Francisco.  “Ultimately we want to deliver a better form of
television,” Free said. “We’re very confident we’ll get the
content we need to launch later this year.”  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, plans to
offer pay television through Web connections, creating new
competition for incumbent providers like  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
and  DirecTV. (DTV)  Intel has been testing the service among employees
as it seeks programming from media companies such as  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) , Comcast Corp.’s NBC Universal and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)   The company hopes to build a customer base on par with
satellite services, Free said. DirecTV had 20.1 million
customers at year end, while Dish Network had 14.1 million,
according to company reports. Intel hasn’t provided pricing
details yet.  Consumers increasingly view TV on their own schedule,
wherever they are, Free said. They would prefer an experience at
home where they don’t have to wade through hundreds of channels
and can purchase and view shows based on their interests, he
said.  “One of the places where innovation really hasn’t
happened, at least not at the pace of your phone, your tablet or
your laptop, is really within the pay-TV stack,” Free said.  Live Programs  Intel rose 1.3 percent to $23.88 at the close in New York.
The shares have  advanced  16 percent this year, compared with 11
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  With its own set-top box, Intel is betting it can create a
flexible service that gives subscribers more choices over the
channels they receive and better ways to navigate content, Erik Huggers, general manager of Intel Media, said in February. Intel
plans to offer live channels and on-demand programming.  Time Warner Cable and other pay-TV operators are offering
incentives to media companies to withhold content from Web-based
entertainment services such as the one Intel is pursuing, people
with knowledge of the matter said this month. The incentives can
take the form of higher payments, or they can include threats to
drop programming, the people said then.  Networks such as Time Warner’s  CNN , NBC Universal’s USA
Network and Viacom’s  MTV  would give Intel critical mass to offer
consumers an alternative to established pay-TV services.  Broad Outlines  Time Warner, NBC and Viacom had signed off on the broad
outlines of the proposed service, people with knowledge of the
situation said in March, with some aspects to be settled. Other
network owners weren’t as far along, the people said then. The
company must negotiate on local levels as well, which will make
Intel’s planned nationwide rollout occur on a staggered delivery
schedule, Free said.  The chipmaker has been working closely with Nielsen and
content providers to find “the appropriate value and
appropriate balance between consumers and business,” Free said.
One stumbling block for content providers has been measuring the
digital audience to gauge the effect of advertising, he said.  “We’re tempered by the practical business realities of the
industry,” Free said. “While we are in somewhat of a green
field, that green field is strongly associated with an existing
field that may be less green.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  