-- Lions Beat Rebels to Maintain Momentum for Australia Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-26T02:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/lions-defeat-rebels-35-0-in-final-midweek-match-of-rugby-tour.html
The British and Irish Lions shut out
the  Melbourne  Rebels 35-0 in their final midweek game before
concluding their rugby tour of Australia with back-to-back
matches against the Wallabies.  The Lions ran in four tries and got a penalty try, all of
which were converted, at AAMI Park in Melbourne last night to
improve their 2013 tour record to seven wins and one loss. The
match was the players’ last chance to impress head coach Warren Gatland and his fellow selectors before the final two Tests.  “I’m very pleased with that performance,” Gatland said in
a televised interview. “We felt we were really close to
clicking. It keeps the momentum from Saturday and puts a bit of
pressure on us as coaches and selectors for the next couple of
days in terms of selection.”  The combined team, which won the opener in Brisbane 23-21
as it seeks a first Test series victory since 1997, faces
 Australia  again in three days at Etihad Stadium in Melbourne and
on July 6 in Sydney. Gatland is scheduled to name his lineup for
the second match tomorrow, with lock Paul O’Connell ruled out
because of a broken arm and prop Alex Corbisiero and center
 Jamie Roberts  in doubt.  Australia center  Pat McCabe  was today ruled out for the
rest of the year after suffering a re-occurrence of a neck
fracture in Brisbane. According to specialist advice, “a return
is viable pending the full recovery and strengthening of the
neck,” Wallabies doctor Warren McDonald said in a statement.  Midweek Rebound  A week after losing their 100 percent tour record with a
14-12 defeat to the Super Rugby-leading ACT Brumbies, the Lions
rebounded with the second shutout of their 10-game trip.  Scrum-half  Conor Murray  and his replacement Ben Youngs,
winger Sean Maitland and open-side flanker  Sean O’Brien  all
scored tries, while the second-half penalty try underlined the
Lions’ forward dominance. Fly-half Owen Farrell kicked three
conversions and Stuart Hogg added two.  “It’s nice for some of these players to get back on the
horse and get back into that winning habit after last Tuesday
night,” Gatland added.  Murray spun out of a tackle to dive over from close range
in the 15th minute following a scrum. Maitland finished off a
counterattack 12 minutes later that was sparked by a break by
England center Manu Tuilagi, who was playing his first tour game
since getting injured on June 8. When No. 8 Toby Faletau was
brought down short of the line, quick hands from Simon Zebo at
the breakdown enabled Maitland to go over in the corner.  Quick Offloads  The Lions, who made nine handling errors in the opening
half, extended their lead to 21-0 nine minutes after the break
when quick offloads from fellow forwards Richie Gray and Dan
Lydiate sent O’Brien over. Farrell added his third conversion of
the night before being replaced by Hogg.  The Lions were then awarded a penalty try when the Rebels
pulled down a driving maul close to the try line. Referee Glen Jackson also gave a yellow card to Jordy Reid, sending him to
the sin-bin for 10 minutes. Hogg converted to make it 28-0.  Ten minutes after replacing Murray, Youngs spotted a gap
after taking a tap-down off the back of a lineout to run in the
fifth try under the posts and give Hogg an easy conversion.  With the Rebels seeking a last consolation score, the Lions
defenders bundled Jason Woodward into touch as he tried to drive
over in the corner.  “We definitely had to up our game and we wanted to get the
result and keep the momentum going for the weekend,” Welsh
flanker Lydiate, who became the fifth player to captain the
Lions on their tour, said in a televised interview. “The main
thing was to play well as a team but also to play well as an
individual and put yourself forward for selection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  