-- Lippmann’s LibreMax Plans to Start ‘Less Liquid’ Mortgage Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-06-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/lippmann-s-libremax-plans-to-start-less-liquid-mortgage-fund.html
Greg Lippmann, chief investment
officer at $2.9 billion New York-based LibreMax Capital LLC,
plans to start a fund that will make long-term investments in
home-loan and commercial-debt securities.  The LibreMax Value Fund will have a three-year lockup
period and invest in high-yielding, “less liquid assets,”
primarily residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities,
according to a June presentation about the fund obtained by
 Bloomberg News . It will make mainly long bets, or wagers that
securities will rise.  “Stronger regulation and stricter  capital requirements  are
causing financial institutions to sell more illiquid holdings,”
the firm wrote in the presentation. “Illiquid and complex
securities often trade at a yield premium to bonds with similar
risk profiles that are more liquid or simpler to analyze. These
higher yielding securities are more suited to vehicles with
longer-term capital.”  Commercial-mortgage bonds have lost 2.9 percent this year,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. An ABX index
of home-loan bonds without government backing created in 2006
has dropped more than 6 percent this month after rising 10
percent this year through May, as a selloff across credit
markets, sparked by concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve will
taper its bond-buying program, eroded returns.  Liquid Flagship  The Value Fund can invest in assets including subprime,
prime, Alt-A, payment option adjustable-rate mortgage,
commercial mortgage-backed, consumer asset-backed and special
situations securities. It will charge investors 1.5 percent of
assets and an incentive fee of 17.5 percent of profits after
clearing a return hurdle. LibreMax seeks to produce annualized
net returns of 15 percent in the fund, according to the
document.  LibreMax runs its flagship hedge fund with quarterly
liquidity and 90 days’ notice, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The fund rose 8.9 percent this year through May
and 40 percent since inception, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  Lippmann, 44, the former Deutsche Bank AG trader who gained
fame by betting against subprime-mortgage bonds before housing
collapsed, left in 2010 to start LibreMax with Fred Brettschneider, the German bank’s former head of global markets
in the Americas; Eugene Xu, formerly Deutsche’s head of asset-backed securities trading strategy; and Jordan Milman, the
bank’s former head of subprime and non-agency trading and re-securitization.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for LibreMax with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  