-- Iran Joins Rights Groups to Condemn Shiite Killings
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-06-25T10:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/iran-joins-rights-groups-to-condemn-shiite-killings.html
(Corrects spelling of Shiites in headline.)  Iran  blamed unidentified foreign
enemies for the killing of an Egyptian Shiite Muslim leader,
amid rising domestic and international criticism of President
Mohamed Mursi ahead of rallies seeking his resignation.  Eight people were arrested in connection with the murders
of Shiite leader Hassan Shehata, two of his brothers and a
fourth person in a village in Giza district on June 23,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Giza Security
directorate today.  Villagers belonging to Egypt’s majority Sunni Muslim sect
had surrounded Shehata’s home, threatening to set it ablaze if
the 70 Shiites inside did not leave the village before the end
of the day, the state-run Al-Ahram newspaper reported today.
When they refused, villagers stormed the house, dragging people
along the ground before beating the four to death. Videos on
YouTube showed hundreds of residents denouncing their victims as
infidels and hauling their blood-soaked bodies while chanting
“Allahu akbar,” or “God is Great.”  Mursi’s critics blame him for rising sectarian violence
that has also seen Coptic Christian churches and worshipers
attacked since the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  two years
ago. Protesters plan to gather on June 30 to call for his
removal.  Tensions between Sunnis and Shiites are rising across the
Arab world, with Sunni leaders including Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an
Egyptian-born cleric with ties to the influential Muslim
Brotherhood, calling on Sunni Muslims to join a holy war in
 Syria .  ‘Foreign Enemies’  Iran said attempts to deepen rifts between Sunni and Shiite
Muslims are a “plot or scheme that is part of the goals of the
foreign enemies,” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Araghchi told reporters in Tehran today. “Enemies of Egypt have
been hurt by the revolution and to compensate, they are going to
divide and polarize ethnic and religious sects” in the country.  Iranian officials have accused Western nations including
the U.S., which it often refers to as an enemy, of intervening
in regional politics with the aim of sowing division. The
killings have been condemned by  Egypt ’s presidency.  There are about 500,000 Shiites in Egypt and they face
increasing sectarian discrimination, according to Mohamed
Ghoneim, head of the Coalition of Egyptian Shiites. The country
is the most populous in the Arab world with about 84 million
people.  The attack came several days after a number of Salafis, who
embrace an ultraconservative interpretation of Islam, insulted
Shiites during a rally attended by Mursi, who listened silently
while preachers called on him not to allow Shiites to corrupt
Egypt, with preacher Mohamed Abdel Maqsoud calling them
“unclean.”  Syrian Test  Ultraconservative Islamists oppose what had been a growing
rapprochement between long-time regional rivals Iran and Egypt.
The conflict in Syria has tested that warming, with Iran
supporting President Bashar al-Assad and Egypt siding with the
largely Sunni opposition.  In April, Egypt suspended charter flights from Iran under
pressure from ultraconservative Sunni Muslims who say better
relations will allow Iran to spread Shiite beliefs in the
country. Flights had begun on March 30 for first time in 34
years, after both countries signed a tourism agreement.  Opposition and human rights groups have condemned the
attacks on Shiites and blamed them on the Islamist regime of
Mursi for its inflammatory discourse.  “By not disassociating himself and his government from the
hatred and incitement against Shi’as expressed during an event
at which he was a speaker, President Mursi failed to signal that
attacks against Shi’a Muslims will not be tolerated,” said
Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui Deputy Director of the Middle East and
North Africa Programme at Amnesty International.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  