-- IRS Deputy Seen Aiding $500 Million in Contracts to Pal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-25T23:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/irs-contractor-ties-seen-as-influencing-500-million-in-awards.html
A small technology contractor that
won more than $500 million in Internal Revenue Service awards in
less than a year had a “cozy” relationship with an agency
official, according to a congressional staff report.  Greg Roseman, an IRS deputy director, may have “influenced
the selection process” to benefit his friend, Braulio Castillo,
president of Washington-based Strong Castle Inc., according to
the House committee document. The two exchanged frequent phone
calls and text messages, the report shows.  The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, led by
Representative Darrell Issa, a  California  Republican, is
investigating how the small business, formed in late 2011,
managed to attract so much contract business. The panel plans to
hold a hearing tomorrow.  “What has led to the huge discrepancy between the
potential for $500 million in contracts with the IRS alone and
the mere $465,780 awarded by all other federal government
agencies?” the report’s authors asked. “The difference is that
the IRS -- where Strong Castle received well over 99 percent of
its 2012 revenues -- employs Castillo’s long-time friend, Greg
Roseman, who oversaw each and every contract awarded to Strong
Castle by the IRS in 2012.”  The IRS has referred the matter to a Treasury Department
inspector general, the agency said in a statement today.  “We remain committed to ensuring that our procurement of
goods and services follows all agency and federal regulations
and is done efficiently, effectively and with the highest
ethical standards,” the agency said in its statement.  ‘Competed Fairly’  Strong Castle describes itself as a provider of “IT
infrastructure and solutions for many federal customers.”  “Throughout our work with the IRS, we have never received
any improper preferential treatment, and have competed fairly
for every contract that we have received,” said Castillo in a
statement provided by Caren Auchman at public relations firm
Fleishman-Hillard. “We are confident that the record will
ultimately show that our company has committed no wrongdoing.”  The company was eligible for contracts that had been set
aside for disabled veterans and for small businesses in
economically disadvantaged communities. Castillo had suffered a
foot injury in 1984 at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory
School, which he attended for a year, according to the report.  As he sought to join the Department of Veterans Affairs’
set-aside program, Castillo described his disability in an e-mail to a VA examiner, the House report shows.  College Football  His injuries were “crosses that I bear due to my service
to our great country,” he said. “I would do it again to
protect this great country.”  Castillo had no other connection to the military, and his
injury did not prevent him from playing softball or college
football, congressional investigators said.  The business owner also rented an office in  Washington ’s
Chinatown neighborhood to qualify for contracts benefiting small
businesses in the disadvantaged communities, even though he and
his wife -- the firm’s top two executives at the time -- lived
and worked in the “wealthy Virginia suburbs,” according to the
report.  Castillo used the head football coach at Catholic
University of America, his college roommate, to recruit student
employees. When he learned two of the students didn’t live in
the area required for the contracts, he gave them a choice: move
or leave.  ‘Cozy Relationship’  His company was recently cut from the set-aside program
because it provided “inaccurate, unreliable, and misleading
information” to the Small Business Administration, according to
the report.  Castillo met Roseman in 2003. The two frequently exchanged
phone calls and text messages, some of which contained
homophobic slurs.  About the time Castillo was forming Strong Castle, Roseman
sent a text message to his friend in December 2011, the document
shows. “Congrats on new company. U will be fortune 500 in no
time,” Roseman wrote.  None of the IRS officials interviewed by investigators
“reported any knowledge” of the relationship between Castillo
and Roseman or that Roseman had “any inappropriate influence”
on contracting decisions, according to a congressional staff
memo sent to committee Democrats.  “The case of Strong Castle and its cozy relationship with
the IRS is but one example of a deeply flawed procurement
process in the federal government,” according to the report.  Committee Hearing  The IRS has been surrounded by controversy since May 10,
when the agency disclosed that it had subjected Tea Party groups
applying for tax-exempt status to tougher scrutiny. Six
congressional committees have opened inquiries and the Justice
Department is pursuing a criminal probe. President  Barack Obama 
installed a new temporary commissioner, Danny Werfel, last
month.  Issa’s committee has been interviewing IRS employees
involved in that effort. Issa held a June 6 hearing on IRS
spending on conferences, including a $4.1 million event in
Anaheim, California, that included a Star Trek parody video.  The witness list for tomorrow’s House hearing includes
Roseman and Beth Tucker, an IRS deputy commissioner, who
oversees the agency’s back-office operations, is scheduled to
testify tomorrow.  Staff Memo  Roseman has been reassigned and isn’t overseeing
procurement, according to the Democratic staff memo. His
attorney told the committee that he will invoke his
constitutional right not to testify at the hearing.  Though he’s subpoenaed to testify, Roseman was advised by
his counsel to not attend, according to a June 25 letter from
Issa to Roseman’s attorney.  “Today, the IRS cannot look taxpayers in the eye and
truthfully say they are protecting their contributions to
government,” Issa in a statement. “By inappropriately using a
personal relationship and abusing a provision designed to help
disadvantaged businesses, the IRS and Strong Castle have made a
mockery of fair and open competition for government contracts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  