-- Japan Tobacco Said It Sued Thailand Over Health Warnings
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-06-26T07:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/japan-tobacco-said-it-sued-thailand-over-health-warnings.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , Asia’s biggest
listed cigarette maker, sued the government of  Thailand  over a
plan to increase the size of health warnings on cigarette
packages, claiming the move is unconstitutional.  Thailand announced a plan in April to increase the size of
graphic health warnings to 85 percent of the cigarette package
cover from the current 55 percent.  Japan Tobacco filed a lawsuit in an  Administrative Court  on
June 19 to block the plan, spokesman Hisashi Sekiguchi said in a
phone interview yesterday. The proposal violates Thailand’s
constitutional provisions guaranteeing freedom of expression, it
said. The Bangkok-based court confirmed the Thai unit of the
Tokyo-based company has filed a lawsuit against Pradit
Sintavanarong, the country’s health minister and two other
officials.  Tobacco companies  are engaged in a global effort fighting
government moves to curtail cigarette advertising and curb
smoking through graphic health warnings and elimination of
branding.  Australia  has prohibited any tobacco company markings
on cigarette packages, with New Zealand planning to do the same.  “This announcement is strictly in line with the law,”
Pradit told reporters in Bangkok today. “We will wait for the
court decision without any interference.” He defended the
government’s decision to change the regulation without
consulting tobacco producers or retailers, citing World Health
Organization guidelines that preclude tobacco companies from
taking part in the process.  Philip Morris International Inc.’s (PM)  Thailand unit said it
would file its own suit before July 4.  “The Ministry ignored our voice and the voices of
thousands of retailers in enacting this rule,” Onanong
Pratakphiriya, a spokeswoman for the company’s Thailand unit,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  