-- Jim Crow Is Dead. Long Live the Constitution.
-- B y   I l y a   S h a p i r o
-- 2013-06-25T18:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/jim-crow-is-dead-long-live-the-constitution-.html
(Corrects reference to  California  in eighth paragraph.)  In striking down Section 4 of the
Voting Rights Act, the U.S. Supreme Court has restored a measure
of constitutional order. Based on 40-year-old voting data that
doesn’t reflect current political conditions, this provision
subjected a seemingly random assortment of states and localities
to onerous burdens and unusual federal oversight.  To be clear, neither minority voting rights nor the ability
of the federal government to enforce those rights were at stake
in Shelby County v. Holder. Both of those were, are and will be
secure regardless of this case and its consequences.  Instead, the court was  considering  whether the
“exceptional conditions” and “unique circumstances” of the
Jim Crow South still exist such that an “uncommon exercise of
congressional power” is still constitutionally justified -- to
quote the 1966 ruling that approved Section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act as an emergency measure.  As Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote for the court in 2009,
the last time it looked at this law, the “historic
accomplishments of the Voting Rights Act are undeniable,” but
the modern uses of Section 5 -- which requires federal “pre-clearance” of any changes in election regulation in certain
jurisdictions -- “raises serious constitutional concerns.” The
provision maintains antiquated assumptions and flies in the face
of the 15th Amendment’s requirement that all voters be treated
equally.  Yet Congress renewed Section 5 in 2006 without updating
Section 4’s coverage formula, and it ignored the court’s warning
that “the Act imposes current burdens and must be justified by
current needs.”  Racial Gap  Accordingly, it should be no surprise that the chief
justice, again writing for the court, began his opinion by
noting that “the conditions that originally justified these
measures no longer characterize voting in the covered
jurisdictions.”  For example, the racial gap in voter registration and
turnout is lower in states originally covered by Section 5 than
it is nationwide. Blacks in some covered states have actually
registered and voted at higher rates than whites. Facetious
tests and sinister devices are now permanently banned; even
individual violations are exceedingly rare, and no more likely
to occur in jurisdictions that Section 4 sweeps in than in the
rest of the country.  The list of “covered” jurisdictions is bizarre: six
states of the old Confederacy, plus Alaska,  Arizona  and parts of
other states including California and  South Dakota . Three  New
York  counties are covered, all New York City boroughs. What’s
going on in the Bronx, Brooklyn and  Manhattan  that isn’t in
Queens or  Staten Island ?  Moreover, it is Section 2 -- the ban on racial
discrimination in voting that applies nationwide -- that is the
heart of the Voting Rights Act, and it  remains  untouched.
Section 2 provides for both federal prosecution and private
lawsuits, and has proved more than sufficient to remedy
disenfranchisement.  Sections 4 and 5, meanwhile, were to be temporary tools
that supplemented Section 2. They succeeded, overcoming
“widespread and persistent discrimination in voting” and thus
eliminating the circumstances that originally justified it.  In other words, three generations of federal intrusion on
state sovereignty have been more than enough to kill  Jim Crow .
As Justice  Clarence Thomas  wrote in 2009, an acknowledgment of
the unconstitutionality of the existing regime “represents a
fulfillment of the Fifteenth Amendment’s promise of full
enfranchisement and honors the success achieved by the VRA.”  That’s why the court acted as it did, recognizing that the
nation had changed and that “extraordinary measures” could no
longer be justified in a nation where widespread racial
disenfranchisement is, thankfully, consigned to history books.  Statistics Cited  “If Congress had started from scratch in 2006, it plainly
could not have enacted the present coverage formula,” Roberts
wrote for the majority. “It would have been irrational for
Congress to distinguish between States in such a fundamental way
based on 40-year-old data, when today’s statistics tell an
entirely different story.” And so this law had to fall.  Of course, the court really should have gone further, as
Thomas pointed out in his concurring opinion. The court’s
explanation of Section 4’s anachronism applies equally to
Section 5.  In practice, however, Congress will be hard-pressed to
enact any new coverage formula because the pervasive, systemic
discrimination in voting that justified a deviation from the
normal constitutional order is now gone.  That’s a good thing. We can finally move on to a healthier
stage of race relations, particularly with respect to how the
American people govern themselves.  (Ilya Shapiro is a senior fellow in constitutional studies
at the  Cato Institute  and editor-in-chief of the Cato Supreme
Court Review. He filed a brief supporting the challengers in
Shelby County v. Holder.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ilya Shapiro at  IShapiro@cato.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 