-- Jokowi’s Street Smarts Tested in Den of Vipers: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-06-25T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/jokowi-s-street-smarts-tested-in-den-of-vipers-southeast-asia.html
As Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  sat in the front row at a ceremony to open the
annual Jakarta Fair this month, the crowd feted the man sitting
to his right.  Hundreds in attendance who were silent when the president
was introduced broke into applause at the mention of Jakarta
Governor Joko Widodo, known locally as Jokowi. As both leaders
watched a musical about the capital’s history, the actors sang:
“Jokowi, we love you! God bless you!”  “Jokowi is a very humble man -- he’s down-to-earth and
reaches out to people,” said Wirman Tanjung, a 44-year-old shop
owner in Jakarta who attended the event and cheered on Widodo.
Yudhoyono, on the other hand, “talks too much and hasn’t
delivered.”  Widodo’s rise poses a challenge to former generals, family
dynasties and connected tycoons who have dominated Indonesian
politics since dictator Suharto’s ouster in 1998. If he makes a
run at succeeding Yudhoyono as president next year, he’ll have
to preserve his image as a humble, incorruptible outsider while
cozying up to the political parties that have consolidated power
in the world’s fourth-most populous country.  “He’s no doubt a popular figure and he does suggest that
he may be a break from the past, but the question is, in a
system like that where you are in a den of vipers, how on earth
are you going to do it?” said Leonard Sebastian, an associate
professor at the Singapore-based S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies. “He’s going to have to do a deal with
them” or run a country “where he has a parliament that just
won’t function.”  Top Choice  In a June 13 interview, Widodo said he was loyal to former
leader Megawati Soekarnoputri’s Indonesian  Democratic Party  of
Struggle and she would decide if he runs for president. The
governor topped former general Prabowo Subianto as the number
one choice to run the country of 250 million people in a survey
conducted last month by the Centre for Strategic and
International Studies, the Jakarta Post reported.  Widodo would receive 29 percent of the vote, compared with
16 percent for Prabowo and 5.4 percent for Megawati, who
finished second in the last two elections to Yudhoyono, the
report said. While Megawati has yet to say whether she’d step
aside in favor of Widodo next year her daughter, Puan Maharani,
said the party leader is open to younger candidates standing for
president, according to the report.  Presidential candidates need support from parties that win
at least 20 percent of seats in the 560-member  House of
Representatives  in April elections. Twelve parties will compete
nationally in that  parliamentary  vote, down from 38 in the last
election in 2009, after lawmakers tightened rules for
participation.  Street Democracy  Much of Widodo’s appeal stems from regular visits to
Jakarta’s poorest neighborhoods, some of which stretch until
midnight. Widodo said he prefers speaking with citizens directly
in what he calls “street democracy,” rather than relying on
the views of a small circle of advisers.  “When we have a corporation, we must know what the
customer wants, what the customers needs,” he said. “Also the
politician must know what the people want, what the people
need.”  With a year left in his final term, Yudhoyono is increasing
subsidized fuel prices for the first time since 2008 to support
a weakening currency. If left unchanged, the government
estimates that energy subsidies would have reached $30 billion
this year, sapping funds that could be spent on roads, bridges
and power plants that are needed to bolster  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest economy.  Megawati’s Influence  Widodo, 52, sold furniture before winning a 2005 election
for mayor of Solo in central Java, about 570 kilometers (355
miles) southeast of Jakarta. Since winning the Jakarta
governor’s job in September with Megawati’s backing, he has been
courted by others, including Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party.  Megawati’s opposition party, the third-biggest in
parliament, organized protests last week over Yudhoyono’s push
to raise fuel prices. Widodo opposes plans for cash handouts to
offset the price rise, saying funds should be given instead to
support small businesses, the Jakarta Globe reported.  As Solo’s mayor, Widodo focused on improving government
services such as education and health. In Jakarta, he pushed
through a mass rapid transit project that had been delayed for
decades and is considering moving ahead with a monorail to ease
the city’s traffic gridlock.  Suharto’s Legacy  Widodo said he’s able to resist attempts at bribery.
“Everyone can say no,” he said, when asked how he’d be able to
avoid the corruption scandals that have plagued other political
parties.  During most of Suharto’s time, only two parties were
eligible to participate in national elections aside from Golkar,
his political vehicle that is now headed by  Aburizal Bakrie ,
whose family runs Bakrie Group. Over three decades, Suharto
embezzled as much as $35 billion, according to estimates from
the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime.  The legacy of corruption persists. Indonesia was ranked 118
of 176 countries in Transparency International’s 2012 corruption
perceptions index, below the  Philippines ,  Mexico  and  China .  Yudhoyono, who took office in 2004 and is ineligible to run
again, has seen three senior officials of his party linked to
corruption allegations in the past two years. Its former
treasurer, Muhammad Nazaruddin, was sentenced to more than four
years in prison for bribery involving building projects for the
Southeast Asian Games in November 2011.  Not Tested  Widodo’s opponents question whether he’s ready to run the
nation after a short period on the job as Jakarta governor and
with some uncertainty over his views on key issues like fuel
subsidies and foreign policy.  “Jokowi hasn’t been tested yet,” Ahmad Mubarok, a member
of the Democrat party advisory board, said by phone. “If he
leaves his post and fails, then it will ruin everything.”  Widodo’s lack of experience should alarm voters, said
Meutya Hafid, a lawmaker with Golkar.  “He does not have a track record,” Hafid said. “Most
people say ‘Oh he’s clean, there are no bad things about him.’
But, except from the experience in Solo, there is also nothing
much we can learn.”  Among those who want to see Widodo make a run is Yenny
Wahid, the daughter of  Indonesia ’s fourth president. Her party,
formed two years ago with several million members, failed to
meet the new Election Commission requirements to participate in
the legislative elections next year, an outcome she attributed
to “a mafia working in a supposedly democratic environment.”  ‘Tremendous Leap’  “Imagine if we got someone up there who is really
inspiring and can mobilize people,” said Wahid, who has been
courted to join other parties. “We will make a tremendous
leap.”  As next year’s presidential election approaches, Widodo
will need to prove he is different, as he faces attacks from
entrenched interests who view him as a threat as well as special
requests from those financing his campaign, Wahid said.  “Everybody has their own interest that might not
necessarily be in line with democracy,” she said. “It’s really
up to Jokowi whether he will cater to these kind of demands.”  At the Jakarta Fair, shop owner Tanjung said Widodo’s
efforts to help those affected by floods and push forward a mass
transit system signaled a new direction.  “He doesn’t promise the sky,” Tanjung said. “But for
what he does promise, he delivers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  