-- Junk-Debt Credit Conditions Imperiled by Rate Rise, Moody’s Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/junk-debt-credit-conditions-imperiled-by-rate-rise-moody-s-says.html
Redemptions from high-yield bond
funds, spurred by  Treasury (USGG10YR)  yields at the highest in almost two
years, threaten to derail stable credit conditions for the
riskiest U.S. companies, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The credit grader’s list of companies rated B3 with a
“negative” outlook and lower rose to 160 as of June 1 from a
post-recession low of 146 three months earlier, a research
report shows. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields climbed to 2.6
percent yesterday, the highest close since August 2011, amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will trim its $85 billion
monthly bond-buying program later this year.  Rising yields and fund redemptions may drain the market
liquidity that has bolstered corporate balance sheets and
lowered  default risk , according to Moody’s analysts led by David Keisman. U.S. junk-rated debt has fallen 3.6 percent in June,
poised for its worst monthly loss since September 2011, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  “What was great about the Fed injecting those trillions of
dollars was that corporations took advantage of it to lower
coupons and push out maturities,” Keisman, who is based in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “If liquidity goes away,
when it comes time for refunding, they won’t be able to, and
that will drive a default cycle.”  U.S. high-yield bond funds have lost 3 percent of their
assets through net outflows this year, according to a June 20
research note from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Dollar-denominated offerings of speculative-grade bonds reached $2.4
billion in the week ended June 21, compared with the 2013 weekly
average of $8.2 billion, Bloomberg  data  show.  Liquidity Stress  Investors are ignoring a credit backdrop still showing that
few U.S. speculative-grade companies face liquidity problems or
risk violating debt covenants, Keisman said. Moody’s list of the
riskiest junk-rated companies is still 45 percent smaller than
its peak of 289 reached during the second quarter of 2009.  The credit-grader’s liquidity-stress index, which rises as
companies find financing more difficult to obtain and falls as
their ability to manage cash needs improves, reached 3.3 percent
as of the middle of June, below the 7.3 percent average since
2002, Moody’s data show. The U.S. speculative-grade default rate
will reach 2.4 percent by year-end, down from 2.9 percent in
May, according to the report.  “The fundamentals are maybe ticking up slightly, but
they’re mostly just staying the same,” Keisman said. “And
whenever the market moves in one direction and the fundamentals
stay in the other, that’s when things get interesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  