-- HKEx’s Li Targets China Growth After $2.2 Billion LME Deal
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-06-25T13:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/hkex-to-balance-cooperation-competition-with-china-ceo-says.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
plans to develop yuan-denominated commodities products as the
second-largest bourse operator expands into China following its
$2.2 billion takeover of the  London  Metal Exchange.  The bourse would probably start monthly cash-settled metals
products denominated in yuan, then move into other commodities
and physical settlement, Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said
at an LME meeting in Hong Kong. The exchange may increase fees,
when allowed to do so, he said today.  Hong Kong Exchanges bought the world’s largest base-metals
marketplace in December to enter commodities and plans to push
into China, the world’s top user of industrial metals. Hong Kong
is home to the biggest offshore pool of the Chinese currency and
is able to support trading of metals contracts in yuan, K.C.
Chan, the government’s secretary for financial services and the
Treasury, told the LME meeting.  “The purpose is to use LME as a catalyst for us to really
move rapidly into commodities, and be able to leverage on the
massive, accelerated pace of internationalization of China’s
market,” Li told  Rishaad Salamat  in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “The long, bullish outlook for commodities
from China is not over at all.”  China Economy  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  of equities has dropped 13 percent this
year through yesterday amid signs  China’s economy  is faltering,
making Hong Kong the worst performer among developed share
markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Stock in the
HKEx lost 14 percent through today, ending at HK$114.10 in Hong
Kong after losing 1.6 percent. Commodities as tracked by the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index have declined 5.1 percent.  As diners met over an eight-course Chinese meal at the
Convention Hall of Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center,
Li dressed up as an English footballer with  David Beckham ’s mask
to entertain some 900 guests.  “After spending $2.2 billion for the LME, I cannot afford
to hire the real Beckham,” he said on the stage. The menu
included sea cucumber, double boiled black chicken soup with
mushroom, and fried rice with squid and meats.  Frozen Fees  The LME, founded more than a century ago above a hat shop
in London’s financial district, trades metals including copper,
zinc and tin, helping to establish benchmark prices. The HKEx
pledged as part of the takeover not to raise fees until 2015.  China accounted for 41 percent of global copper consumption
last year, using 8.3 million metric tons, according to data from
Barclays Plc. The largest economy after the U.S. accounted for
43 percent of global aluminum demand and 44 percent for lead.  The company will study the potential development of yuan-denominated commodity products for HKEx platforms, Li said
yesterday at the signing of a memorandum of understanding with
Bank of  China  Ltd. The bank clears the currency for Hong Kong,
Macau and  Taiwan  and its investment-banking unit became an LME
clearing member last year.  LMEClear, the metal bourse’s new clearing house, will be
running by September next year, Li said in the interview with
Bloomberg Television. Hong Kong Exchanges is working toward
building a yuan-denominated product-clearing capability into the
system before it begins operation, he said.  Television Interview  “We’re looking at everybody and talking with everybody,”
Li told Bloomberg Television, when asked about possible
partnerships with mainland exchanges. The company would seek a
balance between cooperation and competition, he said.  The central government announced last year plans to deepen
cooperation between the commodity-futures markets in Hong Kong
and the mainland, said the Hong Kong government’s Chan,
according to a prepared copy of his remarks. The purchase of the
LME by HKEx was another step in this direction, Chan said.  Hong Kong Exchanges plans to list  iron ore , coking coal and
agricultural products in  yuan  that are settled in cash, a
spokesman said last week. The mainland yuan-denominated
commodities trade was valued at a combined 95.3 trillion yuan
($15.5 trillion) in 2012, which is confined to three Chinese
exchanges that restrict foreigners, according to data from the
China Futures Exchange Association.  Setting up LME-registered warehouses in China is a long-term aspiration, Li told reporters today. While the LME has a
global network of more than 700 registered warehouses for users
to hold metals, there is none in the Chinese mainland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  