-- Key to Japan’s Recovery? Hire More Non-Japanese Workers
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-25T22:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/key-to-japan-s-recovery-hire-more-non-japanese-workers.html
When the world’s oldest man died
recently, no one was terribly surprised to learn that both he
and the  woman  who assumed the title were Japanese. Whether
because of good doctors, genetics or green tea, more and more
Japanese are living longer and longer.  Here’s the problem: Their offspring are having fewer and
fewer kids. That’s skewing the age curve of the Japanese
population. By 2050  almost 40 percent  of the country will be 65
or older. Unless benefits are drastically cut -- as toxic a
proposal in Tokyo as in Vero Beach,  Florida  -- that means a
shrinking population of able workers will somehow have to
support a growing pool of senior citizens.  Japanese seem paralyzed by this prospect. The most obvious
remedy -- to lift the barriers to immigration that have made
Japan one of the most homogenous societies on earth -- is
dismissed as a political impossibility. Even the supposedly
fearless prime minister, Shinzo Abe, refuses to touch the issue.  That’s one reason analysts remain skeptical of the
structural reforms proposed as part of “Abenomics,” the prime
minister’s plan to revive the Japanese economy, as detailed in
the August edition of Bloomberg Markets magazine. Without new
workers to keep the economy growing and to  spur innovation  and
entrepreneurialism,  Japan  is hardly likely to rebound the way
Abe and his fans are hoping. If Abe can’t win this fight --
indeed, if he won’t even wage it -- then his chances of
overcoming other vested interests look dim, too.  Immigrant Nation  There is an obvious way for Abe to start talking about this
issue now, regardless of next month’s  upper-house elections  to
the Diet. Many Japanese don’t realize that in small but
unmistakable ways, their country is already becoming a nation of
immigrants. In recent years the government has experimented with
programs designed to attract particularly desirable categories
of migrants. A Canada-style  points system  targets highly
skilled, high-income knowledge workers. Deals with  Indonesia  and
the  Philippines  bring in nurses and aides for the elderly. For
years now, Japanese universities have made a push to attract
foreign students, especially from other parts of  Asia .  These programs haven’t drawn more flak because, for the
most part, they have struggled. Thus far only a few thousand
foreigners have qualified for permanent residency under the
points system. Meanwhile, only 47 out of 415 Indonesian and
Filipino nurses managed last year to pass the test -- in
Japanese -- required for their continued employment. Japan today
counts a mere 2 million immigrants among its 127 million
residents. That hardly presents an ethnic threat, much less
demographic hope.  Such stumbles suggest a way forward. Politicians --
including  members  of Abe’s own  Liberal Democratic Party  -- have
repeatedly made grand proposals for transforming Japan into a
multicultural society. All have failed. On the other hand, as
 Jeff Kingston , head of the Asia program at  Temple University ’s
Japan campus, points out, simply fixing and expanding already
existing programs would quickly boost the number of foreigners
in the country. Bureaucrats could raise the target numbers for
skilled workers or for foreign students without prompting much
of a backlash. The requirements for nurses could be simplified:
In one study,  almost all  passed the exam when tested in English
instead of Japanese.  Abe’s government could also be doing more to reshape the
debate around immigration. An influx of software entrepreneurs
and trained nurses should be seen for what it is -- part of the
solution, not part of the problem. Leading  Japanese businessmen 
now support the case for welcoming foreigners: With the country
seized by the need to revive the economy, their backing should
be featured prominently.  Positive Lessons  In parts of  Tokyo  and elsewhere, local governments have
come up with small, innovative programs to better integrate
newcomers. Abe’s administration should be studying these efforts
and highlighting their successes. Although the government cannot
prevent media hyperbole, the Justice Ministry could do much more
with its  crime statistics , which belie the common perception
that immigrants are to blame for increases in petty crime and
drug abuse.  Over the years, a narrative has formed around the
immigration issue in Japan, one that assumes any shift in the
country’s racial makeup will spark the unraveling of its tightly
knit society. In fact, the opposite is true: In depopulated
parts of the countryside, for instance, Chinese and Korean
brides have revived villages and kept their traditions alive.
Sometimes the only way to save the old is to welcome the new.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 