-- Keystone Gains After Report Dismisses Bitumen Spill Risk
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-25T19:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/keystone-gains-after-report-dismisses-bitumen-spill-risk.html
Heavy crude oil to be carried by the
proposed Keystone XL pipeline poses no greater risk of a spill
than other types of oil, the National Research Council said in a
report.  The report disputes arguments made by Keystone opponents
that diluted bitumen, a tar-like substance mined in  Alberta ’s
 oil sands , is more corrosive than conventional crude oil and is
more likely to create ruptures and oil spills in pipelines.  “There have been several studies to look at this over the
years, but none that have been as credible and comprehensive as
the NAS study,” Greg Stringham, vice president of markets and
oil sands for the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, 
said in a telephone interview from Calgary. “It does provide a
very definitive conclusion.”  The study may also bolster the case for other pipelines to
carry oil derived from Canadian  tar sands , he said.  The review of spills “did not find any causes of pipeline
failure unique to the transport of diluted bitumen,” according
to a statement from the council, part of the  National Academy of
Sciences  that advises the U.S. government on science policy.  ‘Nothing Extraordinary’  “There’s nothing extraordinary about pipeline shipments of
diluted bitumen to make them more likely than other crude oils
to cause releases,” Mark Barteau, a chemical engineering
professor at the  University of Michigan , said in a statement
accompanying the report released today. Barteau was the chairman
of the committee that wrote the report.  The State Department is reviewing  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP) 
application to build the $5.3 billion link between Alberta and
 Steele City ,  Nebraska , where the pipeline would link to a
project under construction to carry the oil to refineries in the
U.S. Gulf Coast. A decision is possible later this year.  The Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration,
a part of the U.S. Transportation Department, requested the
council’s report. Congress directed the department to study
transporting diluted bitumen in a 2012 pipeline safety law.  “Dilbit” has been transported in the U.S. for 30 years,
according to the report. The U.S. has about 55,000 miles (88,500
kilometers) of oil transmission lines. Pipeline spills ranged
from 80 to 120 a year from 2002 to 2011, according to the study.
Any spill releasing 5 gallons or more is reported.  Enbridge, Exxon  The Keystone proposal, along with spills such as Enbridge
Inc.’s Michigan rupture in July 2010 and a more recent incident
on an  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  line in Mayflower,  Arkansas , have led
environmental groups like the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
to oppose shipping bitumen by pipeline because they say doing so
carries greater risk.  A February 2011 report by the  New York  City-based NRDC said
said spills were more likely because bitumen is acidic and moves
through pipelines at higher temperatures than other oils,
increasing the risk of corrosion. The National Academy of
Sciences report contradicts the NRDC’s research.  Anthony Swift, an NRDC lawyer and an author of the report,
said questions remain about higher risks from external corrosion
at higher temperatures, as suggested in a 1993 study of
California pipelines carrying heavy crudes. Bitumen also may
inflict more damage on the environment, especially in waterways,
from a spill, he said.  ‘Limited Scope’  “It does answer some questions, there’s no question about
that, and I’m not criticizing the work that the  National Academy
of Sciences  did, but I am commenting on the the very limited
scope of the study,” Swift said in a telephone interview from
 Washington .  Oil and gas pipelines today reach temperatures of about 120
degrees Fahrenheit (49 degrees Celsius), “which is about the
temperature of the hot water lines in your house,” Barteau said
in a press conference today.  The council found the 1993 California study wasn’t
“directly applicable” to today’s pipelines, which have modern
coatings and protection from corrosion, Barteau said.  The bitumen is diluted with lighter oils to lower its
viscosity in the pipeline.  The alleged corrosive properties of bitumen is one argument
made by opponents of Keystone. Environmental groups including
the San Francisco-based Sierra Club also argue the pipeline will
encourage development of the oil sands.  Gas Emissions  Oil sands release 8 percent to 37 percent more  greenhouse
gases  during production and use than conventional oil, according
to the Pembina Institute, a Calgary-based non-profit research
and advocacy group.  Oil sands production is forecast to more than double to 5.2
million barrels a day by 2030 from 1.8 million currently, the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers said in its annual
 forecast  released June 5.  Canada is increasingly reliant on revenue from oil. Energy
products were the nation’s fastest-growing export over the past
20 years, increasing to 23 percent of all shipments, from 9
percent in 1993, according to  Statistics Canada .  The State Department’s draft environmental analysis said
Keystone won’t increase climate-change risks because the oil
sands will be developed even without the project. The
Environmental Protection Agency criticized the draft analysis,
and asked the state Department to conduct a fuller review.  Critics also say that, once spilled, bitumen is tougher to
remove. Unlike conventional crude, bitumen sinks in water rather
than floating on the surface where it can be skimmed off.  In October, the EPA said Enbridge must do more to clean a
spill in  Michigan ’s  Kalamazoo River  from a pipeline rupture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  