-- Kirk’s Cantab Hedge Fund Said to Drop 14% in June Selloff
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-25T16:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/kirk-s-cantab-hedge-fund-said-to-drop-14-in-june-selloff.html
Cantab Capital Partners LLP, a
hedge-fund firm partly owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has
lost 14 percent in its main fund this month as bonds and
currencies fell, two people familiar with the performance said.  The $4.5 billion fund, based in Cambridge, England, dropped
19 percent for the year through June 21, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the firm is private. Cantab,
founded in 2006 by Ewan Kirk, a former Goldman Sachs partner,
has been hurt in recent days as markets tumbled after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that the U.S.
central bank may start reducing fixed-income purchases that have
helped fuel a global rally in stocks and bonds.  “It’s unusual for one to see a selloff in risk assets and
a selloff in bonds at the same time,” Kirk said in an
interview. “Being a systematic fund, we had quite a significant
exposure to bonds and currencies.” He declined to comment on
June’s performance.  Cantab, which manages $5 billion and uses computers and
mathematical algorithms to spot trades, has slumped more than
most major computer-driven  hedge funds  this month. The Newedge
CTA Trend Sub-Index, which tracks the performance of the largest
computer-driven, or quantitative funds,  declined  3.5 percent in
June through last week.  Winton, Man  Winton Capital Management LLC’s $10 billion  futures fund 
fell 3.3 percent in the first three weeks of June after climbing
6.4 percent through the first five months of the year, according
to investors.  Man Group Plc (EMG) ’s $16.3 billion  AHL Diversified fund 
slid 3.5 percent in June and is down 2.8 percent in 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Spokesmen for the
London-based funds declined to comment.  Bernanke’s statement sent global currencies from the euro
to the Mexican peso tumbling against the  U.S. dollar . Global
 bonds  have fallen 2.9 percent since last week’s comments,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and worldwide  stocks ,
as measured by the MSCI Index, have dropped 3.5 percent.  Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP’s $27.9 billion Master
fund was able to limit losses last week after suffering bigger
declines at the beginning of the month. The net asset value of
the firm’s publicly traded BH Macro Ltd. fund slipped 0.1
percent for the week ending June 21 in its dollar share class,
reducing gains for the year to 3.2 percent, according to a
filing today by the London-based firm.  BH Macro tracks the performance of Brevan’s Master fund,
which bets on macroeconomic trends by buying and selling stocks,
bonds, currencies and commodities.  Tripling Assets  Cantab closed to new investments last year after tripling
in assets from August 2011 to October 2012. The fund gained 15
percent last year and 13 percent in 2011.  Kirk, who has a doctorate in mathematics from  England ’s
University of Southampton, led a team of 120 employees at
Goldman Sachs focused on quantitative investing before he
founded Cantab with $60 million. Cantab initially paid Goldman a
fee for the use of its technology and converted that arrangement
into a minority stake for the New York-based bank last year
after building its own systems.  Trend-following hedge funds enjoyed a resurgence over the
first four months of 2013, rising 7.7 percent on average, by
capturing drawn-out moves such as the fall in the Japenese yen
and rising stock prices. That gain followed  average losses  for
the firms of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 7.9 percent the previous
year, according to Newedge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  