-- Indonesia Sends Army to Fight Fires as Najib Protests Haze
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a ,   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-06-25T09:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/najib-sending-protest-letter-as-indonesia-apologizes-for-haze.html
Indonesia  is sending more than 3,000
soldiers, marines and air force officers to fight forest fires
in Sumatra that have been blamed for heavy  haze  over neighboring
Malaysia and  Singapore .  Nearly half of those would be sent to Riau province today,
Syamsul Ma’arif, head of Indonesia’s disaster management agency,
told reporters in Jakarta. The Indonesian Palm Oil Association
is also preparing 26 fire-fighting units to put out fires
surrounding its members’ plantations, Secretary General Joko
Supriyono said in Jakarta.  The moves were announced after Malaysia Prime Minister
Najib Razak said he would send a protest letter to Indonesia
demanding more action. Indonesia President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has apologized to his neighbors and pledged to work on
solving the issue, as finger pointing continues over
responsibility.  “Starting today and tomorrow, the units will be deployed
to help put out the fire,” Supriyono told reporters. “Fire can
just spread by strong winds in the dry season.”  Smog has drifted north along Malaysia’s western coast after
pollution reached a record in Singapore last week. Some areas of
Malaysia were classed as very unhealthy or hazardous today as
 Kuala Lumpur ’s 88-floor twin towers remained obscured.  Indonesia Talks  Malaysia wants Indonesia’s cooperation to enforce more
effective measures and punish those responsible for setting
illegal fires for land clearance, Najib said yesterday in Kuala
Lumpur. G. Palanivel, Malaysia’s minister for natural resources
and the environment, is due in Jakarta later this week for talks.  Malaysia plans to offer Indonesia aircraft that can be used
as water bombers, said Najib. Singapore has also offered help.
Indonesia’s foreign ministry is also trying to borrow planes
from  Russia ,  Canada ,  Australia  or  South Korea , Ma’arif said.  “The question of who owns the plantations is not the issue
here but when something of this magnitude happens, there should
be no concern of whether the plantations are owned by Indonesia,
 Malaysia  or Singapore but rather action taken against those
responsible,” Najib said, according to state news service
Bernama. The premier’s comments were confirmed by his office.  Singapore and Malaysia have been plagued for decades by
periodic haze from forest fires on Indonesia’s eastern Sumatra
island, with regular spats over responsibility even as all three
have strong economic links. The number of hotspots in Riau
province increased to 265 from 154 yesterday, according to the
disaster management agency.  Singapore “wholeheartedly” accepts Yudhoyono’s apology,
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in a statement today.  Solution Sought  “We need to put in place a permanent solution to prevent
this problem from recurring annually,” said Lee. “Singapore
stands ready to work very closely with Indonesia, Malaysia and
others in the region to bring an end to the haze-related
problems which have plagued our region.”  Malaysia will host a meeting of the sub-regional
ministerial steering committee on trans-boundary haze in Kuala
Lumpur on July 17, Palanivel said in a statement today. The
meeting was originally scheduled for Aug. 20-21.  Fire-fighting continued on Sumatra today with a third
water-bombing helicopter deployed alongside two planes used to
create artificial rain. The airport in Sumatra’s Pekanbaru may
have hourly shutdowns depending on weather conditions due to the
haze,  Bambang Ervan , a spokesman at Indonesia’s Ministry of
Transport, said by phone today.  Hazardous Haze  Malaysia’s Air Pollutant Index reached 484 as of 11 a.m.
today in Port Klang on the country’s western coast, and 333 in
part of Perak, according to the Department of Environment’s
 website . Levels above 300 are deemed hazardous. The smog was
classed as very unhealthy in parts of Selangor, which surrounds
the capital.  The smog forced the opening ceremony for Malaysia’s 13th
Parliament to be held indoors today, the first time in history
that has happened. The customary inspection of the guard-of-honor by the Malaysian King was held at the banquet hall of the
parliament building.  Najib declared an emergency in parts of southern Johor
state June 23 after the API hit levels around 750. Schools in
Johor, Kuala Lumpur and other affected areas were closed
yesterday and people advised to stay indoors.  Timber Firms  The  Pollutant Standards Index  in Singapore stood at 74 at 4
p.m. today, which is within the moderate range, the National
Environment Agency said on its website.  There are 17 timber firms and 15 palm oil firms, including
Singapore-listed  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , Kuala Lumpur-based
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and Singapore-based Asia Pacific Resources
International Ltd., with land in areas affected by fires, T.
Nirarta Samadhi, an Indonesian government spokesman, said June
21, citing data from the non-government  World Resources
Institute . Wilmar and Sime Darby have told  Bloomberg News  they
have a zero-burning policy.  There had been contradictory statements from Indonesian
ministers and officials on whether Singapore-linked companies
were engaged in illegal land clearing,  Permanent Secretary  for
 Foreign Affairs  Chee Wee Kiong said in an e-mailed statement
sent by Singapore’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday.  Chee requested the Indonesian government clarify the
statements or share evidence relating to any involvement by
Singapore-linked companies, the ministry said in the statement.  Indonesian government officials should not name companies
they suspect of having caused the fires and instead let police
investigate the matter, Yudhoyono said yesterday.  Malaysia reported its worst case of haze in 1997 when the
pollution reading reached 839 in Kuching in the eastern Sarawak
state, prompting the government to impose a 10-day emergency,
according to the Star yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  