-- Consumers to Factories Point to Durable Expansion: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-25T20:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/new-home-sales-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-may.html
Consumers and companies are starting
to act as if the U.S. economic expansion is here to stay.  Purchases (NHSLTOT)  of new homes jumped in May to a five-year high,
while business  investment plans  improved for a third straight
month, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
 Washington . The last time households were this confident was in
January 2008, according to another report.  The data point to the self-sustaining expansion the  Federal
Reserve  is seeking to nurture as rising property values boost
household wealth and spending, while businesses invest in new
equipment to meet growing demand. Stocks climbed, with the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index rebounding from a nine-week low, as
the figures supported forecasts the economy will overcome a mid-year slump and accelerate in the second half of 2013.  “It’s all good news,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The economy
is going to gain traction.”  The  S&P 500  advanced 1 percent to 1,588.03 at the close in
 New York . Treasuries fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark
10-year note up to 2.61 percent from 2.54 percent late
yesterday, as the data boosted the case for the Fed to slow bond
purchases later this year.  Builders sold 476,000 new properties at an annualized rate
last month, a 2.1 percent gain from April, exceeding all
 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey and the most since July 2008,
the Commerce Department figures showed. The median  selling price 
climbed to $263,900, up 10.3 percent from May 2012.  Builder Earnings  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  is among builders seeing increased sales,
orders and higher average purchase prices. The third-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue today reported second-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Miami-based Lennar delivered 4,464 houses, compared with
3,222 homes a year earlier, while the average sales price
increased to $283,000 from $250,000. Orders rose 27 percent.  “Against the backdrop of recent investor concerns over
mortgage rate increases, we believe that our second-quarter
results together with real-time feedback from our field
associates continue to point towards a solid housing recovery,”
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said in the statement.  Values of existing properties are also picking up.  Home
prices (SPCS20Y%)  in 20 U.S. cities rose 12.1 percent in April from the
same month in 2012, the biggest year-over-year gain since March
2006, a report from S&P/Case-Shiller showed. The 1.7 percent
increase in April from the prior month followed a 1.9 percent
March advance, marking the biggest back-to-back gains since
records began in 2000.  Housing Outlook  The demand for housing is driving residential construction
and aiding the economic expansion. Consumers who long held off
on purchases are entering the market even as borrowing costs
rise, encouraged by the increases in property values and gains
in employment.  “The housing recovery is alive and well and has a long way
to go, and higher rates aren’t going to choke it off,” said Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
in New York, who projected a gain to 475,000, matching the
highest in the Bloomberg survey. “It’s given the economy, or
will give the economy, a lot of oomph.”  Americans are gaining confidence as their biggest asset, a
house, becomes more valuable. The New York-based Conference
Board’s consumer sentiment  index  increased to 81.4 in June from
74.3 a month earlier, data from the private research group
showed.  Other Measures  Today’s figures are in line with the Bloomberg Consumer
 Comfort Index (COMFCOMF) , which has been hovering around a five-year high
reached in late April. American households last week were the
least pessimistic about the current state of the economy in more
than five years, the Bloomberg index showed.  Spirits are lifting as employment picks up. The Conference
Board’s survey showed more consumers thought opportunities will
open up in the next six months and an increasing share said jobs
were plentiful right now.  Houses aren’t the only thing consumers are more willing to
buy as prospects improve. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.2
million annualized rate in May, putting 2013 on course to be the
best year for automakers since 2007, according to industry
figures.  The gains in spending, which account for 70 percent of the
economy, are helping to bolster the expansion after government
budget cuts took effect in March.  “Unambiguously, the economy is showing signs of
improvement despite sizable fiscal drag,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla,
New York. Among the positives “has been the improving labor
market, but in addition, wealth in general has been rising, at
least up until the last week.”  Early Cutoff  The Conference Board said the cutoff day for responses to
be included in the report was June 13. Since then equities have
declined, with the S&P 500 dropping 2.5 percent on June 20, the
biggest one-day selloff since November 2011.  Growing demand for cars and trucks and gains in
homebuilding are helping counter weakness in export markets,
benefiting manufacturers such as  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)  and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Businesses may also decide to replace aging
equipment, which will help bolster expansion in the second half
of 2013.  Orders for  durable goods , those meant to last at least
three years, climbed a larger-than-projected 3.6 percent for a
second month reflecting broad-based gains, according to figures
from the Commerce Department.  Business Investment  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment in computers, electronics
and other equipment, climbed 1.1 percent in May after rising 1.2
percent and 1.1 percent in each of the prior two months.  Shipments of those products, a measure used in calculating
gross domestic product, rose 1.7 percent, the biggest gain since
November.  “This is the missing piece for an upswing in economic
activity,” said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates
research at TD Securities USA LLC in New York. “Business
capital investment activity is off to a strong showing. If
businesses start investing, they’ll add to their workforce.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the
central bank may begin to pare its $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases this year if the economy performs as policy makers
forecast. The process could be completed by mid-2014, by which
time the jobless rate will probably have dropped to around 7
percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  