-- Dow Jones Will Cut Some Jobs as Company Unifies Newsrooms
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-06-25T18:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/news-corp-s-dow-jones-cutting-some-jobs-as-it-unifies-newsrooms.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co. is
eliminating some jobs and extending buyout packages to employees
as it unifies the newsrooms of the Wall Street Journal and Dow
Jones Newswires.  “In the process of integrating our resources, we will be
undertaking a limited restructuring around the world that will
result in some consolidation of positions,” Gerard Baker,
editor-in-chief of Dow Jones, said in a memo to employees. “And
as the end of the fiscal year approaches, as is usual practice,
some of our colleagues are taking buyout packages.”  Fewer than a dozen people have taken the buyout offers,
said a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
named because the deliberations are private. Dow Jones and the
Wall Street Journal have about 2,000 employees combined, and
Baker didn’t specify the number of positions that would be lost.
Paula Keve, a spokeswoman for Dow Jones, declined to comment
beyond the memo.  The company also completed its senior team for the new
combined newsroom and appointed Adam Horvath as world editor,
said Baker, who also serves as managing editor of the Wall
Street Journal. The plan to integrate the two organizations,
including reporters and editors, began earlier this year.  Spinoff Plan  The changes come ahead of News Corp.’s planned split of its
publishing group from the more lucrative entertainment business,
set to take place on June 28. The News Corp. spinoff will
include Dow Jones, the  New York  Post, the Sun and Times
newspapers in the U.K., and Australian TV and newspaper
businesses, as well as Amplify, a digital-education startup.  Baker also announced the addition of at least 12 new
editorial positions to increase the Journal’s coverage of the
technology industry, mergers and acquisitions, and central
banks.  “This next phase of integration coincides with the launch
of our new parent company,” Baker said in the memo. “It is a
timely juxtaposition. The single, unified news organization we
are creating at Dow Jones will contribute vitally to the success
of the new News Corp.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. in supplying financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  