-- No Government No Problem as Czechs Unfazed by Instability
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-06-26T14:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/no-government-no-problem-as-czechs-unfazed-by-lack-of-stability.html
Czechs are preparing for their
seventh prime minister of the past decade, more than any
European Union nation. For entrepreneurs from Karlovy Vary to
Ostrava, it’s business as usual.  The second-richest of the EU’s ex-communist countries has
attracted foreign direct investment of about $65 billion since
2003, helping double the size of the  economy  to $217 billion.
The koruna has gained more than 20 percent against the euro and
the government borrows for less than the U.S.  While the Czechs avoided the violent anti-austerity
protests that swept out governments across the region, the
administration of Prime Minister Petr Necas collapsed this month
under the weight of a scandal over illegal spying and bribery
allegations. As Europeans grapple with the continent’s debt
crisis destabilizing governments from Lisbon to Helsinki, the
short shelf life of Cabinets became mundane for Czechs.  “There isn’t any direct impact onto business as such,
because we run it ourselves and politicians only influence it
indirectly,” said Stanislav Bernard, whose namesake brewery
doubled its output in the past decade. “But it does hurt the
the overall attitude of people. Despite the frequent changes of
governments we have been growing continuously for the last 12
years and we expect to keep improving.”  No Continuation  Czech President Milos Zeman yesterday picked ex-Finance
Minister Jiri Rusnok to form the government and replace Necas,
who was forced to resign on June 17 following a scandal in which
his closest aide was charged with ordering illegal spying. The
pick suggests the country is moving toward a snap election.  “I believe that most of the public, and I don’t mean just
my voters, wouldn’t want” a continuation of the current
coalition “with or without Necas,” Zeman told reporters
yesterday at  Prague  Castle.  Rusnok’s nomination isn’t certain to end the uncertainty as
his “government of experts,” as Zeman calls it, has to win a
confidence vote in the lower house of parliament -- which all
parties said they would reject.  If it fails in the confidence motion, the Rusnok Cabinet
will stay in office on a caretaker basis until Zeman names a
replacement or an election is held, with the next general ballot
scheduled for May 2014. To call an early vote, 120 members of
parliament would have to back dissolving the assembly.  Overnight Raids  The political turmoil erupted June 13 after nighttime
police raids resulted in the detention of eight people,
including the head of the premier’s office, former ruling-party
lawmakers and the current and former heads of military
intelligence.  Necas’s ensuing resignation made him the sixth consecutive
premier who failed to complete a full four-year term since Zeman
temporarily retired in 2002. Amid the slew of interim
governments, snap elections, no-confidence votes and coalition
breakups, investors kept betting on the  Czech Republic .  While the economy plunged into  recession  along with the
rest of  Europe  in 2009 and is contracting again, industrial
exports continue to provide a solid base, according to Jaroslav
Hanak, the head of the Confederation of Industry of the Czech
Republic.  “Despite the political instability, the Czech Republic is
not any waste land,” Hanak said by phone. “The businesses that
are linked to export continue to grow whatever the political
circumstances.”  Bond Yields  Coupled with  public debt  at 46 percent of economic output,
about half of the EU average last year, that has been enough to
lure buyers to  government bonds  even as the central bank cut its
 benchmark   interest rate  to effectively zero.  The  yield  on the Czech 10-year koruna bond fell to an all-time low of 1.48 percent on May 17, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The debt is the highest rated in the post-communist EU, on par with Estonia at Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s .  It has since risen to 2.34 percent today, after the U.S.
Federal Reserve indicated it could start paring asset purchases
should risks to the world’s biggest economy abate, while still
remaining below comparable U.S Treasuries. The yield on the
Czech government’s five-year bonds dropped 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.63 percent today, according to
generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Unexpected Twists’  “Czech government bonds, and essentially also the koruna,
will continue ignoring the domestic political scene despite the
unexpected twists,” Jan Cermak, a CSOB AS analyst in Prague,
said in a note today. “The situation will only become
interesting when the date of a parliamentary election is set.”  Exports, which account for about 75 percent of Czech GDP,
are led by manufacturers including the factories of carmakers
Hyundai Motor Co., Volkswagen AG’s Skoda Auto AS,  Peugeot SA (UG)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Sales of goods and semi-finished products to  Germany , the
country’s main export market, almost doubled to 963 billion
koruna ($49 billion) last year from 507 billion koruna in 2003,
according to Statistics Office’s data.  “The car industry has benefited from positive decisions
that attracted foreign direct investments,” Helena Horska, the
head of research at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague, said by phone.
“The economy has been riding the momentum from the past.”  Still, prolonged instability would potentially endanger
that link by failing to give political backing to “structural
reforms that would require a stable government,” Horska said.  German Links  Being so channeled into the German industrial machine
helped the Czech Republic weather political storms better than
other parts of former communist eastern Europe. Several
countries in the region have been rocked by instability as
Europe’s debt crisis forced economies still in transition to
tighten spending and resort to bailouts.  “Forty-plus years of Soviet rule and all the value-distorting, economy-strangling, society-warping pressure that
entailed and then a crash transition to the market take time to
assimilate,” Mark Galeotti, Clinical Professor of Global
Affairs at  New York  University’s Center for Global Affairs, said
in an e-mail. “Lobbyists who go beyond the usual bounds,
illegal wiretaps, embezzlement, sweetheart deals -- they are
hardly unique to the Czechs.”  The Czech Republic ranked 54th of 174 countries in
Transparency International’s 2012 corruption perception index,
tied with Latvia, Malaysia and  Turkey . In the 27-member EU, only
Slovakia, Romania, Italy, Bulgaria and  Greece  did worse.  Even as they get on with everyday business, that continues
to frustrate executives such as Bernard.  “Billions are lost in black holes and I will only start to
be an optimist when the shady figures who pull the strings from
behind are charged,” said Bernard, who’s active in a foundation
aimed at fighting corruption. “Internationally, it shows us as
a young, non-matured democracy that’s still ruled by gold miners
that get public functions with an aim of getting rich rather
than help improve things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  