-- Nordic Capital Seeks More Time to Raise $3.9 Billion Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-06-25T14:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/nordic-capital-seeks-more-time-to-raise-3-9-billion-fund.html
(Corrects name of management company in first paragraph of
story originally published June 24.)  Nordic Capital, a Swedish buyout
firm specializing in Scandinavian and German-speaking countries,
is asking for as much as six more months to complete capital
raising as it seeks to gather 3 billion ($3.9 billion) euros for
its latest fund, according to a letter to clients.  The firm, based in  Stockholm , wants the fundraising
deadline for Nordic Capital Fund VIII LP to be extended to Feb.
8 from this August as a number of prospective clients need time
to finish their investment committee and legal processes,
according to the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The firm will probably wrap up capital raising
by September, according to a person briefed on the process who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Private-equity firms are taking longer than in the past to
amass capital as they compete for a limited pool of investor
cash. Managers now need an average of 18 months to raise funds,
compared with about 14 months in 2008, according to London-based
data provider Preqin Ltd. Apax Partners LLP took 15 months to
line up 5.8 billion euros for its latest buyout fund, which
closed earlier this month. Another European private-equity firm,
Cinven LLP, raised 5.3 billion euros in June after starting
fundraising in 2011.  Katarina Janerud, a spokeswoman for  Nordic Capital ,
declined to comment on the fundraising process.  ‘Substantial’ Commitments  Nordic Capital, which started pitching its fund in April
2012, held a 1.7-billion euro first close in February. The fund
has gathered “substantial further commitments since then” and
has “a significant number of investors in progress,” according
to the letter. Nordic Capital told investors last year it would
seek 25 percent less than the 4 billion euros it originally
targeted for the eighth fund, people with knowledge of the
matter said in October.  The firm raised 4.3 billion euros for the prior fund in
2008. Nordic Capital Fund VII LP was generating a multiple of
1.1 times invested capital and a 4 percent net internal rate of
return as of Dec. 31, according to performance data by
Washington State Investment Board.  Nordic Capital today agreed to sell Danish information-technology company EG A/S to Axcel A/S, another private-equity
firm, an exit that will make it four times its investment, said
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Nordic Capital’s eighth fund will make private-equity
investments in various industries in the Nordic region and
 Germany , and take part in health-care buyouts throughout  Europe ,
according to a marketing document, a copy of which was obtained
by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  