-- North Dakota Abortion Laws Unconstitutional, Clinic Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-06-25T16:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/north-dakota-abortion-laws-unconstitutional-clinic-says.html
New North Dakota laws that would bar
abortions if a fetal heartbeat can be detected and ban using the
procedure for sex selection or because of genetic flaws are
violations of  women’s rights , a clinic said in a lawsuit.  The provisions, signed into law in March by North Dakota
Governor Jack Dalrymple, a Republican, take effect Aug. 1,
unless they are halted by a court.  The Center for Reproductive Rights sued today in federal
court in Bismarck on behalf of the only abortion clinic in North
Dakota. The clinic is seeking a ruling that the bans are
unconstitutional and an injunction barring their enforcement.  “The bans prohibit abortions prior to viability in
violation of clearly established United States Supreme Court
precedent that protect the substantive due process rights of
women seeking abortions,” according to the complaint.  The ban on abortions when a fetal heartbeat can be detected
would restrict the procedure to as early as six weeks into
pregnancy, according to the filing.  The plaintiff Red River Women’s Clinic in Fargo said it
provides abortion care to women up to 16 weeks of pregnancy.
About 89 percent of the clinic’s patients have abortions after
the sixth week of pregnancy, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit names as defendants members of the  North Dakota 
Board of Medical Examiners and the state attorney general.  Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s press secretary, Liz
Brocker, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is MKB Management Corp. d/b/a Red River Women’s
Clinic v. Burdick, U.S. District court, District of North Dakota
(Bismarck).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  