-- Nuggets Hire Brian Shaw to Replace NBA’s Coach of Year Winner
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-25T20:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/nuggets-hire-pacers-assistant-shaw-as-coach-denver-post-says.html
The Denver Nuggets brought in
Indiana Pacers assistant Brian Shaw to replace George Karl,
making him the sixth first-time coach hired in the National
Basketball Association this offseason.  Shaw, 47, won three NBA championships during his 14-year
playing career and two more during seven seasons as an assistant
with the Los Angeles Lakers under coach Phil Jackson. He spent
the past two seasons as associate head coach of the Pacers, who
this year reached the Eastern Conference finals, and helped Paul George and Roy Hibbert develop into All-Stars.  Shaw takes over a Nuggets team that had the fourth-best
record in the NBA last season at 57-25 before losing to the
Golden State Warriors in the first round of the playoffs.  “It’s a talented roster with a great foundation,” Shaw
said in a statement. “As a player and a coach, my primary goal
has always been to win a championship.”  Shaw joins Jason Kidd of the Brooklyn Nets, Jeff Hornacek
of the Phoenix Suns, Michael Malone of the Sacramento Kings,
Steve Clifford of the  Charlotte  Bobcats and Mike Budenholzer of
the Atlanta Hawks as first-time NBA coaches hired this offseason.
Dave Joerger would become the seventh, as the Memphis Grizzlies
have agreed to promote their six-year assistant to replace
Lionel Hollins, according to ESPN.  “I was extremely impressed with Brian’s intelligence,
knowledge of the game and intangible qualities, both when he
played for me and when he was an assistant coach on my staff,”
Jackson said in comments distributed by the Nuggets. “He’s one
of the brightest young coaches in the game and has a great
future. I commend the Nuggets for recognizing this and for
giving him this opportunity.”  Karl, 62, was fired by the Nuggets this month after being
named the NBA’s coach of the year this season.  Karl, who had one year left on his contract, guided the
Nuggets to nine straight playoff appearances and 423 wins, the
second most in team history behind Doug Moe (432). Team owners
were unwilling to commit to a contract extension sought by Karl,
Yahoo Sports has reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  