-- Obama’s Overseas Coal Pledge to Curb Ex-Im Bank Financing
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-25T23:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/obama-s-overseas-coal-pledge-to-curb-ex-im-bank-financing.html
President  Barack Obama  pledged to
end U.S. government financing of overseas coal projects, a
promise that could end millions of dollars in support for power
plants in nations such as  Vietnam  and India.  As part of a “Climate Action Plan” released today, Obama
called for ending U.S. support of foreign coal-fired power
plants, unless they are in the poorest nations or have expensive
carbon-capture technology.  “This is an important move to stand up and say, ‘Coal is
not an acceptable fuel source for the 21st century,’” Justin
Guay, a Washington representative for the Sierra Club, said in
an interview. “It’s a really strong political signal.”  Until now, Obama’s push to double exports of U.S. goods and
services had conflicted with his environmental goal of reducing
the greenhouse gases linked to climate change, as the U.S.-
backed Export-Import Bank had expanded financing that, by its
own accounting, led to more and more greenhouse-gas emissions.  The bank has provided hundreds of millions of dollars to
back coal plants in  India  and South Africa, as well as support
for exports of U.S.-mined coal. After evaluating two coal plants
in Vietnam, according to information its  website  earlier today,
a bank spokesman late today said one proposal was withdrawn for
lack of documentation.  The White House announced the policy change as part of an
overall climate strategy without mentioning the bank.  Coal Plants  “I am committed to working with the bank’s board of
directors to implement President Obama’s new initiative to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including his call to end
public financing for most new coal-fired power plants
overseas,” Ex-Im President Fred Hochberg said in a statement.  Ex-Im Bank financing for fossil-fuel projects reached a
record $9.6 billion in the 2012 fiscal year, almost double the
2011 total and five times the funding in the final year of the
Bush administration, according to Ex-Im data compiled by the
environment group Pacific Environment. In addition to coal
plants, the lender supports oil-field exploration, pipelines,
refineries and gas-fired power plants.  The Export-Import Bank works to boost U.S. sales overseas
by providing government-backed loans or guarantees to exporters.
It also can fund a share of overseas projects, by backing the
sales of U.S. products or services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  