-- Obama's Carbon Rules May Give Boost to Wind, Solar Power
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-25T20:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/obama-s-carbon-rules-may-give-boost-to-wind-solar-power.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest maker of solar  power-plants , and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  stand to
gain from President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to curb emissions
from coal-fired utilities.  Obama directed the Interior Department today to issue
permits for 10 gigawatts of renewable energy on public land,
doubling renewable-energy generation by 2020. The Defense
Department, the largest U.S. energy consumer, also plans to
install three gigawatts of renewable energy by 2025, enough to
power to 2.4 million homes.  By focusing on power plants, Obama’s administration is
confronting one of the largest contributors to greenhouse-gas
emissions. Forty percent of U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions and
one-third of all greenhouse gases come from electric power
plants, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  “First Solar and SunPower have led the way with these
large, utility-scale projects and this should provide a benefit
to them long-term,”  Sanjay Shrestha , a New York-based analyst
at Lazard Capital Markets, said in an interview today.
“Everyone has been wondering where the next big solar projects
will be and 10 more gigawatts on federal land shows the way.”  First Solar, based in Tempe, Arizona, rose 7.8 percent to
$44.48 at the close in New York, the most in a month. SunPower,
based in San Jose, California, climbed 5.7 percent to $18.91.  More solar was added to the grid than any other source
during the first quarter of this year, according to Rhone Resch,
chief executive officer of the Washington-based Solar Energy
Industries Association. More than 30 utility-scale solar
projects are under construction, he said today in a statement.  Rules for new power plants proposed by the EPA, under
authority granted by the  Clean Air Act , have been indefinitely
delayed. Obama plans to put new deadlines on the agency, setting
a deadline of Sept. 20 for new power plants and the release of a
proposal for existing plants by June 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  