-- Obama May Establish Green Investment Bank, Climate Lobby Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-25T12:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/obama-may-establish-green-investment-bank-climate-lobby-says.html
Anthony Hobley, president of the
Climate Markets & Investors Association and head of climate
change at law firm Norton Rose Fulbright LLP in London, comments
on President  Barack Obama ’s plan to protect the climate, which
is to be announced today. Hobley commented in an e-mailed
statement.  On Obama’s options:  “The president would appear to be pulling every executive
lever available to him in the absence of action by Congress.
Plans to support renewables include streamlining consent
procedures, creating demand and providing federally backed loan
guarantees. One could speculate that there are the beginnings of
a U.S. federal green investment bank in this package. Energy
efficiency is also a key pillar of this plan.”  On adapting to climate change:  “A significant amount of this plan also deals with
adaptation to climate change and particularly building
resilience into cities and energy infrastructure and learning
lessons from recent extreme weather events such as  Hurricane
Sandy . In many ways it could be seen as a call to arms by a
president faced with a Congress split on the need for action.”  On international links, climate negotiations:  “Much more is said about working with other countries
directly than is said about the international negotiations. And
this is borne out by the evidence of U.S. international action
on climate change in the last few years. We cannot forget that
international law and particularly multilateral treaties have
historically reflected what major powers do anyway rather than
setting new standards for them to achieve.”  On any 2015 international climate agreement:  “Any comprehensive agreement reached in 2015 which the
U.S. is politically able to back will very much reflect the
domestic action which the U.S. is already taking and
international action it has agreed to take in bilateral
agreements with other countries. Therefore the ambition of any
global treaty on climate change may likely be judged by how
successful the president is in getting his own country to act
and possibly encouraging a divided Congress into action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  