-- Obama’s Challenge on Climate Change
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-25T19:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/obama-s-climate-challenge-is-to-move-away-from-coal.html
President  Barack Obama  today
announced a broad attack on climate change. His hope is to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, and he aims at every target
imaginable -- every target within his authority, that is.  Included in his plan are solar and wind projects on U.S.
public lands, new energy-efficiency standards and fuel-economy
requirements, and greater limits on greenhouse-gas emissions of
all kinds.  Unfortunately, he had to leave out any strong action
Congress could take. That includes a meaningful tax on carbon,
the kind of  change that’s needed  to bring greenhouse-gas levels
80 percent to 95 percent lower than they were in 1990 and thus
keep temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius. In
2009, Congress declined to take responsibility, and as there’s
no reason to hope it would now, Obama is right to press ahead on
his own.  Whether he’s successful will depend a lot on how his
administration manages two of his biggest initiatives: placing
carbon-emissions limits on existing U.S. power plants and
helping the developing world switch to cleaner forms of energy.  Both of these efforts hinge on moving away from coal, which
still provides  42 percent  of electricity in the U.S. and almost
 80 percent  in  China .  Reducing Pollution  Domestically, Obama wants to use the Environmental
Protection Agency’s authority under the Clean Air Act to reduce
pollution from power plants, which produce 40 percent of the
nation’s carbon dioxide emissions and a third of its greenhouse
gases. But doing so without drastically pushing up the price of
power will take more finesse than can be managed by simply
hitting plants with a uniform limit.  So it is promising that administration officials say they
will  ask the states  to offer up their own ideas. A flexible
state-by-state strategy, along the lines of what was  proposed  in
March by the Natural Resources Defense Council, could give the
power industry a seat at the table and allow it to reasonably
manage a transition from coal to natural gas and wind, solar and
other renewables.  Under the NRDC plan, for example, the EPA would give each
state a budget for its carbon emissions, taking into account the
state’s existing power-generation mix. Those with more coal
plants would initially be allowed a higher level of emissions,
but they would be expected to bring the levels down as years
pass. Each state could come up with its own plan for meeting its
emissions budget, including putting efficiency measures in place
and switching to cleaner fuels.  Internationally, Obama proposes various initiatives to
lower greenhouse-gas emissions -- including cooperating with
other countries to develop carbon-capture technology, ending
investment in new coal plants abroad and making deals to lower
tariffs on clean-energy technologies.  He should also focus on getting countries such as China
access to cheaper natural gas. With Asian  prices  almost four
times those in the U.S., it’s little wonder that natural gas
powers only 4 percent of China’s electricity. A new gas pipeline
from  Russia  should increase the supply, and the Obama
administration is right to encourage it. Exports of U.S. natural
gas would help, too, not only in China but also in many other
developing countries.  As we’ve argued, the new secretary of energy, Ernest Moniz,
should move quickly to  approve  new export terminals for shipping
liquefied natural gas abroad. The Department of Energy has so
far approved two terminals, but 20 more applications are pending
for licenses to sell to countries that don’t have free-trade
agreements with the U.S. Some of those should also be cleared.
And a free-trade agreement between the U.S. and the European
Union, now under negotiation, would increase natural gas exports
to Europe, which has recently been buying more American coal.  Increasing Resilience  Even if entirely successful, Obama’s push against emissions
wouldn’t be enough to completely prevent climate change. That’s
why we’re glad to see that he also proposes to help the U.S.
live with the consequences. For example, he wants to establish a
state and local task force on preparedness, assist local
communities, and make federal and military buildings more
resilient.  Protecting existing public and private property against
floods, storms and heat waves isn’t free, however. A recent
proposal from Mayor Michael Bloomberg (the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP) for  New York  City
alone is priced at $20 billion.  And Obama’s plan is mostly silent on the need for new
funds, to say nothing of where they would come from. Here is an
area where Congress, along with state and local governments,
ultimately will need to step in.  Meanwhile, the president is smart to do all he can on his
own to turn down the engine that’s powering climate change.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 