-- Obama Emissions Plan Seeks to Revive Climate Initiative
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-25T16:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/obama-emissions-plan-seeks-to-revive-climate-initiative.html
President  Barack Obama  will attempt
a revival of U.S. efforts to tackle climate change today by
announcing a sweeping plan that would impose limits on
greenhouse gas emissions from all U.S. power plants.  The mandatory reductions by operators of power plants, the
biggest single source of carbon-dioxide emissions in the U.S.,
are the centerpiece of Obama’s initiative, which also includes
increasing energy efficiency and promoting renewable fuels,
according to senior administration officials who briefed
reporters on the proposal and asked not to be identified before
it was formally released.  The officials wouldn’t put a price on the package, which
they said can be accomplished without congressional approval.
Obama is scheduled to unveil it about 2 p.m. local time at
Georgetown University in Washington.  Absent from Obama’s plan is a decision on the future of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry
crude from oil sands in  Alberta  to refineries along the Gulf of
Mexico. Environmental activists have made the $5.3 billion
project a litmus test for the president, saying the measures
he’s announcing today won’t offset the political and ecological
damage of building the pipeline. The Keystone issue will be
decided later this year.  Obama pledged more than three years ago to cut U.S. carbon-dioxide emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by the end of the
decade. While he’s highlighted the threat of global warming in
high-profile speeches at home and abroad, Obama hasn’t detailed
how he intends to address it.  ‘Global Threat’  “This is the global threat of our time,” Obama said in
Berlin on June 19. “For the sake of future generations, our
generation must move toward a global compact to confront a
changing climate before it is too late.”  By focusing on power plants, Obama’s administration is
confronting one of the largest contributors to greenhouse gas
emissions. Forty percent of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions and
one-third of all greenhouse gases, come from electric power
plants, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Actual reductions under Obama’s plan are unlikely to begin
until 2018, given the amount of government and legal review
required, according to Kevin Kennedy, director of the climate
initiative at the  World Resources Institute   “There really is a need to be able to move ahead with a
regime of solutions throughout the economy,” said Kennedy.
“But starting now with power plants is going to be a big first
step.”  Carbon Capture  The president’s plan also includes $8 billion in new loan
guarantees for carbon-capture projects, as well as proposals to
promote renewable energy development on federal lands, the
construction of more climate-resilient infrastructure, and
energy efficiency standards for appliances and federal
buildings.  He also will call for ending U.S. government financing of
coal plants overseas, except for those that use carbon capture
and sequestration technologies or are in the poorest nations.  As the administration has rolled out pieces of the plan,
companies and industry groups are raising objections.  Utilities such as  Southern Co. (SO)  and  American Electric Power
Co. (AEP)  and coal producers including  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  argue that
limiting coal use will raise consumer energy costs.  “Taking America’s most significant source of electricity
offline would have disastrous consequences for our nation’s
economy,” Mike Duncan, the president of the American Coalition
for Clean Coal Electricity, said in a statement.  Coal Plants  There are about 6,597 power plants in the U.S., 589 of
which are coal-fired, according to the  Energy Information
Administration . Last year, coal plants accounted for 38 percent
of electricity produced in the U.S., followed by natural gas and
nuclear power which produced 29 percent and 20 percent,
respectively.  Four top congressional leaders, including Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of  Kentucky , are scheduled to meet with
Obama at the White House later today. McConnell, who represents
the nation’s largest coal-production state after  Wyoming  and
West Virginia, said he’ll tell Obama that the emissions plan
would hurt jobs.  “Declaring a ‘War on Coal’ is tantamount to declaring a
‘War on Jobs,’” McConnell said in a statement. “It’s
tantamount to kicking the ladder out from beneath the feet of
many Americans struggling in today’s economy.”  ‘Radical’ Agenda  The National Republican Senatorial Committee today sent
statements about Obama’s “radical climate change agenda” to
news organizations in coal states where Democratic senators
including Mark Pryor of  Arkansas , Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and
Kay Hagan of North Carolina face re-election in 2014.  “Kay Hagan worked to help elect Barack Obama and is
responsible for the liberal policy agenda that will destroy
jobs, raise energy costs, and hurt working families in states
like North Carolina,” according to one release.  Obama will argue that Americans don’t have to choose
between economic growth and cutting carbon pollution by pointing
to jobs that will be created through development and use of
renewable and more efficient energy technology, according to the
administration officials.  ‘Natural Hesitation’  “There’s going to be natural hesitation and risk avoidance
voices, but in every case there is a better outcome,” said
Admiral Dennis McGinn, president of the American Council on
Renewable Energy. “This is really a great time to think of this
not only in terms of cost but to think of this in terms of
investment.”  The administration’s message is helped by a recent change
in the government’s calculation of the social cost of carbon
emissions, a measure that’s used to determine the costs and
benefits of climate rules. The U.S. government now assumes it is
worth about $36 per ton to avoid emitting carbon, an increase
from the $22 per ton price previously used.  “The EPA could generate a rule that is 60 percent more
expensive then it would have been prior to the change in the
social cost models and still claim that it is cost beneficial,”
said Scott Segal, a lobbyist for coal-fired utility companies.
“That’s the kind of back of the envelope accounting that would
make Enron smile.”  Rules for new power plants proposed by the EPA, under
authority granted by the Clean Air Act, have been indefinitely
delayed. Obama plans to put new deadlines on the agency, setting
a deadline of Sept. 20 for new power plants and the release of a
proposal for existing plants by June 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  