-- Obama’s Africa Mission Is to Make Up for Lost Time
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-26T21:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/obama-s-africa-mission-is-to-make-up-for-lost-time.html
President  Barack Obama  is visiting
Africa on a mission to make up for lost time.  Lagging behind former U.S. presidents Bill Clinton and
George W. Bush, as well as China, in engaging sub-Saharan
Africa, Obama has assembled a weeklong, three-country itinerary
to begin taking a more active role in pushing U.S. investment
and strengthening democratic institutions on the continent.  He arrived this evening in Senegal to start a trip that
also will take him to South Africa and Tanzania. The visit is
his first to the region as president since a one-day stop in
 Ghana  in 2009. The itinerary puts him in the west, south and
east of the continent while avoiding stops in Nigeria, which has
been beset by human rights and corruption issues, and  Kenya ,
where he has relatives.  “There are other countries getting in the game in Africa -
- China,  Brazil ,  Turkey ,” White House deputy national security
adviser Ben Rhodes said before Obama departed Washington. “If
the U.S. is not leading in Africa, we’re going to fall behind in
a very important region of the world.”  Obama is on the continent as former South African President
Nelson Mandela, 94, who inspired the U.S. president’s early
political activism, lies critically ill in a Pretoria hospital
where he’s been fighting a lung infection since June 8.
Mandela’s death would upend Obama’s schedule.  The week’s events are designed to encourage U.S. trade and
infrastructure development as well as more traditional goals of
disease prevention and treatment and food security.  Economic Opportunities  American companies see a growing economic opportunity in
Africa. U.S. merchandise exports to the 49-country region were
$21 billion in 2011, up 23 percent from 2010, according to the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. Imports from sub-Saharan Africa were worth $74 billion in 2011, up 14 percent
from 2010. Most of that, about $60 billion, was crude oil.  “The Obama administration doesn’t want the military
engagement and drone bases to be the takeaway legacy that they
have in Africa,” said Jennifer Cooke, director of the Africa
Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
 Washington  policy center.  That’s the risk unless he develops a “countervailing
message of economic engagement, democratic engagement,” she
said.  Among other actions, the U.S. is setting up a drone base in
Niger and has provided training for troops in  Mali  in the past.  The subtext of his itinerary, Cooke said, is “we need to
be cultivating partners who will be friendly to us, whether it’s
in the commercial side, the diplomatic side or ultimately the
security side.”  Trade Emphasis  The new U.S. Trade Representative, Mike Froman, will
accompany Obama, along U.S. with officials from the Overseas
Private Investment Corp. and the Export-Import Bank of the
United States, and Raj Shah, the administrator of the U.S.
Agency for International Development.  “There’s a huge demographic dividend waiting to be
exploited” by the U.S. in Africa, said  Haroon Bhorat , an
economics professor at the University of Cape Town. “You’ve got
dynamic opportunities that are being exploited, as you know, by
 China ,  India  and other economies. So, to some extent, the U.S.
has a foothold already, but recognizing that these are new and
dynamic opportunities, both now and in the future, is
critical.”  In Tanzania’s fast-growing metropolis of Dar es Salaam, the
last stop of the tour, Obama will convene a roundtable of
company executives and promote U.S. investment in
electrification projects. He also will tour the former slave
house at Goree Island in Senegal.  Robben Island  In South Africa, he’ll tour Robben Island, where Mandela
was imprisoned for 18 years during apartheid, and hold a town-hall style Young African Leaders Initiative meeting in Soweto.
He’ll address the African continent from the University of Cape
Town, where Robert F. Kennedy in 1966 delivered his anti-apartheid “ripple of hope” speech.  Africa  was a second-term focus for Obama’s immediate
predecessors. Clinton visited twice. His 1998 trip covered six
countries and represented the most extensive trip to sub-Saharan
Africa by any U.S. president. His 2000 trip to two countries
made him the first U.S. president to visit more than once while
in office. Clinton signed the African Growth and Opportunity
Act, a trade agreement with countries in sub-Saharan Africa.  Bush, whose administration took U.S. spending on Africa to
new levels, made a six-country visit in 2008 and a three-country
stop in 2011 after he left the White House. His Africa legacy
includes Pepfar, a $15 billion commitment to prevent and treat
AIDS infections, credited with saving or extending millions of
lives on the continent.  Returning Focus  Obama, 51, was largely occupied in his first term with the
U.S. financial crisis, wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  and a
foreign policy pivot toward Asia.  A year ago, he issued a policy directive on sub-Saharan
Africa calling for expanded economic growth and pressing for
stronger democratic institutions. In March, he met at the White
House with  Senegal ’s President Macky Sall as well as the leaders
of Sierra Leone, Malawi and Cape Verde.  Still, Africans have been disappointed with Obama’s level
of engagement because of his status as the first black U.S.
president and because of his direct family connections there,
said Mwangi Kimenyi, a senior fellow and director of the Africa
Growth Initiative at the Brookings Institution, a Washington
policy center.  “Africans were very excited when President Obama was
elected and they expected different engagement than in the
past,” Kimenyi said. “On the policy side, Africans have been
largely disappointed.”  Compared with Obama’s visits, China’s top leaders have made
more than 30, Kimenyi said, and the U.S.-Africa relationship is
still defined by Clinton and Bush.  Even so, Kimenyi said, “There’s excitement in the
continent” and Obama is “still someone that Africans see as
one of theirs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Dakar, Senegal at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  