-- Mobius Searches for China Stocks to Buy as PBOC Spurs Confidence
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-25T08:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/mobius-searches-for-china-stocks-to-buy-as-pboc-spurs-confidence.html
Mark Mobius , who oversees $53
billion in  emerging markets , said he has confidence in  China ’s
central bank and is keeping his overweight position in the
nation’s equities following a five-day tumble.  “We should be confident about what the government is doing
and they are cleaning up the system,” Mobius, the executive
chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in a phone
interview today from Monaco. “We are looking to add to Chinese
exposure if the price is right. If the price comes down
substantially, we would.”  The Shanghai Composite Index has tumbled 9.3 percent in the
past five days, sending valuations to the lowest level on
record, as interbank borrowing  costs  reached all-time highs. The
gauge slipped 0.2 percent today, rebounding from an earlier 5.8
percent  plunge , amid speculation the government will take steps
to support financial markets. Liquidity risks are controllable
and seasonal forces affecting  interest rates  will fade, a
People’s Bank of China official said today.  China’s cabinet, led by Premier  Li Keqiang , said last week
that finance companies must do more to support economic
transformation and reduce risks, after administrative measures
to crack down on property prices and local government
investments were bypassed by so-called shadow banking
activities.  A gauge of financial shares in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slumped 12
percent in the past five days amid concern higher interbank
borrowing costs will hurt some lenders’ earnings. The seven-day
repurchase rate, a gauge of liquidity in the  interbank market ,
rose 68 basis points today to 8 percent, according to a fixing
by the National Interbank Funding Center. That is more than
double this year’s average of 3.78 percent.  No Problems  The central bank will closely monitor the money-market rate
going forward and keep it at reasonable levels, Ling Tao, deputy
director of the Shanghai branch of the PBOC, said at a briefing
in Shanghai today.  China’s major banks “are not going to have a problem,”
Mobius said.  The  Shanghai Composite index (SHCOMP)  is valued at 8 times estimated
12-month earnings, the lowest  level  on a weekly basis since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006. That compares with a
multiple of 9.2 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Mobius said in a June 2012 interview that he was adding to
Chinese equities after valuations plunged. The  Shanghai index 
fell as much as 15 percent through Dec. 3, before rallying 24
percent to a high in February.  “China is very, very key part of the whole EM space and we
will continue to be invested in China,” the  fund manager  said.
“Not only in our China fund but also our global fund, Asia fund
and in the private equity area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  