-- Loblaw’s Choice Properties Raises C$400 Million in Toronto IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-25T21:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/loblaw-s-choice-properties-raises-c-400-million-in-toronto-ipo.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) ’ real estate investment
trust raised C$400 million ($380 million) in the largest REIT
initial public offering in Canada, according to sale documents.  Choice Properties Real Estate Investment Trust (0818165D) , created by
Canada’s biggest grocery store chain, sold 40 million trust
units for C$10 each, with an initial yield of 6.5 percent, the
high end of its marketed range, according to the documents.  Loblaw, based in Brampton, Ontario, created the REIT to
spin off about 75 percent of its real estate, according to the
documents. Properties include 415 stores, one office complex and
nine warehouses totaling 35.3 million square feet.  George Weston Ltd. (WN) , parent of Loblaw, will acquire an
additional C$200 million of the REIT units on completion of the
sale, which is led by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Royal
Bank of  Canada  and Toronto-Dominion Bank, the company said.
Choice Properties also sold senior unsecured debentures in an
offering led by CIBC, Royal Bank, TD and Bank of Montreal.  Julija Hunter, a Loblaw spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a telephone and email message seeking comment. Kim Lee,
who represents the REIT, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The REIT will trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the
symbol CHP-UN after the sale closes around July 5.  The C$400 million IPO makes Choice Properties Canada’s
largest REIT public offering, surpassing the C$270 million
raised in Dundee International REIT’s July 2011 sale, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government, are companies that invest in income-producing real
estate and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  