-- Olympic Report Flags Tokyo Hotels, Istanbul Roads as Issues
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-25T13:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/olympic-report-flags-tokyo-hotel-rates-istanbul-roads-as-issues.html
An evaluation of cities bidding to
host the 2020 Olympics flagged concerns including  Tokyo ’s hotel
rates, traffic congestion in Istanbul and the ability of  Madrid 
to raise sponsorship.  The issues were among those raised in a  105-page report 
published by the  International Olympic Committee  today. The
Lausanne, Switzerland-based group will pick the host of the
summer games on Sept. 7.  Tokyo is the favorite to be awarded the Olympics for the
first time since 1964 with all seven bookmakers listed on the
 oddschecker.com  website. Istanbul is the second-favorite and
Madrid is the outsider, according to the website.  The report was compiled by an IOC committee that visited
the three cities in March.  The committee said it was concerned about the “guaranteed
maximum” hotel rates in Tokyo that would be as much as $1,634
per night for a double room in a five-star hotel and $571 in a
three-star hotel.  Madrid’s estimated top rates were the cheapest of the three
cities at between $626 for a five-star hotel and $218 for so-called budget accommodation including 3,000 university campus
rooms.  The report said there was clear backing of Tokyo’s bid by
Japanese business leaders.  Madrid Sponsorship  The committee was “cautious” about whether Madrid can
meet its target of raising $694 million in sponsorships in
 Spain . The country is in the sixth year of an economic slump.  Madrid could also face challenges in turning landmark
locations such as the Las Ventas bullring and Retiro Park into
venues, according to the report.  In Istanbul, it said there’s a “high” risk of traffic
congestion because of plans to stage sports in the European and
Asian sides of the city. The Turkish city’s estimates for travel
time to venues -- it says no trip will take more than 40 minutes
-- were “somewhat optimistic.”  Istanbul’s plan for security is “adequate,” although a
proposal to recruit 20,000 private security staff could be a
challenge, according to the report, which was finalized on April
19 before a wave of anti-government protests.  Demonstrations against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s administration erupted in late May in frustration over
what protesters say is his increasingly authoritarian conduct
and attempts to impose Islamic ways on the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  