-- ONGC, Oil India Agree to $2.5 Billion Mozambique Field Stake
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-06-25T11:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/ongc-oil-india-to-pay-2-5-billion-for-mozambique-field-stake.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil
India Ltd. (OINL) , India’s biggest state-run explorers, will pay $2.5
billion to buy a stake in a Mozambique natural  gas field  from
 Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF)   The two Indian companies will buy Videocon Mozambique
Rovuma 1 Ltd., which owns 10 percent of the Rovuma-1 field in
the waters off the African nation, Oil India said today in a
stock exchange filing. The transaction, expected to close in the
last quarter of 2013, was first announced by ONGC on June 10 and
withdrawn the same day for being “premature.”  ONGC has acquired $8.5 billion of oil and gas assets
outside India since September as it seeks to raise overseas
production more than sixfold by 2030 and reduce the south Asian
nation’s dependence on imports. The New Delhi-based company
plans to spend 11 trillion rupees ($184 billion) by 2030 to add
reserves in India and overseas and reverse a decline in output
from aging fields at home.  The two state-run companies will form a venture for the
acquisition, which is subject to the approval of both the Indian
and Mozambique governments and their regulators, as well as
clearance from existing partners in the Rovuma-1 area.  ONGC  rose  4.2 percent, the most since Jan. 18, to 311.40
rupees at the close in Mumbai, while Oil India fell 1.5 percent
to 545.50 rupees. The benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index gained 0.5
percent.  Leading Efforts  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Eni SpA have been leading the
effort to convert gas from the Indian Ocean fields in Mozambique
to liquid and transport it to countries including India via
tankers. Liquefied natural gas plants need billions of dollars
in investment to chill the gas to a liquid and ship it using
tankers. The East African country has become a prominent
destination for energy investment, especially by Asian
companies, as it looks to develop the largest natural-gas
discovery in a decade.  At a planned capacity of 20 million tons annually, the
Mozambique project could be the world’s largest LNG export site
after Ras Laffan in Qatar, where  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is a partner.  Bank of America Corp. was the financial adviser to the
buyers. Videocon was advised by Standard Chartered Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG and UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  