-- Top Vietnam Fund Says Banks, Property Attractive Amid Stock Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-25T23:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/top-vietnam-fund-says-banks-property-attractive-amid-stock-drop.html
Shares of banks and property
companies from Vietnam Export-Import Commercial Joint Stock Bank
to Vingroup JSC are “very attractive” as the country’s
 benchmark index  heads for the biggest monthly loss in more than
a year, the nation’s largest fund manager said.  Vingroup, the country’s biggest listed property company,
has slumped 9.6 percent this month and is valued at 10.8 times
estimated 12-month earnings, a record low. Eximbank’s 1.3
percent decline in June has driven its valuation to 6.9 times.
The benchmark VN Index has lost 8.8 percent this month through
yesterday, poised for the biggest drop since May 2012, and
trades at 10.8 times, a three-month low.  “If we look at the long-term view, property and bank
stocks are very attractive,” Andy Ho, managing director and
head of investment at VinaCapital, said in an interview on June
24.  Vietnam ’s biggest fund manager oversees about $1.5 billion
of assets. The government has been “very proactive” about
fixing some issues in the economy, he said.  Vietnamese stocks have dropped as overseas investors pulled
money from emerging-market assets after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank could consider
paring stimulus if the country’s employment market showed
sustainable improvement. While rising bad debts have fueled
concerns over the Southeast Asian nation’s banking industry, the
government has taken steps to solve the issue by establishing
the country’s first state-run debt-asset management company.  Best Performer  VinaCapital’s Vietnam Opportunity Fund Ltd. has returned an
annualized 14 percent during the past three years, the second-biggest gain among 37 Vietnam equity funds tracked by Bloomberg.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has gained 14 percent since Ho forecast a
rally in December, making it Southeast Asia’s best-performing
benchmark gauge this year. The central bank cut interest rates
last month for an eighth time since the start of 2012 and the
government took steps to deal with bad debts at banks.  Ho also recommended shares of Military Joint-Stock
Commercial Bank, Nam Long Investment Corp. and Khang Dien House
Trading & Investment Joint-Stock Co.  Hanoi-based Military Bank has fallen 3 percent this month
and trades at 5.2 times projected earnings, the lowest since
April 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  VinaCapital holds a 5 percent stake in Eximbank and 10.3
percent in Khang Dien House, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cash Outflows  Overseas investors sold a net $71.1 million of Vietnamese
stocks this month through yesterday, poised for the biggest
monthly sell-off since January 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Foreign funds are still net buyers this year,
purchasing a net of $182.7 million of local shares, the most for
the period since 2010.  The market will see some “volatilities” in the short
term, creating “a lot of opportunities” for foreign investors,
Ho said. The benchmark VN Index’s  30-day volatility  measure, a
measure of price swings, rose to 20 yesterday, the highest in a
month.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung approved the formation of an
asset management company last month. Effective July 9, the
entity will acquire non-performing loans from lenders. Officials
are under pressure to rejuvenate an economy that grew at the
slowest pace since 1999 last year as one of the highest bad-debt
levels in Southeast Asia crimped credit to businesses.  Vietnam’s banks reported bad debt made up 4.51 percent of
total loans as of the end of March, Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen
Xuan Phuc said on May 20. That figure compares with the central
bank’s estimate of 7.8 percent at the end of 2012.  The government is aiming for economic growth of 5.5 percent
in 2013. That would be the first time gross domestic product has
expanded at less than 6 percent for three straight years since
1988, according to International Monetary Fund data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  