-- Lorillard Wins First FDA Clearances of Tobacco Products
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-06-25T22:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/lorillard-wins-first-fda-approvals-of-tobacco-products.html
Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the largest U.S.
maker of menthol cigarettes, won the first two clearances to
market new tobacco products among 500 requests, under authority
given in 2009 to U.S. health regulators.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared two of Greensboro,
North Carolina-based Lorillard’s Gold Box cigarettes for sale in
the U.S. They are the first rulings handed down by the agency
since lawmakers gave it the power to determine which current
tobacco products can remain on the market and which new ones can
be introduced.  The FDA cleared the cigarettes through a “substantially
equivalent” determination that makes a judgment as to whether
products have the same characteristics as existing ones or raise
new public-health questions. The agency denied four other
requests for the determination, it said today in a  statement .  “It is important to emphasize that an SE decision does not
mean that the agency considers a product to be safe,” wrote
Mitch Zeller, head of the FDA’s Center for Tobacco Products, in
a  blog post  on the agency’s website.  Lorillard rose less than 1 percent to $43.53 at the close
in  New York .  “We are proud to be the first company in the industry to
receive authorization to begin marketing these new products in
the U.S. through the FDA’s substantial equivalence pathway,”
Murray Kessler, Lorillard’s chairman and chief executive
officer, wrote in an e-mail. The agency “carried out its
evaluation process in a deliberate manner reflecting sound
science,” he said.  New Products  The FDA couldn’t reveal which substantially equivalent
requests they denied for legal reasons, Jennifer Haliski, an
agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The decisions announced today were the first time a federal
agency declined to allow a tobacco company to market a new
product because of the threat it poses to public health, the
 Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids  said in a statement.  “Today’s actions are a start: They involved a small number
of the applications that have been filed by the tobacco
industry,”  Matthew Myers , president of the Washington-based
group that advocates for reducing tobacco use, said in the
statement. “But today, the federal government was able to rule
on some products tobacco companies wanted to sell –- and that is
no small new reality.”  The new products cleared were Newport Non-Menthol Gold Box
100s and Newport Non-Menthol Gold Box, according to Zeller’s
blog.  ‘Overhang’ Remains  “While today’s development is a positive step, there is
still work to be done,” Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in New York, said today in a note to clients. The
lack of FDA substantial equivalence rulings “has been an
overhang,” she said.  Congress granted the FDA authority over tobacco products in
2009 and the new regime has created a backlog of requests at the
agency. As of earlier this month, there were 500 requests to
approve products not currently sold and 3,500 for products
already in stores, Zeller said in a June 6 interview.  “Today’s decisions are just the first of many forthcoming
product review actions to be issued,” Zeller said in the
agency’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  