-- Tortorella Named Canucks’ Coach a Month After Firing by Rangers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-25T17:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/tortorella-named-canucks-coach-a-month-after-firing-by-rangers.html
John Tortorella  was named coach of
the  Vancouver Canucks , completing what amounted to a coaching
swap with the  New York Rangers .  Tortorella will succeed the fired Alain Vigneault as the
17th coach in the Canucks’ history, the team said today in a
statement on its website.  Vigneault was hired last week to fill the Rangers’ vacancy
left by Tortorella’s firing after 4 1/2 years in New York, a run
capped by National Hockey League playoff berths the last three
seasons.  Tortorella, who turned 55 yesterday, has won 410 games over
parts of 13 seasons as an NHL coach and captured the Stanley Cup
title with the  Tampa Bay Lightning  in 2004. The Boston native
has more victories than any other American-born coach in NHL
history.  “John has coached championship teams and is passionate
about winning,” Canucks General Manager Michael Gillis said.
“He has a proven ability to bring the best out of his players
and we believe he has all of the qualities to bring our team
success.”  The Canucks went 26-15-7 this season before being swept by
the  San Jose Sharks  in the first round of the playoffs.  Vigneault, 52, had a 313-170-57 record in Vancouver and the
team won the Northwest Division each of the last five seasons,
though 2012-13 was a step back for a franchise that has become
one of the NHL’s regular Stanley Cup contenders. The Canucks
were 19th among the league’s 30 teams in goals per game, and
ranked in the bottom 10 in power-play percentage and faceoff
percentage. They’ve also lost 10 of their last 11 playoff games.  Scoring Shortage  Tortorella was fired by the Rangers on May 29 after the
team lost in the second round of the playoffs. He drew criticism
throughout his tenure for short, often heated news conferences,
and struggled to get consistent production from five-time All-Star forward Rick Nash, the team’s highest-paid skater, who
scored one goal in the playoffs, and three-time All-Star  Marian Gaborik , who was traded in April to the  Columbus Blue Jackets .  Vigneault gained favor among media members in Vancouver for
his openness, including the public handling of a goaltending
competition last year between Cory Schneider and Roberto Luongo.
When he was introduced as the Rangers’ coach, he said he
intended to give the team’s starters more freedom on the ice.  Tortorella took responsibility after the season ended for
the Rangers not being psychologically prepared during their
playoff series against the  Boston Bruins . Rangers owner Jim Dolan praised Vigneault last week for being able to get the most
out of his players.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  