-- Toshiba to Restructure TV Business to End Losses
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-06-25T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/toshiba-to-restructure-tv-business-to-end-losses.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  will present a
restructuring plan in July designed to turn around television
operations that have lost $1 billion in the past two years.  The Japanese maker of flash-memory chips, elevators and
reactors plans to make the unit profitable in the second half of
this business year ending March 31, Hisao Tanaka, who became
president yesterday, told reporters in Tokyo earlier this month.  Toshiba and  Sony Corp. (6758)  are among Japanese companies that
have been reorganizing businesses for years, trying to revive TV
operations hurt by falling prices and a strong yen. At the same
time, they have tried to speed up development on new products to
lure back customers from industry leaders Apple Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)   The maker of Regza TVs needs to offer more value-added
models, while cutting fixed costs and inventories, Tanaka said,
adding details of the plan have yet to be decided.  “Cutting fixed costs by just 10 billion yen ($103 million)
isn’t enough,” he said.  The company, whose  sales  shrank 24 percent in the past five
years, plans to set up a new division to house patents held by
various companies within the Toshiba group, Tanaka said. These
previously tended to be used separately within each division,
limiting the potential for sharing innovation, Tanaka said.  Wider Scope  “We want to widen our scope of marketing” by tailoring
Toshiba solutions for the different technology requirements each
industry has, the 62-year-old president said, speaking June 20.  The company ended domestic assembly of TVs in the year
ended March 2012 and said in July that it consolidated quality
and production control for digital products outside  Japan . The
company’s TV division posted a loss of 50 billion yen in each of
the past two years ended March 31.  Toshiba plans to sell 11 million TVs in the year ending
March 2014, unchanged from last business year, according to
spokeswoman Naomi Furuya said.  Toshiba fell 1.1 percent to 461 yen in Tokyo trading. The
stock has gained 37 percent this year, compared with a 25
percent gain in the benchmark Topix index.  Tanaka said he plans to unveil a new mid-term business plan
in August with profit goals and a focus on growth.  The company, the largest flash-memory maker after Samsung,
has sold a mobile-phone unit and its small liquid-crystal
displays division to shift its focus toward infrastructure and
computer chips as part of its reorganization over the past five
years. The strategy allowed Toshiba to weather the slump in its
TV division, maintaining profits when peers like  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  posted losses in the past two years amid
slumping TV businesses.  Westinghouse Electric  Net income may be 100 billion yen for the year ending March
31, compared with 77.5 billion yen a year earlier, Toshiba said
in May. Sales may rise 5.2 percent to 6.1 trillion yen from 5.8
trillion yen. That compares with a peak of 7.7 trillion yen in
the year ended March 2008.  The company is in talks to sell as much as 36 percent of
its Westinghouse Electric atomic-power business after being
forced to increase its stake in the unit to 87 percent, former
President Norio Sasaki said in December. Toshiba was compelled
to buy 20 percent of Westinghouse in January after Shaw Group
Inc. used an option to sell its stake.  “We’re not in hurry to sell the stake,” Tanaka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  