-- Tourism Seen Jumping to No. 3 Mexico Cash Source by 2018
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2013-06-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/tourism-seen-jumping-to-mexico-s-3rd-biggest-cash-source-by-2018.html
Mexico ’s  tourism industry , already
the nation’s fifth-biggest source of revenue, is seen taking on
more economic importance by the end of 2018 as international
visits rise and new infrastructure is built, according to a
cabinet official.  Tourism’s participation in Mexican gross domestic product
will climb 100 basis points to 9.4 percent by the end
President’s Enrique Pena Nieto’s administration, Tourism
Minister Claudia Ruiz Massieu said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s  New York  offices on June 21. The “upward trend”
for the industry, which employs about 7 million people, will be
driven by more visitors from countries outside of  North America 
and better tourism facilities, she said.  “Tourism is already one of the most important economic
sectors for Mexico,” Ruiz Massieu said. “We are confident that
it can represent at least one point more of GDP at the end of
the administration and that we can become the third source of
revenue at least.”  Last year, tourism generated $12.7 billion in foreign
exchange inflows, according to a report by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
a 10.5 percent increased versus 2011. Tourism trails
manufacturing, oil, remittances and foreign direct investment as
the nation’s biggest source of revenue, according to Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit.  Ruiz Massieu said Latin America’s second-biggest economy
received a record 24 million international visitors last year,
or 2.6 percent more than the 23.4 million tourists it received
in 2011, according to  World Bank  figures. Global international
arrivals grew by 4 percent in 2012, according to a  report  from a
World Tourism Organization report, and reached 1 billion
tourists worldwide for the first time.  International visits abroad to the so-called emerging
economies rose 4.1 percent, while arrivals to advanced economies
climbed 3.6 percent, the WTO report shows.  Mexico’s Share  “We want to keep growing the market share in our
traditional markets,” such as the U.S. and  Canada , the biggest
source of international travelers to Mexico, Ruiz Massieu said.
At the same time, Ruiz Massieu is focusing on  emerging markets 
such as  Brazil ,  Argentina ,  Russia  and  China . She declined to
offer a projection for the total international visitors expected
for this year.  The increase of international travelers to Mexico comes
even as more than 6,200 people have been killed in drug-related
violence since Pena Nieto took office Dec. 1, according to
 Milenio , a Mexico City-based newspaper.  Eduardo Medina Mora, Mexico’s ambassador to the U.S., said
in a June 6 interview that the government’s efforts to fight
organized crime “are going to take more time and be long-term
driven, because they’re based on institutional buildup,” and
that the number of casualties is already dropping.  Economic Initiatives  Pena Nieto has said that legal changes he’s pushing for by
year-end to open up the state-controlled  energy industry  and to
increase tax collection may boost growth to as much 6 percent a
year, versus 3.9 percent in 2012. Ruiz Massieu said Mexico seeks
to increase private investment in the tourism industry.  The Mexican government is finishing its infrastructure
strategy which will be unveiled in the coming weeks and the plan
will for the first time include tourism development, Ruiz
Massieu said.  Mexico wants to build new airports, cargo and commercial
ports, railways and highways to link well-known transportation
hubs with lesser-known tourism destinations, she said without
specifying how much investment will go into the projects.  2013 Spending  This year Mexico is investing 310 billion pesos ($23.3
billion) in infrastructure, Pena Nieto said June 20. Speaking at
a construction industry event in Merida, Mexico, the president
said that about 187 billion pesos will be invested in the second
half of the year.  Ruiz Massieu said the Communications and Transportation
Ministry will announce “in a couple of weeks” a final decision
regarding potential measures to alleviate congestion at the
Mexico City airport, the busiest hub in  Latin America . “What I
favor is getting more planes to an area where I can distribute
more tourists to different destinations,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in New York at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  