-- U.S. Housing Prices Increased More Than Forecast in April
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-25T13:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/housing-prices-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-april.html
Home prices climbed more than
forecast in the 12 months through April, rising by the most in
more than seven years and showing further strength in the U.S.
housing market.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased
12.1 percent from April 2012, the biggest year-over-year gain
since March 2006, after advancing 10.9 percent a month earlier,
a report showed today in New York. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 28 economists called for a 10.6 percent advance.  Short supply, record-low mortgage rates and an improving
job market combined to boost housing demand and spark the
rebound in prices. The recovery is probably far enough along to
overcome the  recent surge  in borrowing costs after Federal
Reserve policy makers said they may trim unprecedented
accommodative measures meant to spur the expansion.  “Housing’s doing really well and I don’t think the backup
in mortgage rates to date is going to derail it,” said Brian Jones, senior U.S. economist in New York at Societe Generale,
who projected a 12.3 percent rise in home prices. “We’re still
well off the highs, but price increases could continue for the
next several years.”  Bloomberg survey  estimates  ranged from increases of 9.9
percent to 12.3 percent. The S&P/Case-Shiller index is based on
a three- month average, which means the April data were
influenced by transactions in February and March.  Monthly Gain  Home  prices adjusted  for seasonal variations increased 1.7
percent in April, compared with a 1.9 percent gain in March. The
Bloomberg survey median called for a 1.2 percent rise.
Unadjusted prices climbed 2.5 percent in April after a 1.4
percent gain as 19 of the 20 cities showed advances.  The year-over-year gauge, which includes records going back
to 2001, provides a better indication of price trends, the group
has said.  All of the 20 cities in the index showed an increase in
year-over-year prices, led by gains of 23.9 percent in San
Francisco and 22.3 percent in Las Vegas. The smallest gain was
in New York, which showed a 3.2 percent advance.  “The recovery is definitely broad-based,” David Blitzer,
chairman of the S&P index committee, said in a statement.
“Recent economic data on home  sales (ETSLTOTL)  and inventories confirm the
housing recovery’s strength.”  The price index results follow other signs that housing has
strengthened in the second quarter even as the economy shows
signs of slowing. Beginning construction of new homes climbed
last month as permits to build single-family houses rose to the
highest level since May 2008, the Commerce Department reported
June 18.  Existing Homes  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes climbed 4.2 percent in
May to an annualized rate of 5.18 million, the highest level
since November 2009, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed last week. The median selling price surged from
a year ago by the most since October 2005, the group said.  Traction in the residential real estate recovery is
supporting homebuilders’ positive outlook. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index  of builder
sentiment rose eight points, the biggest monthly increase since
September 2002, to 52 in June. Readings above 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were good.  The sustained growth in demand is lifting companies such as
lumber producer  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  of Federal Way, Washington, and
building confidence in the housing market’s return to pre-recession levels.  “We are, as we discussed in May, seeing a recovery in
housing,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Fulton said on a June
17 conference call. “We believe we are on our path to long-term
recovery to trend levels.”  Mortgage Rates  At the same time, borrowing costs are climbing from record
lows. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was 3.93
percent in the week ended June 20, compared with an average 3.55
percent so far in 2013, according to data from Freddie Mac. The
rate fell to 3.31 percent in November, the lowest in records
dating to 1972.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said at a news conference last
week that the rise in mortgage rates hasn’t been “so dramatic”
as he suggested the housing market may be strong enough to
withstand higher borrowing costs.  At the same time, investors sold bonds that guide home-loan
rates as Bernanke said he expects the Fed will slow its $85
billion in monthly asset purchases later this year and end the
program around the middle of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  