-- Paula Deen’s Racist Wedding Fantasy Was Once Reality
-- B y   D a n i e l   L e v i n s o n   W i l k
-- 2013-06-25T18:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/paula-deen-s-racist-wedding-fantasy-was-once-reality.html
Paula Deen is in trouble. Last
month, in a  deposition  for a discrimination suit brought by an
employee, the Food Network star blithely admitted to using
racial slurs. Perhaps equally disturbing, she also said she had
fantasized about throwing a slavery-themed wedding for her
brother, an idea that came to her after eating at a restaurant
with an all-black staff.  Deen  has apologized, though the Food Network has announced
that it won’t renew her contract. Whatever her motivations, she
tapped into a long history of slavery fantasy in the U.S.  In the years preceding the Civil War, as northern states
gradually emancipated their slaves, many expensive hotels in New
York and other northern cities made it a policy to hire only
black men to wait tables in their dining halls. Although it
seems that these waiters were all free men, some may have been
only recently emancipated.  The theatrical tradition of blackface minstrelsy developed
over the same antebellum decades, feeding a parallel longing for
a not-yet-past plantation slavery;  New Yorkers  could take in a
blackface show and then walk down the block for a meal served by
black men.  Southern Clientele  Because  New York  was a center of the cotton trade, southern
cotton merchants and their emissaries spent a lot of time in the
city’s hotels. They tended to prefer those staffed by black
people, such as the Lafarge House and the Howard House, which
could provide a simulacrum of slavery.  Some black waiters, understanding the slave-like
implications of their work, rebelled by serving without
servility, organizing unions that they hoped would protect their
dignity (the first multicity, multiracial waiters’ strike was in
1853), and reorganizing their work to try to shed connotations
of slavery.  Tunis Campbell, a black abolitionist preacher and
headwaiter at various hotels in New York, adapted military
drills to the dining room as a way to impose discipline and
machine-like regularity. In 1848, he wrote the first textbook on
hotel management, in which he stressed the need for black
waiters to serve with dignity.  With the coming of the Civil War and southern emancipation,
Campbell went south to serve as a Reconstruction-era legislator
in  Georgia . Up north, however, whites’ desire for black service
workers who evoked slavery increased. This trend reached its
height in the policies of the Pullman Company, which hired white
men to construct train cars and black men to staff them as
porters and waiters.  When Robert Todd Lincoln (son of the Great Emancipator)
became Pullman’s president, he continued the tradition of hiring
only blacks. Ironically, Pullman porters were among the most
radical, empowered black Americans of their era -- spreading
news of northern freedoms to blacks stuck in the Jim Crow South,
building a powerful union, sometimes even joining the Communist
Party. On the job, however, they were expected to act out the
style of servility that had been shaped under slavery.  In the early 20th century, things began to change, but not
because of a decline in racism. Instead, hotel and restaurant
managers in New York and across the U.S. began to replace black
male waiters with white women. The labor shortages of World War
I were an important catalyst for this shift, but managers also
stoked and responded to a broader cultural change in taste:
Sexiness was now valued above all in the dining experience.  Even as black men disappeared from the dining rooms of
restaurants and hotels, they began to appear on food packaging.
As Maurice M. Manring has shown in his book “ Slave in a Box ,”
packaging design and advertising campaigns for syrup and other
food products (Aunt Jemima, Uncle Ben’s Rice or Rastus from the
Cream of Wheat box) evoked and played on a racist nostalgia for
slavery, much like blackface minstrelsy. Although the racial
caricature has been toned down, the same characters are still on
the packaging of those products today.  For all the horror of Deen’s deposition, we should remember
that the remnants of her racist attitudes still surround us,
hidden everywhere in plain sight.  ( Daniel Levinson Wilk  is an associate professor of American
history at the Fashion Institute of Technology. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Daniel Levinson Wilk at  daniel_levinsonwilk@fitnyc.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  