-- Pennsylvania Has Worst Spread Since ’10 on Pensions: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-06-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/pennsylvania-has-worst-spread-since-10-on-pensions-muni-credit.html
Municipal-bond investors are
demanding the biggest yield penalty since 2010 on  Pennsylvania 
issuers as the state’s budget chief warns that a growing pension
deficit threatens the commonwealth’s credit rating.  Republican Governor Tom Corbett wants to create a defined-contribution plan for new public employees and trim future
benefits for current workers. He is trying to shrink an unfunded
pension liability that is set to rise 38 percent by 2018 to $65
billion. Ratings companies may cut Pennsylvania’s credit grade
if lawmakers don’t pass the overhaul before the fiscal year
begins July 1, said Charles Zogby, state budget secretary.  Investors saw the price of inaction in  Illinois , which had
its bond rank cut this month after failing to bolster the
nation’s weakest state pension system. The extra  yield  on 10-year obligations of Pennsylvania and its municipalities reached
0.87 percentage point yesterday, the widest since September
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Legislators “haven’t taken any concrete steps on their
pension issues,” said John Mousseau, who helps manage about
$2.2 billion in debt at Cumberland Advisors in Vineland,  New
Jersey . The company sold its Pennsylvania general obligations
last year.  Challenge Deepens  “They’re not in the state that Illinois is in, but by not
taking action, that’s how you get into the state that Illinois
is in,” he said.  Pension funding is a deepening challenge for states and
cities nationwide after the recession that ended in 2009. U.S.
localities face more than $2 trillion in unfinanced retirement
obligations, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Since last
year, 15 states and  Puerto Rico  have enacted changes in areas
such as pension benefits and employer contributions, said Luke
Martel, senior policy specialist at the  National Conference of
State Legislatures  in Denver.  Pennsylvania is ranked AA by  Standard & Poor’s , the third-highest level, with a negative outlook. Moody’s, which also
gives it the third-highest grade, cut the state in July, citing
rising retiree obligations.  The companies “see the stress that pensions are putting
on the general fund,” Zogby said from Harrisburg, the state
capital. “They signaled a downgrade is likely absent any
reform.”  Affordability Question  Analysts at  Fitch Ratings  and S&P said they would review
the state’s budget and any pension changes after the spending
plan passes. A Moody’s spokesman,  David Jacobson , declined to
say if the company would do the same.  “Our concern is the affordability of the pensions and the
ability to honor their commitments,” said John Sugden, a senior
director at S&P in  New York .  Corbett has proposed a $28.4 billion general-fund budget,
an increase of about 2.4 percent from this fiscal year.  The senate may vote on a bill this week that creates a
defined-contribution plan for new employees, similar to a
401(k), Majority Leader Dominic Pileggi, a Republican from
Chester, said in a  statement . Republicans control both chambers.  Burt Mulford, a portfolio manager at Eagle Asset Management
Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said he prefers debt from
states such as  Alaska  that have moved away from defined-benefit
plans. He helps manage around $2 billion in munis, including
Pennsylvania and Alaska general obligations.  Retiree Offset  “States have got to go toward some type of hybrid or
mandatory defined-contribution plan as a way to manage their
liability,” Mulford said. “You don’t have enough new people
entering the workforce to offset the people who are retiring.”  In a letter to residents on June 14, Corbett called the
current plan, which guarantees workers a specific benefit
regardless of  investment performance , “archaic” and the “root
cause” of the crisis.  “The weight of this large debt will soon be felt by every
taxpayer in Pennsylvania,” said the 64-year-old governor, who
faces re-election next year. Voters disapproved of the job he’s
doing by 48 percent to 35 percent in a poll released June 7 by
 Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut .  The governor’s overhaul would save $11.6 billion over 30
years, Zogby said.  Pennsylvania administers two plans, covering about 830,000
people. As of last year, the combined funded ratio was 63
percent, down from 97 percent in 2007, and the unfunded
liability was $47 billion, according to actuarial reports.  Nationwide, state pensions had a median funding ratio of
about 72 percent in 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  Revenue Consumed  Pennsylvania’s liability has swelled because of enhanced
benefits passed in 2001 and investment losses in 2001 and 2008,
according to a report from the state budget office. For at least
the past eight years, the state also contributed less to the
systems than was actuarially required.  Pension costs will consume 62 percent of new revenue in the
fiscal year beginning in July, climbing to 66 percent for the
2015-2016 period. The state will increase its contribution at an
annual rate exceeding 30 percent through 2015, according to the
budget office.  That rate over so many consecutive years makes Pennsylvania
an “outlier” among states, said Baye Larsen, a senior analyst
at Moody’s.  Pennsylvania’s Housing Finance Agency joins local-governments selling a combined $9 billion this week with yields
at the highest level since 2011. Georgia is among issuers
postponing deals because of the increase in borrowing costs.  At 2.76 percent, yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with about 2.54 percent on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the  interest rates , a measure of relative
value, rose to about 109 percent, the highest in more than a
week. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are in
comparison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  