-- Perol Sees EU Dropping Plan to Split Banks to Preserve Industry
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-06-25T22:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/perol-sees-eu-dropping-plan-to-split-banks-to-preserve-industry.html
The European Union will likely
abandon a plan to split trading businesses from deposit-taking
activities because the current proposal would make the region’s
banks uncompetitive, said Groupe BPCE Chairman Francois Perol.  Proposals by a group led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen would weaken European banks’ ability to manage stock
and bond sales for clients at a time when lenders are cutting
loans to meet higher  capital requirements , said Perol, head of
France’s No. 2 bank by branches. Perol is also chairman of
 Natixis SA (KN) , BPCE’s investment-banking and asset-management arm.  “We have to keep  capital markets  within our banks because
this is the only way for the banks to be competitive,” Perol,
49, said in an interview in Paris yesterday.  Recounting a conversation he had with an unidentified U.S.
bank chief executive officer, Perol said: “He told me, ‘I love
the Liikanen report, because you Europeans will be out of
business.’ This is why I’m confident it will not be done.”  The EU is seeking ways to move riskier activities away from
more traditional banking to take taxpayers off the hook for
bailouts and to protect depositors in the event of failure. EU
regulators are examining “a number of options” as banks lobby
against the Liikanen plan, according to an EU report in May.
Alternatives may include the approach  France  is adopting,
limiting the separation to proprietary activities, Perol said.  Lending is moving to capital markets, especially in Europe,
as a consequence of stricter international capital and liquidity
requirements, according to Perol.  Universal Banks  “This transition is now taking place,” Perol said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. Capital-market activities
need to be kept within universal banks, he said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is among banks to speak out against
Liikanen’s proposals to force lenders to separate their trading
activities. Co-CEO Juergen Fitschen said yesterday in Berlin
that preserving investment and retail banking under one roof is
in the interest of corporations that want an array of services.
Fitschen spoke at a conference hosted by the business wing of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union .  Liikanen, speaking at the same event, called for regulators
to find the “right balance.”  “Banks need to be able to fund the economy, but the
banking system must be safe and stable for the society,”
Liikanen said.  He declined to comment to  Bloomberg News  on whether his
proposals would be implemented.  Split Plans  Under the Liikanen plan, a bank’s trading arm would be
legally separate from other parts of the company. High-risk
activities that would be transferred to it include unsecured
loans to  hedge funds  and private equity investments. The
proposals would affect proprietary trading and market making.  French and German plans to segregate banks’ riskiest
trading activities are narrower than Liikanen’s proposals.  In  Germany , Merkel drew fire from banks for pushing through
regulation last month that included a plan to force banks to
separate out proprietary trading and some business with hedge
funds starting in 2017.  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s first-term
finance minister and her Social Democratic challenger in Sept.
22 elections, first advocated a split of banks.  French President  Francois Hollande , elected last year
pledging to be tough on finance, is pushing through a law to
isolate banks’ riskiest activities, including proprietary
trading. The plan requires banks including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to split market activities unnecessary to
finance the economy into separately capitalized units.  ‘Prop’ Trading  “I welcome the French banking reform which separates only
prop trading activities,” Perol said. “The German government
is currently discussing a banking reform very much like the
French reform and this is very good news for the capital markets
industry in Europe.”  While Perol reiterated a 12 percent target for Natixis’s
 return on equity , he declined to provide a profitability goal
for BPCE. The bank is “still in a transition period” as it
adapts to new rules and is mulling cost cuts, he said.  “Of course we pay very much attention to our costs,”
Perol said, declining to give a target for cost savings. “We
are working on a new strategic plan” for 2014 and 2015, he
said. “Next November we will be able to tell the markets
exactly what are our plans.”  U.S. and British regulators have already proposed
structural changes to banks in a bid to curtail risks. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  plans to force large
lenders to separate their consumer and investment banking
operations in an overhaul that the Treasury estimates may cost
as much as 7 billion pounds ($10.8 billion) a year.  The U.K. plans were drafted by a panel led by former Bank
of England Chief Economist  John Vickers .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  