-- Petrofac Falls on Energy Services 2015 Profit Forecast
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-06-25T15:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/petrofac-falls-most-in-four-months-on-energy-services-forecast.html
Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)  slid to a 20-month low
in  London  trading after saying profit growth in a key division
will be slower than some analysts had expected.  Petrofac  dropped  1.2 percent to 1,219 pence, the lowest
price since October 2011. The shares of the oil-services
provider are down 25 percent this year.  Integrated energy services will report net income of just
under  $300 million  in 2015, the company  said  on its website.
 Mark Wilson , a London-based analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd., had
previously expected profit at the division to come in at about
$356 million by then.  “Analysts are finally waking up to the importance of
integrated energy services (IES) to the business from here,”
said Wilson. He reduced his price target on the stock by 16
percent to 1,130 pence on June 21.  Petrofac, based in London, said in a statement today that
profit will be “significantly weighted” in the second half of
the year, driven mainly by integrated energy services and
onshore engineering and construction.  It plans to return operations in full at the In Salah gas
project in  Algeria  at the end of September or early October,
according to Chief Financial Officer Tim Weller. The project was
shut down for security review after a terrorist attack at
another Algerian facility in January.  The shares fell on “increasingly low visibility of short-term outlook,” said Alain Parent, an analyst at Natixis
Securities. At the same time, the Ticleni project in  Romania 
“is not delivering as expected,” he said, referring to an
onshore field in the southwest of the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  