-- PIK Plans First Bond Sale Since 2005 to Fund Housing Projects
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-06-25T14:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/pik-plans-first-bond-sale-since-2005-to-fund-housing-projects.html
PIK Group (PIKK) , a Russian real-estate
developer, may sell bonds for the first time since 2005 as
housing construction picks up and the company seeks to diversify
its funding sources.  The sale may come as early as this year, depending on
market conditions, Chief Executive Officer Pavel Poselyonov said
in a June 21 interview in St. Petersburg. The company raised
$330 million in a secondary share offering on June 7.  “The company should diversify its debt portfolio,” said
Poselyonov, “as it won a positive credit rating.”  PIK is seeking to strengthen its balance sheet as home
building in Moscow, its main market, doubled in the first
quarter, demand for new flats rose and prices are set to grow
about 10 percent this year, Poselyonov said.  PIK will use at least $160 million of proceeds from the
secondary offering to reduce its 43 billion rubles ($1.3
billion) in existing debt, Poselyonov said. The company is also
in talks to extend bank loan payments as it has to pay about 35
billion rubles, including 25 billion rubles to  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , its
main creditor, in 2014, Poselyonov said.  PIK was rated A+, the nation’s highest level, by the
Moscow-based National Rating Agency for the first time, it said
in a statement on its website on June 19.  Debt Ratio  The company, which improved its debt-to-equity ratio from
7.2 to 3.5 in 2012, would benefit from using cheaper bonds over
bank loans, said Marat Ibragimov, an analyst for UralSib
Financial, by phone from Moscow.  The St. Petersburg-based  OAO LSR Group (LSRG) ,  Russia ’s biggest
publicly traded real-estate developer and builder by market
value, sold 3 billion rubles of bonds in April, with a coupon of
10.15 percent. That compares with loan rates of as high as 11
percent, said Yuri Ilyin, the director of corporate
communications, said in an interview on June 14.  PIK will also use funds from the secondary offering to buy
land for development projects, though the company’s existing
holdings are large enough to keep the company working at least
10 years without new acquisitions, he said.  “We’re looking at fast and extremely high-profit projects
to improve our financial performance,” he said, declining to be
specific because PIK is in talks with land sellers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  