-- Polish Retail Sales Top Estimates in May as Jobless Rate Falls
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-06-25T08:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/polish-retail-sales-top-estimates-in-may-as-jobless-rate-falls.html
Polish  retail sales  unexpectedly
increased last month as falling unemployment encouraged
consumers to spend.  Sales rose 0.5 percent in May from a year earlier,
the statistics office said today. The median estimate of 29
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for unchanged sales after
they fell 0.2 percent the previous month. The jobless rate fell
to 13.5 percent from 14 percent in April.  The figures add to evidence that  Poland ’s economic slowdown
is nearing its trough, with exports jumping 12.3 percent from a
year earlier in April. Central bank policy makers will gather
next week to decide whether to cut the record-low benchmark
 interest rate  for an eighth time in less than a year.  “These are green shoots, though they’re very weak,”
Radoslaw Bodys, chief economist at PKO Bank Polski SA, said by
phone after the data. “What we could be seeing in the data is
the effect of households’ improved balance sheets, as falling
inflation and relatively stable pay boost disposable income.”  The zloty was little changed after the data, trading at
4.3472 per euro at 10:22 a.m. in Warsaw, 0.9 percent stronger
from yesterday. The yield on the two-year government bond fell
eight basis points to 3.093 percent, with almost all the drop
coming before the retail sales figures were published.  The Narodowy Bank Polski trimmed its benchmark rate to a
record 2.75 percent on June 5 as policy makers seek to counter
the worst economic slowdown in a decade. The European Union’s
largest eastern economy will expand 1.5 percent this year, the
government forecasts.  The 10-member Monetary Policy Council will hold its next
rate meeting July 2-3. It will pause in August and resume
meetings in September. Policy makers will reduce the main rate
to 2.5 percent, according to 23 of 26 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, while two forecast no change and one predicts a
reduction to 2.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  