-- Putin Defends Snowden’s Stopover, Rejects U.S. ‘Drivel’
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v ,   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-06-26T01:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/putin-says-snowden-in-moscow-as-russia-rejects-u-s-extradition.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
refused to extradite fugitive Edward Snowden as the Obama
administration maintained that officials in Moscow have a legal
basis to return him to the U.S.  Russia was “completely surprised” by the arrival of
Snowden, who remained in a Moscow airport transit zone after
traveling from Hong Kong on June 23, Putin told reporters in
 Finland  yesterday. Snowden, who faces U.S. espionage charges,
can’t be handed over because the two nations don’t have an
extradition treaty, Putin said.  Tensions between the U.S. and Russia increased after U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said on June 24 that it would be
“deeply troubling” if Russia had received advance notice of
Snowden’s arrival. Yesterday, Putin said that Russian security
agencies “didn’t work and aren’t working” with Snowden and any
accusations of wrongdoing by his country are “drivel and
nonsense.”  Snowden has requested asylum in Ecuador, and he also may be
exploring other possible places of refuge, according to Julian Assange, founder of the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks. Snowden, a
former worker for government contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH) , disclosed top-secret U.S. National Security
Agency programs that collect phone and Internet data.  Snowden “is a free man, and the sooner he selects his
final destination, the better it will be both for us and for
him,” Putin said. “As a transit passenger, he has the right to
buy a ticket and fly wherever he wants.”  ‘Shearing a Piglet’  Putin, who has clashed with President  Barack Obama ’s
administration over issues including the war in Syria and U.S.
plans to develop a missile-defense shield in Europe, sought to
distance himself from the Snowden case, saying the two nations’
security agencies should handle it.  “Personally I’d prefer to keep out of such questions,” he
said. “It’s like shearing a piglet: all squealing and no
wool.”  U.S. officials also sought to lower the temperature of the
dispute yesterday. Kerry told reporters in  Jeddah , Saudi Arabia,
“We’re not looking for a confrontation.”  U.S. National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden
said in a statement yesterday that “we agree with President
Putin that we do not want this issue to negatively impact our
bilateral relations.”  While the U.S. doesn’t have an extradition treaty with
 Russia , “there is nonetheless a clear legal basis to expel Mr.
Snowden, based on the status of his travel documents and the
pending charges against him,” Hayden said. “Accordingly, we
are asking the Russian government to take action to expel Mr.
Snowden without delay.”  Ecuador Relations  U.S. attention also turned to Ecuador as Snowden’s possible
destination.  Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino said yesterday his
government has had verbal conversations with the U.S. regarding
Snowden’s asylum request and is still waiting for an official
statement outlining its position.  “The U.S. still hasn’t sent any written communication
about Edward Snowden’s situation,” Patino said yesterday
according to a statement published in the Ecuadorean president’s
official gazette. “A written statement has been requested to
analyze it together with the asylum request made by Snowden.”  In  Washington , State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell
said on June 24 the U.S. has “been in touch with Ecuador” and
“we’ve made our point clear that, as I said, this is somebody
who is wanted on criminal felony charges here in the  United
States  and we’d like him returned to the United States to face
justice.”  Correa’s Aspirations  The Obama administration’s relations are already strained
with Ecuador, where President  Rafael Correa  is vying to succeed
 Venezuela ’s late President  Hugo Chavez  as the leading U.S.
critic in  Latin America .  Snowden hasn’t formally requested asylum in Venezuela,
though if he did, “we would evaluate the request,” President
 Nicolas Maduro  said yesterday on Venezuelan state television
from  Haiti . “This young person deserves humanitarian help.”  Assange, who posted thousands of classified U.S. military
and diplomatic cables on WikiLeak’s website, has been given
refuge in Ecuador’s embassy in London to avert extradition to
Sweden, where he faces questions about allegations of rape and
sexual molestation, which he denies. Ecuador also expelled the
U.S. ambassador in Quito in 2011.  While the U.S. remains Ecuador’s biggest trading partner,
an escalation of tensions would further endanger the renewal of
expiring U.S. trade preferences, Eurasia Group analyst Risa Grais-Targow said.  Trade Relationship  “The trade relationship matters more for Ecuador than it
does the U.S.,” Grais-Targow said yesterday in a telephone
interview from Washington. “The preferences are already pretty
unlikely to get renewed, and if Ecuador does give asylum to
Snowden, it kind of cements that.”  Ecuadorean exports to the U.S. fell to $1.01 billion in
April from $1.14 billion a year earlier, according to  U.S.
Census data . Ecuador would lose at least 40,000 jobs if the
trade preferences aren’t renewed by the  U.S. Congress , Ecuador’s
Ambassador to the U.S. Nathalie Cely said last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  