-- Real Madrid Names Carlo Ancelotti as Manager as PSG Hires Blanc
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-25T12:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/real-madrid-names-carlo-ancelotti-as-manager-replacing-mourinho.html
Real Madrid named Carlo Ancelotti as
manager, the Spanish soccer club said on its  website .  Ancelotti received a three-year contract to replace Jose Mourinho, who left the club at the end of last season.
Ancelotti, who will be presented at a news conference tomorrow,
last month led Paris Saint-Germain to its first French league
title in 19 years.  PSG said in a  statement  it hired Laurent Blanc to replace
Ancelotti, giving the former French national team coach a two-year contract.  Ancelotti, 54, had been linked in the Spanish press with
the Real Madrid job ever since Mourinho announced May 20 he
wouldn’t return for a fourth season. Mourinho joined Chelsea on
June 30 for a second stint with the English Premier League club.  Real failed to win a trophy last season. It lost its
Spanish league title to Barcelona, fell to Borussia Dortmund in
the Champions League semifinals and was beaten by Atletico
 Madrid  in the Copa del Rey final.  Ancelotti took over PSG on Dec. 30, 2011, after Antoine Kombouare resigned. He guided the club to a second-place finish
in Ligue 1, and then this past season PSG captured its first
league championship since 1994, and third overall.  Ancelotti twice won the Champions League with AC Milan from
2001-2009, along with one Serie A title. He led Chelsea to both
the Premier League and F.A. Cup titles in 2010, but stepped down
after a second-place finish the following season. He’s also
managed Reggiana, Parma and Juventus.  Blanc was confirmed as PSG coach moments after Real
announced Ancelotti’s hiring.  Blanc’s Move  The 47-year-old won the French league title with Boudeaux
in 2009 and took over as national team coach the following year.
He guided  France  to the quarterfinals of the 2012 European
championship, but didn’t renew his contract after the
tournament.  Blanc inherits a PSG team that won Ligue One by 12 points
and reached the Champions League quarterfinals, where it lost to
Barcelona. The club is owned by an investment arm of the Qatari
government and has spent 250 million euros ($328 million) on
players such as Zlatan Ibrahimovic and  Thiago Silva  from AC
Milan and Ezequiel Lavezzi from Napoli as it seeks to join the
world’s elite.  “The board of Paris Saint-Germain has given Laurent Blanc
the mission to build on last season and to continue the club’s
ascendancy toward the summit of the European game,” the club
said in its statement.  A former central defender, Blanc helped France win the 1998
World Cup and 2000 European championship. He also won league
titles at Manchester United and Auxerre, along with domestic
cups with Montpellier, Auxerre and Barcelona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  