-- Refinery Fitness Check Should Cover Pending EU Laws
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-06-25T22:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/refinery-fitness-check-should-cover-pending-eu-laws.html
The U.K. called on the European
Union to assess the impact of pending laws on the region’s
struggling oil refineries before setting new rules such as fuel-quality standards.  The European Commission said in April it plans to complete
a “fitness check” for the region’s 500 billion-euro ($654
billion) refining industry in September 2014, assessing existing
EU policies and laws including taxation and carbon emissions
that affect competitiveness versus companies operating in other
regions. U.K. Minister of State for Energy Michael Fallon said
that may be too little, too late, risking further refinery
closures.  “Decisions will be taken on implementing legislation
before the fitness checks are completed,” Fallon said in a
letter dated June 24. “There is a risk that additional burden
will be added to the sector without understanding the cumulative
impact.”  Seven oil refineries operate in the U.K., down from nine in
2008. More plants could be forced to close as refiners will need
to spend an additional 11.4 billion British pounds ($17.6
billion) in capital and operating costs by 2030 to comply with
U.K., EU and global regulations,  IHS Inc (IHS) .-owned energy
consultant Purvin & Gertz said in a May report, sponsored by the
U.K. Petroleum Industry Association, an industry group.  The fitness check should take into account “the cumulative
impact of both existing and forthcoming EU legislation,” Fallon
said in the letter addressed to commission Vice President
Antonio Tajani. Before finalizing new regulations such as the
Fuel Quality Directive Article 7A, the commission should use the
fitness check “to help inform decision making by  Member
States ,” he said.  European Challenges  The EU refining industry generated a turnover of 497
billion euros in 2010, the commission said in its “draft
mandate for consultation,” citing Eurostat data.  U.K. and other European refineries face “increased
international competition from the  Middle East  and  Asia  and,
increasingly, the growth of the U.S. shale oil and gas
sectors,” while the plants geared toward producing gasoline are
out of balance with the region’s demand for diesel, according to
Fallon.  New closures in  Europe , where 15 plants have already been
shut since 2008, would probably make the continent more
dependent on overseas supplies, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  “Once the second-largest regional refining center in the
world, Europe will relinquish its place to  China ,” the Paris-based energy adviser said in May in its medium-term oil market
report.  Of the approximate 100 refinery facilities in Europe, 10
will shut permanently by 2020 from  France  to  Italy  to the  Czech
Republic , a Bloomberg survey of six European refinery executives
showed in April. That survey includes some non-EU states and
excludes  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  