-- ResCap Said to Reach Deal With Fed to End Foreclosure Review
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-25T20:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/rescap-said-to-reach-accord-with-fed-to-end-foreclosure-review.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt lender that signed a deal with creditors last month,
reached a tentative accord with the Federal Reserve to end a
review of the firm’s foreclosure practices, according to a
person involved with the talks.  The agreement would have ResCap contribute a payment of
about $200 million to be split among borrowers, said the person,
who requested anonymity because the deal isn’t public. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan must approve the
accord, which would end ResCap’s obligation to have borrowers’
files examined for damages, the person said.  ResCap, which estimates a full review could cost $300
million, told Glenn it would be a waste of money because a
federal policy allows it to make a one-time payment. Glenn told
ResCap during a hearing in March to negotiate a revamped
foreclosure-review process with regulators before seeking a
court order to halt the program.  ResCap, a unit of Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , would
join at least 10 of the largest mortgage servicers who agreed in
January to pay $8.5 billion to end similar reviews. The firms
were among 14 servicers ordered in 2011 to hire independent
consultants to help clean up foreclosure practices amid claims
they improperly seized homes in the wake of the subprime
mortgage crisis.  In reaching a deal with major creditors and Ally last
month, ResCap agreed to assume all responsibility for the costs
tied to the foreclosure review as well as a separate settlement
with the U.S. and state attorneys general, according to a May 23
statement from Ally.  Eric Kollig, a Fed spokesman, and Ally’s Gina Proia
declined to comment. Tammy Hamzehpour at ResCap didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment. The Wall Street Journal reported
on the agreement earlier today.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  