-- Rexam to Sell Health-Care Division After Receiving Interest
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-06-25T15:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/rexam-plans-to-sell-health-care-unit-after-receiving-interest.html
Rexam Plc (REX) , the world’s biggest
drinks-can maker, plans to start the sale of its health-care
unit this year after receiving inquiries from potential buyers.  “We have a lot of interest at the moment,” Chief
Executive Officer Graham Chipchase said today. While Rexam has
always been open to “good” offers for the unit, which accounts
for 10 percent of sales, no bids have yet come in, he said.  The company, which reported a 43 slump in net income last
year, plans to bolster profit by selling the health-care unit,
which has more than 3,000 staff and 14 factories on three
continents and makes plastic packaging for pharmaceuticals. By
divesting the business, Rexam can focus on beverage-can
production, which accounts for about 90 percent of  revenue .  “Health care is not core, and we have got strong business
with a strong pipeline.” Chipchase said on a conference call.
The London-based company makes cans for Coca-Cola Co.,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   Rexam will post “slightly” lower operating profit for the
first half than a year earlier when it reports Aug. 2, and sees
“modestly” lower 2013 results than previously forecast, the
CEO said, citing “disappointing” volumes in  South America  and
western  Europe  in April and May. “We still expect full-year
performance to show improvement over 2012,” he said.  Rexam declined 2.5 percent to 453.7 pence in London, the
lowest closing price in almost a year. Trading volumes were more
than four times the three-month daily average.  “It has been a challenging first half, but we have taken
assertive action on costs to mitigate the impact on our
performance and maintain our capital discipline,” Chipchase
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  