-- Rohani Support Wave Matched by Task of Fixing Iran Economy
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-26T12:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/rohani-s-wave-of-support-matched-by-task-of-fixing-iran-economy.html
When Hassan Rohani won  Iran ’s
presidential election this month, he garnered more votes than
when his predecessor swept to power eight years before. He also
gained a larger list of things to fix.  Rohani, 64, a lawyer, cleric and former diplomat, inherits
an economy that under President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  was defined
by  falling oil  exports because of international sanctions,
accelerating inflation, a currency collapse and enduring
unemployment. He’s also confronted by a political scene marked
by squabbling over how to drag Iran out of the mire amid
pressure from the U.S. and European Union over its nuclear
program, which  Israel  has vowed to curb by any means.  “This Iran is going to be much harder to manage,” said
 Cliff Kupchan , director for the  Middle East  at New York-based
political risk consultants  Eurasia Group . “Rohani has much more
of a mandate than Ahmadinejad had, while the country is in a lot
more trouble today than it was in 2005.”  With Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  the final
decision maker on key affairs of state, Rohani’s power to alter
the nuclear policy and end the crippling sanctions is limited.
Where he can make quicker inroads is by focusing on managing the
economy better, narrowing political rifts and ushering in social
changes such as less regulated Internet access and media,
scaling back patrols of religious police and promoting women.  Rohani has already appointed a group to resume nuclear
talks with global powers, Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said
in Tehran, the  Islamic Republic News Agency  reported today. The
foreign ministry is cooperating with the panel and the date and
venue of talks will be set once Rohani takes over, it said.  Policy Shift  Iran’s domestic situation is “directly linked to its
foreign policy,” said Mahjoob Zweiri, a professor of Middle
East politics at  Qatar University  in Doha. “The key issue,
which is to fix the economy, or stop its deterioration, takes
Rohani directly to the sanctions, the nuclear conflict and the
international community.”  Oil revenue dropped 50 percent due to the sanctions,
Economy Minister Shamseddin Hosseini was cited as saying by the
Tehran-based Khabar Online website in December. The national
currency, the rial, lost more than half its value in the past
year, pushing the official inflation rate to 32.3 percent in
April from 14 percent two years ago. The economy will shrink 1.3
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  predicts.  Rohani, who takes office in August, can overhaul some of
the economic policies of Ahmadinejad, who pledged to spread oil
wealth among the poorest, and shifted food and energy subsidies
toward cash hand-outs. He was blamed by political opponents for
failing to shield companies from the impact of rising costs.  “Under Ahmadinejad, Iran’s economy was founded on
populism,” said  Vali Nasr , the dean of  Johns Hopkins School of
Advanced International Studies  in  Washington . “Rohani needs to
change the tenor of that.”  Unlocking Capital  In his June 17 press conference, Rohani said capital must
be unlocked and provided to firms for the economy to recover. He
said his government will be based on “meritocracy” and go
beyond divisions borne out of his predecessor’s time in the job.  Though Ahmadinejad kept support among the poorest, his
confrontational rhetoric with western powers prompted more
sanctions. Hundreds of thousands of Iranians protested in 2009
against his re-election, which was tainted by claims of vote
rigging. Khamenei rejected the allegations.  “Ahmadinejad came to represent everything that had failed
for Iranians, on the economy, in foreign relations and
socially,” said Nazenin Ansari, diplomatic editor of the
London-based weekly Farsi-language newspaper  Kayhan . His time
came to symbolize “one of paralysis and infighting that took
the country in a downward spiral,” she said.  High Turnout  With a higher turnout, Rohani won more votes than
Ahmadinejad received in a run-off in 2005, according to state-run  Press TV  news channel. Rohani got a surprise 18.6 million
votes to win an outright majority of 50.7 percent of ballots.  Rohani heads the  Center for Strategic Research  at the
Expediency Council, an advisory panel headed by Ali Akbar Rafsanjani, who served as president from 1989 to 1997. He also
served as nuclear negotiator under former President Mohammad Khatami. Both men endorsed Rohani days before the June 14 vote.  Rohani is likely to form “a much more pragmatic and market
oriented team compared to the populist Ahmadinejad” and pick
ministers who served under Rafsanjani and Khatami for the next
cabinet, Kupchan at Eurasia Group said.  One of the areas in which Rohani may be more successful in
the short term is addressing what he criticized as the country’s
“policed climate.” Iran’s government has been less tolerant of
opponents since the 2009 street protests, which authorities
claim were masterminded by Western states to undermine the
Islamic Republic.  Jailed Journalists  Officials have cracked down on journalists and holds more
than 40 of them in jail, more than anywhere in the world except
 Turkey , the New York-based Committee to  Protect Journalists  said
last month. Rohani could also work to reduce what he’s described
as the government’s “attack against people’s privacy.”  Iran limits Internet speed for ordinary users and blocks
social networking websites including Twitter and Facebook, which
helped build momentum for the protests four years ago, as well
as some foreign news sources such as BBC Farsi. Security forces
regularly remove satellite dishes beaming foreign programs and
challenge insufficiently covered women showing body contours or
hair, citing the need to preserve morals.  Rohani, who on his  Twitter  account on June 23 said he plans
to establish a Ministry of Women’s Affairs, may also address the
needs of female Iranians who constituted more than half of the
university graduates in 2009, according to the UN Education
Scientific and Cultural Organization.  Mending Divisions  Progress may rely on Rohani’s ability to mend divisions
after Ahmadinejad challenged Khamenei’s authority and engaged in
public spats with heads of the parliament and Iran’s judiciary.  Parliamentary Speaker  Ali Larijani  met with Rohani a day
after his victory, stressing their “long friendship,” Tehran-based  Hamshari  newspaper said. His brother, Sadegh Larijani, who
heads the judiciary, also met with Rohani June 19,  conveying  a
similar message, Press TV said.  Three-quarters of lawmakers underlined in a statement last
week their readiness to back Rohani and work with him, Tehran-based  Etemaad  newspaper said June 18.  “The success of Rohani’s presidency depends on his ability
to forge compromise and walk a very thin grey line,” said
Kupchan at Eurasia Group. “Rohani has the background,
temperament and connections to be a unifying figure if he plays
a shrewd political strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  