-- Rotation Out of High-Grade Bonds Triggered, Bank of America Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-06-25T16:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/rotation-out-of-high-grade-bonds-triggered-bank-of-america-says.html
Ten-year  Treasury (USGG10YR)  yields breaching
2.5 percent signaled the beginning of a wave of outflows from
high-grade bond funds, according to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Hans Mikkelsen.  “ Interest rates  simply rose too fast, and for now we think
the rotation out of bond funds will contribute more spread
widening,” analysts led by Mikkelsen wrote yesterday in a
report. If yields continue to increase, “we could see massive
outflows from high-grade bond funds and a much more disorderly
rotation with significantly wider credit spreads. This scenario
remains clearly the biggest risk to high grade this year.”  Investment-grade debt tracked by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch has lost more than 6 percent since May 2, wiping out
almost a year of gains as concern mounts that the  Federal
Reserve  will pare  stimulus measures  that bolstered credit
markets and pushed yields to a record-low 2.65 percent last
month. Relative yields have widened 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, in the same period to a spread of 172.  The U.S. 10-year yield climbed to 2.58 percent at 11:59
a.m. in New York, up from a record-low 1.379 percent set on July
25, 2012. The five-year average is 2.75 percent.  While the Bank of America strategists are “long-term
bullish on credit and remain strategically overweight,” they
recommend buying credit-default swap protection “until we get
comfortable with the coming acceleration of outflows,”
according to the report. “The recent sell-off and any further
weakness only work to make for more attractive entry points from
the perspective of long-term, patient, investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  