-- Royal Bank Leads Group Setting Up New Stock Exchange
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-06-25T20:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/royal-bank-leads-group-creating-new-exchange-to-compete-with-tmx.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
biggest bank, is leading a group of investors and brokers
creating a new Canadian stock exchange to compete with  TMX Group
Ltd. (X) ’s Toronto Stock Exchange.  The bourse, to be run by a venture called Aequitas
Innovations Inc., is also backed by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  CI Financial
Corp. (CIX) ,  IGM Financial Inc. (IGM) , ITG Canada Corp. and PSP Public
Markets Inc., according to a statement today. The group will
file an application to regulators by the end of the year.  Aequitas will be led by Chief Executive Officer Jos
Schmitt, who started Alpha Group as a rival platform to TMX
about four years ago. He left the company in October after a
dozen pension funds and major lenders, excluding Royal Bank,
bought Alpha along with Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd.
to combine with TMX in a C$3.73 billion ($3.54 billion) deal.  “Alpha was created, initiated by dealers to put
competitive pressure on the incumbent exchange and it was all
about a cost play,” Schmitt said in a phone interview. “If you
look at Aequitas, it’s all about the issuers, the investors and
the dealers coming together and saying ’we need to tackle some
fundamental challenges in our markets.’”  TMX fell 2.3 percent to C$42.80 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, and
has  slumped  16 percent this year. Toronto-based Royal Bank
gained 1.3 percent to C$60.15.  Aequitas Plans  Aequitas plans to challenge “certain predatory high
frequency trading strategies which have impacted the quality of
existing equity markets,” Greg Mills, chairman of Aequitas and
co-head of global equities within Royal Bank’s  RBC Capital
Markets  unit, said in a statement. “Marketplaces in Canada and
around the globe are increasingly out of sync with their
traditional users as they attract and cater to volume and
revenue-generating trading over traditional investors.”  High frequency trading uses computer algorithms to execute
small trades in less than a second, and the new exchange will
seek to limit these strategies, according to the statement.  “TMX will feel some pressure,” Shubha Khan, an analyst
with National Bank Financial, said by phone from Toronto. “I
don’t know that there’s any other reason for the creation of the
exchange other than to curb high-frequency trading activity,
which is believed to have distorted market activity.”  TMX, which operates the Toronto Stock Exchange, Venture
exchange, TMX Select alternative trading system and Alpha, holds
about 85 percent market share as of March, according to data
from the company.  Competitive Market  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman with Toronto-based TMX, said
CEO Tom Kloet and Kevan Cowan, president of TSX Markets and
group head of equities, are hosting a Trade  Canada  conference in
 London  today and are unavailable for comment.  “The Canadian marketplace is certainly a competitive one
and the news of a new market entrant is not unexpected,” Quick
said in an e-mail. “We are both prepared and well-positioned to
compete effectively.”  Gillian McArdle, spokeswoman with RBC Capital Markets, said
the aim of the exchange is to foster “a more level playing
field” for market participants.  “We believe Aequitas will become an effective competitor
within the Canadian equity market landscape,” McArdle said in a
phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  