-- Rubio Says Will Decide on Presidential Run Next Year
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-25T19:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/rubio-says-will-decide-on-presidential-run-next-year.html
Florida  Republican Marco Rubio, who
has raised his national profile by helping craft immigration
legislation the Senate is set to pass this week, said he’d
decide late next year whether to run for president in 2016.  “At some point in late 2014, what I am going to have to
decide is, do I want to serve another term in the Senate, do I
want to run for another office?,” the first-term senator told
members of the American Society of News Editors today in
Washington.  “I’ll make that decision at that time based on a
lot of different factors.”  The 42-year-old son of Cuban immigrants, Rubio is seen by
many in his party as a potentially strong 2016 presidential
contender who could serve as bridge to Hispanic voters and to
the young, groups that overwhelmingly backed President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  As a lead author of the immigration measure that Senate
leaders want to pass this week, though, Rubio has drawn
criticism from some Republicans who object to the citizenship
path the bill would create for the nation’s estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants.  Factors that would affect his decision to seek the
Republican presidential nomination include determining whether
he has something to contribute at that level and the
consequences running would have on his family, Rubio said.  ‘Better Know’  “When you’re in a rental car, driving from stop to stop,
you better know why you’re running and you better be passionate
about it,” he said, adding that his “kids that are getting
older,” and he needed to “figure out what’s right for them.”  Rubio and his wife have four children.  His expanding national profile includes in February giving
the first-ever bilingual response to the president’s  State of
the Union  address -- during which Rubio, in front of the camera,
gulped from a Poland Spring water bottle. That prompted a flurry
of comments on Twitter, including one from the senator poking
fun at himself by posting a picture of the plastic bottle.  Last August, he followed actor Clint Eastwood’s infamous
diatribe to an empty chair at the Republican National Convention
in Tampa, Florida, to introduce  Mitt Romney  for his speech
accepting the party’s presidential nomination.  The Feb. 18 cover of Time magazine featured Rubio and the
headline “The Republican Savior,” spurring criticism from
Christian groups and prompting Rubio to post on Twitter, “There
is only one savior, and it is not me. #Jesus.”  Viewed by many of his Senate colleagues as a rising star,
Rubio is one of three Hispanics in the chamber. Republicans say
he’s well-positioned to help the party attract Latino voters, 71
percent of whom backed Obama in November.  More Moderate  Elected in 2010 with backing from the anti-tax Tea Party,
Rubio has cultivated a more moderate image over the past two
years, most notably with his backing of the immigration measure.
Many House Republicans oppose the Senate bill because of its
citizenship path, which they maintain is tantamount to amnesty.  If Congress passes a law revising U.S. immigration policy,
that wouldn’t automatically cause Republicans’ support among
Hispanics to spike, Rubio said in his speech. Instead, it would
free up Republicans to focus on small-government economic
arguments that he said would appeal to Hispanic voters.  Hispanic Voters  “I have never, ever said to anyone, and I will not say
here today that if we pass this bill, Republicans are going to
get to 55 percent of the Hispanic vote across the country,”
Rubio said. “I do think that if we do deal with this issue, it
will allow us to talk about other issues that I think do matter
to all Americans, but especially Americans of Hispanic
descent.”  Recent controversies that have involved the Obama
administration, including the Internal Revenue Service’s extra
scrutiny of small-government groups and reports of the Justice
Department obtaining secret search warrants for telephone
records of some journalists, have fueled public distrust of the
federal government and prompted skepticism of the immigration
measure, Rubio said.  “This distrust that people have of government, it’s
real,” he said. “And in my opinion, it’s legitimate, and it is
justified.”  Lawmakers and members of the public don’t trust that the
administration will follow through on pledges to secure the U.S.
border, Rubio said. He has been among those pressing his Senate
colleagues to enhance border security in the pending
legislation, both to win acceptance in the Senate and to ease
opposition in the Republican-run House.  “I don’t believe for the most part that the resistance to
immigration reform at all has anything to do with people not
wanting Hispanics here or minorities here,” he said. “I just
don’t believe that’s the gist of it. I think the gist of it is
people are worried about -- not just our sovereignty -- but
they’re really suspicious of  Washington .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  