-- S. Korea Government, Media Sites Hacked Closed for Review
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2013-06-25T10:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/s-korea-president-s-websites-closed-for-review.html
Hackers attacked the  websites  of
South Korean President Park Geun Hye and Prime Minister Chung
Hong Won on the 63rd anniversary of the outbreak of the  Korean
War , the government said.  Eleven media outlets were hacked and 131 South Korean
servers were shut by the attacks, Park Jae Moon, director-general of Science Ministry’s IT Strategy Bureau, said during a
briefing today. South Korea raised the national cyber-attack
alert level to 3 from 5 after Park Geun Hye and Chung’s
homepages were “tampered with,” according to the agency. A
level 3 alert is for recurring damage and for when sites are
down for several hours.  North Korea  is suspected of hacking the sites, Yonhap News
reported, without citing anyone.  “We can’t identify at this stage who did the hacking,”
the Science Ministry’s Park said. “We can make comments after
the result of an investigation comes out.”  In March,  South Korea  experienced the biggest cyber-attack
in two years against its banks and TV stations, saying more than
30,000 servers were damaged. The Science Ministry said in April
it found evidence North Korea was behind the attack, a claim the
North Korean government denied.  The president’s website started malfunctioning at about
9:30 a.m., Lee Mi Yon, a presidential spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview. The website was restored by 5:44 p.m.  Chung’s website malfunctioned for two minutes until the
government shut the server down for review at 9:29 a.m., Min
Seon Yeo, a spokeswoman for the National Computing and
Information Agency, said by phone. The website was still shut at
7:15 p.m. local time.  Ten South Korean government organizations, including the
 Defense Ministry  and the  National Intelligence Service , are
investigating the hacking incidents, according to the Science
Ministry’s statement. The agency didn’t details the extent of
the damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  