-- Samsung Beats Apple in Japanese Patent Suit on Syncing
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-06-25T03:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/samsung-beats-apple-in-japanese-patent-suit-on-syncing.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost its appeal in a
 Japan  lawsuit claiming that  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  infringed a
patent for synchronizing music and video data on its Galaxy
smartphones and tablets with servers.  The ruling at the Intellectual Property High Court in  Tokyo 
upheld an earlier decision in favor of Samsung. In August, the
Tokyo District Court rejected Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s claim that the Galaxy maker’s mobile devices infringe on
a synchronization invention.  Samsung welcomed the court’s decision, Yasukuni Ogiwara, a
Tokyo-based spokesman for the company, said by e-mail. Takashi
Takebayashi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Apple, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The world’s two biggest smartphone makers have each scored
victories in patent disputes fought on four continents since
Apple accused Samsung of “slavishly” copying its devices. The
companies are competing for dominance of a global mobile-device
market estimated by researcher  Yankee Group  at $346 billion in
2012.  Last week, the Tokyo District Court upheld Apple’s separate
claim that Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringed on the way
an iPad or iPhone screen seems to bounce when a user scrolls to
the bottom.  The court in February rejected Samsung’s request to suspend
sales of iPhones and iPads in the nation.  Japan Tablets  Shipments of tablet computers in Japan more than doubled to
5.68 million units in the year ended March, according to Tokyo-based MM Research Institute Ltd. Apple controlled 53 percent of
the market, while Samsung ranked fifth with 4.3 percent, the
researcher said  last month .  Samsung fell 1.4 percent to 1,295,000 won in at 12:38 p.m.
in Seoul trading today and has lost 15 percent this year. Apple
has dropped 24 percent in 2013.  Smartphone shipments rose 4 percent to 6.81 million units
in Japan during the first three months of 2013, according to
research company IDC. Apple had 40 percent of sales, while
Samsung didn’t rank in the top five, the researcher  said  last
week.  Globally, Samsung has about 33 percent of the smartphone
market and Apple about 18 percent, according to data released by
 Strategy Analytics  in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  