-- Santorum Takes New Leading Role in Christian Filmmaking
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2013-06-25T13:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/santorum-takes-new-leading-role-in-christian-filmmaking.html
As a film producer,  Rick Santorum  is
taking a leap of faith.  Santorum, a 2012 Republican presidential contender and
former senator from  Pennsylvania , is turning his focus from
politics to cinema as chief executive officer of a Christian
film company. He will lead EchoLight Studios, a Dallas-based
studio formed in 2011 and set to release its first production,
“The Redemption of Henry Myers,” to theaters this fall.  Santorum, who said in an interview that his political
career is “always a part of what I do,” has continued to
criticize Republican Party leaders and President  Barack Obama 
since dropping out of the presidential contest last April. While
his involvement in EchoLight is not political, he will be
playing to his constituency, religious-minded voters who oppose
abortion, rather than a broader audience Republican leaders are
courting following Obama’s re-election. Some films based on true
stories could be “cause-related,” he said.  “I believe the policies and principles that the party
stands for are the policies and principles that made our country
the greatest country in the world,” Santorum said of his party.
“We shouldn’t be walking away from them because some people
don’t think they’re popular anymore.”  Santorum was considered Republican  Mitt Romney ’s leading
challenger in the 2012 Republican primaries and has remained
involved in political causes since November’s election, speaking
at the Conservative Political Action Conference and the Faith &
Freedom Coalition earlier this year.  Obama Critic  He attributes Congress’ recent inaction, such as its
failure to pass a $939 billion agricultural-policy bill, to a
“toxic” attitude Obama has fostered in the capital.  “The president doesn’t seem to be interested in working
together and building that kind of trust,” he said. “It’s very
hard for the parties themselves to come together and form a
consensus within their own parties because the chances of
getting something done is so limited.”  Still, lawmakers working on a bipartisan immigration
overhaul are “focused on the wrong thing,” he said.  “The idea that we need to focus on how we provide amnesty
to people already in the country is the wrong approach,”
Santorum said. “We need to make sure that we have well-protected borders and that we have a system that’s working and
makes sense.”  Immigration legislation advancing in the Senate includes a
path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants
already in the U.S. in exchange for tougher border security and
a bipartisan deal to double the  Border Patrol ’s size and require
700 miles of fencing at the border with  Mexico .  Film Production  Santorum is taking a new role with a familiar script. He
was an early fundraiser and board member for EchoLight Studios.
He announced his move June 22 on Fox News’ “The Huckabee
Show,” hosted by  Mike Huckabee , a 2008 Republican presidential
contender, former Arkansas governor and Baptist minister.  EchoLight, which has about 150 employees, is in the final
stages of its first major fundraising effort, according to
studio president Bobby Downes. EchoLight film budgets range from
less than $1 million to $2.5 million, according to Downes, who
declined to name the studio’s investors.  “My feeling is if you tell the truth about what the role
of faith is and you do it in a way that is natural and
authentic, then you can be very, very successful,” Santorum
said. “If it’s done well and it’s not sermonizing or preachy or
cheesy, not too over the top, then you can tell the true
story.”  Asked about his own favorite movies, Santorum paused and
replied: the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy.  Christian Films  The studio has committed $250,000 to produce and distribute
a film by the winner of the short film category in the 2013 San
Antonio Independent Christian Film Festival and up to $1 million
for the winner of the best film award in the 168 Film Project, a
Christian film competition.  Producers of faith-based films have grown faster than their
audiences in recent years, according to Ted Baehr, chairman of
the Christian Film & Television Commission.  The most successful of the faith-based studios is Sherwood
Pictures, based in  Albany ,  Georgia . Formed by brothers Alex and
Stephen Kendrick, the studio’s films include the 2008
“Fireproof,” about the damaging effects of pornography on
marriage. The film, made for $500,000, took in $33.5 million in
box-office receipts, according to Box Office Mojo. Sherwood
recouped more than $16 million, a ratio rare in Hollywood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  