-- HSBC Sells Billabong’s Syndicated Loan to SC Lowy at Discount
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-06-25T06:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/hsbc-sells-billabong-s-syndicated-loan-to-sc-lowy-at-discount.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
Australian surfwear company seeking to refinance debt after
takeover talks ended, lost HSBC Holdings Plc as a syndicated
lender after the bank sold a portion of a loan to a specialized
investment firm, according to a person familiar with the matter.  HSBC sold about $20 million of multicurrency debt at a
discount of about 20 percent to par to SC Lowy Financial HK
Ltd., the person said, asking not to be identified because the
details are private. The person wouldn’t say whether Hong Kong-based SC Lowy, which focuses on illiquid assets, bought the loan
for its proprietary account or on behalf of a client.  The  Gold Coast , Australia-based retailer, which has
breached debt payment terms, said earlier this month it was
holding refinancing and asset sale discussions with Sycamore
Partners Management and Altamont Capital Partners after takeover
talks with the two suitors ended. The discussions are “well
advanced with both parties” and proceeds would be used to repay
Billabong’s existing syndicated debt facilities in full, the
company said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange
today.  Shares in Billabong, whose market value touched A$3.84
billion ($3.5 billion) in May 2007, soared 46 percent to 19
Australian cents in Sydney today, the most since February 2012.
The shares fell as low as 13 cents on June 21.  Cutting Board Shorts  Chris Fogarty, a spokesman for Billabong, said he couldn’t
comment when asked about the sale by HSBC to  SC Lowy . Kate
Epworth, HSBC’s Sydney-based spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Besides HSBC, Billabong counts  Australia  & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., Bank of America Corp.,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , Societe Generale SA, and Westpac Banking Corp. as
lenders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those banks participated in a $384.5 million syndicated
loan signed in July 2008 and due next year, the data show. As at
the end of December 2012, net debt was A$152.2 million, down
A$8.7 million from June 2012, the company said in its half year
results filed Feb. 22.  Billabong was founded by Gordon Merchant in 1973 when he
started cutting board shorts in his kitchen and selling them to
Gold Coast surf shops, according to the company’s website. As
the sport gained popularity, Billabong’s sales and earnings
soared.  Its fortunes turned as major stores introduced their own
surf brands and the financial crisis cut  consumer spending .
After raising capital, selling assets and rejecting at least two
takeover bids in less than two years, the retailer cut its
earnings forecast again on June 4 and said it may sell Canadian
retail chain West 49 to repay debt.  Takeover Offers  Exclusive talks over a 60 cents-a-share offer from a group
including Sycamore and Paul Naude, the company’s Americas
director, ended May 8. Billabong had entered separate takeover
discussions with Altamont in January.  Billabong said in February the company will post 80 percent
of its assets and 85 percent of its earnings as security to its
lenders after writedowns put it in breach of terms on its debt.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for the 12 months ending June 30 will range from
A$67 million to A$74 million after Australian trading missed
expectations and  Europe  remained “weak,” the company said on
June 4. That compares with a previous forecast of A$74 million
to A$81 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  