-- Senate Border Plan Boosts Immigration Law Prospects
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-25T19:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/senate-border-plan-boosts-immigration-law-prospects.html
The Senate advanced the costliest
plan ever to bolster security at the U.S.-Mexico border, drawing
enough Republican support to indicate that a broad revision of
immigration law will pass by week’s end.  The 67-27 vote yesterday will allow the measure to move
forward. It would double the size of the U.S.  Border Patrol  and
require an additional 350 miles of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico
border, at a price tag its backers say will reach $38 billion.  “Some people have described this as a border surge,” said
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican who proposed the
measure. “The fact is that we are investing resources in
securing our border that have never been invested before.”  The plan would be attached to the immigration legislation,
with both headed for final votes in the Democratic-led Senate
this week. The debate then will shift to the Republican-controlled House, where opposition to a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants is stronger.  The border plan drew 15 Republican supporters in
yesterday’s vote, including Senator  Kelly Ayotte  of New
Hampshire and Senator  Roger Wicker  of  Mississippi . All 27 “no”
votes were from Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and second-ranking Senate Republican
 John Cornyn  of Texas. Both are up for re-election next year and
face the risk of party primary challenges.  Legislative History  U.S. immigration law hasn’t been significantly altered
since 1986. A 2007 immigration rewrite died in the Senate and
wasn’t considered in the House. The prospects for passage of a
bipartisan bill are greater this time because some Republicans
see the issue as a way to boost the party’s appeal with Hispanic
voters.  Republicans are trying to reconnect with Hispanic voters
after President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of the votes cast by
the fast-growing voter group in the 2012 election.  The immigration bill is on track to pass the Senate with a
lopsided majority, with the border-security package attracting
additional Republican votes, said Senator  Charles Schumer  of New
York, the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat.  “With this agreement, we believe we have the makings of a
strong bipartisan final vote in favor of this immigration reform
bill,” Schumer said during floor debate.  The legislation includes a citizenship option for
undocumented immigrants and alters the nation’s system of work
visas for employees of technology, agriculture and other
companies.  House Prospects  Still, prospects in the House are uncertain. The House
Judiciary Committee, led by Virginia Republican Bob Goodlatte,
is considering separate measures involving aspects of
immigration policy. Goodlatte has said he doesn’t favor the
Senate’s comprehensive approach.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said last
week he won’t bring an immigration proposal to a vote unless a
majority of the chamber’s 234 Republicans support the bill.  Appearing today on “CBS This Morning,” Representative
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican who was his party’s vice
presidential nominee in 2012, said the House would begin moving
on immigration next month, calling it a “ very important”
issue for Republicans to address. Border security will be “the
keystone” of any House legislation, he said, adding, “We won’t
do the Senate bill in the House.”  McConnell Optimistic  McConnell said today he’s optimistic that the House will
act and that both chambers can take a vote on a compromise
measure before year’s end.  “I hope the House will be able to pass a companion measure
and we’ll have a conference and deal with an issue of this
magnitude in a way we should,” he told reporters.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said it’s impossible for
him, or anyone, predict how the House will act after “crazies”
in Republican ranks pressured Boehner to seek a more-partisan
bill.  The Senate’s border-security amendment, offered by Corker
and  John Hoeven  of North Dakota, will cost about $38 billion
over the next 10 years, the two said in a fact sheet released
yesterday. That would be in addition to $8 billion in security
measures already in the immigration bill.  The fact sheet says U.S. taxpayers “will more than be made
whole” because the measure’s costs will be balanced by higher
visa fees and added  tax revenue  that includes fines for
undocumented workers.  Contract Costs  The Corker-Hoeven proposal requires that 10 years must pass
before undocumented workers in the U.S. can receive permanent
legal residency -- and only then if the border-security changes
are in place. The border measure includes added pedestrian
fencing at the border, 20,000 more border agents and resources
for 12 more unmanned aerial drones.  The Senate bill will create as many as 11 million new legal
U.S. residents by 2023.  They will pay $16 billion in fees to cover the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service’s processing costs. The
agency typically spends a quarter of its budget on contracts,
meaning the bill may produce $4 billion in contracts.  Computer
Sciences Corp. (CSC) ,  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  were the
agency’s top 2012 contractors, according to a Bloomberg
Industries analysis by Brian Friel.  The bill would expand the electronic verification system
used by contractors to check the legal status of applicants
before hiring. The Department of  Homeland Security  has paid
Computer Sciences $111 million since 2007 to run the system. IBM
Corp., SAIC and other IT contractors could compete with the
company for $1.4 billion in future work, according to Friel’s
analysis.  Hurdle Surmounted  The historic investment would dwarf a package approved in
2010 that is the largest to date. That $600 million measure was
geared to the U.S.-Mexico border and provided 1,500 new Border
Patrol, Customs and other agents, as well as communications
equipment and unmanned aircraft.  The Senate vote yesterday marked the biggest hurdle for the
border package, requiring 60 votes to advance.  Before the Senate takes final action on the immigration
bill, other amendments could be considered including proposals
to limit benefits for immigrants who gain legal status and to
provide equal protection for same-sex couples.  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, one of the bill’s
Republican co-sponsors, has proposed an amendment to bar
undocumented immigrants from gaining permanent legal residency
until they can read, write and speak English.  The business community is signaling its support for the
bill -- with a push yesterday from the White House.  Obama met with business leaders, including  Steve Case ,
chairman and founder of venture capital firm Revolution LLC;
Sunil Puri, founder of First Rockford Group Inc., a real estate
company; and Hamdi Ulukaya, chief executive of yogurt maker
Chobani Inc., to encourage Senate passage of the legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  