-- Serbs Seek $115 Million at Auction as Cabinet Debates Budget
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-06-25T10:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/serbs-seek-115-million-at-auction-as-cabinet-debates-fiscal-gap.html
Serbia  sold a fifth of bonds offered
amid weak investor demand as the government meets to endorse a
fiscal plan aimed at enforcing cost cuts to narrow the budget
gap.  The government sold 1.9 billion dinars ($21.7 million) in
three-year debt of 10 billion dinars on offer, the Debt
Management Agency in Belgrade said in an e-mail today. The
average yield on the 10 percent coupon bond rose to 10.5 percent
from 10.49 percent at an April 23 auction. Investors bid for 2.4
billion dinars of the debt.  The government was due to meet at 11:30 a.m. in Belgrade to
adopt measures to trim administrative costs and sell
unprofitable companies, while avoiding cuts in public wages and
pensions.  The 11-month old government of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic 
left the  budget deficit  at 6 percent of gross domestic product
in the first quarter, stoking investor concern over fiscal
discipline. European Union leaders decide on June 28 whether to
set a date for the beginning of membership talks for the country
after its efforts to normalize ties with its breakaway Kosovo
province.  Foreign investor demand could weaken today “due to
increased global markets’ volatility and Serbian fiscal slippage
feeding into rating downgrade risks,” analysts including Hrvoje Stojic at Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank d.d. in Zagreb said before the
auction in a note to clients on June 24.  Downgrade Risk  Prospects that the U.S. Federal Reserve will gradually end
bond purchases by mid-2014 reduced the relative attractiveness
of developing-nation assets, triggering a sell-off in global
markets. Yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021
fell 21 basis points to 7.18 percent as of 12:06 p.m. in
Belgrade, snapping a four-day increase of 128 basis points to a
record high 7.47 percent yesterday.  Serbian bond yields “have been hit considerably more than
most of its rating peers” Gabriel Sterne, the  emerging markets 
economist at Exotix Holdings Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail.
“Spreads on 21s have increased by 150bps more than similarly
rated Uruguay” and “current market conditions are probably of
the type that are looking to punish those who fell short on
correcting imbalances in the previous benign conditions, and now
look more vulnerable in much more difficult conditions.”  Widening Gap  The government plan raises the 2013 budget gap to 177
billion dinars, or 4.7 percent of gross domestic product, from a
previously planned 122 billion dinars. Serbia risks a downgrade
in its  credit rating  unless the government squeezes spending
more, promotes export growth and secures a new agreement with
the  International Monetary Fund ,  Standard & Poor’s  said in May.  The nation’s fiscal gap may balloon to 8 percent of GDP
this year if the government leaves policies unchanged, the IMF
said on May 22. The lender refrained from negotiating a new
precautionary loan, which Serbia wants as proof to investors
that the government’s policies are on track. Standard & Poor’s
rates Serbia BB-, or three levels below investment grade, with a
negative outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  