-- Singh in Kashmir to Open Rail Link After Terror Strike Kills 8
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-06-25T04:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/singh-in-kashmir-to-open-rail-link-after-terror-strike-kills-8.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  will
inaugurate a rail link that connects Indian-controlled Kashmir
with the rest of the nation, two days after a militant strike
killed eight soldiers in the disputed territory.  Singh, accompanied by Congress party President  Sonia Gandhi ,
left for Kashmir today to open the 19-kilometer (12-mile) line
tomorrow amid a tourism boom in the area guarded by about half a
million soldiers and police. Yesterday’s terror attack won’t
deter his government’s efforts to bring peace to the region,
Singh said in a statement.  Guerrillas opened fire, lobbed grenades at an army convoy
on the outskirts of Srinagar, the summer capital of  India ’s
northern state of  Jammu and Kashmir , and fled, said Naresh Vij,
a spokesman for the army. Six others were injured. The militant
group Hizbul Mujahideen claimed responsibility for the attack,
the  Press Trust of India  reported.  Yesterday’s strike is the second in three days after
militants gunned down two policemen in Srinagar at the weekend.
Militants have escalated violence since the February execution
of a Kashmiri sentenced to death for his role in the 2001 attack
on India’s parliament.  The $3.4 billion rail project includes an 11.2-kilometer
tunnel, India’s longest, built by Hindustan Construction Co.
from Banihal in Jammu to Qazigund in the Kashmir valley.  Kashmir, divided between India and Pakistan since 1947 and
claimed in full by both, has been the cause of two wars between
the nuclear-armed neighbors. Tourists returned to Kashmir in
record numbers over the last year as violence linked to a
separatist insurgency that erupted in 1989 continued to ebb in
India’s only Muslim-majority state.  The two nations have repaired economic and sporting ties
since resuming peace talks snapped by the 2008 raid on Mumbai by
Pakistani guerrillas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  