-- TSKB Gains as FinansInvest Says Buy on Weak Lira: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-25T16:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/tskb-gains-as-finansinvest-says-buy-on-weak-lira-istanbul-mover.html
Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi AS (TSKB) 
rose the most in two weeks after FinansInvest recommended
investors buy the stock, citing benefits from a weakening lira.  The  shares  rose 4.4 percent, the most since June 7, to 1.68
liras at the close in Istanbul. About 4.24 million shares were
traded, more than double the three-month daily average. The
benchmark  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index climbed 0.8 percent.
FinansInvest restarted coverage of the bank known as TSKB with a
12-month price estimate of 2.75 liras, representing 71 percent
upside from yesterday’s closing price.  The lira tumbled to a record low yesterday amid concern of
reduced monetary stimulus in the U.S. and fallout from anti-government protests at home. Two-year benchmark  bond yields 
climbed 31 basis points to 8.12 percent, the highest level since
July 4.  “TSKB is the most defensive lender in this environment of
rising rates and a depreciating lira,” Muge Dagistan, an
analyst at FinansInvest in Istanbul, said in a phone interview.
It is “positively impacted from the lira’s slump, as most of
its loans are in foreign currencies.”  Debt in euros and dollars make up about 96 percent of
TSKB’s loans, according to a quarterly presentation on the
bank’s website. That “serves to inflate its net interest income
as the currency depreciates” and the stock is a “good risk
reward bet once the dust settles,” Dagistan said in an e-mailed
note today.  Funding Agreements  TSKB has multilateral funding agreements with institutions
including  European Investment Bank  and International Finance
Corp. The lender reported a  4.3 percent increase  in first-quarter profit to 84.7 million liras ($44 million). Net income
in 2013 may advance 3 percent to 326.857 million liras,
according to the  mean estimate  of 14 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  The lira strengthened 0.5 percent today as emerging market
assets recovered.  Ten analysts including Dagistan recommend investors buy
TSKB shares, while five say hold, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  