-- Spain to Guarantee Drug Payments in Centralized Purchases
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-06-25T08:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/spain-to-guarantee-drug-payments-in-centralized-purchases.html
Spain  will guarantee regional
governments’ payments to pharmaceutical companies to try to win
support for a plan to centralize drug purchases and narrow the
European Union’s largest  budget deficit .  Documents will be published as early as this week for
Spain’s Instituto Nacional de Gestion Sanitaria, or Ingesa, to
seek offers from suppliers of health products, said a senior
Health Ministry official who asked not to be named as the
information isn’t yet public.  Guaranteeing payments may ease industry opposition to the
centralized purchases. The tender is the second attempt after a
first in December was challenged by the industry and withdrawn,
said a spokeswoman for the Health Ministry who asked not to be
named in line with government policy.  Spain’s tax-funded health-care system is run by the
nation’s 17 semi-autonomous regions and represents two-thirds of
their spending along with education. The government last year
changed rules to increase patients’ contributions for
 prescription drugs  and is trying to secure further savings
through centralized buying.  The regions can choose whether to participate in the tender
that will include drugs such as  anti-TNF medicines  used to treat
rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory illnesses. Also
covered would be medical products such as surgical gloves, said
the spokeswoman.  Single Price  The Health Ministry has designed the process to guarantee
buyers’ solvency and a single price per product, the official
said. There are no restrictions to the number of participants as
long as providers are qualified suppliers, the person said.  The government is targeting savings of 400 million euros
($525 million) from the first batch of centralized purchases,
which will also include antibiotics in September, the Health
Ministry official said.  Spain’s pharmaceutical spending was 799.3 million euros in
May, dropping 12.1 percent from a year earlier, the Health
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. The average
spending per prescription was 4.45 percent less than in May
2012, it said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , in power since December 2011,
last year organized close to 19 billion euros in loans to the
regions to help them pay down accumulated unpaid bills,
including hospitals’ debt. The government also announced 7
billion euros in health-care spending cuts such as measures to
contain pharmaceutical spending as lower tax receipts have left
the regions struggling to pay suppliers and cut their budget
deficits.  For Related News and Information:
Spain Races to Sell Bonds as Tax Revenue Disappears: Euro Credit  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  