-- Spiesshofer Draws on Student Career Studies for ABB Job
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-06-26T16:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/spiesshofer-draws-on-student-career-studies-for-abb-job.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s designated Chief
Executive Officer Ulrich Spiesshofer has been preparing for the
job since his student days. His 1991 dissertation examined how
engineers can reach top management roles at industry companies.  Last week, the research of the 49-year-old German paid off
when he was named as chief of Zurich-based ABB, the world’s
largest supplier of power grids and worth 45 billion francs ($48
billion). He takes the helm on Sept. 15, only eight years after
joining ABB and following 14 years as a consultant with A.T.
Kearney and Roland Berger advising automotive, oil, gas,
consumer, telecommunications and utility companies.  Spiesshofer’s first challenge as ABB CEO will be to
integrate the purchases of his predecessor Joe Hogan, who added
motors and low-voltage products in a $10-billion global
acquisition spree before announcing his surprise resignation
last month. Spiesshofer’s experience in a wide range of
industries may help him to market those new offerings through
ABB’s operations with 145,000 employees.  In times of challenging transformations, companies tend to
turn to more “consultant and brainy types,” said  Didier
Cossin , a professor at Lausanne-based business school IMD.  Similar consultant-to-CEO examples include Lou Gerstner and
Peter Wuffli, who worked at McKinsey & Co. before becoming CEOs
of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
respectively.  Acquisition Spree  “Ulrich was a very, very smart guy and he got things
done,” said Professor  Peter Horvath , Spiesshofer’s university
supervisor and founder of Horvath & Partners, a management
consulting firm in Stuttgart.  Spiesshofer is stepping up after just three years
overseeing ABB’s discrete automation and motion division. In
that time, he oversaw the integration of Baldor Electric Co.,
which at $4.1 billion is ABB’s largest acquisition. Spiesshofer
also handled the $1-billion deal to buy California-based Power-One Inc., Hogan’s most recent purchase, which is predicted by
ABB to close in the second half of this year.  Chief Financial Officer Eric Elzvik, who was finance chief
of the discrete automation and motion division when Spiesshofer
was heading the unit and then got promoted in February, said the
new CEO’s global experience will help.  ‘Careers of Engineers’  Spiesshofer is a “true global manager” and a “fast
thinker with a sharp strategic mind,” Elzvik said in an e-mailed response to questions, adding that he worked hand-in-hand
with him on the acquisition of  Baldor Electric . The new CEO, who
is a “great skier and likes the outdoors,” has “the right
social skills” to blend different cultures into Switzerland’s
biggest engineering company, he said.  Spiesshofer declined via a spokesman to be interviewed
about his plans and strategy.  In his 186-page dissertation, titled “Careers of engineers
in the top management of European industrial companies,”
Spiesshofer analyzed the factors that helped engineers to
progress in their careers, such as language skills,
international experience, a second university degree in business
administration and exposure to different industries.  Spiesshofer’s career path shows he has followed through
with his own analysis. He gained a PhD in economics and a Master
degree in Business Administration and Engineering from the
University of Stuttgart. He spent several years in  Australia ,
Asia and Switzerland as a member of A.T. Kearney’s local
leadership team before joining Roland Berger.  Outpacing Others  Spiesshofer “completed his doctorate studies very fast in
two and a half years, whereas others need three of four years,”
said Horvath. “He already knew then that he didn’t want to
become a professor, he wanted to become a manager.”  As ABB’s head of corporate development from 2005 to 2009,
Spiesshofer already built up the mergers team to prepare for
bigger deals and laid the base for ABB’s strategy, Elzvik said.
That position will also have exposed Spiesshofer to lots of
different parts of the business, Cossin said.  Spiesshofer is taking over at a company that has been
outperforming rivals. ABB shares have gained 7.7 percent this
year while  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , a competitor in factory robots
and automation, declined 6.3 percent in the same period. ABB’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
may rise 18 percent this year, according to the average of 31
analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Quick Moves  Apart from integrating Hogan’s acquisitions, ABB’s new CEO
needs to revamp the power-systems unit, said Canaccord analyst
 James Stettler . The company faces lower orders from China State
Grid Corp., its largest customer, as local rivals make
technological advances and make inroads into its market share,
he said.  “What’s interesting is that they didn’t go outside as ABB
picked an outsider so many times before. It looks as if there
was good preparation there internally,” Cossin said.  Hogan was the first American to lead ABB and joined the
Swiss company in 2008 from rival  General Electric Co. (GE)  where he
had been the CEO of the healthcare division. Hogan replaced Fred Kindle, who had joined ABB from Swiss pump maker  Sulzer AG. (SUN)   Spiesshofer, who also lectured in business management at
Stuttgart University, has risen unusually rapidly to the top of
ABB’s eleven-member executive committee, yet it’s an ascension
that shouldn’t alarm investors, said analysts including Zuercher
Kantonalbank’s Richard Frei and Bank Vontobel’s Panagiotis Spiliopoulos.  While “such quick moves on the corporate ladder are not
seen every day,” Spiesshofer’s performance at discrete
automation, the acquisition of Baldor and the spearheading of
the  Power One Inc. (PWER)  purchase may have helped, Frei said.  ABB’s new CEO increased operating profit at the discrete
automation division by 14 percent to $1.47 billion last year, or
about a third of the group total.  “Ulrich has done a great job in every respect, speaks
German, ran the largest automation division and the most
profitable one,” said Spiliopoulos. “He is well respected with
analysts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  