-- Sprint Investors Approve $21.6 Billion SoftBank Acquisition
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-25T20:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/sprint-shareholders-approve-21-6-billion-softbank-acquisition.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  shareholders
approved a $21.6 billion deal with Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ,
agreeing to give the Japanese company control of the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier after an eighth-month saga.  About 98 percent of the votes cast favored the transaction,
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint said today in a statement.
SoftBank, which has three of the four regulatory approvals
needed to do the Sprint deal, still requires a final nod from
the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission .  The shareholder decision ends a takeover contest that saw a
$25.5 billion counteroffer from satellite-television provider
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , a special agreement to appoint a national
security representative to the company’s board and a bidding war
for control of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  -- a wireless  Internet service
provider  half-owned by Sprint.  For SoftBank President Masayoshi Son, the 61st-richest
person in the world, the approval brings him a step closer to
his goal of turning SoftBank into the world’s largest carrier.
Fellow billionaire,  Charlie Ergen , Dish’s chairman, had
challenged Son for control of Sprint, only to abandon the plan
last week after SoftBank sweetened its offer.  “We are pleased to have the support of Sprint
shareholders,” SoftBank said in an e-mailed statement. “We
look forward to receiving FCC approval and promptly completing
the transaction so that we can begin implementing our plans to
deploy an advanced Sprint network that supports innovative
devices and service packages tailored to the rapidly expanding
mobile needs of U.S. consumers. ”  FCC’s Move  The FCC had no comment on when commissioners were scheduled
to vote on the deal, said Neil Grace, a spokesman for the
agency.  Son will serve as chairman of Sprint after the deal closes,
with SoftBank Holdings Inc. President Ron Fisher becoming vice
chairman.  “Today is a historic day for our company, and I want to
thank our shareholders for approving this transformative merger
agreement,” Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  in the
statement. “The transaction with SoftBank should enhance
Sprint’s long-term value and competitive position by creating a
company with greater financial flexibility.”  Dish Folds  Sprint initially forged a deal with SoftBank in October,
agreeing to sell 70 percent of the company for $20.1 billion.
Dish offered $25.5 billion for Sprint in April, though its terms
were structured differently and not directly comparable to
SoftBank’s price. Dish also never submitted a firm enough bid to
be “actionable,” Sprint said.  To seal the deal, SoftBank raised its bid to $21.6 billion
for 78 percent of Sprint on June 10.  At the time, Sprint set a June 18 deadline for Dish to
respond. When the day came, the satellite company begged off,
saying Sprint had “made it impracticable for Dish to submit a
revised offer.” Three days later Dish abandoned its bid.  Sprint also faced a takeover contest with Dish for
Clearwire, its wireless-network partner. Seeking to end a
protracted bidding war, Sprint offered $5 a share for the
company last week. The price was 14 percent above what Dish
proposed and values the business at about $14 billion.  Clearwire shareholders are scheduled to vote July 8 on the
bid, which gained the support of a group of investors that had
previously opposed Sprint’s proposals.  Clearwire’s board also agreed to a $115 million breakup fee
if the transaction isn’t completed, further hindering Dish’s
chances to make a better offer. Dish hasn’t said whether it will
make a new counteroffer for Clearwire.  Sprint shares  rose less than 1 percent to $6.88 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 21 percent this year, 
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has added 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  