-- Stanley Ross Eluded Nazi Bombs to Transform World Bond Markets
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-06-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/stanley-ross-eluded-nazi-bombs-to-transform-world-bond-markets.html
As 11-year-old Stanley Ross huddled
in a shelter on a North  London  public housing estate in the
summer of 1942, a German bomb landed just feet away. It was a
dud.  “There was a stick of eight bombs and ours was the fifth,
and it landed just there,” he said, pointing to the adjacent
table during a June 6 interview at London’s Savoy Grill. “Had
it gone off I wouldn’t be here now. I’d have been vaporized.”  The son of a London bus conductor, Ross later became the
first non-German-born managing director of  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  He
was visiting the Savoy where he and other Eurobond bankers and
traders used to mingle with the likes of then-Prime Minister
 Margaret Thatcher  and John King, who prepared British Airways
Plc for sale to the public.  Ross, who left school at 15, traded the Autostrade SpA
Eurobond that in 1963 was the genesis of today’s $4 trillion-a-year market that’s at the center of global finance. That deal 
50 years ago came about after bankers led by Siegmund Warburg
created the debenture so its interest payments were untaxed,
attracting the pools of American dollars accumulating in Europe.  About $4.8 billion of Eurobonds were issued from 1963
through 1967, rising to $17.5 billion in the five years through
1972, according to Ian Kerr’s “A History of the Eurobond
Market.” Sales this year are set to match the $4 trillion in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bearish Outlook  While Eurobonds have survived everything from the  Cold War  
to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression the 82-year-old retired trader said he is “very, very bearish about
what is going to happen in the very near future,” to the world
economy. In part because of the printing of money by world
central banks to stimulate their economies, he said.  “Within a year you will see gold at twice the price it is
now,” Ross said.  Ross’s Eurobond trading helped fund a lifestyle featuring a
series of Porsche 928s and expensive restaurants. Combined with
a look that included a monocle and mutton-chop sideburns, a
habit of speaking his mind and authorship of “The Week in
Eurobonds” newsletters, Ross became a spokesman for the
Eurobond market in the 1970s and 1980s.  When  Standard & Poor’s  gave Finland a AAA credit rating in
1972, Ross asked “how many Kalashnikovs are pointed their way
across the border, and how long it would take a Foxbat to get to
Helsinki,” referring to Russian rifles and fighter planes.  ‘Curious Publication’  The Finnish finance minister pointed out to Ross’s managers
in New York that all the nation’s friends were happy “except
one curious publication in London, written by Mr. Stanley
Ross,” according to an article Ross wrote in May 1993.
“Slapped wrists all round,” he commented, showing no sign of
regret.  Ross helped set up the world’s biggest securities
settlement system, and defeated a move by the Association of
International Bond Dealers, the trade group he co-founded in
1969, that would have put him out of business, he said.  The battle with the AIBD leadership shows how Ross spotted
technology that would force financial markets to change. Using a
new feature on the Reuters system, Ross helped break a monopoly
underwriters had on pricing information in 1979 by posting when-issued prices for new bonds, an indication of what the market
would be prepared to pay for the securities after settlement.  Lost Advantage  At a stroke, underwriters lost the information advantage
they previously held over issuers and investors. They couldn’t
tell clients that a deal was going well when a published price
was saying the opposite. Investors, too, benefited from the
increased transparency.  At the AIBD meeting in London that year, the board
attempted to have the practice, known as grey-market trading,
banned. Members declined to go along with the proposal and voted
it down.  “I used to think of him as a weapon of mass destruction,”
Stanislas Yassukovich, who was chairman of the AIBD at the time
and a Eurobond dealer at White Weld & Co., said in a May 28
interview. “He gave me kind of a baptism of fire. He was right.
In a way he was pointing toward the future.”  Yassukovich, now 78, later became chairman of Merrill Lynch
 Europe  and deputy chairman of the London Stock Exchange.  Ross said his path to bond trading started when Julius
Strauss noticed a novel by Marcel Proust lying on his desk at
Strauss Turnbull & Co., the London brokerage Ross joined in
1950. The partner was so impressed he took him out of the back
office and onto the trading floor to buy and sell equities for
more than a decade before he turned to debt.  Autostrade Broker  In 1963, Strauss Turnbull was appointed broker to the $15
million Autostrade issue and Julius Strauss told Ross to trade
the security. The bond business became larger than equities,
Ross said. He left Strauss Turnbull in 1967 to set up the
Eurobonds business of Kidder Peabody & Co.  As well as untaxed coupon payments, Eurobonds offered
anonymity. The person holding the security could claim the
payments. They were typically issued through groups of
international underwriters, first in U.S. dollars and later
denominated in all the major currencies.  In the early days, the settlement of trades in dollars were
routed through  New York . While buyers had to come up with the
necessary cash they didn’t get their bond certificates until the
trade settled at a later date, and only if the paperwork didn’t 
get mislaid, according to Ross.  Delayed Settlements  “People had to wait for their bonds and the Swiss
sometimes waited one or two years,” Ross said. “Everything
came into the settlement system and we had to pay for it but
nothing went out to give us the money back. And this was a
deliberate policy.”  Ross threw Kidder’s weight behind  Euroclear , now the
world’s largest settlement system for domestic and international
bond, equity and derivative transactions, and refused to trade
with anyone who didn’t settle through it.  The company, which was set up by the Brussels office of
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in December 1968, now settles more
than 540 trillion euros of securities transactions per year.  In 1978, Kidder awarded him what he calls “the Order of
the DCM” -- Don’t Come in Monday -- amid a fight with the sales
force over commissions.  That, too, was part of the fallout from the transparency
that came when prices were posted on dealers’ screens, he said.
When the firm acceded to demands that sales people be given
commissions on trades their clients had made directly with
dealers, Ross was out.  Christmas Card  Institutional Investor magazine illustrated the story of
his demise at Kidder with a cartoon of him sitting on the branch
of a tree sawing himself off it, captioned “The Rise and Fall
of Stanley Ross,” he said.  “I am not vindictive but I derived the most enormous
pleasure watching the almost immediate disintegration of Kidder
Securities,” Ross said of the affair in his 1993 article.  Ross went into business with London money brokers Marlon
House Group as Ross & Partners. He took the cartoon, put holly
round the edges and, with the message “Don’t believe all you
read in the press,” turned it into a Christmas card for his new
venture. In 1983, over Ross’s objections, the company was sold
to Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and he quit.  He joined Deutsche Bank as a managing director in 1984
responsible for building up its bond trading business just
before the “Big Bang,” the U.K.’s deregulation of financial
markets in 1986.  ‘You’re Done’  While Ross stayed with Deutsche Bank until 1991, he didn’t 
fit in with the German banking culture in the lender’s senior 
echelons. He now refers to it as “The Deutsche Bank,” and rails 
at what he called German dominance over Europe through the 
European Union.  “The way we are going, we are going to be totally
controlled by  Germany ,” he said at the Savoy, fingering a
brooch in the shape of the pound symbol that’s used by the U.K.
Independence Party. “The whole of the  euro zone  is going to
implode and we are in for the most horrifying time. Banks will
be going bust right, left and center.”  Ross offered a bet that gold will double to $2,600 or more
an ounce within 12 months. He wonders whether he should have
made it a two-year bet, then reconsiders.  “No, no, we’ve done the deal,” he said, ever the trader.
“Das ist gemacht. You’re done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  