-- Sumitomo Said to Weigh Bid for Bank Negara Insurance Stake
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   K o m a k i   I t o   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-06-25T04:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/sumitomo-life-said-to-weigh-bid-for-bank-negara-insurance-stake.html
Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. is among
companies preparing to bid for a stake in the life insurance
unit of  PT Bank Negara Indonesia (BBNI) , according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Sumitomo Life,  Japan ’s third-largest life insurer, is
weighing an offer for a 40 percent stake that may be valued at
as much as $800 million, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. The Osaka-based company has dropped out of bidding for part of Thai Life
Insurance Pcl, leaving Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. as the
sole remaining suitor, two people said.  Bank Negara, controlled by  Indonesia ’s government, plans to
start the sale of the insurance unit stake in the next two
weeks, the people said. The deal follows the sale of a minority
holding in the life insurance unit of PT  Panin Financial Tbk (PNLF)  to
Japanese insurer Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. for 3.3 trillion
rupiah ($330 million) this month.  Buyers, attracted by an emerging middle class getting
coverage for the first time, have spent more than $6.6 billion
acquiring insurance assets in Southeast Asia over the past two
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Indonesia is more
attractive for overseas buyers as foreign ownership limits for
insurers are higher than in other Asian countries,  Fitch Ratings 
said this month.  Japanese Spending  Both Sumitomo Life and Meiji Yasuda made final offers for a
15 percent stake in closely held Thai Life, Thailand’s second-largest life insurer, people with knowledge of the matter said
last month. The bids valued the stake at as much as $700
million.  Kousuke Miyatake, a spokesman at Sumitomo Life, declined to
comment, as did Kimihiko Suzuki at Meiji Yasuda and an official
at Thai Life. Yap Tjay Soen, finance director at  Bank Negara ,
couldn’t immediately be reached. Reuters earlier reported that
Meiji Yasuda had entered exclusive talks for a stake in Thai
Life.  Japanese acquirers have announced $3 billion of financial
asset purchases in Southeast Asia in the past two years, more
than in the previous six years combined, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That trend is set to continue with Japanese
companies’ cash reaching a record in the first quarter,
surpassing the stockpile held by American companies,  Bank of
Japan  data showed.  Sumitomo Life bought 18 percent of Vietnam’s biggest
insurer, Bao Viet Holdings, last December, and set up a venture
with PICC Holdings Co., Asia Financial Group and Bangkok Bank in
2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  