-- Sweden’s Borg Welcomes Krona Losses Amid Shaky Global Outlook
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-25T10:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/sweden-s-borg-welcomes-krona-losses-amid-shaky-global-outlook.html
Sweden ’s Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said he welcomes a weaker  exchange rate  after the krona
plunged to its lowest level against the euro in almost a year.  The currencies of Sweden and  Norway  suffered a sell-off
last week that continued through yesterday following signals
from the U.S. Federal Reserve it will scale back stimulus. The
Swedish krona fell 1.9 percent against the euro in the week
through June 21, and yesterday sank as much as 1.6 percent to
its lowest per euro since June 18, 2012.  “I don’t mind the krona weakening a little bit when we see
problems in the world economy,” Borg said today in a phone
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson . “We don’t have a strong krona policy. We believe that
the market should set the rate and it should reflect fundamental
values of the economy.”  The krona’s decline marks a reversal of its popularity
among investors earlier this year after AAA rated Sweden emerged
as a haven from the debt crisis in the euro zone. A 31 percent
krona appreciation from the end of 2008 through the middle of
March this year prompted Swedish policy makers to warn the
currency’s strength may warrant some concern.  “A strong krona is of course a problem to the export
sector,” Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said in a
separate interview today.  Almost 70 percent of exporters in the largest Nordic
economy said the krona’s strength at the end of May was hurting
their business, according to a survey published yesterday by the
state-owned Swedish Export Credit Corporation. Half of Sweden’s
economy comes from exports, of which about 70 percent are
destined for  Europe .  The krona gained 1 percent against the euro today and
traded at 8.7812 as of 12:08 p.m. in  Stockholm .  “We have a free float, but I don’t mind if the krona
weakens a little bit and helps our economy,” Borg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  