-- Swiss Stocks Rise on Comments From U.S. Central Bankers
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-25T09:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/swiss-stocks-rise-on-comments-from-u-s-central-bankers.html
Stocks in Switzerland  climbed,
rebounding from their biggest three-day selloff in 21 months,
after two Federal Reserve presidents emphasized that U.S.
monetary policy remains accommodative.  Schmolz & Bickenbach (STLN)  AG rallied 3.6 percent after a Zurich
court limited the voting rights of its biggest shareholder.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 1 percent to 7,324.36 at 10:59
a.m. in Zurich. The gauge had tumbled 6.2 percent in the
previous three trading days, its biggest slide since September
2011, as the Federal Reserve indicated that it may start paring
stimulus measures this year if the economy strengthens. The
broader Swiss Performance Index gained 1.1 percent today.  “European share markets are rebounding, shrugging off
declines in overseas markets,” said Ishaq Siddiqi, a market
strategist at ETX Capital in  London , in e-mailed comments. “The
risk tone has improved somewhat after Dallas Federal Reserve
head Fisher attempted to downplay the markets’ reaction to
central-bank tapering.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 13 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The President of the Fed Bank of  Dallas , Richard Fisher,
said in London yesterday that the central bank will continue its
bond-buying program.  “What we’re talking about here is dialing back,” Fisher
said. “The word ‘exit’ is not appropriate here.” The head of
the Dallas Fed doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Accommodative Policy  Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota, who has
called for easier policy, said yesterday the Fed must emphasize
that policy will remain accommodative “for a considerable
time” after the end of quantitative easing. Kocherlakota, who
also doesn’t vote this year, spoke to reporters during a
conference call.  A U.S. Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington  will show that durable-goods orders rose 3 percent in
May after increasing a revised 3.5 percent in April, according
to the  median economist forecast  in a Bloomberg survey.  A separate release at 9 a.m. will probably show that  house
prices  in 20 cities jumped 10.6 percent for the year through
April. A Conference Board report -- due at 10 a.m. -- will show
that a measure of  consumer confidence  fell this month from a
five-year high in May, according to economists.  Schmolz & Bickenbach climbed 3.6 percent to 2.89 Swiss
francs after the Zurich Commercial Court ruled that the
company’s biggest shareholder can use only 20.46 percent of the
total votes. The shareholder, which is controlled by members of
the founding family, owns 40.46 percent of the equity.  Schmolz & Bickenbach said on June 10. that it plans to
increase its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization by 230 million euros. The steelmaker’s board
rejected a proposal from its main shareholder on June 5 to
increase its capital by 434 million francs ($465 million).  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  jumped 4.7 percent to 67.10 francs,
after sliding 4.8 percent yesterday. The company received a
contract of as much as $89 million to develop its novel
antibiotic BAL30072.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  