-- U.K. Risks Missing Carbon Targets Without Clearer Signals
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-26T09:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/u-k-risks-missing-carbon-targets-without-clearer-signals.html
The U.K. risks missing targets to
reduce carbon dioxide pollution unless it moves faster, the
government  climate-change  policy adviser said.  Britain has set five-year carbon budgets through 2027.
While the nation has “comfortably achieved” the first budget
that ended in 2012, and looks set to meet the one ending in
2017, the pace of carbon cuts isn’t enough to meet the next two,
the Committee on Climate Change said today in a  report .  “If we carry on as we have been doing, we would not meet
the third and fourth carbon budgets and a big gap will open
up,” David Kennedy, the committee’s chief executive officer,
said by phone. “The government is the market-maker and the
rules of the game have to be very clear.”  The U.K. aims to cut its emissions in half by 2027 by
building new nuclear and wind- power plants , slashing coal
consumption and imposing energy-efficiency measures on homes and
businesses. It’s pushing legislation through Parliament to
stimulate 110 billion pounds ($170 billion) of investment in
power plants and the electricity grid by 2020.  The U.K. emitted 2,915 megatons of carbon dioxide for the
five years through 2012, according to the committee. After
accounting for the purchase and sale of tradable carbon permits
with  Europe , net emissions were 2,961 megatons. Under the first
budget, it was allowed 3,018 megatons, or 604 megatons per year.  Storing Risk  Last year, gross emissions rose by about 3.5 percent to 570
megatons, the committee said. When adjusted for “temporary
factors” including a cold winter and an increase in coal usage
that will be reversed due to tighter EU regulations, CO2 output
declined by about 1 percent to 1.5 percent.  “The more we carry on reducing emissions by 1 percent a
year, that just stores up costs and risks for the future and
we’ll have to go even further,” Kennedy said. He said a 3
percent annual rate of emissions reduction is needed.  For the five years through 2017, the budget totals 2,782
megatons, or 556 megatons a year. In the third and fourth carbon
budgets, emissions are capped at about 509 megatons and 390
megatons a year respectively.  Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Ed Davey  said that
Britain is on course to meet the first three carbon budgets and
that “challenges” remain to meet the fourth.  “We will need additional policies to meet this legally
binding goal,” Davey said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
already published scenarios for how we might achieve the fourth
carbon budget and remain committed to doing so.”  Stronger Incentives  The committee said “good progress” has been made in wind
power generation, insulation of lofts and cavity walls, and
emissions from waste and new cars. At the same time, it said the
government needs to strengthen incentives for solid-wall
insulation, low-carbon sources of heating such as heat pumps,
and energy efficiency measures for factories and shops.  Kennedy said it’s too early to assess the success of the
government’s Green Deal program to make homes more energy
efficient. The Sunday Times reported on June 23 that just two
homes have signed up to receive loans under the program since it
began in January.  The government has ignored calls by Kennedy’s committee to
set as soon as possible a 2030 carbon target for the power
industry. Earlier this month ruling coalition Conservative and
Liberal Democrat ministers fought off a rebellion from lawmakers
in their own parties who argued such a goal was the best way to
attract the supply chain investments needed for wind and nuclear
projects. The government has made a provision for the target to
be set in 2016, after the fifth carbon budget has been agreed.  More Clarity  Kennedy said that without the decarbonization target, the
government needs to provide as much clarity as possible about
the electricity market reform legislation working its way
through Parliament. The government plans to announce next month
the so-called strike prices that generators will receive for
different technologies.  “That should give a very clear signal to investors that
here are the prices we intend to pay, particularly for wind
generation, and here’s our ambition for each of the
technologies: this is what we think we’ll be looking to contract
in terms of gigawatts,” Kennedy said. “Otherwise if I’m an
investor, why would I spend tens of millions of pounds investing
in new projects?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  