-- U.S. Wants S&P Ratings Case to Go to Trial in Early 2015
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/u-s-wants-s-p-ratings-case-to-go-to-trial-in-early-2015.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s
 Standard & Poor’s  unit should face trial in February 2015 over
ratings on residential mortgage-backed securities, the U.S.
 Justice Department  said.  A  jury trial  on liability would take an estimated 54 days,
according to a joint filing yesterday by the Justice Department
and S&P in federal court in Santa Ana, California. The Justice
Department wants a separate penalty phase to be decided by U.S.
District Judge  David Carter  without a jury.  The government seeks more than $5 billion in penalties from
S&P, according to the filing.  S&P is accused in the lawsuit of deceiving investors,
including federally insured financial institutions, by giving
its highest credit ratings to mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized-debt obligations because it wanted to gain
business from the issuers of the securities and not because the
securities merited these ratings.  In yesterday’s filing, S&P said the Justice Department’s
complaint only includes about $500 million in purported losses.
The government’s calculation of the remaining $4.5 billion
raises more questions than it answers, S&P said.  “For example, 89 percent of the purported losses that the
government believes it can use to set a penalty are attributed
to  Bank of America  and Citibank, two of the major institutions
responsible for arranging the very CDOs and RMBS at issue, not
unsuspecting ‘victims’ of a fraudulent scheme,” S&P said.  July Argument  S&P lawyers are scheduled to argue at a July 8 hearing in
Santa Ana that the U.S. claims should be dismissed.  Banks create collateralized debt obligations by bundling
bonds or loans into securities of varying risk and return. They
pay ratings firms for the grades, which investors may use to
meet regulatory requirements.  In its 119-page complaint, the Justice Department cited
meetings, messages and memos that it said showed S&P analysts
assigned investment-grade ratings to securities based more on a
desire to win business than to be accurate.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 