-- U.S. Midwest Diesel Falls as Illinois Unit Reaches Planned Rates
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-25T19:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/u-s-midwest-diesel-falls-as-illinois-unit-reaches-planned-rates.html
Diesel fuel weakened in the U.S.
Midwest after Citgo Petroleum Corp. returned a unit to normal
operations at its Lemont, Illinois, refinery following a  power
failure  early this month. Crack spreads narrowed.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  in  Chicago  weakened 0.75 cent to a
discount of  3 cents versus  New York Mercantile Exchange futures
at 2:37 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  same
fuel  in Group 3 weakened 1.25 cents to a discount of 0.38 cent a
gallon. Group 3 includes states north of  Oklahoma  to  Minnesota 
and  North Dakota .  The differentials swelled after Citgo said it restarted a
diesel hydrotreater and returned the unit to planned rates
following a June 12 power loss at the  170,500-barrel-a-day
Lemont plant . Flint Hills Resources LLC was also restarting
units after a power issue at its Pine Bend, Minnesota, refinery.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet plant and  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s  Wood
River refinery , both in Illinois, are also operating at or near
full capacity following maintenance, according to a report from
Energy Analytics Group Ltd.  The increases may ease “refined product tightness” in the
Midwest and “enable growth” in  Gulf Coast inventories  as less
product is sent north, according to the report. The Midwest
tightness earlier led to a “sharp increase in refined product
flows from the U.S. Gulf Coast.”  Distillate Stockpiles  Stockpiles of distillate fuel in the U.S. Midwest fell to
27.3 million barrels in the week ended June 14, a second
consecutive decline, according to U.S. Energy Information
Administration data. Inventories fell to the lowest level since
December last month, EIA data show, as refineries under went
scheduled and unscheduled maintenance.  Distillate supplies were 39.4 million barrels on the U.S.
Gulf Coast last week.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  was unchanged on
the Gulf today at a discount of 3.13 cents a gallon.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the Gulf, a rough measure of
refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate oil in
Cushing, Oklahoma, dropped 3 cents to $17.21 a barrel, while the
same spread for Light Louisiana Sweet oil fell 13 cents to $9.31
a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refinery margins  in Chicago were $16.07 a barrel, compared
with $18.66 in the Group 3 region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  