-- U.S. Home-Loan Credit Easing, Mortgage Bankers Say
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-25T17:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/u-s-home-loan-credit-easing-mortgage-bankers-say.html
Mortgage availability in the U.S.
has eased, returning to 2011 levels, as  home  prices recover,
according to a new index from the  Mortgage Bankers Association 
and AllRegs.  The Mortgage Credit Availability Index -- calculated based
on criteria including credit scores, loan type and loan-to-value
ratios from 85 lenders and investors -- rose 7.2 percent in May
from a year earlier. Mortgage availability was about eight times
greater during the height of the housing boom in 2006 and 2007,
when lenders offered loans to borrowers with no down payments
and unverified incomes, the Washington-based bankers group said.  Lenders are easing underwriting standards as rising  home
prices  reduce the risk of making new loans, said Michael Fratantoni, vice president of research and economics for the the
Mortgage Bankers Association. The  S&P/Case-Shiller (SPCS20Y%)  index of home
values in 20 cities climbed 12.1 percent in the year through
April, the most since March 2006, a report showed today.  “Credit availability is still quite tight, but we have
seen some modest loosening over the past year,” Fratantoni
said. “We can see that both as more lenders being willing to
extend credit and the terms of that credit loosened slightly.”  A surge in loans under the government’s Home Affordable
Refinance Program is helping to drive up the index, Fratantoni
said. The program, known as HARP, allows borrowers who owe more
than their homes are worth to cut payments by refinancing at
lower interest rates. Lenders are also easing requirements for
jumbo mortgages for more-expensive home purchases, he said.  The index, which will be released during the second week of
each month, measures the supply of credit available and not the
volume of lending. It takes into account credit scores and
documentation requirements, whether the  interest rate  is fixed
or adjustable, and whether the mortgage is to be used for
purchase of a primary or secondary home or for refinancing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  