-- Munis Extend Worst Losses Since 2008 as Illinois Sets Sale
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-06-25T21:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/munis-extend-worst-losses-since-2008-as-illinois-sets-bond-sale.html
The U.S. municipal market is poised
for its worst monthly loss since 2008, leading investors to
offer a record amount of tax-exempt debt as yields surged to 26-month highs.  The selloff is the backdrop for a $1.3 billion general-obligation sale tomorrow by  Illinois , the lowest-rated U.S.
state. Local-government debt has lost 5.1 percent this month,
matching the drop in September 2008, when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show.  Institutional bondholders such as mutual funds put about $2
billion of munis up for sale yesterday, the most since at least
1996, when data compiled by Bloomberg begins. Yields on 10-year
AAA munis jumped to  2.96 percent  at 4 p.m. in New York, the
highest since April 2011. Climbing  interest rates  led analysts
from Janney Montgomery Scott and Citigroup Inc. to recommend
buying.  “There’s a lot of sweating right now -- the move has been
violent,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, in an interview
on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and  Mike McKee .  Bernanke’s Rout  Munis have joined a fixed-income rout since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments last week that the central
bank plans to slow bond-buying this year and end purchases in
mid-2014 if the economy improves.  In a sign of the market’s retreat, the $3.4 billion  iShares
S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Fund , known as MUB, has
dropped about 5 percent this month, the most since its debut in
2007. The biggest exchange-traded fund tracking the $3.7
trillion market rose 1.5 percent today to $102.82.  Investors have pulled $5.3 billion from municipal-bond
mutual funds in the past three weeks, the biggest wave of
withdrawals since February 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Georgia canceled a $157 million general-obligation sale
today, joining issuers from  New Jersey  to  Minnesota  that have
postponed borrowings set for this week.  “The run-up in rates over the past couple of weeks moved
it well out of our commission-approved policy for savings,”
said Lee McElhannon, director of bond finance at the Georgia
State Financing & Investment Commission. “We don’t see it
coming back to us in the near future.”  About 60 negotiated sales this week totaling $2.6 billion
are also considered day-to-day, meaning underwriters may wait to
offer the debt until interest rates stabilize or decline.  Illinois Sale  In the Illinois sale, investors may ask for 1.75 percentage
points more than AAA munis to buy debt maturing in 20 years,
said Dan Solender, director of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City , New Jersey, which oversees $19.5 billion of local
debt. He cited price discussions from yesterday.  The state plans to proceed with the offer even with the
latest volatility.  “The long-term dividends that these projects will pay in
shorter commutes and greater state-wide competitiveness more
than offset any cost the  bond market  may demand,” Abdon Pallasch, the state’s assistant budget director, said in a
statement. Illinois has the fourth-lowest investment grade from
all three rating companies.  Best Opportunity  The higher interest rates offer the best opportunity to buy
munis since 2011, Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income research
at Janney in Philadelphia, said in a report today.  George Friedlander  and Vikram Rai, strategists at
Citigroup, recommended buying 10- and 30-year local debt, citing
“key support levels” and improving tax collections.  “The sharp rebound in yields reflects significant erosion
in the value of existing long-term bonds,” Friedlander said in
a research note today. “The current environment represents an
important opportunity for individual investors to begin
rebuilding the income-generating capacity of their muni
portfolios.”  The interest rate on benchmark 10-year munis compares with
about 2.61 percent for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 113 percent, the highest since August. The greater the
figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal securities  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  