-- UPS Teamsters Back 5-Year Contract as Local Accords Fail
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-06-26T00:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/ups-teamsters-approve-contract-removing-strike-threat.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  Teamsters
workers approved a five-year contract that covers about 235,000
employees, lowering the risk of a strike at the world’s largest
package-delivery company.  The union announced preliminary results today, saying the
accord received a majority of the votes cast, without giving
details. Counting will conclude tomorrow, the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters said.  A  running tally  on the Teamsters website showed 34,037
votes favoring the so-called national master contract and 29,576
against it at 8 p.m. in Atlanta, where UPS is based.  UPS wanted to win ratification before the current accord
expires in July, to reassure customers who might have begun
shifting deliveries to  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  ahead of a possible walkout.
A two-week Teamsters strike in 1997 cost about $650 million, UPS
said at the time.  Seventeen local supplemental contracts appear to have
failed and must be renegotiated and voted on again, according to
the  Teamsters for a Democratic Union , a splinter group of
workers. Another agreement, which covers about 15,000 freight
division Teamsters workers, will require additional negotiation,
UPS said in a statement today.  “It will be business as usual while UPS and the IBT
resolve remaining issues and Teamster represented employees
ratify new agreements,” John McDevitt, UPS’s senior vice
president of human resources and labor relations, said in the
statement.  The master contract would take effect on Aug. 1 and
includes raises totaling $3.90 per hour over the five years,
which adds up to  $25,000 for certain full-time drivers  over the
life of the agreement, the union has said. The accord also
creates 2,350 full-time jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  