-- Vodafone’s ‘Project Knight’ Captures Kabel to Halt Malone
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-26T10:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/vodafone-s-project-knight-captures-kabel-to-halt-malone.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao ’s three-year pursuit of  Germany ’s largest
cable company -- codenamed “Project Knight” -- hung in the
balance as his top advisers gathered last Friday at the Sofitel
 London Heathrow .  On the sidelines of the annual senior leadership meeting,
Colao was in secret negotiations with  Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG (KD8)  CEO Adrian von Hammerstein and his entourage, according to
people familiar with the talks. The Germans controlled key
territory for Vodafone’s growth, and that week U.S. billionaire
 John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA)  had come in with his own offer.  At stake was more than the largest cable company in
 Europe ’s biggest economy -- Kabel Deutschland would be central
for either company’s plans for a continental phone, Internet and
TV giant. Vodafone had matched Malone’s 85 euro-a-share ($111)
offer and was considering trumping it, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because talks were private.  Early Friday night, at the five-star hotel connecting
directly to Heathrow’s terminals,  Kabel Deutschland  accepted an
improved bid. Vodafone’s bump to 87 euros a share valued the
company at 7.7 billion euros, making it the second-biggest
telecommunications-network takeover in Europe this year.  Vodafone’s plan for Kabel Deutschland, revived in January
after an aborted effort in 2010, still requires the approval of
the German company’s shareholders and may yet be matched or
trumped. Liberty believes a counter-offer is still feasible
should it opt to table one, people familiar with the situation
said. The company could decide as early as this week whether to
walk away or make a counterbid, said one of the people.  Stock Spurt  Marcus Smith, a spokesman for Liberty Global, declined to
comment on the likelihood of a counterbid. Vodafone spokesman
 Ben Padovan  and Insa Calsow, a Kabel Deutschland spokeswoman,
declined to comment on how the deal came together.  Since early June when Colao first called von Hammerstein to
discuss a takeover, Vodafone raised its offer at least three
times, from 80 euros to 83 euros, 85 euros and finally 87 euros,
the people said. That represented a 37 percent premium on Kabel
Deutschland’s Feb. 12  closing price , the day before Vodafone’s
interest was reported.  Three years earlier, Kabel Deutschland sold shares for 22
euros apiece in its March 2010 initial public offering. A month
before, Vodafone had considered an offer for the Unterfoehring,
Germany-based company, valued at 5 billion euros, people said at
the time. Since the IPO, Kabel Deutschland’s sales have grown 22
percent.  Deja-Vu  After  Bloomberg News  reported Vodafone’s interest, the U.K.
company put out a statement denying any plans. Behind the
scenes, Vodafone put aside an offer it was weighing because it
was focused on scaling back and exiting businesses and
executives were concerned about an investor backlash, people
familiar with Vodafone’s thinking said.  Almost three years later to the day, on Feb. 13, Vodafone’s
internal discussions about Kabel Deutschland leaked again --
this time in Germany’s Manager Magazin, sending the shares up as
much as 14 percent. The leak caught Vodafone off-guard and
complicated internal discussions, and the company iced its plans
again, people familiar with the matter said on Feb. 26.  This time Vodafone had little time to wait for things to
calm. A week before the German magazine report,  Liberty Global 
had entered Vodafone’s backyard with the $16 billion purchase of
U.K. cable-television provider Virgin Media Inc. In March,
Malone bought a stake in Dutch cable operator Ziggo NV. And now
word spread that he was considering a bid for Kabel Deutschland.  Enter Malone  Still, Vodafone wanted to get something else out of the way
before going after Kabel Deutschland: an agreement with Deutsche
Telekom AG to access its high-speed fixed-line network, the
people said. Vodafone struck the deal in May, which allows it to
offer broadband and video service in Germany, notably in spots
where Kabel Deutschland isn’t.  Vodafone announced a similar network-sharing deal today
with Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA in  Greece  for the
companies’ second- and third-generation mobile services.
Vodafone abandoned attempts to merge its Greek unit with Wind
last year after European Union regulators opposed the deal.  With the Deutsche Telekom deal in hand and after consulting
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Vodafone went to Kabel
Deutschland with an offer of 80 euros a share. The German firm
said that was too low and they refused to start talks, people
said on June 11.  Liberty Offer  The next week, on June 17, Kabel Deutschland confirmed
Liberty Global had made a preliminary offer. It was weighed down
by antitrust concerns and a complex structure involving
injecting Malone’s existing German cable assets into Kabel
Deutschland, versus Vodafone’s all-cash bid. Still, the market
saw a dawning bidding war and Kabel Deutschland’s shares rose
more than 4 percent.  When gathering his executives at the Sofitel, Colao knew he
faced a crucial test to win over Kabel Deutschland. Also at risk
were the bankers’ fees.  For a deal this size, Goldman Sachs and UBS typically get
$35 million to $50 million, according to Freeman & Co.
estimates. Vodafone’s key advisers included Goldman’s Karen Cook
and UBS, whose team was led by Jonathan Rowley, Simon Warshaw
and Christian Lesueur. Kabel Deutschland’s bankers, which stood
to earn an estimated $40 million to $60 million in fees,
included  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Burkhard Koep and Johannes Groeller as
well as Perella Weinberg Partners LP’s Dietrich Becker and Klaus Wuelfing.  ‘Very Fair’  After a day of back-and-forth meetings, Colao and von
Hammerstein agreed on 87 euros a share, people familiar with the
talks said. Kabel Deutschland’s board was willing to recommend
the offer to investors, and Vodafone felt it could justify the
price with synergies in cost and capital spending exceeding 3
billion euros after integration costs.  By Sunday, the companies’ supervisory boards had signed off
on the preliminary agreement. The next morning they put out a
statement, with Colao praising Kabel Deutschland’s “very good
growth and good management” on a conference call and his
finance chief, Andy Halford, calling the price “very fair.”  Still Vodafone and Kabel Deutschland don’t have a breakup
fee and Malone rarely walks away from a fight.  The “Project Knight” jousting may not be over.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  