-- Vomiting-Bug Vaccine Seen as Shot in the Arm for Cruises
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-06-27T04:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/vomiting-bug-vaccine-seen-as-shot-in-the-arm-for-cruises.html
(Corrects spelling of executive’s name in second
paragraph.)  As a new strain of stomach flu
leaves a trail of stomach-clenching illness from Sydney to  San
Diego , scientists are moving closer to thwarting it for good.  Early stage  human studies on a vaccine against  norovirus ,
the top source of gastroenteritis in the U.S., are set to finish
this year. That would make work on the vaccine, developed by
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , the farthest along of several
immunization candidates. A course of shots may confer lifelong
protection against 95 percent of strains, said Rajeev Venkayya,
who heads the Japanese drugmaker’s vaccines unit.  A norovirus vaccine would be a boon to  cruise ships ,
schools and nursing homes struggling to deal with a highly
contagious, untreatable scourge. Of the 21 million people
infected in the U.S. annually, about 800 die, mostly the very
young and the elderly, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  “Given the highly infectious nature of norovirus and its
ability to cause extensive outbreaks in hospitals, elder-care
facilities and cruise ships, there is a need for prophylactic
and preventative approaches to guard against infection,” said
Peter White, a microbiology professor at the University of New
South Wales in Sydney. A vaccine “would be particularly
important for individuals with a high risk of exposure” or
weakened immune defenses, he said.  White’s lab last year helped characterize the new variant,
dubbed GII.4 Sydney for the city in which was first identified.
The germ was responsible for the worst bout of gastroenteritis
in a decade in  Australia ’s Victoria state and has sparked
outbreaks worldwide since March 2012.  Nausea, Vomiting  Norovirus, also known as the winter vomiting bug, can be
caught from an infected person, contaminated food or water, or
by touching contaminated surfaces, according to the CDC. It
causes the stomach and intestines to become inflamed, resulting
in pain, nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting. Most outbreaks occur
from November to April in the U.S.  If approved, Takeda’s norovirus vaccine would be the first
to protect people against the germ. It would potentially add as
much as $400 million in annual revenue for the Osaka-based
drugmaker, said Atsushi Seki, a health-care analyst at Barclays
Plc in Tokyo.  Takeda fell 0.6 percent to 4,280 yen at the close of
trading on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange, paring to 11 percent its
gain in 2013. That’s less than half the 24 percent advance of
the Topix index. The benchmark index declined 0.9 percent today.  $273 Million Cost  In children younger than 5 years, norovirus caused 14,000
hospitalizations and 281,000 emergency room visits in 2009 and
2010 in the U.S., amounting to $273 million in annual treatment
costs, the CDC said in a  statement  in March.  Takeda’s vaccine candidate combines viral components from
two norovirus types that laboratory studies suggest should fight
all strains known to have circulated during the past 20 years,
including the Sydney one, Venkayya said in an interview. Studies
of the vaccine in healthy volunteers began in May 2012.  Takeda, Asia’s largest drugmaker, plans further tests in
children and the elderly, and a larger study to gauge the
efficacy of one or two shots, he said, adding that it will be
“several years” before the vaccine is ready for sale.  “I’m optimistic for this vaccine,” he said. “It
continues to look very good to us.”  Takeda took over development of the vaccine when it bought
Bozeman, Montana-based  LigoCyte Pharmaceuticals Inc.  last year
for an initial payment of $60 million. Takeda will pay LigoCyte
more based on the vaccine’s success. The acquisition is part of
Takeda’s strategy to tap the $25.3 billion global vaccines
market.  Gates Foundation  Venkayya was previously director for global health delivery
at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, where he oversaw the
foundation’s work on polio eradication and introducing vaccines.  At least two other groups besides Takeda are developing
vaccines against norovirus.  UMN Pharma Inc. (4585) , based in Yokohama,
 Japan , and Finland’s University of Tampere are developing
UMN-2003, which aims to protect against rotavirus, another cause
of viral gastroenteritis. Charles Arntzen, professor of
infectious diseases and vaccinology, is also working on one at
 Arizona  State University in Tucson.  All three vaccine candidates are based on virus-like
particles -- proteins that resemble key components of the virus,
enabling the immune system to recognize and fight the pathogens.  Scientists are developing new weapons to fight norovirus
years after they successfully produced vaccines against
rotavirus. The delay reflects the difficulty of researching
norovirus, which can’t be grown outside the human body, said
White at the University of New South Wales.  Glaxo, Merck  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  sold 360 million pounds ($556 million)
of its Rotarix vaccine for rotavirus last year, while  Merck &
Co. (MRK) ’s RotaTeq generated $601 million.  While  long-term care facilities  and schools are especially
prone to outbreaks, new epidemics of acute gastro often emerge
on cruise ships, where control is hindered by close living
quarters and shared dining areas. With regular turnover of
passengers, noroviruses on ships can repeatedly infect new
travelers, researchers at the Center for Infectious Disease
Control in Bilthoven,  Netherlands , found in a  2008 study .  This year, six cruise ships, including Celebrity Cruises
Inc.’s Millennium, Solstice and Infinity, have had norovirus
outbreaks on board,  the CDC  in Atlanta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  