-- Walking Back Bernanke Wished on Too Much Information
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-25T12:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/walking-back-bernanke-wished-on-too-much-information-currencies.html
Hedge funds  and other speculators
dumped more than $14 billion of bullish dollar bets before the
 Federal Reserve  signaled it would pare stimulus, leaving them on
the wrong side of a central bank trying to improve transparency.  Futures traders reduced wagers that the dollar would rally
against the pound, yen and six other currencies by the most
since 2006 in the week ending June 18, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data compiled by Nomura Holdings Inc.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments on quantitative easing
at a press conference the following day spurred the Dollar Index
to its biggest gains in almost a year.  Macro hedge funds to algorithmic traders misjudged slower
inflation and rising bond yields as a sign the Fed would
maintain into 2014 the cash it’s pumping into the economy, which
tends to debase the currency.  “The market talked itself into expecting a more dovish
press conference than it got, and that’s increased the scale of
the selloff in risk assets and dollar buying since,” Kit Juckes, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in a
phone interview yesterday. Investors pared dollar bets “into
the teeth” of a Fed meeting, said Juckes, adding that he’s
still bullish on the dollar “long term.”  Seeking Clarity  Bernanke committed himself to greater openness when he took
the reins of the Fed in 2006, instituting press conferences and
publishing forecasts to give markets more clarity.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners,  rose  2 percent last week, its biggest gain
since July, before falling for the first time in five days to
82.521 as of 8:46 a.m. in  New York . The gauge will end the year
at 85.2, according to the median forecast of 13 strategists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Bernanke said June 19 after the Fed’s policy meeting that
the central bank may start dialing back its unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if the
economy achieves sustainable growth. The Fed has been buying $40
billion of mortgage bonds and $45 billion of Treasuries to
inject cash into the economy.  Markets from currencies to equities to bonds to commodities
have gyrated since the Fed meeting.  ‘Walk Back?’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell 4.8 percent
from June 18 through yesterday. Yields on 10-year Treasuries,
the benchmark for everything from home mortgages to corporate
borrowing, touched 2.66 percent yesterday, the  highest  level
since August 2011, and were at 2.50 percent today. Gold slumped
below $1,300 an ounce last week for the first time since
September 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Will the Fed try to walk back from how the market has
perceived its comments?” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said yesterday in
an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee . Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,
California, manages the world’s biggest bond fund.  “The central-bank brand, this notion that the markets had
that they were wise, they were powerful and were effective is
under assault,” El-Erian said. “The Fed has to be very careful
what it does with its reputation here.”  Two Fed presidents said yesterday that U.S. monetary policy
remains accommodative, less than a week after Bernanke’s
comments jolted financial markets.  Still Accommodative  Richard Fisher , president of the Fed Bank of  Dallas , said
in London that “the word ‘exit’ is not appropriate” for what
the U.S. central bank is doing, while Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  said officials must emphasize that policy
will remain accommodative “for a considerable time” after the
end of QE.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index, which measures
price swings in currencies, touched a more than one-year high of
11.96 percent yesterday, before falling back to 11.68 percent.  The dollar surged 3.8 percent against the yen last week,
its biggest gain since December 2009.  That was after futures traders decreased bets that the
Japanese currency would weaken versus the greenback -- known as
net shorts -- to the least since February for the week ended
June 18, CFTC data show. At the end of May, short positions had
been as high as 99,769, the most since July 2007.  Investors ‘Hurt’  Investors “got hurt in dollar-yen,” Peter Gorra, the
chief dealer in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The markets want the Fed to be dovish
forever, and the Fed can’t have that. They can’t have the
markets telling them what to do,” he said.  Investors cut long positions in the dollar, or wagers that
the U.S. currency will appreciate, by $14.3 billion in the run-up to Bernanke’s comments, according to Nomura’s analysis of
CFTC data. The bets now stand at $14.8 billion, down from as
high as $41.7 billion last month, the data show.  “Flows seem to be dominated more by the hedge-fund space
and the CTA space,” Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said yesterday in a phone
interview, referring to commodity trading advisers, or fund
managers that have to register with the CFTC. “There are signs
of real money coming in a little bit as well, but they’ve been
largely on the sidelines,” he said, referring to larger
investors such as pension funds.  Real Money  CTAs are mostly systematic traders of foreign exchange,
equities and bonds, as well as raw materials. The Newedge CTA
Index, which tracks some of the largest systematic funds, lost
1.7 percent in May, the biggest drop since October and following
five straight months of gains.  “The market moves are pretty substantial,”  Jens Nordvig ,
the New York-based global head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Nomura, wrote yesterday in an e-mail. Hedge funds’ “position
reduction has been prevalent in this space, although it has been
a very broad-based phenomenon, involving active real money
too,” he wrote.  Falling stocks and rising borrowing costs could still
“derail the recovery” and prompt the central bank to ease
monetary policy, according to Jonathan Wright, an economics
professor at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore who worked at
the Fed’s division of monetary affairs from 2004 to 2008.  “The recovery is still pretty fragile and hopefully this
will have no great impact,” Wright said in a phone interview
yesterday. “There isn’t really the option of gradually
tightening monetary policy while being transparent about it.”  Fed Openness  Fed officials have said that greater public understanding
renders their actions more potent because the economy is
affected by expectations about future policy.  The central bank introduced a 2 percent inflation goal and
started holding press conferences after every other meeting of
the  Federal Open Market Committee . It also began publishing
policy makers’ forecasts for economic growth, unemployment,
inflation and the future path of  interest rates .  The Fed last week raised its U.S. growth forecasts for next
year to 3 percent to 3.5 percent and reduced the outlook for
unemployment to as low as 6.5 percent. Asset purchases may
continue in 2014 until  unemployment  declines to about 7 percent,
Bernanke said.  Investors may be questioning whether the central bank is
considering factors outside of its mandates of employment and
price stability, said Wright at  Johns Hopkins .  Unemployment, which stands at 7.6 percent, hasn’t been less
than 7 percent since November 2008. A gauge of consumer prices
excluding food and energy that’s watched by the Fed rose 1.1
percent in the year through April, matching the smallest gain
since records started in 1960.  “The Fed has made reasonably clear that it’s unhappy about
asset purchases, but they haven’t communicated directly exactly
why,” Wright said. “Is this because of fear of bubbles? Is
this because of the politics of a big balance sheet? It’s
because of some factor X. We don’t know what that factor X is,
and I think that’s causing the market to price in an
unreasonable pace of monetary-policy tightening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  