-- Wall Street’s $8 Billion CMBS in Limbo as Bulls Retreat
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-06-25T13:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/wall-street-s-8-billion-cmbs-in-limbo-as-bulls-retreat.html
Wall Street firms spent the past six
months increasing commercial mortgage origination as investors
bought the most debt in six years. That’s now backfiring as
banks prepare to market $7.5 billion of loans earmarked to be
sold as bonds before credit markets took a dive this month.  Investors are demanding 1.2 percentage points more than the
benchmark swap rate to buy new commercial mortgage backed
securities tied to shopping malls, skyscrapers, hotels and
apartment buildings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s up from 72 basis points in February, the narrowest spread
since sales revived in 2009, the data show. Lenders’ profits are
eroded when values of the securities fall.  The CMBS market is poised for its worst month in almost two
years after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it may curb stimulus
efforts as the economy shows sign of improvement. That’s
complicating efforts by banks to sell new deals and making it
more expensive for landlords to refinance loans backed by
everything from Manhattan office space to suburban grocery
stores. Barclays Plc estimated last week that $7.5 billion in
new deals would be completed in the next two months.  “This looked like it was going to be an unusually good
year” for the commercial-mortgage backed  securities market ,
said John Levy, a principal at John B. Levy & Co., a real estate
investment banking firm based in Richmond, Virgina. “It throws
a big monkey wrench in the works. The CMBS market will take a
pretty good wallop in volume.”  More Lending  Lenders led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley have arranged about
$39.6 billion in sales this year, Bloomberg data show. Morgan
Stanley and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold top-ranked debt to pay a
spread of 120 basis points over swaps yesterday, according to a
person familiar with the offering, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t public.  Banks ramped up lending to commercial property owners with
CMBS issuance poised to climb 50 percent to $70 billion this
year, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  Sales had rebounded
after plunging to $11 billion amid the credit market seizure in
2008 from a record $232 billion in 2007.  The increase helped landlords across the U.S. retire debt,
with 81 percent of mortgages maturing this year paid on time,
according to JPMorgan. The bank, which is forecasting $50
billion in sales linked to multiple property owners, said last
week wider spreads could “modestly” reduce sales as banks have
to offer more expensive terms to adjust for lower bond values.  Rising Rates  Loan rates for borrowers have climbed about 100 basis
points, or 1 percentage point, over the past two months,
JPMorgan analysts led by New York-based analyst Ed Reardon wrote
in the June 21 report.  The bank switched its recommendation on CMBS to “neutral”
from a “longstanding overweight,” citing continued volatility
and the prospect of increasing supply.  “We did not expect CMBS to experience this steep a selloff
in anticipation of the end of” the Fed’s bond-buying program,
the analysts wrote.  The market is turning after lenders bulked up their
commercial-mortgage bond units to satisfy investor appetite as
the central bank suppressed borrowing costs, pushing investors
toward riskier assets.  Bank of America in March lured Ken Cohen from UBS AG to run
its commercial real estate finance group in  New York  after
 Switzerland ’s largest lender cut its bonus pool.  See Opportunity  “We continue to see opportunity in the CMBS market and are
thrilled to have Ken,” Michael Nierenberg, the head of global
mortgages and securitized products at Bank of America, said in
an e-mail. “While there is market volatility, we are still
pricing deals and continue to view the business in the long
term.”  Credit Suisse began approaching borrowers this year with
terms for commercial mortgages to be packaged into bonds as it
sought to reenter the business after shutting its unit in 2011.
The Zurich-based lender last month hired Mark Brown, a 20-year
CMBS veteran, to restart the origination business, a person with
knowledge of the move said, who asked not to be identified as it
wasn’t publicly announced. Drew Benson, a Credit Suisse
spokesman, declined to comment on the group’s plans.  Fed Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke’s comments have roiled
markets for residential and commercial property bonds even as
real estate strengthens.  Property Recovery  Commercial real estate  prices  increased 0.4 percent in April,
and have gained 40 percent since bottoming in January 2012,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values increased
12.1 percent from April 2012, the biggest year-over-year gain
since March 2006, after advancing 10.9 percent a month earlier,
a report showed today in New York.  Still, U.S.  homebuilders  have fallen 19.6 percent through
yesterday from a May 14 peak, close to the 20 percent threshold
considered to be a  bear market . An ABX index of home-loan bonds
without government backing created in 2006 has dropped more than
6 percent this month. A similar index tied to commercial
property bonds plunged 8.6 percent to 68.05.  “The velocity of the decline has caught a lot of levered
players including dealers off guard,” said Harrison Choi, a
bond manager for TCW Group Inc., which oversees about $131
billion in assets. “You are seeing a very defensive stance from
dealers, which will obviously hurt liquidity across numerous
asset classes.”  The surge in borrowing costs will likely push property
owners to the sidelines as they wait to see which way the market
goes, according Levy of Levy & Co. Still, long-term  interest
rates  are low by historical standards and aren’t likely to fall
back to the levels seen earlier this year, he said.  “I have been telling all my clients that the market is
abnormally low so you should back up the truck and load up on
all of this long-term fixed-rate debt while it’s available,” he
said, speaking about the costs of borrowing prior to the surge
starting in May. “It’s not expensive now, it’s just less
cheap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  