-- We Must Be Heard, Even If It Kills Us
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-06-25T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/we-must-be-heard-even-if-it-kills-us.html
We may soon have to endure extreme
boredom at 30,000 feet as the once-friendly skies open to
 electronic devices  and smartphones.  Will this mean that the Delta Shuttle is going to become
like the Acela, where -- unless you can find a seat in the quiet
car -- there’s no escaping loud, one-sided conversations about
who’s going to drop off the SUV for a brake job or the tedious
tale of the sullen waiter at dinner the night before?  By contrast, even Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the
most frequent of fliers (and talkers), didn’t disturb the quiet-as-a-tomb last flight out of Washington to New York, when the
only sounds are whispered conversations and the gentle rustle of
newspapers. Until now, the loudmouths had been muzzled by
pricing issues: The clunky Airfone in the back of the seat costs
about $5 per minute. Even Type A’s don’t want to talk that
badly.  With the airlines encouraging our phone addiction, being
ungettable will be as rare as clocks with hands and frozen
custard. The joy of those pre-iPhone days of not reaching out
and touching someone -- or being touched -- will be lost along
with that warning to friends, family and employers: “I’ll be out
of pocket for the next two hours.” So long to stolen time for
mile-high hooky. For reading a bad novel. Doing the crossword.
Napping.  Reckless Driving  Fortunately, chirping mobile phones on flights won’t make
flying more dangerous; you’ll only want to kill your fellow
passengers metaphorically. The menace is far greater on the
ground. Electronic devices in the car can and will kill us --
literally. The Department of Transportation found that chatting
drivers are  four times  as likely to be in a crash, and
distraction from phone use while driving (hand held or hands
free) slows a driver’s reaction as much as having a blood
alcohol concentration of .08 percent, or being legally drunk.  Mothers Against Drunk Driving made inebriated driving
socially unacceptable, but there is no similarly powerful
movement to shame distracted drivers. Talking while driving is
terrible and texting while driving is worse. Looking down at a
small keyboard, thumbing away, to send a message or to read one
while your foot is on the gas, is insane. Researchers at the
Virginia Tech Transportation Institute  found  that sending, or
just reading, a text takes a driver’s eyes off the road for an
average of 4.6 seconds, or as long as it takes to drive the
length of a football field at 55 mph.  I swore off texting while driving after a close call with a
post that jumped out at me. The car bore the scars. It could
have been the driver. Yet I still find it hard not to answer
calls, even though rooting around to find the phone creates a
whole other level of hazard. I’m what the experts call
emboldened by my near miss: I managed to avoid catastrophe once;
I’m sure I can do it again.  There are lots of us. It is hard to curb one of life’s
burning passions -- the desire to communicate with one another -
- even when we are hurtling down the road at warp speed. This
spring, AT&T Inc. released a  study  showing that about half of
all adults admitted they text at the wheel, as did 43 percent of
teenagers. This, even though 98 percent of adults acknowledge it
is wrong. More alarming, 6 of 10 people who said they weren’t
texting while driving three years ago are now doing so. (It is
to AT&T’s credit that it made public a study that works against
its own financial interests.)  Not that talking is much better. Hands-free devices were
supposed to help, but they don’t. It turns out that it’s not
holding the phone to your ear that makes you lose focus but the
very act of having a conversation. Studies show that the odds a
driver will stay in their own lane are no higher because their
hands are theoretically steering the car.  Ticketing Surge  So far, nothing has worked to halt the practice -- not even
expensive tickets. (New York City went on an enforcement binge
in 2009: In one 24-hour  crackdown , 7,432 tickets were written
for texting or talking on a mobile phone while driving, compared
with 580 on a typical day, yet New Yorkers haven’t changed their
bad habits.) Nor have videos of lethal accidents proved
dissuasive. (There are plenty on YouTube.)  The statistics alone should do the job. If today is like
most days, nine people will die and more than 1,000 will be
injured in crashes caused by  distracted driving . Do you really
still want to check whether you need to pick up a quart of milk
on the way home?  It should be easy to pass some Draconian laws and get the
money to enforce them (41 states and the District of Columbia
ban text messaging by drivers and  11 states  ban drivers from
using hand-held phones). It’s not as if there’s a lobby working
to protect the practice, as there were lobbies arguing
in favor of tobacco (remember smoking on airplanes?) and cars
that crumpled upon the slightest impact.  The need for enforcement goes down once a law takes hold;
then self-enforcement sets in. Who fails to wear a seat belt or
buckle a child in the back seat?  An army of vigilantes rises up
should someone light up a cigarette in a restaurant.  I’m going to run an experiment to wean myself off talking
in the car as part of Mothers Against Distracted Driving, MADD
II. I’m going to put the phone in the back seat. And if I sense
someone is calling me from a car, I’ll tell them to hang up.  If I still feel the need to talk while traveling at high
speed, I can always hop on a plane.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net  