-- Weil, Holland & Knight, Gibson, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/weil-holland-knight-gibson-skadden-business-of-law.html
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, a 1,200-lawyer firm that handled the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history,
plans to fire 60 salaried attorneys and 110 staff and cut some
partners’ pay.  Barry Wolf, executive partner and chairman of Weil’s
management committee, yesterday attributed the cutbacks to a
falling off in restructuring and litigation work linked to the
2008 financial crisis and to a “new normal” lower market for
transaction activity.  “We must now make the adjustments we avoided over the last
few years to position the firm to continue to thrive,” Wolf
wrote to Weil Gotshal employees and partners.  The firm will deemphasize its complex commercial litigation
practice in Houston and  Boston , he said in the memo. In addition
it will make “meaningful compensation adjustments” for certain
partners, which may prompt partners to leave the firm, according
to the memo.  The firm was ranked 13th in gross revenue last year by the
American Lawyer, a trade magazine, with $1.23 billion. The
firm’s profit per partner was $2.23 million, the magazine said.  Wolf said in the memo that the bankruptcy and litigation
practices, notably on behalf of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
has enabled the firm to not make reductions as a result of the
fall off in legal services after the 2008 financial crisis.  Weil has been the No. 1 bankruptcy firm for decades,
representing almost every historic restructuring from Enron
Corp. to WorldCom Inc.  Weil’s lawyer reductions aren’t the firm’s first since the
financial crisis hit. In June 2009, the firm fired 79 staff
members in offices across the country and asked summer interns
to defer start dates. In 2007, Weil lost a key bankruptcy
partner when Martin J. Bienenstock, the lead counsel on Enron,
moved to Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in 2007. Bienenstock is now a
partner at Proskauer Rose LLP.  Weil is also not the only prominent law firm to cut
lawyers. Patton Boggs LLP fired 65 staff members in March,
including 22 associates.  Other firms have been more stealthy about lawyer firings,
Peter Zeughauser, a law firm consultant and founder of
Zeughauser Group LLC said in an interview.  “It’s been going on at a number of firms all year, but
Weil is a significant story because it’s a New York firm and
highly successful,” Zeughauser said. “It’s an indication of
how pervasive the overcapacity in the industry is.”  Zeughauser says the Weil firings are part of the right
sizing that has been going on for some time, as far back as 2009
when Latham & Watkins LLP fired 190 lawyers and 250 staff.  “It’s not just that less is coming in,” Zeughauser said,
“It’s a sign of the rising role of LPO’s and contract attorneys
that are filling a need that clients have been long demanding,
which is they don’t want to pay these kind of prices for first-to third-year associates.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Vodafone Reaches $10.1 Billion Deal to Buy Kabel Deutschland  Linklaters LLP advised  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which agreed to
buy  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  after increasing its bid for
 Germany ’s largest cable company to 7.7 billion euros ($10.1
billion) in the second-biggest takeover of a telecommunications
network in Europe this year. Hengeler Mueller advises Kabel
Deutschland.  Linklater’s team was led by partners Stepha Oppenhoff,
Klaus Marinus Hoenig and Iain Fenn.  The Hengeler Mueller team includes partners Maximilian Schiessl, M&A, Dusseldorf, Achim Herfs, corporate, Munich,
Wolfgang Spoerr, regulatory, Berlin and Christoph Stadle,
antitrust, Dusseldorf.  Kabel Deutschland’s board is set to recommend the 87-euro
per share cash offer, the companies said in separate statements
yesterday. The combination will result in synergies in cost and
capital spending exceeding 3 billion euros after integration
costs, Vodafone said.  Buying Kabel Deutschland would give Newbury, England-based
Vodafone access to the German company’s 8.5 million connected
households and potential customers for combined packages of
phone, Internet and TV subscriptions. The U.K. company has been
vying for Kabel with billionaire John Malone’s  Liberty Global
Plc (LBTYA) , which last week made its own preliminary offer, said to be
valued at 85 euros a share.  For more, click here.  Tenet to Buy Vanguard Health Systems for About $1.8 Billion  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP advised  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) ,
which agreed to buy hospital operator  Vanguard Health Systems
Inc. (VHS)  for about $1.8 billion in cash to grow in new markets as
the U.S. health-care overhaul promises to expand insurance
coverage to more Americans starting next year. Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP served as Vanguard’s legal counsel.  Gibson, Dunn’s lead lawyers are New York corporate partners
Barbara Becker and Dennis Friedman. The team includes New York
finance partner Aaron Adams.  The Skadden team includes partners Joseph Coco and Peter Serating, M&A; John Rayis, tax; and Regina Olshan, executive
compensation and benefits.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing The
Blackstone Group in connection with the announced merger of
Vanguard. Corporate and M&A partner Wilson Neely is leading the
team.  Tenet, the third-biggest publicly traded U.S. hospital
chain, will pay $21 a share, the companies said in a statement
yesterday. That’s 70 percent above the June 21 closing price of
$12.37 for Nashville, Tennessee-based Vanguard Health on the New
York Stock Exchange. Tenet also will assume $2.5 billion of
debt, according to the company statement.  The purchase gives Dallas-based Tenet 28 hospitals in
regions including the Chicago, Phoenix, Detroit, Boston and San
Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas. The combined company will
operate 79 hospitals and 157 outpatient treatment centers, and
be able to save $100 million to $200 million a year, according
to the statement. It is expected to add to earnings in the first
year, the companies said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Patton Boggs Partners to Open Holland & Knight Dallas Office  Seventeen partners are leaving Patton Boggs LLP, including
a group who will open an office in  Dallas  for Holland & Knight
LLP, the firms said.  “I can’t give any specifics about how many and who at this
time,” Linda Butler, a Holland & Knight spokeswoman, said in a
phone interview, confirming the new Dallas office.  Patton Boggs said 17 partners have announced their
intention to leave the firm without providing information about
where they are going.  “Movements of this kind are a regular occurrence in an
industry where the competitive environment has changed, and many
leading firms are transitioning their work forces to compete
more effectively,” Patton Boggs said in a statement. “Although
we regret partner departures, we, too, need to change to remain
competitive. Patton Boggs has a sound underlying practice and a
strong brand. We will continue to strengthen our firm through
strategic hirings and acquisitions where they make sense.”  In March, Washington-based Patton Boggs fired 22
associates. Gross revenue fell 6.5 percent from the $339.7
million posted in 2011, according to a survey by the American
Lawyer magazine on the wealthiest U.S. law firms.  Patton Boggs, with 550 lawyers, has 10 offices in the U.S.
and the Middle East, with more than 85 lawyers in its Dallas
office.  Holland & Knight has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S. offices as
well as Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Moves  Michele Alexander Joins Lowenstein Sandler’s Tax Group  Lowenstein Sandler LLP announced that Michele J. Alexander
has joined the firm as a partner in its business tax counseling
and structuring practice. She was previously with Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz.   Alexander will focus on complex corporate and business tax
issues, particularly involving mergers and acquisitions and the
structure of transactions involving private equity and hedge
funds, the firm said.  “Lowenstein Sandler is the ideal firm for an
entrepreneurial lawyer like Michele to build her sophisticated
tax practice and support our active M&A practice,” Marita Makinen, partner and head of Lowenstein Sandler’s mergers and
acquisitions group said in a statement.  She has represented PVH Corp. in its $2.2 billion
acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger and Ticketmaster Entertainment,
Inc. in its merger with Live Nation, Inc.  Lowenstein Sandler has almost 300 lawyers in offices in New
York, New Jersey and  California .  News  Snowden Left Hong Kong Because of Uncertainties, Albert Ho Says  Edward Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who
disclosed U.S. government surveillance activities, decided to
leave Hong Kong because of uncertainties about the conditions of
his stay, Albert Ho, a lawyer and legislator who acted on
Snowden’s behalf in Hong Kong, told reporters in the city.  Snowden was concerned that he might be put under police
custody or surveillance, and may not be able to “do the work
that he wanted to do” if he stayed in Hong Kong, Ho said.  The U.S. criticized China and  Russia  for letting former
intelligence contractor Edward Snowden transit through Moscow as
 Ecuador  considered his bid for asylum.  “Appropriate legal channels” are being pursued to bring
Snowden back to the U.S., President Obama told reporters at the
White House yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 