-- Weiner Leads New York Mayoral Race in First, Poll Shows
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-26T00:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/weiner-leads-new-york-mayoral-race-in-first-poll-shows.html
Former U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner leads seven Democrats seeking to be  New York ’s next
mayor, topping City Council Speaker Christine Quinn for the
first time, a voter survey shows.  Weiner led with 25 percent of registered Democrats compared
with 20 percent for Quinn, according to the NBC 4 New York/Wall
Street Journal poll yesterday. The survey of 689 Democrats,
which had a margin for error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage
points, was conducted last week by the Marist Institute for
 Public Opinion  in Poughkeepsie, New York.  It’s the worst showing for Quinn, who’s been considered the
frontrunner for months, since polling for the race began. In a
May Marist survey, Quinn led Democrats at 24 percent to Weiner’s
19 percent.  Lee Miringoff , director of the institute, said poll
results would be released to the public today.  Following Weiner and Quinn among Democrats were former
Comptroller Bill Thompson, 13 percent; Public Advocate Bill de
Blasio, 10 percent, and city Comptroller  John Liu , 8 percent,
according to the Journal. The Rev. Erick Salgado got 2 percent
and former Councilman Sal Albanese received 1 percent, while 18
percent were undecided.  Weiner, 48, resigned two years ago, after 12 years in the
House of Representatives, after posting lewd photographs of
himself online, then falsely claiming he was victimized by
hackers. He has mounted his campaign without support from the
traditional political building blocks such as Democratic Party
organizations, labor unions or elected officials.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city by about 6-to-1
among registered voters. If no candidate gets 40 percent in a
Sept. 10 primary, the top two finishers in each party will
compete in an Oct. 1 runoff.  Republican Leader  On the Republican side, Joe Lhota, the former head of the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , led with 28 percent, the
Journal said.  John Catsimatidis , a self-made billionaire,
trailed with 21 percent. Behind them was George McDonald, who
heads a nonprofit fund for the homeless, with 10 percent. The
poll of 123 Republicans had a margin of error of 8.8 percentage
points, according to the newspaper.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from
seeking a fourth term in  City Hall .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  