-- Weiner Says Shake-Up Is What New York City Voters Crave
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-06-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/weiner-the-disrupter-says-shake-up-is-what-nyc-s-voters-crave.html
A day after Anthony Weiner posted on
his website that he would run for  New York  mayor, photographers
and reporters clustered around him as he entered a Bronx
synagogue for his first candidate forum.  The commotion caused former city Comptroller  William Thompson  to interrupt his prepared remarks. Smiling, Thompson
stated the obvious: “They’re not here for me.” The audience
erupted in laughter.  Weiner, 48, who resigned from the  U.S. Congress  in
disgrace, has enjoyed that type of attention ever since the May
23 synagogue event. When he took his son for a stroll in
 Brooklyn  on Father’s Day or pledged to subsist on a $31-a-week
food-stamp diet, it didn’t matter that other candidates were
doing the same. The headlines focused on Weiner.  His entry has also made it almost certain that none of the
seven Democratic candidates will win 40 percent of the primary
vote, forcing a runoff between the top two finishers.  “Weiner is sucking all the air out from the campaign,”
said Joseph Mercurio, a New York-based political consultant not
involved in the race. “He’s a good campaigner, he’s got money,
he’s running well and he’s got the potential for rising up.”  Weiner has been running second in polls behind city
council Speaker Christine Quinn just two years after posting
lewd online photographs of himself, then falsely claiming that
hackers victimized him. He calls the hiatus from public life “a
nice regenerative break.”  The ‘Disrupter’  In an interview at a cupcake shop below his Park Avenue
South apartment, Weiner said he’s drawing attention because he
offers ideas that speak to the middle class and those who aspire
to get there -- not because of the sex scandal that ended his
12-year tenure in the  House of Representatives .  “I am to a large degree a disrupter in this campaign and
I’m being honored for that by the voters,” said Weiner, who was
wearing a fraying green T-shirt, jeans and sneakers. “They
wanted to see something shaken up.”  Weiner’s informal campaign style differs from those of his
opponents. At a May 28 debate, he set himself apart by standing
up to answer questions while the other candidates remained
seated. He appeared with his shirt-sleeves rolled up; the other
men kept on their suit jackets.  ‘Weiner Show’  When the subject turns to matters of style and campaign
strategy instead of his ideas, Weiner expresses contempt.  “It’s worse than it’s ever been; it’s too much about the
atmosphere: ‘He wears a shirt wrinkled,’” Weiner said. “I did
an event on hunger and the slug on the story said, ‘The Weiner
Show.’ These are important things that citizens care about, and
I just think you dishonor it.”  In a 21-page policy portfolio, “ Keys to the City ,” the
former lawmaker proposes 64 ideas, including some that echo
those of other candidates. He proposes a “Kindle in every
backpack” to replace heavy textbooks with the lightweight
gadgets sold by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  He wants schools used for after-class community programs, and to expand ferry service in the
five boroughs. His proposal for 2,000 wheel-chair accessible
taxis has already been undertaken by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  “I have this old-fashioned notion that citizens, when
motivated by a candidate who speaks to their aspirations, go to
the polls and vote for them,” he said. “Call me crazy.”  Democratic ‘Heresy’  One Weiner idea, which he describes as “heresy” for a
Democrat, would force city workers and retirees to pay 10
percent of their health-care premiums, or about $1,200 a year.
Smokers would pay 25 percent.  Even though workers now get their medical insurance for
free, Weiner says unions would go along with his plan for the
good of the city. Harry Nespoli, chairman of the Municipal Labor
Committee, which negotiates contracts with the city, dismissed
the proposal, saying workers couldn’t afford it.  Weiner presents the idea as though he’s the first to
propose it. In fact, the mayor has tried to get workers to pay a
share of their premiums since 2009. The administration predicts
the program’s cost will rise 37 percent to $8.3 billion by 2018.
The  Citizens Budget Commission , a business-sponsored fiscal
watchdog group, has pushed the idea since 2005.  “It’s an administration that missed opportunities and
didn’t take big chances,” Weiner said. “You can honor him
about him being concerned about us drinking soda. The question
is, Did he tackle the big problems?”  He also said the mayor, the billionaire founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, didn’t
warn  New Yorkers  before the financial crisis that the economy
was at risk.  ‘Hey, Buddy’  “He’s the finance guru and he’s running the city -- hey
buddy, say something,” Weiner said. “Say to your constituents,
‘This is a problem, here’s a warning.’”  When asked to respond to Weiner,  Marc LaVorgna , the mayor’s
press secretary, sent a dozen statements Bloomberg made in 2007
and 2008 warning that the economy faced increasing risk. He
declined further comment.  Weiner also proposes to create a single-payer, Medicare-like plan for all residents, not just public employees. It would
drive down costs for all, he says.  Weiner’s self-described disruptive candidacy raises
questions among some politicians, consultants and political
scientists who ask whether he has the deal-making skills to
translate his ideas into reality.  “Elected officials seriously dislike him; they’re shunning
him,” said George Arzt, a political consultant who served as
press secretary to the late Mayor Edward Koch. “People trusted
Koch; people are not sure about Anthony.”  Schumer Shuns  On Father’s Day while Weiner was with his son, Jordan, in
Brooklyn’s Park Slope neighborhood, the candidate’s former
mentor, U.S. Senator Charles Schumer, was just blocks away at a
street fair. Schumer told reporters he had no plans to stop by
and say hello.  Weiner faces six opponents for the party’s nomination in a
Sept. 10 primary. If no candidate gets 40 percent, the top two
finishers will compete in an Oct. 1 runoff -- something that’s
happened just three times since the law went into effect in the
early 1970s. Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city by
about 6 to 1.  In a May 28 voter survey, Weiner had 19 percent support
among Democrats, second to Quinn’s 24 percent, according to the
Marist Institute for  Public Opinion  in Poughkeepsie, New York.
Public Advocate Bill de Blasio had 12 percent, and Thompson was
backed by 11 percent, with 23 percent undecided.  The poll had a margin of error of 4.4 percentage points, a
fact not unnoticed by Weiner.  “The most recent public poll had me statistically tied for
first,” he said.  Extra Innings  A first-place finish in the primary doesn’t ensure the
nomination. In 2001, former Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer beat former Public Advocate Mark Green in the primary,
only to lose to Green in the runoff.  “A runoff is like extra innings,” said  William Cunningham , a political adviser to former Governors Hugh Carey
and  Mario Cuomo  and Bloomberg. “It can be very volatile,
unpredictable.”  Weiner still holds  $4.3 million  from an aborted mayoral run
in 2009 and is close to obtaining about $1.5 million in city
matching funds.  He also ran for mayor in 2005. When asked whether he’s
experienced anything unexpected during this campaign, he
expressed astonishment at how right he was in assessing the
city’s problems back then.  “What’s surprising is how little has actually changed,”
he said. “The availability of housing, the quality of our
public schools -- a lot of these things have actually gotten
worse.”  Should Weiner win, it will be without support from the
traditional political building blocks: Democratic Party
organizations, labor unions or elected officials.  He does have the endorsement of his wife, Huma Abedin, who
was pregnant with their son during the scandal, when she served
as a top aide to former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  “She’s a remarkable political asset,” Weiner said. “If I
was running against her in a primary, I’d lose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  