-- Why Are So Many College Graduates Driving Taxis?
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-06-25T22:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/why-are-so-many-college-graduates-driving-taxis-.html
It’s a parent’s nightmare: shelling
out big money for college, then seeing the graduate unable to
land a job that requires high-level skills. This situation may
be growing more common, unfortunately, because the demand for
cognitive skills associated with higher education, after rising
sharply until 2000, has since been in decline.  So concludes  new research  by economists Paul Beaudry and
David Green of the University of British Columbia and Benjamin
Sand of York University in Toronto. This reversal in demand has
caused high-skilled workers to accept lower-level jobs, pushing
lower-skilled people even further down the occupational ladder
or out of work altogether. If the researchers are right (which
is not yet clear), the consequences are huge and troubling --
and not just for college grads and their parents.  Let’s start with some basic facts. There have always been
some graduates who wind up in jobs that don’t require a college
degree. But the share seems to be growing. In 1970, only 1 in
100 taxi drivers and chauffeurs in the U.S. had a college
degree, according to an  analysis  of labor statistics by Ohio
University’s Richard Vedder, Christopher Denhart and Jonathan
Robe. Today, 15 of 100 do.  It’s hard to believe this is because the skill required to
drive a taxi has risen substantially since 1970. If anything,
GPS technology may have had the opposite effect. (Acquiring “the
knowledge” of London streets, as taxi drivers there are required
to do, is cognitively challenging, but it may no longer be
necessary.)  Educated Firefighters  Similarly, in 1970, only about 2 percent of firefighters
had a college degree, compared with more than 15 percent now,
Vedder and his colleagues found. And, according to  research  by
economists Paul Harrington and Andrew Sum of Northeastern
University, about 1 in 4 bartenders has some sort of degree.  Beaudry and his colleagues say that such change has been
driven by a decline in the demand for highly skilled work -- the
opposite of the conventional wisdom about such demand. The
employment rate in “cognitive” occupations -- managerial,
professional and technical jobs -- increased markedly from 1980
to 2000, their research found, but it has since stagnated, even
as the supply of skilled workers has continued to grow.  What has changed? One possibility, as I’ve  previously 
written, is that the effects of a globalizing workforce are
creeping up the income scale. Many jobs that once required
cognitive skill can be automated. Anything that can be digitized
can be done either by computer or by workers abroad. While the
“winner take all” phenomenon may still mean extremely high
returns for workers at the very top, that may be relevant for a
shrinking share of college graduates.  Whatever the explanation, the Beaudry team argues that an
excess of skilled workers has led them into the “routine” job
market -- such as sales and clerical jobs -- reducing wages
there and pushing less skilled workers into “manual” jobs in
construction, farming and so on.  What’s puzzling here is that it seems inconsistent with
evidence that the wage premium enjoyed by college graduates has
persisted. For example, a  recent paper  by Philip Oreopoulos and
Uros Petronijevic of the University of Toronto (yes, Canadian
economists seem to dominate this aspect of the U.S. labor
market) found that the earnings premium for college graduates
has risen substantially over the past several decades and that
investment in college “appears to pay off for both the average
and marginal student.”  The still-strong earnings premium strongly suggests that
the demand for skill has not collapsed. After all, if cognitive
skills became less valuable in the labor market, wouldn’t one
expect wages to fall more for college graduates than for others?  Falling Wages  Not necessarily, Beaudry and his colleagues argue. They
find that while wages for jobs requiring cognitive skills have
declined, the shift of high-skilled workers into those jobs has
depressed wages for manual workers even more.  That’s a provocative argument. Still, it may be that the
Beaudry team’s results are sensitive to the way they define
“cognitive” jobs and “manual” ones. Also, it’s not entirely
clear how much the recent recession has influenced their
results.  In any case, the findings will do little to calm the nerves
of graduates who are anxious to find jobs.  The cold comfort I can offer is this: Going to college may
still be worthwhile -- if not to be sure of qualifying for
skilled jobs, then at least to avoid the even worse prospects of
those who don’t get a degree.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  