-- Why Did Chinese ATMs Stop Working?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-25T22:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/why-did-chinese-atms-stop-working-.html
On Sunday morning, while  China  was
taking a weekend breather from the  financial fireworks  caused by
the government’s weeklong self-inflicted  cash and credit crunch ,
customers of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the
 world’s largest bank , woke to an unpleasant surprise: Their
deposits  were not available  for withdrawal by ATM or teller
(online or in-person).  The social-media reaction was swift,  filled with
exclamation points  and  lacking in confidence  for ICBC, or the
Chinese banking system as a whole. “I was just at ICBC to make a
withdrawal and was told the system was undergoing an upgrade and
withdrawals are temporarily unavailable,”  tweeted  a user in
Shenyang on Sina Weibo, China’s leading social-media platform.
“I called the service hot line, finally someone answered and
said they don’t know the answer!!!!!!! ICBC: When can we
withdraw money? Who can give a clear answer??????????????”  Sunday’s outage appears to have started at about 10:30
a.m., and by 11 a.m. there were photos on Sina Weibo of stymied
bank customers left mulling in shut-down bank lobbies. “ICBC is
closed, the ATM isn’t working,”  tweeted  a Sina Weibo user in
Xi’an in the midst of the outage. “ICBC says there’s a system
problem, and my father says the financial crisis has arrived.”  Panicked tweets would have been understandable even without
the cash crunch. The Chinese have  the world’s highest  personal
savings rate, and for lack of  better investment options , much of
those savings flow into state-owned  bank accounts and investment
products .  But the week had also been filled with news that China’s
banks were scrambling to borrow from one another because the
central bank was no longer willing to issue easy credit. Days
earlier “ Shibor ” -- the English acronym for the Shanghai
Interbank Offer Rate, the  interest rate  charged by banks in
loans to each other -- trended on Sina Weibo’s (normally
celebrity-news laden) hot topic list, its surge in popularity
running parallel with the government’s roll-up of credit to the
banks. By lunchtime Sunday, ICBC was in the top 10 on the
trending topic list and remained in the top 20 until midday
Monday.  The general chain of thought that  emerged online  seemed
logical: If the central bank wouldn’t lend money to the banks,
and the banks lacked money to lend to one another, then perhaps
there wasn’t any money around that the banks could give to those
trying to withdraw funds.  The explanation that ICBC’s customer-service agents gave
was the same one the bank  tweeted  to its Sina Weibo account and
later  gave the news media : The outage had been caused by a
computer upgrade issue, not a cash shortage. The answer is
credible insofar as there’s no evidence to the contrary.  Still, on China’s microblogs and in Communist Party-owned
media, there were notes of skepticism. These grew more intense
Monday, when news broke that the state-owned  Bank of China ,
China’s third-largest bank,  suffered an outage that prevented
some money transfers . The 21st Century Business Herald newspaper
 ran an article  speculating on connections between the ICBC and
Bank of China outages. More than a few microbloggers panicked.
Huang Sheng, a professional investor and author with more than
700,000 followers on Sina Weibo, stepped into microblogged
 conspiracy-mongering : “This is absolutely not caused by system
upgrades, because these large banks wouldn’t be updating their
systems at the same time.”  One of the most striking characteristics of the Chinese
response to the ICBC outage (the Bank of China outage received
far less attention) is the sense that even if the bank is
solvent, it must be either incompetent or hiding something. Hua
Chige,  writing for the Beijing Times , didn’t question the ICBC’s
soundness but still didn’t look at its management favorably:
“There’s a company that can’t provide service to customers
because of system problems. That’s normal and doesn’t matter.
But what if that company is a Fortune 500 company? That’s not
normal.” Hua may overestimate the value and credibility of
Fortune 500 companies, but his contempt for the bank’s
competence is very much of the Chinese mainstream.  Indeed,  among the most popular online memes  to emerge from
the credit crunch is a group of disparaging Chinese phrases
attached to the English-language acronyms for China’s biggest
state-owned banks. Although they’d circulated before the current
crunch, recent events have given them a level of popularity they
hadn’t previously enjoyed. For example, ICBC has earned the
Chinese phrase “ai cun bu cun,” which translates, roughly, as
the indifferent “It’s up to you whether or not to deposit
money,” and Bank of China earns the concise “bu cun,” which
translates into “Don’t deposit money.” There are others, some of
which are obscene, and none of which is likely to be embraced by
a bank marketing department.  The lack of credibility that China’s state-owned banks have
with the Chinese public has everything to do with their
interconnectedness with the Communist Party and what is often
perceived to be their self-serving agenda and self-acknowledged
corruption. That’s a point that was made, in a brief Monday
dialogue on Sina Weibo, started by Wang Mudi, a well-known
financial news talking head and producer. “The banks made so
much money and yet they have a ‘cash shortage,’” he  tweeted .
“What’s the most likely reason?”  Kuo Cheng, a popular writer, blogger and microblogger (with
1.2 million followers), offered  five possible locations  for the
missing money: “A. Under a corrupt officials’ bed. B. In a
mistress’ wallet. C. In a foreign bank account. D. In a bottle
of wine in the middle of a state-owned company’s table. E. In
the pockets of the working people.”  It’s a potent verdict that should remind China’s banking
regulators that their biggest problem isn’t bringing law and
order to the financial industry, but rather who owns that
industry in the first place.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 