-- Won Rebounds From One-Year Low on Intervention Talk; Bonds Gain
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-25T08:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/won-snaps-three-day-drop-on-intervention-speculation-bonds-gain.html
The won rebounded from a one-year
low on speculation  South Korea  intervened to stem a slide in the
currency, which weakened in six of the last seven weeks.
 Government bonds  rose, pushing the three-year yield down by the
most since March.  President Park Geun Hye asked her ministers today to
monitor financial markets while the Korea Exchange said it will
work with government agencies to help stabilize markets. South
Korea’s Kospi Index of stocks has plunged 5.7 percent and the
won slumped 2.5 percent since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last week that the monetary authority may start
tapering its bond purchases this year. Foreign funds sold more
South Korean shares than they bought for a 13th day while stocks
fell in  China , South Korea’s largest export market.  “The won recovered on speculation the authorities may have
intervened in the market today as it weakened past 1,160,” said
Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul.
“Chinese stocks tumbled and Korean stocks followed on concerns
China’s growth is slowing, which will have a spillover effect on
Asian economies.”  The won advanced 0.1 percent to 1,159.65 per dollar in
Seoul, snapping a three-day decline, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 1,162.90, the weakest level since June
15, 2012. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 65
basis points, or 0.65 percentage point, to 12.62 percent.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due June
2016 fell 10 basis points to 3.01 percent, prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. show. That’s the biggest decline for a three-year
benchmark since March.  Overseas Investors  Overseas investors sold $4.74 billion more of South Korean
shares than they bought this month through yesterday, exchange
data show.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid after the cost of locking
in China’s interest rates fell for a third day as the central
bank refrained from selling bills amid the worst cash crunch in
at least a decade. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., China International
Capital Corp. and DBS Bank Ltd. cut their 2013 growth forecasts
for  China’s economy  in the past week.  South Korea’s presidential and prime ministerial websites
shut down amid reports that  North Korea  hacked the sites on the
63rd anniversary of the outbreak of the  Korean War , Yonhap News
reported, without citing a source. South Korean presidential
spokeswoman Lee Mi Yon declined to comment on whether the site
was hacked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  