-- WTI Oil Rises a Second Day on Supply Outlook
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-25T12:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/wti-drops-after-biggest-gain-in-three-weeks-supply-seen-falling.html
West Texas Intermediate advanced for
a second day amid forecasts that crude stockpiles dwindled last
week in the U.S., the world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures rose as much as 1 percent in  New York . U.S.
inventories probably shrank by  2 million barrels  last week as
refineries increased operations, a Bloomberg News survey showed
before a government report tomorrow. World oil consumption will
rise in the second half of this year as economic growth
continues to recover, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said today.  WTI “continues to benefit from a more positive outlook for
the  U.S. economy  and, most importantly, decent summer refinery
runs,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London who predicts the U.S. benchmark may struggle to exceed
$96 a barrel this month because of limited investor demand for
anything but the lowest-risk assets.  WTI for August delivery was at $95.65 a barrel, up 47
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:09 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was
74 percent higher than the 100-day average. The contract climbed
$1.49, or 1.6 percent, to $95.18 yesterday, the biggest daily
gain in percentage terms since June 3. Prices have slipped 1.5
percent this quarter, curbing their gains in 2013 to 4.2
percent.  Brent for August settlement was at $101.46 a barrel, up 30
cents on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, leaving
the European benchmark grade at a premium of $5.81 to WTI. The
spread was $5.98 yesterday, the narrowest since January 2011,
based on closing prices. Brent has lost 8.7 percent in the
second quarter, and about the same amount this year.  Financial Stimulus  North Sea Brent has slumped about 4 percent in the past
week amid speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve may curtail
stimulus measures and concern that a cash crunch in  China  will
hinder economic growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
June 19 that the U.S. central bank may scale back its bond-buying program this year. Money-market rates in China, the
world’s largest energy user, climbed to a record last week.  Crude prices are “acceptable” for oil producers and
consumers, requiring no emergency discussions by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries before the group’s
next scheduled meeting in December, said Suhail Mohammed Al Mazrouei, oil minister of the United Arab Emirates, according to
state news agency WAM.  Goldman Outlook  U.S. gasoline inventories probably increased by  1 million
barrels  in the week ended June 21, according to the median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed before the scheduled release
of the Energy Information Administration report tomorrow at
10:30 a.m. Washington time. Distillate-fuel supplies, including
heating oil and diesel, are forecast to have risen by 1 million
barrels.  Refineries probably operated at 89.6 percent of capacity
last week, up  0.3 percentage points  from the prior period, the
survey showed. That would be the highest rate since December.
Plants typically boost output this time of year to meet U.S.
summer demand for motor fuel.  The government report will follow separate inventory data
from the  American Petroleum Institute  to be released later
today. The industry group collects the information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA for its weekly survey.  Nigerian Cargoes  “Global demand is picking up, both seasonally as we come
out of the weakest period in the second quarter and on a year-over-year basis as global growth continues to recover, despite
the recent China downgrade,” Stefan Wieler, a Goldman Sachs
commodity analyst in New York, said in an e-mailed report. “We
expect fundamentals to improve further going into the second
half of 2013.”  The loss of “substantial volumes” of crude production
from  Libya ,  Iraq ,  Syria ,  Nigeria ,  Sudan  and  South Sudan  also
“creates growing upside risk,” Wieler said.  In Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, three cargoes of
Usan crude originally scheduled for loading in July have been
deferred until August, according to two people with knowledge of
the loading program. Each cargo holds 1 million barrels. Exports
of the grade have been disrupted because of a technical fault.  WTI dropped earlier after  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S., said it restarted a
segment of a pipeline system.  Enbridge restored operations on the southern segment of the
Athabasca pipeline network and will restart other lines over the
next “several days,” it said yesterday. The Calgary-based
company shut the Athabasca and Waupisoo systems, which have a
total capacity to move as much as 1.17 million barrels a day,
after finding a 750-barrel spill on June 22 from Line 37, a link
serving Nexen Inc.’s Long Lake oil-sands complex.  Canada  supplied more than one quarter of U.S. crude imports
last year, according to data from the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  