-- Yahoo CEO Mayer Adding Mobile Users After App Overhauls
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-06-25T23:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/yahoo-ceo-mayer-adding-mobile-users-after-app-overhauls.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  gained the most in eight
months as Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  used her first
annual meeting with shareholders to outline progress in
attracting users of mobile devices.  The shares rose 3.7 percent to $24.96 at the close in  New
York , the largest one-day increase since October 23. The shares
have advanced 25 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Mayer, the third CEO to preside over the annual meeting in
as many years, cited user growth, new employee perks and deals
such as last month’s $1.1 billion purchase of blogging platform
Tumblr Inc. as evidence that her turnaround is taking root.
Yahoo shares have climbed more than 50 percent since her hiring
in July -- outperforming display-advertising rival Facebook Inc.
over the same period, she said during the meeting.  The number of daily active users for the Flickr photo app
has jumped 50 percent since it was redesigned in May, while use
of mobile e-mail has climbed 70 percent since an overhaul in
April, she said.  “All of our growth is going to start with our users,”
Mayer said today at the company’s annual meeting in  Santa Clara ,
 California .  Yahoo shareholders questioned Mayer on competition, her
decision earlier this year to ban working from home and whether
she plans to root for the  Green Bay Packers  or the  San Francisco
49ers  during the football season opener this fall.  “The great dilemmas of our time,” Mayer, a Wisconsin
native, told the audience. “Go Packers.”  Wal-Mart Workers  Mayer, who sits on the board of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., was
also confronted by three current or former employees of the
world’s largest retailer. These attendees asked for her support
on worker-rights issues.  “There’s a time and place for all business,” Mayer said.
“This morning’s business is about Yahoo, which is separate from
Wal-Mart.”  The CEO later agreed to arrange a meeting with members of
OUR Walmart, a non-profit organization supporting employees of
the big box retailer, Nick Sifuentes, a spokesman for the group
said in an e-mail.  Mayer took the reins last year from  Ross Levinsohn , who
presided over the previous shareholder meeting in his role as
interim CEO.  Carol Bartz , who held the top spot at Yahoo until
her firing in 2011, led the annual meeting that year.  Mayer’s push to revamp products such as Yahoo’s home page
and e-mail had done little to reverse a decline in display-ad
sales, an area where Google and Facebook are gaining ground.  Facebook, Google  Yahoo’s share of global revenue from online ads may slip to
3.1 percent this year from 3.4 percent in 2012, according to
researcher  EMarketer Inc.  Google’s portion is estimated to rise
to 33 percent from 31 percent, while Facebook may increase its
share to 5 percent from 4.1 percent.  Adding Tumblr will expand Yahoo’s audience by 50 percent to
more than 1 billion monthly visitors, increasing traffic by
about 20 percent, Yahoo said last month.  Mayer has purchased at least 11 companies during her tenure
as CEO, from mobile-application makers Stamped Inc. and Jybe
Inc. to Summly, the news-reading app created by teenager Nick D’Aloisio. Before Tumblr, most of her deals have been small and
focused on gaining talent, an approach she advocated during her
first conference call with analysts last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  