-- Yen Strengthens for Fourth Day Against Euro Amid China Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-06-26T08:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-25/yen-drops-as-u-s-data-china-central-bank-damp-haven-demand.html
The yen strengthened for a fourth
day against the euro as Chinese equities declined for a sixth
day even as the central bank gave the first official signs of
relief for a cash squeeze in the economy.  Japan’s currency rose versus most of its 16 major
counterparts as the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid as much as 1.9
percent. The euro fell to a three-week low against the dollar
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday the region still requires an accommodative monetary
policy. Australia’s dollar rose as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
called a ballot for the leadership of the governing  Labor party .  “The yen is still working as a safe haven,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “The dollar is recovering against nearly everything
and for the yen this has stopped. It’s certainly a  China  story.
The impression I get is that many people in Europe don’t know
what’s going on, and this is creating a risk-off mood.”  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 127.50 per euro at 8:56 a.m. in
London, extending its four-day advance to 0.9 percent.  Japan ’s
currency gained 0.3 percent to 97.53 per dollar. The dollar was
little changed at $1.3075 per euro after appreciating to
$1.3055, the strongest level since June 5.  The yen has tumbled 7.1 percent this year, the biggest
decline among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 4.8
percent and the dollar rose 5.8 percent.  Liquidity Concern  China’s central bank has provided liquidity to some
financial institutions to stabilize money-market rates and will
use short-term liquidity operations and standing lending-facility tools to ensure steady markets, according to a
statement posted on its website. It also called on commercial
banks to improve their liquidity management.  The People’s Bank of China said yesterday it will use tools
to safeguard stability in money markets and that tight liquidity
is set to ease. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.4 percent.  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial and
economic turmoil because Japan isn’t reliant on foreign capital
to fund its deficits.  The Australian dollar gained for a fourth day versus the
U.S. currency as Gillard called on Labor lawmakers to endorse
her leadership and said the loser of the ballot should quit
parliament at the Sept. 14 election to allow the winner to lead
a united party.  She called the vote amid reports that supporters of her
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  had circulated a petition calling for a
meeting of the Labor caucus to oust her.  The Aussie rose 0.4 percent to 92.96 U.S. cents after
sliding to 91.48 on June 24, the weakest since September 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  