-- ‘Downton’ Channels MacLaine; Josh Gad Flops on ‘1600’: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/-downton-channels-maclaine-josh-gad-flops-on-1600-tv.html
Shirley MacLaine reinvigorates
“ Downton Abbey ” with a brash performance and some grand Norma
Desmond-in-training finery.  The seven-episode third season of the all-the-rage soap
opera begins Sunday on PBS. A surprise-packed 90-minute finale
airs February 17.  “When I’m with her,” sniffs  Maggie Smith ’s inimitable
Dowager Countess about MacLaine’s very American Martha Levinson,
“I’m reminded of the virtues of the English.”  Martha, the mother of Elizabeth McGovern’s Grantham
matriarch Cora, sweeps into town for the long-in-coming wedding
of granddaughter Lady Mary (Michelle Dockery) and Downton heir
Matthew Crawley (Dan Stevens).  “Mary!” coos the flamboyant, defiantly modern Martha.
“Tell me all of your wedding plans! And I’ll see what I can do
to improve them.”  MacLaine’s casting is a transparent attempt by
writer/creator Julian Fellowes to double the series’ she-devil
population, and, more importantly, provide Smith with a foil.  It’s 1920, the Great War is over and a very bad investment
has left the Crawleys broke and Downton in jeopardy.  Martha’s wealth may be nouveau, but riches are riches.  Heavy Message  As fun as it is watching Smith and MacLaine go wit for wit,
the Martha character is more than a bit heavy on the American
Century message-toting.  “History and tradition took  Europe  into a world war,” she
admonishes Smith’s ever-proper Lady Violet. “Maybe you should
think about letting go of its hand.”  Despite the nods to New World modernism, though, “Downton
Abbey” remains nostalgic for romanticized British classism.  Even Branson (Allen Leech), the radical Irish Republican
chauffeur newly married into the Crawley family, overcomes his
resistance to posh morning suits and Old World sentimentality.  Speaking of supercouple Mary and Matthew, Branson advises
the cold-footed Matthew to steady on.  “The old me would have liked to put a bomb under the lot
of you,” he says earnestly, “but you’re meant to be
together.”  The Rebellion can wait.  “Downton Abbey” airs on “Masterpiece Classic” on
Sunday, Jan. 6 on PBS at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***1/2  ‘1600 Penn’  Stuck somewhere between “ Modern Family ” and “ Animal
House ,” NBC’s “ 1600 Penn ” is a presidential mess.  A hodgepodge, single-camera sitcom about an impossibly
eccentric First Family, “1600 Penn” stars Bill Pullman as
President Dale Gilchrist and Jenna Elfman as his smarter-than-
she-looks trophy wife Emily.  Though they have four children (including a pregnant unwed
daughter, a 12-year-old lesbian and a precocious preadolescent
nerd), the family wild card comes in the ample form of Skip, the
oafish (but of course loveable) First Son played by Josh Gad
(Broadway’s “Book of Mormon”).  Gad, a producer and co-creator of the series and at 31 a
half-decade too old for this role, seems to be channeling any
number of oversize “ Saturday Night Live ” comedians, from John Belushi to Chris Farley.  Worse, he looks to have stumbled onto “1600 Penn” from an
entirely different (though no funnier) show.  His Skip offends (but inevitably wins over) visiting
dignitaries and scandal-mongering press by mimicking foreign
accents and floating, fully clothed, in the White House swimming
pool he calls the Skiplantic Ocean.  “1600 Penn” gives the impression of having been designed
as a vehicle for the zany Gad, then softened with “Modern
Family” sentimentality.  “Sometimes,” says Pullman’s president after his
dimwitted, goodhearted son has blundered onto a solution to
something or other, “Skip knows exactly what to do.”
Sometimes, clearly not.  “1600 Penn” airs Thursday, Jan. 10 on NBC at 9:30 p.m.
New York time. Rating: *1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 