-- Habitat Falls in Chile After Larrain Vial Cuts to Sell
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-04T16:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/habitat-falls-in-chile-after-larrain-vial-cuts-to-sell.html
AFP Habitat SA (HABITAT) , the second-largest
pension-fund manager in  Chile  by assets, headed to its lowest
closing price in almost a month after the country’s biggest
broker said the stock was expensive and told clients to sell.  Habitat retreated 2 percent to 885 pesos at 1:40 p.m. in
Santiago, after falling 1.1 percent yesterday, when the broker
Larrain Vial SA issued its report. The stock is down 4.3 percent
in January after surging 47 percent in 2012.  Larrain Vial, which previously rated the shares a buy, said
the loss of customers in Chile to competitors including AFP
Modelo may offset any growth that comes from an expansion into
Peru. The shares should fall to about 800 pesos, Larrain said.
That’s almost 10 percent lower than today.  “Though we’ve incorporated higher valuation multiples and
we see Habitat’s entry to Peru will add value, these positive
factors don’t compensate for the current price,” analysts
Javier Pizarro and Florencia Stefani said in the note.  Habitat shares gained 27 percent in the last two months of
2012 as investors revalued the company based on the terms of  Des
Moines , Iowa-based  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) ’s pending
acquisition of rival  AFP Cuprum (CUPRUM)  SA, which is based in Santiago.  In December, Habitat received a license to operate in Peru
and was awarded in Peru a license to sign up new employees
entering the country’s private pension system for the next two
years after offering to charge a lower commission than rivals.  Habitat had 19.7 trillion pesos ($41.7 billion) in assets
under management as of Nov. 30, according to data from the
country’s pensions regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  