-- Lacker Says Fed Policies Will Test Limits of Credibility
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-01-04T21:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/lacker-says-fed-policies-will-test-the-limits-of-credibility.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said further monetary stimulus is
unlikely to boost growth and will “test the limits” of the
U.S. central bank’s credibility.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month tied its
outlook for borrowing costs to the jobless rate and inflation
while boosting its monthly purchases of long-term assets to $85
billion a month. The central bank’s balance sheet will grow
further from its current size of $2.92 trillion.  “At some point, we will need to withdraw stimulus by
raising interest rates and reducing the size of our balance
sheet, and the larger our balance sheet, the more vulnerable we
will be to seemingly minor miscalibrations in policy,” Lacker
said in prepared remarks to the Maryland Bankers Association in
Baltimore.  Lacker told reporters after the speech that the Fed might
have to move before inflation pressures emerge. Among the
signals he will be watching for a need to exit are a “sustained
pickup in the growth rate” of the economy with non-farm
payrolls rising by more than 200,000 for several months in a row
and gross domestic product rising by more than 3 percent for
several quarters, he said.  The Richmond Fed president was a voting member of the
committee last year and dissented at every meeting. Lacker
dissented last month because Fed asset purchases were “unlikely
to add to economic growth without unacceptably increasing the
risk of future inflation,” minutes of the Dec. 11-12 meeting
said.  Test Limits  In his remarks today, Lacker said he thinks that “further
monetary stimulus is unlikely to materially increase the pace of
economic expansion and that these actions will test the limits
of our credibility.”  Lacker said he expects another year of moderate growth in
2013 with the economy still struggling under the restraints of
uncertain federal tax and revenue policies, modest growth in
housing markets, and tighter credit conditions.  “My sense is that there is substantial overhang of homes
that are a poor match for what consumers want and can afford
right now,” he said.  The FOMC on Dec. 12 decided to keep the main interest  rate 
near zero as long as the jobless  rate  remains above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation rises no more than a half
percentage point above the committee’s 2 percent goal one or two
years in the future.  Inhibit Effectiveness  Lacker also dissented against linking the policy rate to
unemployment and inflation thresholds because it could “inhibit
the effectiveness of the committee’s communications and increase
the potential for inflationary policy errors,” according to
minutes of the Dec. 11-12 meeting.  The  unemployment rate  stood at 7.8 percent in December
after employers added 155,000 workers to payrolls, following a
gain of 161,000 in November.  The minutes also said that “several” members of the FOMC
said it would “probably be appropriate to slow or stop
purchases well before the end of 2013.” Lacker pointed to the
FOMC statement as reference to what the committee ultimately
agreed on in comments to reporters after his speech.  He told reporters there will be a constant evaluation of
the asset purchase program and it could be “re-adjusted in
terms of scale you know or even sort of suspension if the
committee’s assessment of the relative costs and efficacy
shifts.”  Reduced Need  “There are a number of things that could happen that could
lead you to change your mind,” he said. That could range from
the reduced need to continue the purchases as growth picks up,
to changing perceptions about their efficacy, or the greater
complication a growing balance sheet presents for the exit
strategy. “Any of those things could shift the balance of
considerations about costs and benefits over time,” he said.  Lacker told the Maryland bankers that he sees an increased
risk that “inflation pressures emerge and are not thwarted in a
timely way.”  The Fed’s goal for inflation is a 2 percent annual rate of
increase in the personal consumption expenditures price index.
The price benchmark slowed to a 1.4 percent pace for the 12
months ending November from 1.7 percent the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  