-- American Eagle Pilot Arrested After Failing Alcohol Test
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/american-eagle-pilot-arrested-after-failing-alcohol-test.html
A pilot for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American
Eagle regional airline was arrested after failing an alcohol
breath test before a flight to New York’s LaGuardia airport from
 Minneapolis .  Passengers hadn’t yet boarded the jet for yesterday’s 6:10
a.m. departure when officers and a Transportation Security
Administration agent smelled alcohol when they walked past the
pilot, according to a police report and an airport spokesman.
Airport police administered the breath test.  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration  prohibits pilots
from flying  while under the influence of alcohol, specifically
when their blood alcohol content is 0.04 percent or higher, or
within eight hours of consuming any alcoholic drinks.  AMR’s alcohol policies are “more stringent than the
FAA’s,” Matt Miller, a spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based
AMR, said in an e-mail. “We are cooperating with authorities
and conducting a full internal investigation.”  The arrested pilot is being suspended from flying until the
inquiry is completed, Miller said. Flight 4590 carried 53
people.  Another pilot was brought in to make the trip, said Patrick Hogan, spokesman for the Metropolitan Airports Commission, which
oversees Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.  The pilot, Kolbjorn Jarle Kristiansen, 48, of Raleigh,
North Carolina, was arrested about 6 a.m. local time, according
to the police report. The pilot was taken to a hospital for
blood-alcohol screening after the breath test, Hogan said.  Late Departure  The plane, a  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ-700 regional jet, left
Minneapolis about 2 1/2 hours late and arrived at LaGuardia at
12:15 p.m. local time.  Air carriers conduct tests for alcohol and drug use in a
variety of circumstances, including pre-employment screening,
random checks and post-accident exams, according to Laura Brown,
an FAA spokeswoman. These tests also include checks for
“reasonable suspicion/cause,” she said in an e-mail.  Such screening among carriers found 183 pilot-alcohol
violations from 1995 through 2011, or an average of about 11 a
year, according to FAA data.  In 2010, Delta Air Lines Inc. scrubbed a flight to New
Jersey’s Newark airport after a tipster spurred police in
Amsterdam to pull the pilot off his jet on suspicion of being
drunk. The pilot’s blood-alcohol level exceeded the legal limit,
Dutch police said.  In 2009, American and United Airlines each had pilots
arrested in  London  before flights to the U.S. after failing
alcohol tests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  