-- Lampard to Leave Chelsea for Italy at Season End: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-04T05:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/lampard-to-leave-chelsea-for-italy-at-season-end-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Lampard Leaving  Frank Lampard  will leave Chelsea at the end of this season
with an Italian club his most likely destination, the  Daily Mail
reported , citing his agent Steve Kutner.  “At this moment, Lampard is exclusively thinking about the
present, in other words Chelsea,” the Mail cited Kutner as
saying. “As for the future, the only certainty is that he will
change team at the end of the season. Frank wants to play for a
great side, capable of challenging for important targets and
where he could win more trophies.”  Lescott Move  Aston Villa  is considering a move for Manchester City
defender  Joleon Lescott , who supported Villa as a child, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Everton and Sunderland are also interested in signing the
30-year-old England defender, who’s rated at 10 million pounds
($16 million) and would have to take a significant wage cut to
join Villa, the newspaper said.  QPR Offered Sneijder  Queens Park Rangers manager  Harry Redknapp  said he’s been
offered Inter Milan midfielder  Wesley Sneijder  to boost his
team’s fight against relegation, the  Sun reported .  “I was asked by one agent if I wanted to sign Sneijder,”
the Sun cited Redknapp as saying. “Of course I do. However,
he’s on about 200,000 pounds a week and now he wants to join
QPR? Let’s just say I think a deal is unlikely.”  Spurs Sign Fryers  Tottenham Hotspur completed a 3 million-pound deal to sign
former Manchester United defender Zeki Fryers from Standard
Liege, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  United was demanding 6 million pounds in compensation from
Spurs for Fryers, 20, in the offseason because he was under the
age of 23, though tribunal rules don’t apply in Belgium and the
player signed a two-year contract there, the newspaper added.  Suarez Switch  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is prepared to move  Luis Suarez , the club’s top scorer this season, to accommodate  Daniel Sturridge  in the new signing’s preferred role as a central
striker, the  Telegraph reported .  “I spoke with Luis at length on it a number of times,”
the newspaper cited Rodgers as saying. “Wherever he plays he
will make the same movements and he will find the space because
he is a world class player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  