-- Land & Houses Climbs to Eight-Year High on Credit Suisse Report
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-04T06:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/land-houses-climbs-to-eight-year-high-on-credit-suisse-report.html
Land & Houses Pcl (LH)  shares climbed to
an eight-year high in Bangkok after Credit Suisse Group AG
picked Thai residential property developers as its favorite
industry amid cheap valuations.  Land & Houses,  Thailand ’s largest home developer by market
value, jumped 6.5 percent to 10.60 baht as of the local trading
break, heading for the highest close since January 2005.  Pruksa
Real Estate Pcl (PS) , the second-biggest developer, gained 3.1
percent, poised for the highest close since October 2010.
 Property Perfect Pcl (PF)  advanced 5.5 percent. The benchmark  SET
Index (SET)  dropped 0.1 percent.  The property industry “still offers good value,” Credit
Suisse’s Daniel Fineman, whose team was ranked top for Thailand
research by Institutional Investor in 2012, wrote in a report
today. “We see scope for investors to rotate to property as a
cheap growth sector.”  Land & Houses’ shares traded at 19.7 times estimated
profit, while Pruksa was valued at 11, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A  gauge  of consumer-related companies traded at
27.6 times, while a measure of hotel and leisure companies was
at 28. The SET Index  traded  for 13 times profit.  Property Perfect’s revenue may grow 50 percent this year as
the company completes condominium projects, Chief Executive
Officer Chainid Ngowsirimanee said by phone today.  Adisorn Thananun-Narapool, a senior executive vice
president at Land & Houses, was not available for comment after
a call to his office. Prasert Taedullayasatit, Pruksa’s chief
operating officer, were also unavailable.  -- Editors: Darren Boey, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  