-- Asian Stocks Post Seventh Weekly Gain on U.S., China Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-04T21:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/asian-stocks-post-seventh-weekly-gain-on-u-s-china-data.html
Asian stocks rose, with the regional
benchmark index posting its seventh weekly advance, after the
 U.S. Congress  passed legislation on a budget deal and
manufacturing reports from  China  and the U.S. added to signs of
a global recovery.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., jumped 7.3 percent in Hong Kong.  Rio Tinto  Group,
the world’s second-largest mining company that gets about 31
percent of sales from China, gained 3 percent in Sydney as
Chinese manufacturing expanded for a third month. Fairfax Media
Ltd. surged 14 percent amid speculation billionaire  Gina
Rinehart  and investor John Singleton may seek control of the
newspaper publisher.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.8 percent to 131.89 in
its seventh weekly advance, the longest such winning streak
since March last year. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average jumped 2.8
percent yesterday in Japan’s first trading day of the year,
closing at the highest level since March 2011. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  rose 2 percent this week.  “The global economic outlook is improving,”  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which has almost $130 billion under management, said. “That
will underpin further gains in share markets along with very
easy monetary conditions. That probability of the fiscal cliff
and a U.S. recession has been taken out.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.1 percent this week.
South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 0.8 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index rose 1.4 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 2.9
percent.  China Recovery  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 2 percent. A gauge of
China’s manufacturing on Jan. 1 showed a third month of
expansion in December, adding evidence that the recovery in the
world’s second-biggest economy will extend into the new year.
The nation’s services industries expanded at the fastest pace in
four months, an index showed yesterday.  The regional benchmark  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  surged 14
percent in 2012 as central banks from the U.S., Europe, Japan
and China took action to spur economic growth. The Asia Pacific
gauge traded at 14.1 times average estimated earnings, compared
with about 13.2 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
about 11.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exporters advanced as  manufacturing in the U.S. , a major
market for Asian companies from carmakers to electronics
manufacturers, expanded in December. The U.S. Congress passed
budget legislation, breaking a yearlong impasse over how to head
off automatic tax increases and spending cuts. Failure to
resolve the so-called fiscal cliff might have dragged the  U.S.
economy  into a recession.  Weaker Yen  Li & Fung, which gets about 60 percent of sales from the
U.S., rose 7.3 percent to HK$14.50 in  Hong Kong .  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, climbed 6.4 percent to
4,260 yen in  Tokyo . Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera
maker, increased 2.4 percent to 3,420 yen.  Japanese exporters also advanced after the yen extended
losses for an eighth week against the dollar, the longest losing
streak since February 1989. A weaker currency boosts the value
of overseas earnings when repatriated.  Raw material producers and energy companies posted the
week’s  biggest advance  among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index amid signs that China, the world’s biggest
consumer of energy and copper, is recovering from seven quarters
of slowing economic growth.  Rio Tinto gained 3 percent to A$68.55 in Sydney.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. (358) , China’s largest supplier of the metal, jumped 5.9
percent to HK$21.65 in Hong Kong. Cnooc Ltd., the nation’s
biggest offshore oil producer, added 3 percent to HK$17.34.  Fairfax Surges  Fairfax surged 14 percent to 54 Australian cents in Sydney.
Shareholders Rinehart and Singleton may team up and seek control
of the publishing company to pursue asset sales, said Mark
McDonnell, Sydney-based analyst at BBY Ltd.  Rinehart, who failed in a bid for a board seat this year,
and Singleton own 15.14 percent of Fairfax and agreed to consult
on key issues related to boosting “ shareholder value ,” the
company said on Dec. 31.  Chinese insurers advanced this week after the nation’s
securities watchdog said they would be be allowed to set up
mutual funds, boosting optimism that the industry will benefit
from increased demand. China Life Insurance Co., the country’s
biggest insurer, climbed 10 percent to HK$27.00 in Hong Kong.
Ping An Insurance Group Co. rose 9.3 percent to HK$69.65.  Japan Exchange  Among stocks that fell, Japan Exchange Group Inc. slumped
9.7 percent to 3,885 yen on its trading debut on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. The company was previously listed as Osaka Securities
on the Jasdaq market, where it gained 35 percent in the month
before the new listing.  “Investors will probably re-evaluate the stock once they
start to see the synergy from the merger,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
chief  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $6.3 billion. “Right now there’s not much news
to buy on, as the shares already rose a lot on Jasdaq.”  Sharp Corp. dropped 2.6 percent to 295 yen after the
Yomiuri newspaper reported on Jan. 1 that the loss-making
television maker may raise 100 billion yen ($1.1 billion). The
company is considering ways to increase capital, spokesman
Atsushi Yoshida said, declining to give funding details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  