-- AT&T, Microsoft Among Corporate Donors to Obama Inaugural
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/at-t-microsoft-among-corporate-donors-to-obama-inaugural.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , whose political action
committee backed Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, is
among the first donors to President Barack Obama’s inaugural
committee, according to a contributors list released yesterday.  Besides Dallas-based AT&T, the  initial list  includes St.
Louis-based  Centene Corp. (CNC) , San Francisco-based Genentech Inc.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  For his second inaugural, Obama reversed his
2009 policy and agreed to accept corporate contributions. Obama
officially will take the oath of office in a private ceremony on
Jan. 20, a Sunday, then deliver his inaugural speech and
celebrate the occasion on Jan. 21.  The list released by the presidential inaugural committee
doesn’t provide the size of the contributions. Four years ago,
the committee identified its contributors by employer, city, and
amount.  Addie Whisenant, a spokeswoman for the inaugural committee,
said that in keeping with Federal Election Commission
requirements, the group will “make public the final list of
donors and the amounts they contributed” 90 days after the
event.  The committee “is continuing its pledge of transparency
for the American people and is taking extra steps to provide the
public with ongoing updates about who is donating to the
inaugural,” Whisenant said in an e-mail.  Stephenson Donation  AT&T’s PAC contributed $5,000 to Romney’s presidential
campaign in September. In addition, AT&T Chairman  Randall Stephenson  contributed $30,800 to the Republican National
Committee in February. It was Stephenson’s largest campaign
donation in more than two decades.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, unsuccessfully sought
permission to merge with T-Mobile USA Inc. The companies dropped
their plans in December 2011 following opposition from the
Justice Department and Federal Communications Commission. The
deal’s demise cost AT&T $4 billion in fees and airwaves given to
T-Mobile’s parent, Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   Stephenson and FCC chairman  Julius Genachowski , an Obama
appointee, have disagreed over spectrum policies and the
proposed merger.  A spokesman for AT&T, Michael Balmoris, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call or e-mail.  Employees of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
contributed more money to Obama’s re-election, $815,435, than
those of any other company, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 