-- Australia Home Prices to Rise on Rate Cuts: Mortgages
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-04T06:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/australia-home-prices-to-rise-on-rate-cuts-mortgages.html
Australia ’s flagging property market
is poised to get a boost from record low interest rates and a
housing shortage that could boost prices by as much as 10
percent this year.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has cut the cash rate by 1.75
percentage points since November 2011 to match a 50-year low,
which has helped reduce standard  variable  mortgage costs to 6.65
percent in November, the lowest in almost two years, central
bank data show. Traders are betting on a 50 percent chance the
central bank will drop the rate a quarter point to 2.75 percent
by March, interest-rate swap prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  While lower borrowing costs failed to stimulate demand in
2012, additional rate cuts and a constrained supply of homes
will draw buyers back to the market, said Janu Chan, a Sydney-
based economist at St. George Bank Ltd. A decline in  home prices 
is already showing signs of moderating, with a 0.4 percent
decline in 2012 after a 3.6 percent drop in 2011, according to
data from Brisbane-based researcher RP Data.  “The two most recent rate cuts, and all the successive
ones, should continue to feed through to the economy and have an
impact, particularly on housing,” Chan said in a telephone
interview. “There’s also the supply side -- there’s been a long
period of underbuilding in various areas.”  Chan predicts home prices could rise by 5 percent to 10
percent on average in Australia’s biggest cities, including
Sydney,  Melbourne  and Perth in 2013. Her estimate is higher than
those of analysts from  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , who predict average
gains of between 3.5 percent and 5 percent in the cities.  Slowing Growth  The median price for homes and apartments across the eight
biggest cities was A$483,000 ($504,397) as of Dec. 31, according
to RP Data. Sydney’s was the highest at A$580,246, Melbourne’s
median price was A$500,000 and Perth’s was A$479,000.  House price growth started to slow in 2010 after rising
every year but one in at least 23 years, according to government
data. Prices  fell  4.1 percent in 2008, before climbing 14
percent again the following year, the data shows.  New homes under construction fell for the third straight
year in the 12 months to June 30, statistics bureau data showed.  Approvals to build  homes slipped for a second straight year
to 145,515 units in the year to Oct. 31, compared with 160,760
two years earlier, according to government figures.  Building Recovery  Australia’s building industry, which has been shrinking for
30 months, is showing signs of recovery, a private construction
performance index showed. The index rose to 37 in November from
35.8 percent in October, revealing a slower pace of contraction,
according to the most recent index figures. The  S&P/ASX 200 Real
Estate Index (AS51REAL)  jumped 25 percent last year, compared with about 15
percent for the benchmark index.  Construction also is picking up, underscoring a turnaround.
Residential work done rose 1.5 percent in the September quarter
from the lowest level since March 2010 in the previous three
months, data from the statistics bureau show. Queensland, New
South  Wales  and South Australia state governments are trying to
both stimulate building and boost demand for homes by offering
A$15,000 to first-time home buyers purchasing a  newly built
home , according to state government announcements made in 2012.  Construction Boost  They join the Reserve Bank in trying to stoke industries
such as construction as commodity prices ease and the nation’s
mining boom looks set to peak this year.  The measures contrast with moves by governments across  Asia 
to contain booming housing markets. Singapore home sales are
expected to fall as much as 27 percent, according to Chicago-
based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , after six rounds of
housing curbs by a government trying to control prices that
soared to a record in 2012.  Hong Kong ’s monetary authority has
warned about an overheated property market and a “disconnect
between property prices and economic fundamentals” after prices
doubled in the past four years.  An increase in home building will help keep a lid on
Australian prices and avoid a repeat of the surges following the
RBA’s last easing cycle, said  Savanth Sebastian , an economist in
Sydney at a unit of Commonwealth Bank who forecasts a 5 percent
average increase across the country in 2013.  Previous Growth  Despite declines in  mortgage rates , “the housing market
has still been unable to record growth in values over the
year,” RP Data senior research analyst Cameron Kusher said in
an e-mailed release this week. “It is clear that the previous
strong value growth conditions to which many home owners have
become accustomed of recent years are well and truly behind
us.”  Kusher forecasts 2013 home price increases between
inflation and wage growth. That would equate to price growth
between 2 percent and 3.75 percent, based on government and RBA
forecasts.  Prices in Australia’s five biggest cities have risen about
0.5 percent this month, led by Sydney, according to RP Data’s
 daily home price  index.  The rate cuts so far have also had limited impact on other
parts of the economy. The Australian services industry shrank
for the 11th month in December, and manufacturing contracted for
the 10th month, data released by the Australian Industry Group
this week showed. Consumer sentiment slumped in December by the
most in nine months, and  business confidence  plunged in November
to the lowest level since 2009, private surveys last month
showed.  Prior Surge  In contrast, when the central bank cut its  benchmark rate 
to 3 percent in April 2009 from 7.25 percent in September 2008,
 house prices  responded. They surged 21 percent in the 15 months
to June 2010, according to government data, boosted also by
increased handouts of as much as A$21,000 to first-time buyers
of both new and existing properties.  Lending and prices also took off after the overnight cash
rate was lowered to 4.25 percent in December 2001 from 6.25
percent in February that year. House prices almost doubled in
the following decade as households’ debt-to-disposable income
ratio jumped to a high of 156.3 percent in September 2006 from
97.7 percent in March 2001, according to central bank data. That
ratio was at 148 percent in the September quarter.  “Forward-looking indicators of residential construction,
including building approvals, continued to point to a modest
recovery in that sector in the period ahead,” the RBA said in
 minutes  of its Dec. 4 meeting. “This was likely to be supported
by the pickup in dwelling prices, sales activity and rental
yields over recent months.”  Improving Returns  Total gross returns on houses and apartments rose to 4
percent as of Dec. 31 across Australia’s eight biggest cities,
compared with minus 1.2 percent six months earlier, figures from
RP Data show. At the same time, rental yields remained steady at
4.2 percent for houses and 4.9 percent for apartments, according
to RP Data.  Australia had 494 suburbs in November where it was more
expensive to rent than to buy a house or apartment, up from 388
in October, RP Data said.  Rising rental yields are drawing more investors to
purchase. Investors accounted for A$7.7 billion of  home loans  as
of Oct. 31, a 15 percent jump from two months earlier, while
loans to owner occupiers rose 1 percent to A$9.94 billion in the
same period, statistics bureau figures show.  Housing finance approvals  for owner occupied and investment
properties rose 3.8 percent in the 12 months to Oct. 31, after
falling 2.8 percent in the same period a year earlier, according
to statistics bureau figures.  Market Turning  “Housing finance has seen some steady growth and a lot of
other indicators of housing market confidence have started to
turn,” David Cannington, Melbourne-based economist at ANZ Bank,
said. “We’ll most likely see 100 basis points of interest rate
cuts in 2013 and that’ll go a long way toward improving housing
affordability.”  Cannington forecasts prices across capital cities will be
about 3.5 percent higher than current levels by the end of 2013.  Still, even as mortgage approvals rise, the pace of growth
remains sluggish. Annual  growth in mortgages  to owner occupiers
declined to 4.2 percent as of Nov. 30, compared with 9.2 percent
three years earlier, according to RBA figures.  Home-loan growth remains at the slowest annual pace since
records began in 1977 as concern about the growth of the global
economy and declining commodity prices kept potential home
buyers on the sidelines.  The RBA’s rate cuts are helping boost affordability and
reduce the number of Australian home owners missing payments on
their mortgages,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Dec. 24 report. The
proportion of mortgage payments more than 30 days late dropped
to 1.36 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 1.54
percent in the previous quarter, it said.  Mortgage Payments  “Fitch expects the  Reserve Bank of Australia  rate cuts in
October and December 2012 to provide relief to borrowers,
improving affordability for existing borrowers,” Hai Duong Le,
a Sydney-based analyst at Fitch, said in the report. “The
agency expects this to be reflected” in mortgage performance in
the following two quarters, he said.  About half of Australian borrowers are ahead of schedule on
their mortgages, with prepayments equal to more than 10 percent
of outstanding home loans, or 1.5 years of repayments, the RBA
said in its  Financial Stability Review  in September.  “It’s still early days but you could say the worst for the
housing sector is behind us and it’s a steady crawl upwards
now,” said CBA’s Sebastian. “It’s more about creating
affordable homes than going out and seeing a price surge. So we
expect modest growth, rather than extravagant growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  