-- Camp Sees Debt Default Averted as Republicans Seek Spending Cuts
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/tax-panel-chairman-camp-reassessing-top-25-rate-plan-1-.html
House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  said he is confident that Congress and the
White House will avert a default on  U.S. government debt  even as
Republicans will demand “significant” spending cuts to raise
the legal borrowing  limit .  Camp, a Michigan Republican whose panel holds jurisdiction
over tax legislation, also said he is reassessing a top 25
percent rate he has proposed as part of a plan to revamp the
U.S. income- tax code .  He added he is “absolute” in opposing
any further tax increases.  The agreement Congress passed this week to avoid automatic
tax increases and spending cuts creates a new starting point for
his efforts to adopt a simpler tax code, Camp said. The tax
system should have lower rates financed through fewer deductions
and credits, he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  The new law, signed on Jan. 2 by President  Barack Obama ,
raises income-tax rates on couples to 39.6 percent for annual
income above $450,000. Camp last year had set a goal of
establishing a maximum 25 percent income tax rate through an
overhaul.  Camp said he wants his tax plan to be “revenue-neutral.”
So the new law raising more money from top earners sets a higher
revenue target than he had under his previously announced plan.  “I have to re-evaluate it with the new baseline,” Camp
said, adding, “I’m going to try to get that rate as low as I
can.”  Curtailing Breaks  To lower tax rates, Congress will have to look at
curtailing breaks including deductions for home-mortgage
interest and state and local taxes, Camp said.  Camp, 59, echoed statements from Senate Republican Leader
 Mitch McConnell  in opposing Obama’s calls for a “balanced”
approach in further deficit reduction that includes more tax
increases. Camp said future  deficit  deals would have to come
from spending cuts only.  This week’s agreement on the so-called fiscal cliff
“established how much on a permanent basis what the
government’s going to get out of the economy, and we’re not
going to go for any more,” Camp said. That “is an absolute in
my book,” he added.  Boehner Match  When asked about Republican House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
call for a dollar-for-dollar match in spending cuts in exchange
an increase in the legal debt limit, Camp demurred.  “I don’t think that’s necessarily been established,” he
said. He said he will seek “significant reforms in spending.”  Camp said his party will demand “reforms in entitlements”
that “address the unsustainability” of Medicare health
insurance for the elderly and disabled, Medicaid health coverage
for the poor and Social Security retirement benefits.  He cited a change in the Social Security cost-of-living
adjustments that would lower annual increases in payments as a
likely area of agreement between congressional Republicans and
Obama.  Camp called on the president to “lead his party” by
publicly advocating deeper reductions in spending on those
programs.  He offered assurances that even with the disagreements
between congressional Republicans and the White House, lawmakers
would raise the $16.4 trillion debt limit in time to avoid
missing payments on U.S. obligations.  “Absolutely, we’re going to not default,” Camp said.
“That’s just not even part of the issue.”  The U.S. reached its legal debt limit on Dec. 31, and the
Treasury Department began using extraordinary measures to
finance the government. It will exhaust that avenue as early as
mid-February, the  Congressional Budget Office  says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  