-- Solars Drive Steepest Jump in 3 Months: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-05T03:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/baidu-leads-web-stocks-lower-on-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks climbed a fifth week
in New York, rallying the most since September, as manufacturing
data added to signs the economy is recovering and as the U.S.
budget deal boosted China’s second-largest trading partner.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. jumped 5.1 percent this week to
101.71, capping the longest stretch of weekly gains in 11
months.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  surged 59 percent in the week, and  Suntech (STP) 
Power Holdings Co. soared 34 percent, as China took more
measures to lift solar energy demand. Web game developer  Giant
Interactive Group Inc. (GA)  rallied 20 percent to a 16-month high,
while  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  sank 7.1 percent.  Data this week showing manufacturing expanded for a third
month in December compounded evidence the economy is emerging
from its slowdown, while legislation to avert U.S. spending cuts
and tax increases burnished the outlook for China’s exports.
Asia’s largest economy is poised to grow 8.1 percent this year,
from 7.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimates of
49 economists surveyed last month by Bloomberg.  “ China’s economy  will definitely rebound this year, and I
would expect Chinese equities to do better,”  Stephen Leeb ,
chairman of Leeb Capital Management Inc., said by phone in New
York yesterday. “The  U.S. economy  starting to recover could be
very positive as a strong U.S. economy is going to help all
economies.”  House Prices  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $41.62
in New York yesterday, after rising 5.2 percent in the week. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.5 percent to 1,466.47 for
a 4.6 percent weekly jump, after a government report showed U.S.
employers added workers last month and the jobless rate matched
a four-year low.  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  jumped to a more-than three-
month high yesterday after data showed new  home prices  in China
gained for a seventh month.  American depositary shares of E-House surged 10 percent to
$4.85, the highest level since Sept. 20. E-House climbed 18
percent this week.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest
real estate website owner, added 12 percent in the week to
$26.63, the steepest jump since November.  China’s Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
said last month that it would support demand from residents
seeking bigger homes this year, prompting speculation that
authorities won’t add to property curbs such as higher down
payments and home-purchase restrictions.  Solar Subsidies  LDK, the second-largest maker of solar wafers globally,
jumped 11 percent yesterday to $2.14, the highest price since
June 21. Suntech, the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, rose
2.7 percent to a six-month high of $1.87.  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  climbed 23 percent in the week while Trina Solar
Ltd. added 17 percent.  The Chinese government will provide a total 1.82 billion
 yuan  ($290 million) in subsidies to 126 rooftop solar
installation projects, renewing an aid program started in 2009,
China Daily reported yesterday, citing the Ministry of Housing
and Urban-Rural Development. Assistance will range from 7.5 yuan
($1.2) to 9 yuan per watt, the newspaper said.  HSBC Holdings Plc said in a Jan. 3 report that China will
become the world’s largest solar market in 2013.  “China is going to spend tremendous amounts of money on
renewable energy, and they’ve dramatically raised their targets
for the energy over the past two years,” Leeb said. “Solar
stocks were down last year and the industry is growing.”  Gamers Discounted  Giant Interactive, an online game operator based in
Shanghai, surged to $6.48, rallying the most among the five web
game developers included on the Bloomberg China-US gauge.
 Perfect World Co. (PWRD)  gained 19 percent to an eight-month high of
$12.68.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , Changyou.com Ltd., NetEase Inc., Giant
and Perfect World traded at an average 6.7 times estimated
earnings Jan. 3, compared with a multiple of 13.7 for stocks on
the China-US measure, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The
discount gives them one of the most enticing valuations in the
technology and Internet sector, Andy Yeung, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. whose ratings on the stocks range
from market perform to outperform, said by phone Jan. 3.  Ambow Education, a Beijing-based provider of private
tutoring services, tumbled to $2.34 and was the biggest decliner
on the China-US gauge in the week. Ambow’s American depositary
receipts lost 68 percent in 2012, the worst annual performance
on the index.  Hang Seng  Ambow reported in July a net loss for the three months
through March of $12.7 million, compared with net income of $2
million a year earlier. It hasn’t published financial results
since.  The company said Sept. 6 an internal probe found its
tutoring centers are legally registered. The investigation was
sparked by reports on Chinese state television that an Ambow
unit exaggerated training results and that school registrations
were incomplete.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares climbed 2
percent to 2,276.99 over the two days that it traded this week
to 2,276.99, the highest level since June 20.  The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.4 percent yesterday to
11,937.45, paring its weekly advance to 4.9 percent, the most
since January last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  