-- Bankruptcy Judge’s Power Limited in Madoff Transfer Suits
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2013-01-04T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/bankruptcy-judge-s-power-limited-in-madoff-transfer-suits.html
The bankruptcy judge overseeing
 Bernard Madoff ’s liquidation can hear lawsuits the trustee
brought against customers over fraudulent transfers and submit
proposed rulings to a higher court, a federal judge ruled.  The decision by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff is a defeat
for Madoff defendants in more than 300 lawsuits, who had asked
him to take the suits away from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in light of a 2011 decision from the U.S.  Supreme Court 
in a case called Stern v. Marshall.  “Efficiency” will be improved by having recommendations
from a bankruptcy judge who has “both intimate familiarity with
the underlying liquidation and substantial expertise in the
bankruptcy law,” Rakoff said in the 22-page opinion.  Trustee Irving Picard sued the customers, saying they
received fraudulent transfers because they withdrew more cash
from their accounts at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC than they invested. Rakoff still may take those suits away
from Lifland, depending on how he rules in an another case.  In the Stern case, the Supreme Court found that some types
of state-law claims cannot be decided finally in  bankruptcy
court . The U.S. Constitution allows only life-tenured district
judges to make final rulings in those situations.  Since Stern was handed down, Rakoff said the consensus
among federal district judges in  New York  is to allow bankruptcy
judges to issue recommended rulings in fraudulent-transfer
suits.  Undecided Question  Rakoff rejected Picard’s argument that Lifland should be
allowed to make final fraud rulings in the Madoff case because
it’s a liquidation under the Securities Investor Protection Act,
not an ordinary bankruptcy.  Rakoff, who heard oral arguments in June, sent the hundreds
of suits back to Lifland while leaving one question undecided.
The answer might free customers from Lifland’s oversight.  Multiple customers argued in a separate dispute before
Rakoff that a section of the  Bankruptcy Code  doesn’t apply in
SIPA cases. That section allows a bankruptcy trustee to deny a
claim so long as the creditor is a defendant in a lawsuit.  If Rakoff decides that the section doesn’t apply to the
Madoff liquidation, Lifland won’t be allowed to make even
recommended rulings.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with
Picard’s appointment under SIPA. Madoff is serving a 150-year
prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The fraudulent transfer opinion was part of Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 12-mc-00115, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The Madoff liquidation case is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  