-- Bankers’ Group Supports Bond Trustee in Argentina Appeal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/bankers-group-supports-bond-trustee-in-argentina-appeal-1-.html
The  American Bankers Association , a
trade association representing the financial services industry
in the U.S., asked a court to overturn orders it claims
improperly handcuff  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  in litigation
over Argentina’s defaulted debt.  In a court filing yesterday, the ABA asked the U.S. Court
of Appeals in  New York  to reverse rulings by U.S. District Judge
Thomas Griesa that the group claims would interfere with the
bank’s role as indenture trustee for Argentina’s restructured
debt. The court is scheduled to hear arguments in the case Feb.
27.  “Permitting injunctions against these trustees that
preclude them fulfilling their pre-existing obligations whenever
expedient to enforce a judgment against the debtor will have
significantly adverse consequences for the financial system,”
the ABA said in its brief.  Yesterday was the deadline for the filing of so-called
amicus, or friend-of-the-court, briefs, in which non-parties to
an appeal submit arguments that may be helpful to the court,
with the court’s permission. The ABA filed its arguments and
asked the court to consider them in  Argentina ’s appeal.  Kenneth Dam, a former Treasury Department official,
submitted a brief supporting Griesa’s rulings. Alfonso Prat-Gay,
a former governor of Argentina’s central bank, asked the court
to consider a brief supporting his country’s position. The
Clearing House Association LLC, a U.S. banking association and
payments company, urged the court to overrule Griesa.  Restructured Debt  Puente Hnos. Sociedad de Bolsa SA, an Argentine securities
broker, said in a filing in support of Argentina’s appeal that,
if the lower court ruling is upheld, it was the assumption of
the Argentine financial community that it will likely lead to a
default by the country.  “Should this occur, the Argentine financial community and
the general population will once again bear the brunt of the
default,” the broker said.  Anne Krueger, a former first deputy managing director of
the  International Monetary Fund , said in a filing that paying
the holdouts from a debt restructuring according to the lower
court’s ruling would harm the international sovereign  debt
market  and reduce growth prospects in  developing countries .  Briefs were also filed by investors holding Argentina’s
restructured debt, including holders of Argentine’s euro-
denominated bonds, and holders of the defaulted bonds who aren’t
parties in the appeal.  Reversal Sought  Argentina last week filed its own brief asking the appeals
court to reverse Griesa’s rulings, which would help Elliott
Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund and other creditors collect
on the country’s defaulted bonds.  Argentina, which defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt
in 2001, argued that Griesa’s rulings illegally interfere with
its immunity as a sovereign nation and improperly exert
authority over third parties, including Bank of New York Mellon.  On Oct. 26, the appeals court ruled that Argentina can’t
treat holders of its restructured debt more favorably than the
so-called “hold-out” creditors, who declined to participate in
two rounds of debt restructuring.  The appeals court also sent part of the case back to
Griesa, who then ordered Argentina to make a $1.3 billion
payment into escrow, the amount claimed by the defaulted
bondholders in the case, when it makes scheduled payments on its
restructured bonds. Griesa also barred third parties, including
banks, from helping Argentina evade his orders.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  