-- Barney Frank Says He’s Interested in Interim Senate Seat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/barney-frank-says-he-s-interested-in-interim-senate-seat.html
Barney Frank , who just retired from
the U.S. House, now would like to serve in the Senate.  Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, told  MSNBC  yesterday that
he asked Governor  Deval Patrick , to appoint him to the Senate
seat that  John Kerry  would vacate if confirmed as U.S. secretary
of state.  “Coach, put me in,” Frank, 72, said on “Morning Joe.”
He would serve only until a special election is held later in
the year to fill Kerry’s seat through the 2014 election.  “It’s only a three-month period,” Frank said. “I
wouldn’t want to do anything more.”  Patrick told reporters that Frank was “definitely” on a
list of potential appointments. He said his preference was to
nominate an interim senator who wouldn’t run in the special
election. Massachusetts law calls for the election to be held
between 145 to 160 days following the vacancy.  “Congressman Frank is a gifted legislator and he would be
a great senator even on an interim basis,” Patrick said,
according to a transcript released by his office. “There are
factors I am considering and he is definitely on the list.”  After serving for 32 years in the House, Frank didn’t seek
re-election in November. He said he wanted to return to Capitol
Hill to join the debate as Congress and President  Barack Obama 
look for alternatives to automatic spending cuts scheduled to
take effect March 1. The timetable was pushed back two months
under a bill Congress approved this week that averted income-tax
increases for most Americans.  ‘Important Months’  Obama and Republican lawmakers also are heading toward a
confrontation over raising the nation’s  debt  ceiling. The U.S.
reached its $16.4 trillion legal debt limit on Dec. 31, and the
Treasury Department began using extraordinary measures to
finance the government. It will exhaust that avenue as early as
mid-February, the Congressional Budget Office has said.  “February, March, and April are going to be among the most
important months in American financial history,” Frank said.
“I’ve told the governor I would like, frankly, to do that; I
would like to be a part of that,” he said.  Frank is the former chairman of the House Financial
Services Committee, He co-authored the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that
increased regulation of the banking industry following the
2007-2009 recession.  Markey Candidacy  Democratic Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts
announced his candidacy for the Senate seat Dec. 27 and quickly
gained the backing of Kerry and the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee. Former Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican, is
considering running after losing his re-election bid to Democrat
 Elizabeth Warren  in November. Brown won a special election in
January 2010 to fill the seat vacated by the death of Senator
 Ted Kennedy , a Democrat.  Frank was the first openly gay member of the House and
would be first openly homosexual male senator. Wisconsin
Democrat Tammy Baldwin became the first openly gay member of the
Senate when she was sworn into office this week.  Obama said Dec. 21 he planned to nominate Kerry, the
unsuccessful 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, to succeed
 Hillary Clinton  as the top U.S. diplomat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  