-- Basel Chief Concerned Over Accounting Differences on Loan Losses
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-04T12:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/basel-chief-concerned-over-accounting-differences-on-loan-losses.html
Global banking regulators are
concerned that loan losses will be treated differently under
international and U.S. accounting standards, the chairman of the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said.  Efforts by the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board
and International Accounting Standards Board to replace incurred
loss credit impairment models may not converge after the FASB
decided “to pursue an impairment model that differs from the
IASB’s model,”  Stefan Ingves , the Basel group’s chairman, said
in a statement today.  “While the boards have made significant progress in
developing expected loss models, we also remain concerned as to
whether the eventual standards will result in the early and
timely build-up of sufficient levels of credit allowances,”
Ingves said.  The two accounting boards are looking to change how
reserves and asset values are measured after the financial
crisis forced lenders to devote capital to losses, leaving some
of the world’s largest banks struggling to meet regulatory
thresholds and remain solvent. Banking regulators want a single
set of accounting standards to strengthen financial supervision
and better recognition of loan-loss provisions using a broader
range of credit information, Ingves said.  The FASB last month proposed revised rules that would push
banks to start recognizing losses on loans, debt securities and
other financial receivables when firms see early signs of
potential loss. It said this may cause banks’ loan loss reserves
to jump about 50 percent. U.S. banking regulators have urged
firms to recognize more losses on their housing-related lending.  While the FASB plans to move from an “incurred loss”
model to an “expected loss” model, similar to changes under
consideration by the IASB, it won’t use an IASB model with three
separate “buckets” of loans, FASB chairman Leslie Seidman said
last month. The FASB won’t use an IASB approach that bases loss
estimates on expectations for the coming 12 months, she said.  The FASB didn’t immediately reply to a call and an e-mail
seeking comment before office hours in Norwalk,  Connecticut .  The IASB is grateful for the Basel committee’s input and
looks “forward to continuing to work in close cooperation with
the committee as we finalize this important project,” spokesman
Chris Welsh said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 