-- Berskhire Ex-Executive Sokol Won’t Face SEC Action
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-04T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/berskhire-ex-executive-sokol-won-t-face-sec-action.html
David Sokol , the executive who left
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  amid allegations he
broke insider-trading rules, won’t face enforcement actions from
the Securities and Exchange Commission, his lawyer said.  The U.S. agency ended its investigation of Sokol, attorney
Barry Levine said yesterday in a phone interview after hearing
from the SEC’s division of enforcement.  Sokol, who stepped down as chairman of Berkshire’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. in April 2011, bought shares of
Lubrizol Corp. in January of that year, less than three months
before Berkshire announced a $9 billion acquisition of the
company. Buffett was misled by Sokol about his dealings before
the takeover, a Berkshire audit committee concluded. Levine has
said Sokol never broke the law or violated Berkshire policies.  “They have intensely reviewed the facts, they’ve done it
with uncommon care, and they have of course comprehensively
reviewed the law,” said Levine, a partner at Dickstein Shapiro
LLP in Washington. “Neither the law nor the facts suggest any
impropriety.”  The SEC’s decision was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. Buffett
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
an assistant outside normal business hours.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said in 2011 that Sokol had violated the company’s insider-
trading rules. The billionaire said that he made a “big
mistake” in his oversight of Sokol.  Buffett, now 82, sought to reassure investors in the wake
of Sokol’s resignation that Berkshire had strong candidates in
line to replace him at the head of the company. Sokol was
considered by Buffett biographer  Andrew Kilpatrick  as the top
candidate to be next CEO.  “The leading candidate right now, I would lay a lot of
money on him being straight as an arrow,” Buffett said at a
press conference at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders in
Omaha, Nebraska, where Berkshire is based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  