-- Best Buy, Toys R Us Say Wal-Mart Price Ads Deceived
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-01-07T13:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/best-buy-and-toys-r-us-say-wal-mart-s-price-compare-ads-deceived.html
(Corrects attribution of Best Buy spokeswoman in third
paragraph of story published Jan. 5.)  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and  Toys R Us Inc. (TOYS)  have
filed complaints in several states alleging that  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  deceived consumers in price comparison advertisements.  The ads aired from late November to mid-December, according
to Toys R Us. Sales in November and December account for 20
percent to 40 percent of U.S. retailers’ annual revenue,
according to the  National Retail Federation , a Washington-based
trade group.  Best Buy lost “tens of thousands of dollars” because of
the ads, according to spokeswoman Amy von Walter, who said in a
telephone interview that the company has complained to  attorneys
general  in  Florida , Illinois,  Michigan  and  New Jersey .  Toys R Us has provided multiple state attorneys general
with evidence of what it called “deceptive advertising
practices that mislead consumers regarding specific product
pricing comparisons,” said  Kathleen Waugh , vice president of
corporate communications for Toys R Us. The complaints were
reported yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, followed “all
local, state and federal rules and regulations,” Wal-Mart
spokesman Steven Restivo said in a statement. “We know
competitors don’t like it when we tell customers to compare
prices and see for themselves but we think consumers deserve
every chance to find value.”  FTC Website  He pointed to a statement posted on the Federal Trade
Commission’s website: “Comparative advertising, when truthful
and non-deceptive, is a source of important information to
consumers and assists them in making rational purchase
decisions.”  Restivo said the ads “are supported by a rigorous internal
process to help ensure accuracy, which includes legal review and
oversight as well as documentation supporting our statements
about quantities and pricing.”  Waugh, the Toys R Us spokeswoman, said that Wal-Mart misled
customers about pricing on several toys including the Fisher-
Price Surprise Kitchen and Table Set, which was advertised for
$39.97. Third-party shoppers found the sets were being sold for
as much as twice that price, according to Toys R Us. Wal-Mart
said the in-store and advertised price for the set was correct
at $39.97.  Wal-Mart was selling Holiday Barbie dolls for $7 more than
their advertised price, according to Toys R Us. The ads
misstated the Toys R Us prices for both toys, Waugh said.
Fisher-Price products and Barbie dolls are both made by  Mattel
Inc. (MAT) , based in El Segundo, California.  Fijit Doll  Toys R Us also complained that Wal-Mart promoted an
interactive doll called a Fijit, also made by Mattel, which was
out of stock. An ad featuring the product that aired in December
forced other toy sellers to drop their prices.  “The toy was not available on Wal-Mart’s website and was
out-of-stock in many of the stores our teams checked,” Waugh
said in an e-mail. “Still, the Wal-Mart ads kept running
heavily all week even though the price comparison was not
correct when these ads were run.”  New Jersey attorney general Jeffrey Chiesa’s office is
reviewing the complaints, submitted in December, Jeff Lamm, a
spokesman for the state division of consumer affairs, said in an
interview.  “We will determine what the next step if any should be,”
he said.  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi also is reviewing the
complaints, spokeswoman Jenn Meale said. Joy Yearout, a
spokeswoman for Michigan Attorney General Bill Schutte, declined
to comment on what happens next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  