-- Billionaire Rinehart’s Hancock Profit Surged 74% in 2011
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-04T05:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/billionaire-rinehart-s-hancock-profit-surged-74-in-2011.html
Billionaire Gina Rinehart’s closely
held Hancock Prospecting Pty posted a 74 percent jump in profit
in 2011 as  iron ore  sales and royalties surged, according to
financial statements filed with Australian regulators.  Profit in the 12 months ended June 2011 rose to A$1.2
billion ($1.25 billion) from A$688 million a year earlier, as
revenue climbed 68 percent to A$2.37 billion, Hancock said in
financial statements filed with the  Australian Securities &
Investments Commission  on Dec. 24.  The mining company, based in Perth, had resisted ASIC’s
demands to file the financial records, saying it was an
“unreasonable burden” that would put it at a competitive
disadvantage. Hancock was scheduled to appeal the ASIC order at
a hearing before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in Perth
beginning Feb. 5. The ASIC filing was made with no notice except
a posting on the regulator’s website.  Rinehart’s company, founded by Gina’s late father,  Lang
Hancock , said in an exchange of letters with ASIC that a section
of the Act provided for a “grandfathering,” which exempted
private companies from filing the statements.  “HPPL has always been 100 percent owned by private
entities controlled directly by Mr. Hancock and Mrs. Rinehart,”
Tadeusz Watroba, a Hancock director, wrote to the regulator in
October 2011. “In much the same way as other private family
groups in  Australia  who do not lodge their financial statements
with ASIC due to the grandfathering provisions.”  Mining Partnership  Most of Hancock’s revenue comes from a partnership with  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) , with Hancock receiving a royalty on iron ore mined
in  Western Australia ’s Pilbara region.  Hancock paid A$12.5 million of dividends in the fiscal year
ended June 2011, more than double the A$6.17 million paid out 12
months earlier, according to the financial statements.  Hancock had promised to pay a minimum of 25 percent of the
 cash flow  after tax and interest from its Hope Downs mine to the
Hope Margaret Hancock Trust, according to documents filed in a
lawsuit by three of Rinehart’s children, who are seeking to have
her removed as trustee. The first distribution was to have taken
place last January, according to the documents.  “Certain companies within the group are parties to a claim
in respect of royalties from the Hope Downs mine,” Hancock said
in the only reference to its legal disputes in the filing. “It
is not possible to reliably quantify what, if any, damages could
be awarded if the claim were to be successful.”  Wright Prospecting Pty, founded by Hancock’s former partner
Peter Wright, sued in September seeking 50 percent of Hancock’s
stake in three tenements known as Hope Downs 4, 5 and 6.  Hancock said there are other legal disputes and claims and
it’s the opinion of directors that “no significant
liabilities” arise from those claims.  The Wright lawsuit is between Wright Prospecting Pty and
Hancock Prospecting Pty. Civ2617/2012.  Supreme Court  of Western
Australia (Perth). The children’s lawsuit is Hope Rinehart
Welker v  Gina Rinehart . 2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme
Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  