-- BOE Seen Keeping QE on Hold as Credit-Plan Impact Begins to Show
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/boe-seen-leaving-qe-on-hold-as-credit-plan-impact-begins-to-show.html
Bank of England  policy makers will
maintain their bond-buying program next week as new efforts to
boost credit begin to show results, economists said.  Governor  Mervyn King  and the Monetary Policy Committee will
maintain the quantitative-easing target at 375 billion pounds
($601 billion), said all 39 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. They will also leave their benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent in a decision to be announced at noon on
Jan. 10, according to a separate poll.  U.K. credit conditions eased in the fourth quarter and
spreads on  mortgage rates  declined because of the so-called
Funding for Lending Scheme that began in August, according to a
report this week. Still,  services  unexpectedly slumped in
December, raising the risk of an economic contraction, and
economists in the survey forecast more QE at some point in 2013.  “Even if the economy does not shrink again, it is likely
to continue to underperform in 2013 and 2014,” Citigroup Inc.
economists including  Michael Saunders  in London said in a
report. “With this backdrop, the MPC probably will keep
monetary policy loose and indeed loosen further.”  King has left the door open to more stimulus, and Citigroup
said that QE will be increased to 450 billion pounds in the next
year. It noted “mixed signals” on the FLS, saying that while
rates on mortgages and new business loans have fallen, “very
little new lending is actually taking place.”  Carney Initiative  With King due to retire in June, Citigroup said it expects
the BOE to introduce forward rate guidance under incoming
governor  Mark Carney , who now heads the bank of  Canada . Carney
has used such a tool in his current role.  “Such statements can help anchor market rate expectations,
reduce uncertainty about the central bank’s reaction function
and hence magnify the desired policy stimulus,” Saunders said.
“Flexibility is retained by making the rate guidance
conditional on the forecast, and hence subject to change if the
economic outlook changes.”  Britain’s economy exited a recession in the  third quarter ,
though the BOE has said it may shrink again in the fourth.
Markit Economics said yesterday a composite of its
manufacturing, services and construction indexes is consistent
with the economy contracting by about 0.2 percent.  “Although the committee’s policy bias is tilted towards
sanctioning more asset purchases, we consider any move at this
point to be unlikely,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist at
Investec Securities in London. “Although there have since been
one or two notable weak spots in the data, December’s services
PMI being the obvious recent example, the general tone of
indicators has more been mixed than soft.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Evans  in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  