-- Boehner Slow to Aid New York Party Backers: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-04T20:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/boehner-ignores-new-yorkers-feeding-republicans-bgov-barometer.html
The House Republicans’ fundraising
committee collected $1 of every $8 in large individual
contributions for the 2012 elections from residents of New York,
New Jersey and  Connecticut , before their party’s leader stalled
disaster aid for the region.  The BGOV Barometer shows about 13 percent of the National
Republican Congressional Committee’s funds from donors of more
than $200 would be at stake if contributors in the three states
took the advice of Republican Representative Peter King of New
York and kept their checkbooks shut, according to Federal
Election Commission data compiled by Bloomberg. Residents of
those three states contributed $3.9 million in amounts greater
than $200 to the NRCC for the 2012 elections.  “Anyone from New York or New Jersey who contributes one
penny to the Republican congressional campaign committee should
have their head examined,” King said Jan. 2 on CNN’s
“Newsroom,” a day after Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, blocked the House from voting on $60 billion in
federal aid to help victims of  Hurricane Sandy .  Lawmakers Vote  King backed off those remarks yesterday after Boehner
scheduled votes on the aid. The House today increased the
borrowing authority for the government flood insurance program
by $9.7 billion, allowing it to continue paying damage claims,
and the Senate unanimously cleared the measure. A House vote 
on another $33 billion is scheduled for Jan. 15.  By taking aim at New York area campaign donors, King was
targeting the biggest source of contributions of over $200 to
the NRCC. Donors in the New York City metropolitan area gave
more money to the NRCC than any other region, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign donations. Eight of the nine zip
codes where the most donations came from were in the New York
metropolitan area; the exception being Palm Beach,  Florida .  New York state, in particular, is a top target of campaign
fundraisers. For the 2012 elections, its residents gave $2.3
million to the House Republican campaign committee, $5.2 million
to the Senate Republicans’ fundraising arm, $5.3 million to the
Republican National Committee and $38.3 million to the joint
fundraising committee for Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , the RNC and state parties.  Cash Trove  “National parties fund raise in New York for the same
reason that Willie Sutton robbed banks: That’s where the money
is,” said Peter Brusoe, campaign finance analyst for Bloomberg
Government. “New Yorkers as a state may vote for the Democratic
Party, but there are New Yorkers who are willing to open their
checkbooks when the national parties come calling.”  King said yesterday that his state and its neighbors had a
right to expect congressional Republicans to come to their aid,
if they wanted his continued support.  “When you’re in a political party, you give a deference to
your party, give them the benefit of the doubt on certain votes
with the assurance when you need help, your district needs help,
the party will be there for you,” King said on  CNN . “Since the
party wasn’t for me Tuesday night, not for me, my district, my
constituents, for the entire region, then I was going to look
very skeptically at votes in the future.”  He explained his earlier comments as “shock therapy” on
NBC’s “Today” yesterday.  “If we did not get this aid, this would be disastrous for
the people of New York,” King said on NBC. “This wasn’t some
special gimmick we were looking for. This is life and death. I
have people in my district living in the back of cars, living in
dilapidated homes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 