-- BofA May Sell Contracts on $300 Billion in Loans, Reuters Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-04T23:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/bofa-may-sell-contracts-on-300-billion-in-loans-reuters-says.html
Bank of America Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. bank, is in negotiations to sell mortgage servicing
rights tied to $300 billion in loans, according to Reuters.  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , Ocwen Financial Corp.
and Walter Investment Management Corp. are among firms in talks
with  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, the news
service reported today, citing unnamed people.  Bank of America executives have said since at least July
2011 that they will trim mortgage servicing rights and other
assets considered risky by regulators. Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan , seeking to cut costs tied to soured loans,
said in November he wanted to shrink the servicing portfolio to
about 6 million loans from a peak of about 12 million.  “This is very large, it would be the biggest servicing
portfolio transfer we’ve ever seen,” said Kevin Barker, an
analyst at Compass Point Research and Trading LLC in  Washington .
“It’s expensive to service these loans adequately, and so
selling them could reduce costs, reduce regulatory scrutiny and
remove an  overhang  for the company.”  Mortgage servicers perform billing and collections on home
loans and handle foreclosures when borrowers  default . Bank of
America had $1.1 trillion in loans serviced for investors at
Sept. 30, down from $1.4 trillion at the end of 2011. About half
that amount, or $500 billion, could be available for sale, Henry
Coffey, an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., wrote in a
November research note.  ‘Market Rumors’  Rick Simon, a Bank of America spokesman, said the company
doesn’t comment “on market rumors or speculation.” The firm
ranks second by assets among U.S. banks and was the biggest home
lender before the 2008 financial crisis.  Ocwen Chief Financial Officer John Britti, Walter
spokeswoman Whitney Finch and Gordon Runte, a spokesman for
Nationstar’s parent, Fortress Investment Group LLC, didn’t
immediately reply to messages seeking comment. Dico Akseraylian,
a spokesman for PHH Corp., a mortgage servicing company based in
Mt. Laurel, New Jersey, declined to comment.  Bank of America is the largest potential seller this year
“as it continues to wind down its legacy mortgage servicing
 division ,” Douglas Harter, an analyst in New York with Credit
Suisse Holdings USA, wrote in a Dec. 19 note.  “The pipeline for bulk servicing transfers remains robust
heading into 2013,” Harter wrote. “Walter and Nationstar have
recently sized the near-term opportunity at $500 billion to $600
billion. Longer term, we see the opportunity for transfers to be
in the $1 trillion to $2 trillion range” for the industry.  Speculation that Bank of America was selling $300 billion
in servicing rights was reported earlier by Inside Mortgage
Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  