-- Bovespa Falls as Brazil Output Declines, Fed Concern Saps Vale
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-04T20:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/bovespa-falls-on-concern-over-u-s-stimulus-brazil-production.html
The Bovespa index fell the most in
six weeks as Brazil’s industrial production dropped and concern
the U.S. may reduce stimulus measures drove commodities lower.  Iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE) , which has the biggest weighting
on the Bovespa, contributed the most to the gauge’s decline.  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
oil company, rose to a two-month high after starting production
at a third well.  The Bovespa slid 1.2 percent to 62,523.06 at close of in
Sao Paulo, paring this week’s gain to 2.6 percent. The real
appreciated 0.6 percent to 2.0325 per dollar. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials fell 0.6 percent after
members of the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee said in
meeting minutes released yesterday that they will probably end
$85 billion monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013.  “The immediate reaction to this news is concern that the
U.S. economy could slow down if the stimulus is cut, so raw-
materials prices are falling,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at
Clear Corretora brokerage in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “But we’ve seen big gains on the Brazilian exchange
in the past few days, so some profit taking was already
expected.”  Commodities producers account for about 43 percent of the
Bovespa’s weighting. The gauge gained 4.8 percent in the
previous three sessions and entered a bull market yesterday.  Vale declined 2.2 percent to 41.17 reais. Steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , known as Usiminas, slumped 5.2
percent to 12.54 reais while  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID)  lost
4.2 percent to 12.26 reais.  OGX Jumps  OGX said in a regulatory filing today that it started on
Dec. 31 output from a well at the Tubarao Azul field in the
Campos Basin off the coast of Rio de Janeiro. Shares jumped 2
percent to 5 reais, the highest since Nov. 6 on a closing basis.  “The connection of the third well is a positive in itself,
especially if higher flow rates are confirmed,” Paula Kovarsky
and Diego Mendes, analysts at the investment bank Itau BBA,
wrote in a note to clients published today. “The new well is
expected to produce more than the first two.”  Brazil’s industrial output fell 0.6 percent in November
from a month earlier, the national statistics agency said today
in Rio de Janeiro. Economists had forecast it to decrease 0.9
percent, according to the median forecast of 36 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa climbed 7.4 percent in 2012 in its biggest
yearly rally since 2009 as stimulus from central banks around
the world eased economic concern and borrowing costs at a record
low in  Brazil  boosted equity demand. Trading volume was 9.9
billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo today, according to data
compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  