-- Bovespa Futures Fall as Fed Signal Combines With Output Slump
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-04T11:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/bovespa-futures-fall-as-fed-signal-combines-with-output-slump.html
Bovespa-index futures fell, snapping
a three-day gain, as  Brazil ’s industrial production dropped and
concern the U.S. may reduce economic stimulus measures drove
commodities lower.  Iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE) , which has the biggest weighting
on the Bovespa, declined in Frankfurt trading. Steelmaker Cia.
 Siderurgica Nacional (SID)  SA may move after  Bank of America  Corp.
said it raised prices for some products.  Bovespa futures slid 0.3 percent to 63,395 at 9:30 a.m. in
Sao Paulo after the index advanced 4.6 percent in the previous
three sessions. The real was little changed at 2.0460 per
dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
tumbled 1 percent and oil fell for the second day in London.  Stocks fell worldwide after members of the U.S. Federal
Open Market Committee said they will probably end their $85
billion monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013, according to
minutes of its latest meeting released yesterday.  “All sorts of commodities are falling today” after the
Fed minutes,  Banco Bradesco (BBD)  economists led by Octavio de Barros
wrote in a note to clients today. “We expect a little decline
in the Brazilian exchange as well.”  Brazil’s industrial output fell 0.6 percent in November
from a month earlier, the national statistics agency said today
in  Rio de Janeiro . Economists had forecast output to decrease
0.9 percent from the previous month, according to the median
forecast from 36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Output fell 1
percent from the year before.  The Bovespa climbed 7.4 percent in 2012 in its biggest
yearly rally since 2009 as stimulus from central banks around
the world eased economic concern and borrowing costs at a record
low in Brazil boosted equity demand.  Trading volume was 7.2 billion reais ($3.5 billion) in
stocks in  Sao Paulo  yesterday, according to data compiled by the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
s at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  