-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Inflation Accelerates; Real Advances
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-04T20:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-inflation-outlook-real-little-changed.html
Brazilian swap rates rose as Sao
Paulo’s inflation accelerated in December more than economists
forecast, spurring speculation that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs from record lows.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2017 climbed
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.49 percent at
the close in Sao Paulo, the first increase since Dec. 20. The
real appreciated 0.7 percent to 2.0325 per dollar, the strongest
level on a closing basis since Nov. 6. The currency advanced 0.7
percent since Dec. 28 in its third weekly gain.  The real advanced to an eight-week high on bets policy
makers will allow the currency to strengthen to contain
inflation. A U.S. report today showed sustained gains in the
labor market, boosting the prospects for the world’s largest
economy and encouraging demand for emerging-market assets.  “Swap rates are rising because the inflation index was
higher than expected,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief
strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s Brazilian unit in Sao Paulo,
said in a telephone interview.  The FIPE consumer price index for Sao Paulo rose 0.78
percent in December after climbing 0.68 percent in the prior
month, the Foundation Economics Research Institute reported
today. The median forecast of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 0.70 percent increase.  Brazil ’s annual rate of consumer price increases as
measured by the benchmark IPCA index has exceeded the 4.5
percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for 27
consecutive months. Inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 5.53
percent in November from 5.45 percent the month before, the
statistics agency reported Dec. 7.  Industrial Output  Sao Paulo’s inflation data overshadowed a report today
showing Brazil’s industrial production fell in November for the
second time in three months.  Industrial output declined 0.6 percent in November after
rising 0.14 percent in the prior month, the national statistics
agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The October increase was
revised from a previous reading of 0.9 percent.  “Industrial production data was really bad,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “It reinforces the idea that there was a
slowdown in the Brazilian economy at the end of last year.”  Policy makers left the target lending rate at a record low
7.25 percent in November after 10 consecutive reductions since
August 2011 to support growth.  Brazil’s economy increased 0.98 percent in 2012, according
to the latest central bank survey of about 100 analysts at
financial institutions, after a 2.7 percent expansion in 2011
and 7.5 percent growth in 2010.  Fed Signal  Swap rates also rose today after the Federal Reserve
indicated in minutes of its December meeting released yesterday
that it will probably end its policy of bond purchases to
support the economy this year, driving U.S. Treasury yields
higher and prompting investors to demand higher returns for
holding Brazilian assets.  “Brazilian rates have to follow rates abroad,” Caramaschi
said. “Otherwise there would be an opportunity for arbitrage.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  Treasury note  was little
changed at 1.91 percent after increasing eight basis points
yesterday following the Fed minutes.  Brazil’s central bank has swung between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The real has gained 1.8 percent since Dec. 20, when Carlos
Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic policy, said
policy makers consider an exchange rate of 2.05 per dollar as
more “adequate” when creating economic forecasts than 2.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  