-- Canada Dollar Gains After Jobless Rate Falls to Four-Year Low
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-01-04T22:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/canada-dollar-erases-loss-as-jobless-rate-falls-to-four-year-low.html
The Canadian dollar traded at an
almost two-week high against the  U.S. dollar  after the nation’s
jobless rate unexpectedly declined to a four-year low,
countering recent signs of slowing economic growth.  The currency rose as much as 0.3 percent versus the U.S.
dollar as employers added 39,800 workers to payrolls in
December, lowering the  unemployment rate  to 7.1 percent from 7.2
percent the previous month,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa.
Royal  Bank of Canada  forecast the central bank may boost its
interest-rate target twice this year.  “There’s plenty of room for the currency to move higher --
payroll numbers are always a good driver,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , by phone from Toronto. “The market was absolutely
looking for a weaker number for Canada so the move up was a
major beat and has pushed the Canadian dollar higher.”  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, ended little changed at 98.72
cents per U.S. dollar after earlier rising to 98.48 cents. It
touched 98.32 cents on Jan. 2, which was the strongest since
Dec. 18.  The currency fell the most in almost two weeks against its
U.S. counterpart yesterday after the  Federal Reserve  revealed it
may end monetary stimulus as early as this year, allowing the
currency to appreciate. The loonie rose Dec. 7 to the highest
level since October versus its U.S. counterpart as employers
added almost six times as many jobs as forecast in November.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bonds ended little changed with
the yield at 1.94 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in
June 2022 fell 12 cents to C$106.96.  The Bank of Canada said it will sell C$3.4 billion ($3.5
billion of five-year notes on Jan. 9. The 1.25 percent
securities will mature in March 2018.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is relying on
consumption and business investment to lead an expansion during
the next two years, and forecast growth will rebound after
slowing to a 0.6 percent annualized pace in the third quarter.
Carney reiterated Dec. 4 he may raise  interest rates  while the
U.S. central bank has eased policy to reduce unemployment.  Carney has kept the key lending rate at 1 percent for more
than two years even as he maintained a bias to raise them if the
economy neared full capacity. He will leave the central bank
June 1 to take the same job with the  Bank of England .  Rate Forecast  Overnight index swaps show greater odds of a Bank of Canada
rate rise this year, with traders assigning a 54 percent chance
to a rate increase in October, up from 19 percent two months
ago, according to Bloomberg calculations.  RBC forecasts the Bank of Canada will increase rates twice
in 2013 to 1.5 percent, in the third and fourth quarters, “but
job numbers to close 2012 won’t be the catalyst,” according to
a note to clients today.  “We think the bank will have to see a more prolonged
pattern of job growth and more optimism from businesses to get
them to consider acting on their current tightening bias,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said in the note. “The central bank faced a similar situation
almost a year ago and maintained that they would not be swayed
on policy.”  Canada’s  jobless rate  fell to 7.1 percent from 7.2 percent
and employment rose by 39,800, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. None of the 23 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
predicted a drop in the unemployment rate and the gain in jobs
was almost double the highest forecast. The rate declined from
7.5 percent over the past year while employment increased by 1.8
percent or by 311,900.  Reserve Currency  “The job gains were in full-time and across most
industries so the reaction has been strong buying of the
Canadian dollar,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The Canadian dollar will trade in a range
near 98.5 per U.S. dollar in the foreseeable future, he said.  The U.S. unemployment rate held at 7.8 percent as employers
added workers in December at about the same pace as the prior
month.  U.S. payrolls rose by 155,000 workers last month following
a revised 161,000 advance in November that was more than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate of 82 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an increase of 152,000. The unemployment
rate held at 7.8 percent after the November figure was revised
up from a previously reported 7.7 percent.  The Canadian dollar has gained 1.4 percent in the past week
versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has added 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  