-- Canada Nov. Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-01-04T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/canada-nov-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) was down 0.3% in
November compared with October, mainly as a result of lower
prices for petroleum and coal products. The Raw Materials Price
Index (RMPI) fell 1.9%, primarily because of lower prices for
mineral fuels, specifically crude oil.  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI declined for the second consecutive month in
November. The decrease of the index accelerated slightly in
November, as the decline was 0.1% in October. The IPPI has
decreased in six of the last seven months.  The decline of the IPPI in November was mainly attributable
to petroleum and coal products (-2.8%), where a majority of the
products, especially gasoline (-4.3%) and fuel oils and other
fuel (-2.7%), posted price decreases. The IPPI excluding
petroleum and coal products rose 0.2%.  Among other groups that decreased was primary metal
products (-0.6%), particularly copper and copper alloy products
and nickel products.  The IPPI decline was moderated by an increase in motor
vehicles and other transportation equipment (+0.8%), primarily
because of higher prices for motor vehicles. The decrease of the
Canadian dollar against the US dollar in November was largely
responsible for this advance.  Some Canadian producers who export their products report
their prices in US dollars. Consequently, the 1.0% depreciation
of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar in November
could have the effect of increasing the corresponding prices in
Canadian dollars. Without the measurable impact of the exchange
rate, the IPPI would have fallen 0.5% instead of 0.3%.  Lumber and other wood products (+0.8%) also contributed to
moderating the IPPI decline in November. The increase was mostly
a result of lumber and ties.  Industrial Product Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with November 2011, the IPPI was down 0.5%, its
fourth consecutive year-over-year decrease.  The downward pressure on the index came mainly from
petroleum and coal products (-2.6%), notably as a result of
lower prices for fuel oils and other fuel. The IPPI excluding
petroleum and coal products declined 0.2% on a year-over-year
basis.  Primary metal products (-3.6%) also contributed to the
year-over-year IPPI decrease. Lower prices for aluminum products
and other non-ferrous metal products were responsible for this
decline.  Motor vehicles and other transportation equipment (-1.3%)
posted its third consecutive year-over-year decrease. The
decline was primarily a result of the appreciation of the
Canadian dollar against the US dollar compared with November
2011.  The 2.9% year-over-year increase in the value of the
Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar may decrease the IPPI.
Without the measurable impact of the exchange rate, the index
would have edged up 0.1% instead of falling 0.5%.  The year-over-year decline in the IPPI was moderated mostly
by lumber and other wood products (+8.6%). Also up were fruit,
vegetable, feeds and other food products (+3.2%) as well as meat,
fish and dairy products (+1.1%).  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  In November, the RMPI (-1.9%) posted its first decrease in
five months, with three of the seven commodity groups down.  The decline of the index was mainly attributable to lower
prices for mineral fuels (-3.1%), specifically crude oil (-3.4%),
which decreased for the first time since June. The RMPI
excluding mineral fuels fell 0.7% in November.  Downward pressure on the RMPI was also exerted by non-
ferrous metals (-3.2%), especially copper and nickel
concentrates (-6.0%) and non-ferrous metal scrap (-3.4%).  Conversely, the RMPI decline was moderated primarily by
animals and animal products (+1.7%) and ferrous materials
(+1.5%).  Raw Materials Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with November 2011, the RMPI was down 8.2%, its
ninth consecutive year-over-year decrease.  The decline of the index was almost entirely a result of
mineral fuels, specifically crude oil (-15.9%). The RMPI
excluding mineral fuels fell 0.7% on a year-over-year basis.  The RMPI was also pulled downward by non-ferrous metals (-
3.2%), as a result of lower prices for radioactive concentrates
(-22.7%).  The year-over-year decline of the RMPI was moderated
slightly by wood products (+5.1%) and vegetable products (+3.4%).  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months (for
example, when the July index is released, the index for the
previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave the
plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike
the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and
all the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the
plant and the time the final user takes possession of it,
including the transportation, wholesale, and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially in US dollars,
which are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular,
this is the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood
products. Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian
dollar against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the
conversion into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents
provide their prices. This is not a measure that takes the full
effect of exchange rates into account.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot rate) established
by the  Bank of Canada , and it is available on CANSIM in table
176-0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the release, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices
paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of
those prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices
are denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  