-- Cerberus Said to Near to Buy Supervalu Grocery Chain
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-01-04T19:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/cerberus-said-to-near-a-supervalu-deal-that-includes-all-assets.html
An investor group led by Cerberus
Capital Management LP is nearing a deal to acquire some of
grocery chain  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s assets and become a shareholder
in the remaining public company, said three people familiar with
the matter.  Cerberus and its real estate partners are willing to put in
$500 million in equity to appease lenders that had previously
balked on terms Cerberus was seeking, said two of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Last month, Supervalu had been moving toward a deal to sell only
individual chains such as Albertsons and Save-A-Lot to Cerberus
after discussions on a full takeover stalled, people with
knowledge of the matter said then.  The Cerberus-led group and Supervalu have agreed to a
framework that includes buying some of the company’s chains. In
addition, the investor group would then invest in the remaining
company and become a major shareholder, according to the people.
The parties are seeking to announce an agreement on Jan. 10,
according to one person. A deal has yet to be finalized and
could still fall apart.  Supervalu’s shares jumped 20 percent to $3.10 as of 2:43
p.m. New York time.  Mike Siemienas , a spokesman for  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-
based Supervalu, declined to comment, as did  Peter Duda , a
spokesman for Cerberus.  Cerberus already owns some Albertsons stores. In 2006, the
New York-based private-equity firm had led an investment group
that bought more than 600 Albertsons -- including in Dallas,
 Florida  and Northern California -- as part of Supervalu’s
acquisition of the chain, a deal valued at $17.4 billion at the
time.  Dow Jones reported earlier that Cerberus was close to a
deal on Supervalu.  Dropping Sales  Sales at Supervalu have fallen for three straight years and
are projected to drop 4.5 percent to $34.5 billion in the
company’s fiscal 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The grocer, which also owns the Jewel-Osco brand, has recently
lowered prices at some of its chains to attract customers and
compete with big-box retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT)   The Save-A-Lot chain is Supervalu’s largest, with more than
1,280 stores across the country, according to the company’s
website. Albertsons is the second-largest chain within Supervalu
with more than 450 stores in the Northwest, southern California
and Nevada.  In July, Supervalu said it was working with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. to examine options. During the
sale process, the company attracted interest in parts of its
business from billionaire Ronald Burkle, as well as private-
equity firms KKR and TPG Capital, people with knowledge of the
matter have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  