-- Chain Hidden in Grave May Be Subject to Soviet Law
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-04T12:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/chain-hidden-in-grave-may-be-subject-to-soviet-law.html
A Berlin court warned a retired
librarian that she may be forced to hand over a 400-year-old
gilded chain she unearthed in 1965 from an East German
graveyard, where it lay hidden from the Soviet authorities.  Borghild Niemann, together with her father Robert
Haeussler, crept into the graveyard at dusk to recover the
hidden chain and smuggled it back into  West Germany . She says
the treasure should belong to a business association in the
Baltic port of Wismar to which her father later donated it.  The city government of Wismar filed suit against her,
arguing that under Soviet military law the chain should have
been handed in to the occupiers and demanding it be transferred
to public ownership, court documents show.  “You realize you may lose this case,” judge Juergen Beier
told Niemann at a court hearing in Berlin today. “It would be
better if you reached a settlement.” Beier said he will issue
his decision in February or March.  The gold-plated silver chain, called the Papagoyenkette
because of its parrot pendant, was the insignia of a merchants’
guild founded in the Middle Ages in the Hanseatic League port of
Wismar. Its value is primarily symbolic and historic, according
to Niemann’s lawyer, Ulf Bischof of Bischof & Paetow
Rechtsanwaelte in Berlin. He estimated it would fetch more than
10,000 euros ($13,250) if sold commercially.  Shooting Contest  Crafted by a local goldsmith in the early 17th century, the
chain was awarded to the winner of a shooting competition where
the targets were wooden parrots. The victor’s privileges also
included an opulent house in Wismar and the right to brew beer
for a year.  The Kaufmanns-Compagnie Wismar guild is known to have
existed at least as early as 1379. The membership initially
comprised Wismar brewers whose beer was exported to England,
Holland and  France . It survived until 1945, when the Soviet
military authorities ordered its dissolution and expropriation.  The parrot chain was saved from confiscation by a guild
member who buried it in his family grave, sealed in a tin, in
1945, according to court documents obtained by  Bloomberg News .  As an 18-year-old, Niemann accompanied her father across
the border to dig up the chain, she said over coffee in the
court cafeteria. Her Wismar-based grandmother had died, and her
father thought it could be the last opportunity to retrieve the
gilded parrot because trips to East  Germany  by West Germans
required an invitation from a family member, she said.  Digging at Dusk  They worked by nightfall, in fear of being caught by the
East German authorities.  “I kept watch and my father dug with a pitchfork,”
Niemann said. “He pulled up the tin. The parrot chain was
black, like a lump of earth, wrapped in a moldy cloth. We
disappeared very fast and took it back to my late grandmother’s
house to clean it.”  From Wismar, they took the train back across the border to
western Germany.  “I had the chain round my neck under my woolen jacket,”
Niemann said. “My father had the parrot pendant on his keyring
in his pocket. We were used to crossing the border and knew that
people were often asked to accompany the guards and were then
searched. Luckily it didn’t happen this time.  “I was terrified,” Niemann said. “Anyone who had seen
the chain would know instantly it wasn’t fashion jewelry. I felt
huge relief after we crossed the border.”  The parrot and chain remained in a safe in the family home
until the fall of the  Berlin Wall  in 1989. Haeussler moved back
to Wismar. He tried to re-establish the merchants’ guild and
failed because of a shortage of surviving members. Haeussler
continued to dedicate his life to Wismar and in 2000 -- at the
age of 88 -- he was elected to the city council.  Business Association  In 2008, Haeussler donated the Papagoyenkette to the
 Wismarer Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft e.V.,  a local business
association, on condition that it should be worn on festive
occasions, should remain in Wismar forever and would revert to
the  city museum  if the association is ever dissolved.  When the city raised doubts about the legality of
Haeussler’s grave-digging operation, the Wismarer
Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft reversed the donation, handing the chain
back to his daughter after Haeussler’s death.  Frank Junge, a spokesman for the city government of Wismar,
said in an e-mail that the city saw no alternative to legal
action to force Niemann to hand over the chain, which it wants
to display in a local museum.  “They could have picked up the phone before taking me to
court,” said Niemann. “I want to have the right to decide how
to dispose of it. This is a chain that should be worn at
ceremonies and has a significance -- it represents a long
tradition of commerce, and is not purely a museum exhibit.”  Ines Raum, the current head of the Wismarer
Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft, said the court case is regrettable.  “It was my personal wish at the time that we loan it to
the city museum and use it for certain occasions,” Raum said by
telephone. “That would have been the best solution.”  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 