-- Venezuela’s Chavez Has Breathing Problems in Cancer Fight
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-01-04T22:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/chavez-has-trouble-breathing-from-severe-respiratory-infection.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
experiencing a “severe” respiratory infection that is making
it hard for the cancer-stricken leader to breathe less than a
week before he is due to start a new term.  “Comandante Chavez has faced complications following a
severe lung infection,” Information Minister Ernesto Villegas
said in a nationally-televised  statement  last night. Chavez, who
Villegas said must “strictly adhere” to his medical treatment,
remains in a Havana hospital after undergoing a fourth cancer-
related surgery more than three weeks ago.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  again described the 58-year-
old leader’s recovery as “complex” yesterday after returning
from an extended visit with Chavez. The government has not said
what type of cancer Chavez has suffered from since June 2011.
The president declared himself “cancer free” ahead of October
elections that he won.  “Any time a cancer surgery leads to a lung infection it
can be a significant risk to recovery and can be potentially
life threatening,” said Michael Pishvaian, an oncologist at the
Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington . Pishvaian has not treated Chavez.  With Chavez scheduled to be sworn in for a third six-year
term on Jan. 10, opposition leaders warned that any move to
change constitutional procedures for the inauguration would be
considered a “coup.” If Chavez can’t take office as scheduled,
the head of the national assembly is sworn in and must call
elections within 30 days, according to the constitution.  Inauguration Day  The current head of the assembly,  Diosdado Cabello , said on
Dec. 22 that the opposition should “forget about January 10”
and that Chavez’s inauguration could be postponed. Cabello, a
rival of Maduro, is expected to win re-election in an assembly
vote tomorrow.  “We’ve seen that by talking about the continuity of
Chavez’s government they’ve been openly talking about a theory
that in my opinion is unacceptable because it doesn’t respect
the constitution,” Ramon Jose Medina, the deputy head of the
opposition alliance, said in a phone interview yesterday. “That
would be a coup d’etat.”  If Chavez doesn’t appear Jan. 10, Cabello must decide
whether it’s a “temporary absence” or an “absolute absence.”
If doctors say Chavez needs more time to recover, Cabello can
appoint himself as interim president for 90 days while Chavez
convalesces. If he judges that Chavez will never recover then he
must declare an absolute absence and call for elections within
30 days. In either case, Cabello should take the presidency on a
temporary basis, Medina said.  Maduro Tapped  Chavez said on Dec. 8 that voters should elect Maduro to
protect his legacy if his illness prevents him from remaining in
office. Medina said the opposition is preparing itself for
elections and will select a candidate by consensus to run
against Maduro since there won’t be time to have primaries.  “Whatever they’ve decided on, we’re ready to defend the
constitution,” Medina said, adding that the opposition would
seek help from regional bodies such as Union of South American
Nations and the  Organization of American States  if the
government doesn’t adhere to the constitution.  Maduro and Cabello, speaking at a coffee-packing plant
yesterday in Caracas, said they had just returned from Cuba
where they swore an oath in front of Chavez to remain united.
Cabello dismissed rumors of a rift between himself and Chavez’s
anointed successor.  ‘Transition to Socialism’  “Here we have all the ministers in a new stage, because
2013 will be a year of work,” Maduro said. “The only
transition going on here is the transition to socialism.”  Venezuela’s bonds have gained as investors bet that
Chavez’s health will force new elections and the possibility of
a new government that would introduce market-friendly policies,
said Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in  New York .  “If there is an election there is a non-trivial chance of
some kind of change,” Rosen said in a phone interview. “If the
president is healthy then the chances of an election are zero.
If he’s incapacitated then there’s some possibility of elections
which means some possibility of his party losing power.”  Yields on Venezuela’s 9.25 percent dollar-denominated bonds
due in 2027 rose 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage points, to
8.77 percent, according to date compiled by Bloomberg. The price
fell 0.26 cents to 103.88 cents on the dollar. Prices yesterday
reached their highest since Aug. 2007.  Maduro yesterday criticized opposition leaders and media
outlets for spreading “false” rumors about Chavez’s health.
Maduro called for unity and said that Chavez will be back in
 Venezuela  “sooner rather than later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  