-- Chile to Sell First 30-Year Fixed-Rate Bonds
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-04T19:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/chile-to-sell-first-30-year-fixed-rate-bonds.html
Chile plans to sell 30-year fixed-
rate bonds for the first time, as South America’s least-indebted
country seeks to establish a pricing benchmark that may help
develop a nominal mortgage market.  The government will sell as much as 250 billion pesos ($530
million) of the 30-year notes, according to an e-mailed
statement today from the country’s Finance Ministry. The plan
was revealed as part of the government’s annual guidance on
issuances for the coming year. Chile may issue as much as $5
billion of local debt overall in 2012.  The new 30-year bonds will provide a benchmark for long-
term fixed-rate debt from the private sector, the Ministry said.
Chile is trying to reduce its decades-long reliance on
inflation-linked debt to move closer to the model used in
developed markets, the government said.  “What we want is to continually build up and complete
yield curves that are important for the economy,” according to
the statement.  The country’s central bank, which issues debt independently
of the finance ministry, yesterday announced plans to sell $3.1
billion of fixed-rate and inflation-linked bonds due in five and
10 years, while eliminating the two-year fixed-rate maturity.  ‘Risk Free’  The issuance plans for both the Finance Ministry and the
central bank are subject to change based on market conditions.
Both entities have sought to extend the maturity of their debt
by cutting out two-year bonds as well as some five-year and
seven-year notes.  Last year the Finance Ministry offered 20-year fixed-rate
bonds for the first time, selling 199 billion pesos of the debt.  The issuance this year by the government and central bank
would be less than the amount sold in the past three years, said
Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones
in Santiago. The drop in volume may help push yields lower, he
said.  “It is at the low end of demand for risk-free securities
in the Chilean economy,” Selaive said.  The reduced volume may also leave the central bank more
flexibility to issue additional bonds if needed to offset any
interventions in the currency market, he said.  “It leaves room for an intervention because there’s high
demand from local and foreign investors so if there was an
offering of more paper it would be absorbed easily,” Selaive
said.  The  yield  on 10-year fixed-rate bonds fell one basis point
to 5.52 percent today. The  yield  on two-year fixed-rate bonds
fell two basis points to 5.51 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  