-- China Home Prices Gain in 7th Month on Recovery: SouFun
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-04T04:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/china-home-prices-gain-in-seventh-month-on-recovery-soufun-says.html
China ’s new home prices rose for a
seventh month as buyers concerned that prices will surge again
boosted sales, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Prices in December climbed 0.23 percent from November to
9,715  yuan  ($1,559) per square meter (10.76 square feet), the
country’s biggest real estate website owner said in an e-mailed
statement today, based on its survey of 100 cities. The city of
Harbin in the northeastern Heilongjiang province had the biggest
gain, with prices jumping 3.7 percent.  The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said
last month it would support demand from residents seeking bigger
homes this year, prompting speculation that authorities won’t
add to property curbs including higher down payments and home-
purchase restrictions. Beijing has suspended auctions of premier
land slots since September to avoid setting new price records
that would fuel expectations for further home price increases.  “With the fundamentals in the property market improving at
an increasingly faster pace, further home price gains in the
first half of this year are a high-probability event,” Luo Yu,
a Shanghai-based analyst at CEBM Group, an advisory company,
wrote in a report today. “Although the government’s tolerance
over  home prices  has increased, the growing panic about prices
may force policy adjustments.”  December home prices were little changed from a year
earlier, climbing 0.03 percent, according to SouFun. They
snapped eight months of year-on-year declines.  Prices climbed in 53 of the 70 cities the government tracks
in November from the previous month, the most in 18 months, the
National Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 18.  Halted Sale  The following day, Beijing halted the sale of a residential
site in an area close to embassies that could have set a record
for the capital city, according to broker Bacic & 5i5j Group.
The municipal authorities suspended auctions of 10 land parcels
in September.  Moody’s Investors Service in November revised China’s
property sector to “stable” from “negative” on expectation
sales and access to funding will continue to improve in 2013.  “With the preconditions of continued economic recovery and
policy maintaining the current status, the real estate industry
will hopefully keep its momentum for the better” this year,
SouFun said in the statement. “But since the destocking of new
projects started in the past two years hasn’t ended, the
likelihood of a huge nationwide price rebound is small.”  The government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its more than two-year effort to curb the
 property market . It also imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased construction of low-
cost social housing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Malcolm Scott, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  