-- China Services Growth Slows Even as New Business Picks Up
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-04T06:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/china-services-growth-slows-even-as-new-business-picks-up-2-.html
China ’s services industries’ growth
slowed in December, a private survey showed, even as a pickup in
new business added to the likelihood that the economy
accelerated for the first time in eight quarters.  The services Purchasing Managers’ Index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today was at 51.7 after 52.1
in November. Companies added workers at the fastest pace in more
than two years and were “optimistic” business would improve,
HSBC said in a statement.  “Despite the moderation of December’s headline services
PMI, the underlying strength of services sectors improved in
terms of stronger new business flows and employment growth,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said in the
statement. “This, plus the further pickup of manufacturing
growth, suggests that China is on track” to report fourth-
quarter economic growth of about 8 percent, he said.  China’s new leadership, headed by  Xi Jinping , is targeting
“sustained and healthy development” of an economy that may
have expanded last year at the weakest rate since 1999. The
government cut taxes for smaller companies and low-income
households, accelerated investment approvals and boosted
infrastructure spending to support growth amid a slump in
exports.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.6 percent as
of 2:11 p.m. local time after advancing as much as 1.2 percent.
The gauge had gained 16 percent through Dec. 31 since falling to
a 2012 low on Dec. 3. Chinese stock markets were closed Jan. 1-3
for the New Year holiday.  Mixed Picture  Services industries, which include retailing,
telecommunications and transportation, account for about 43
percent of the economy compared with about 90 percent in the U.S.
Under China’s current five-year plan, the government is seeking
to raise that share to 47 percent by 2015.  Purchasing managers ’ indexes for China have given a mixed
picture of the strength of the economic rebound.  Today’s report contrasts with the non-manufacturing PMI
released yesterday by the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, which rose to the
highest level in four months.  HSBC’s manufacturing PMI released Dec. 31 showed the
fastest expansion in 19 months in December, while the
federation’s gauge released the next day was unchanged from the
previous month at 50.6.  Today’s report “is negative for sentiment, but we don’t
see a big market impact given that yesterday’s official survey
showed a bigger gain,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The overall subdued pace
of recovery highlights challenges to growth.”  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Andrew Joyce  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  