-- Chinese Censors Lift the Veil on Bloggers
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-01-04T17:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/chinese-censors-lift-the-veil-on-bloggers.html
The other day  China  presented a new
deal to its  538 million Internet users : Disclose your identities
to your service providers, and we’ll protect your privacy from
everyone else.  Acceptance is not voluntary -- rather,  it’s law . But that
isn’t stopping China’s editorialists, bloggers and microbloggers
from openly contemplating a serious question: Can China’s
raucous, muckraking Internet culture survive if the anonymous
microbloggers who enervate it are forced to disclose their
identities to the often state-owned entities that allow them to
surf in the first place?  For the Communist Party-run news outlets that make it their
business to propagandize in favor of government policy, the
answer is an enthusiastic yes. In the weeks and days before the
law was revealed to the public, People’s Daily, the self-
declared mouthpiece of the Party ran several editorials that --
in retrospect -- were designed to lay the groundwork for
restrictive Internet legislation. Of these, perhaps the most
notable was published on Christmas Eve, under a pseudonymous
byline.  It argued :  “Without wings, the bird of freedom cannot fly high.
Without rule of law, a free internet cannot go far … Cleaning up
the online world demands the self-discipline of web users, but
even more it demands the interventionist discipline of rule of
law. Only by putting the “binds” of rule of law on the internet
… can we possibly restrain irresponsible rumors, restrain the
leakage of personal information, and make the internet clean
again.”  The binds that China’s lawgivers have in mind are several,
including provisions restricting and penalizing spammers,
fraudsters and online marketers. But the provision at the heart
of the new law targets the average Internet user most directly.
Under it,  internet service providers  will be required to verify
the identities of new subscribers (subscribers will be allowed
to maintain online pseudonyms) before service can be activated.  For most users, this won’t be much of an inconvenience or
change (540 million people are already online in China). But the
cumulative effect of this provision, and an earlier  March 2012
rule  that China’s rollicking microblogs verify the actual
identities of their millions of oft-anonymous users have left
many of China’s netizens nervous. (Even though that earlier rule
has been  barely and badly  enforced.)  Anonymity, after all, is one of the reasons that China’s
microblogs have become the nation’s de facto town square,
providing an unprecedented platform for discussions about
politics and public affairs. At the same time, they’ve provided
cover for a wave of amateur muckrakers to  uncover , tweet about
and  re-tweet  alleged corruption and other misdeeds among Chinese
officialdom (often with the  approval of Party-run media  and some
 government officials ). Lift the veil of anonymity so that
Internet service providers and their regulators know who is
doing the anti-corruption tweeting, and the anti-corruption
tweeters will go silent, the argument goes.  “After the internet real-name registration comes into
effect, online anti-corruption efforts will be a thing of the
past,”  tweeted Duan Wanjin , a lawyer in Xian, via the Sina Weibo
microblog on Saturday night. “In the future, if citizens want to
report wrongdoers online, they’ll have to handle themselves like
 suicide bombers , dying but succeeding for a righteous cause.”  Neither People’s Daily or other Party-run newspapers deny a
state interest in the “real name” data collected by the service
providers. Rather  they shift  the terms of the argument and offer
the Orwellian argument that by disclosing their identities,
China’s netizens are actually enhancing their privacy. For
example, the nationalist, English-language edition of the Global
Times ran a Saturday editorial in support of the law, noting:  “It regulates for the first time that the State should
protect online information that bears someone’s personal
identity and relates to privacy, along with punitive measures
for violations.”  In other words, the government can’t be expected to protect
your privacy if it doesn’t know who you are. So tell us who you
are.  For now, online Chinese reaction to the requirement has
been decidedly muted, especially compared with the panicked
reaction that real-name registration for microblogs produced in
March 2012. It’s possible that many netizens, having seen the
lax enforcement of the microblogging requirements, are assuming
that this latest step will wither as well. Or, just as likely,
the fact that the new law only applies to new accounts means
that most current Chinese microbloggers won’t be affected by it,
anyway. And then there’s the holidays: China may not be a
Christian nation, but it  celebrates  Christmas and New Year’s Eve
with a gusto that renders privacy concerns a low priority right
now.  Whatever the explanation, the discussion hasn’t topped any
trending topic lists. Still, the issue isn’t censored --
searching for “real name registration” brings up thousands of
results on Chinese microblogs, the vast majority of which
directly oppose the new law. Humor, especially in service of
exposing government hypocrisy, is typically the first-line
defense, with many microbloggers pointing out that People’s
Daily, a paper that regularly runs  pseudonymous editorials , is
the chief propagandist in promoting the end to their anonymity.  “Real-name registration has been put into practice on the
Internet,”  tweeted a microblogger  in Shenyang, using the Sina
Weibo service. “So why isn’t it being used in People’s Daily?”  Other, more literary-minded microbloggers have taken to
pointing out that many of China’s revolutionary heroes used
pseudonyms. Thus, Xi’an Dragon, the online handle of a Sina
Weibo microblogger in Xi’an, invokes the seminal 20th Century
Chinese writer  Lu Xun , a favorite of modern China’s founding
father, Chairman Mao:  “If Lu Xun and  Mao Zedong  were still alive, I’d ask their
opinion of real name registration. After all, Lu Xun had many
pen names and Mao Zedong also published many articles under many
names in many newspapers. Internet real-name registration will
become the darkest political scandal in human history: the Real-
Name Registration Scandal.”  However, by far the most common criticism of the real-name
requirement is that China’s civil servants are asking for ever-
greater degrees of transparency from China’s Internet users
without requiring it of themselves. Indeed, in the last two
years, Chinese governments at various levels have required “real
name” registration for  kitchen knives ,  railway tickets  and  HIV
testing , among other things. Meanwhile, a long-promised and very
popular proposed civil service reform that would  require
personal financial disclosures  keeps getting punted into the
future. For the online opposition to China’s new Internet law,
the two issues are directly connected, and it’s not difficult to
find  microblogs  and  blogs  making the connection. A  New Year’s
Eve tweet  from another pseudonymous microblogger -- this time in
Zhengzhou -- is harshly representative:  “A population of 1.4 billion needs to file a real name
registration to buy a kitchen knife. Airlines and railways
transported 2,000,000,000 passengers who revealed their real
names. But 10,000,000 working civil servants cannot disclose
their personal property? It’s not impossible, but they just
don’t want to do it. If it’s legitimate income why can’t they
accept public supervision?”  It’s a touchy issue: Corruption is a near-daily feature of
Chinese news reporting these days, and it’s the rare official
who doesn’t have an  impressive portfolio  of real estate and
other property (the  ostensibly non-corrupt  don’t do so badly,
either). Presumably, forcing officials to reveal their assets
would go a long way to solving some of China’s corruption
problem. Still, one of the advantages of being a member of
China’s Communist Party is that there really are no physical
venues at which you might have to answer such questions. If
microblogs stop being a virtual venue, then those questions
simply won’t be asked as much.  More likely than not, effective enforcement of an Internet
real name registration law will ensure that current state of
affairs persists a little while longer, if only due to the
chilling effect. But unless somebody shuts down China’s Internet
entirely, there’s not much that can be done to stop the Chinese
people from wondering why so much more is being asked of them
than of their public servants.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article Tobin Harshaw
at  Tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 