-- China Swaps Jumps Most in 3 Months on Signs Recovery Quickening
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-01-04T02:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/china-swaps-jumps-most-in-3-months-on-signs-recovery-quickening.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  jumped by
the most in three months after factory and services data showed
signs a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy is
gathering pace.  Gross domestic product will rise eight percent in 2013, the
Securities Times reported today, citing researchers from the
State Information Center, the Ministry of Finance, the State
Council and the National Development and Reform Commission. That
compares with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg for 7.7 percent growth last year.  “Recent data from China confirmed the economy continued to
expand,” sending swaps higher, said  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  The one-year swap, the fixed cost to receive the seven-day
repurchase rate, increased 10 basis points, 0.10 percentage
point, to 3.44 percent from Dec. 31 as of 10:10 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the biggest
advance since Sept. 14. Markets in China were closed for the
past three days for public holidays.  The nation’s Purchasing Managers’ Index of manufacturing
was at 50.6 in December, a third month of expansion, according
to a report from the National Bureau of Statistics and
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing on Jan. 1. A gauge for
services industries was 56.1 last month versus 55.6 in November,
data showed yesterday. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The seven-day  repo rate , a measure of interbank funding
availability, declined 51 basis points to 4.07 percent in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  