-- Clearwire Investor Will Ask FCC to Block Sprint Deals
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-04T20:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/clearwire-holder-crest-seeks-to-block-sprint-s-takeovers.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  investor Crest
Financial will ask the Federal Communications Commission to
block  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s takeover of the company, as well as
a separate deal between Sprint and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , saying they
undermine the value of Clearwire’s airwaves.  The firm plans to file its complaint with the FCC before
the Jan. 28 comment deadline on the two transactions, David
Schumacher, general counsel for Houston-based Crest Financial,
said on a conference call with reporters today. The low price
Sprint is getting for Clearwire’s spectrum could hurt the value
of other airwaves, making it a concern for the FCC, he said.  “Crest is optimistic that the FCC will take a close look
at the transaction,” he said. “By artificially pushing down
the price of Clearwire spectrum, Sprint and Clearwire threaten
to devalue future government auctions of spectrum.”  Crest filed a shareholder lawsuit last month to stop
Softbank’s $20 billion deal to acquire 70 percent of Sprint,
saying it undervalued Clearwire, which is majority-owned by
Sprint. After the Softbank deal was announced in October, Sprint
moved to acquire the rest of Clearwire for $2.97 a share last
month. Clearwire’s board signed off on the transaction.  “I doubt this kind of complaint from Crest is likely to
derail the Sprint-Clearwire or Sprint-Softbank deals,” said
Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst with Medley Global
Advisors. “Third-party concerns about the impact on shareholder
value is unlikely to move the needle much relative to the
agency’s overall evaluation of the deals.”  Justin Cole, a spokesman for the FCC in  Washington , didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  ‘Best Path’  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire, said the company doesn’t comment on pending
litigation or the regulatory filing intentions of other parties.  Sprint and Clearwire reviewed their strategic options over
the past two years and found the deal “delivers certain and
attractive value for our shareholders, and was the best path
forward,” DiGioia said.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint in Overland Park,
 Kansas , called the Crest lawsuit “baseless and without merit.”  “This is the right transaction for Sprint and Clearwire
shareholders, for American consumers and for the health of the
U.S. wireless industry,” he said.  Sprint decided to acquire 100 percent of Clearwire after
their four-year joint venture struggled to build a nationwide
wireless network, leading to billions in losses for Clearwire.
Sprint aims to take over Clearwire’s spectrum -- the airwaves
that let mobile devices operate -- and use it to bolster its own
network. Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse said last
month that the deal was “critical” to turnaround efforts at
the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  