-- Cole Returns to West Ham, Ba and Debuchy Complete Transfers
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-04T16:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/cole-returns-to-first-club-west-ham-newcastle-signs-debuchy.html
Joe Cole  joined Premier League soccer
team West Ham United on an 18-month contract after Liverpool
allowed the midfielder to leave on a free transfer.  Cole, 31, started his career with the Hammers in 1998
before moving to Chelsea from where he signed for Liverpool in
2010.  “Coming back here brings back all the memories of the
pitches I learnt to play on,” Cole said in comments published
on West Ham’s  website .  Liverpool paid the London-born player about 3 million
pounds ($4.8 million) to terminate his contract, which had
another 18 months to run, according to U.K. media reports.  Cole won three Premier League titles and three F.A. Cups
during his seven-year stay with Chelsea. His move to Liverpool
was less successful with the midfielder playing just 26 times in
the league for the Reds. He spent last season on loan in  France 
with Lille.  West Ham also signed Arsenal striker Marouane Chamakh on
loan through the end of the season.  Chamakh, 28, had 14 goals in 67 games since joining Arsenal
from Bordeaux in 2010. He’d fallen out of favor with Gunners
manager  Arsene Wenger  the past two seasons, appearing in just 23
games with three goals.  “I think this is a very important move for me and I don’t
want to waste any more time,” Chamakh said on West Ham’s
website. “We played only one striker at Arsenal, so I didn’t
play a lot. I hope to do so more with West Ham.”  European champion Chelsea said it had completed the
transfer of Demba Ba, 27, from Newcastle after activating a 7.5
million-pound release clause in the striker’s contract.  “When the club who won the  Champions League  wants you, the
decision is very easy,” Ba told his new team’s website. “This
club is massive and that’s something that helped the decision a
lot. It was not a hard one.”  Defender Mathieu Debuchy joined Newcastle from Lille for an
undisclosed fee, signing a 5 1/2-year contract with the Premier
League club.  “After many great years at Lille, I felt I was ready for a
new challenge and cannot wait to play for such a big club in the
best league in the world,” Debuchy said on Newcastle’s  website .  The 27-year-old made more than 230 appearances in 10
seasons at Lille. He’s also played 12 times for the French
national team.  Tottenham said it’s reached an agreement with Schalke
midfielder Lewis Holtby to join the Premier League club in July.
The  London  club gave no financial details in the statement on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Bob Bensch in London at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 