-- Coloplast Gains as BofA Sees Special Dividend: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-04T09:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/coloplast-gains-as-bofa-sees-special-dividend-copenhagen-mover.html
Coloplast A/S (COLOB)  gained the most among
Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks after Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said the world’s largest maker of ostomy products probably
will pay out a special dividend as new offerings boost profits.  Coloplast rose as much as 2 percent, the most since Dec.
20. The shares gained 1.7 percent to 283.30 kroner at 9:04 a.m.
in the Danish capital, with trading volume at 15 percent of the
three-month daily average. The stock was the biggest winner in
the Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 index, which rose 0.1 percent.  Coloplast is investing more than 1 billion kroner ($174
million) over the next five years to expand sales, BofA Merrill
Lynch said today in a note to investors. That’s enabling the
Humlebaek, Denmark-based company to introduce new products and
gain market share, increasing profits and probably triggering a
 special dividend  as early as this year, the bank said.  “Coloplast can continue to outperform the wider European
Union medtech sector in light of its potential to accelerate
growth, through market share gains in the U.S. and  emerging
markets  and new product innovation,” BofA Merrill Lynch
analysts, including Ed Ridley-Day, said in the note.  Coloplast may reach a net cash position of 1.5 billion
kroner by Sept. 30, 2013, the end of its current fiscal year,
after repaying debt, according to the bank. That will exceed the
company’s 1 billion-krone target and trigger the dividend if the
company doesn’t make any strategic acquisitions, the analysts
wrote. They repeated their recommendation to buy the stock.  Coloplast said Nov. 6 that full-year  sales  may rise as much
as 7 percent, exceeding the 6 percent average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  