-- Colonial Repairs Spur Biggest Gulf Gas Loss in 3 Weeks
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-01-04T21:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/colonial-repairs-spur-biggest-gulf-gas-loss-in-3-weeks.html
A delay in repairs to Colonial
Pipeline Co.’s main gasoline line running from Houston to  North
Carolina  today spurred the  biggest loss  for U.S.  Gulf Coast 
gasoline in more than three weeks.  Colonial’s Line 1, which carries more than 1.4 million
barrels of gasoline from Houston to Greensboro, is operating at
reduced flows as the company repairs damage to a booster pump.
Colonial today said it “discovered significant damage” to the
pump and pushed back the expected completion of maintenance to
Jan. 7 from Jan. 5.  The booster pump failed Jan. 1, said Colonial, which
operates 5,500 miles of oil product pipelines connecting
refineries in the U.S. Gulf Coast to customers in the Southeast
and East Coast. Lines 3, 4, 22 and 24, which serve New York,  New
Jersey ,  Pennsylvania ,  Maryland  and eastern North Carolina, are
also at reduced flows during the repairs, the company said in a
bulletin to shippers.  Reformulated gasoline  to be blended with ethanol, or RBOB,
on the Gulf Coast fell 5 cents to 9.5 cents a gallon below
futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:29 p.m. That’s
the biggest decline since Dec. 13.  Conventional gasoline  to be
blended with ethanol, or CBOB, retreated 3 cents to 15 cents
below futures.  Speculation that Colonial’s longer-than-anticipated repairs
will keep supply in the region contributed to today’s decline in
the Gulf, according to Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks &
Opinions LLC in Houston. “It’s more about relieving supply from
the Gulf Coast,” he said.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  in the region dropped 0.25 cent to
trade at a discount of 2.25 cents to heating oil futures.  Harbor Gasoline  Gasoline in the  New York  Harbor extended losses for a
second day as inventories in the region rose to the highest
level in almost nine months.  Stockpiles of motor fuel in the Central Atlantic area
including New York Harbor, referred to as PADD 1B, gained
578,000 barrels to 26.1 million in the week ended Dec. 28, the
Energy Department reported today. That’s the highest level since
May 18.  The premium for RBOB in New York dropped 0.13 cent to 5
cents above futures, while CBOB fell 0.12 cent to 3.88 cents
above Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  