-- Colombian Peso Extends Weekly Decline After Bank Minutes
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-01-04T19:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/colombian-peso-extends-weekly-decline-after-bank-minutes.html
Colombia’s peso fell, extending its
first weekly drop since November, on speculation policy makers
will lower borrowing costs further to boost a slowing economy.  Central bank minutes released today indicated the board was
split three ways when it surprised analysts by lowering the
benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, on Dec. 21 to 4.25 percent. More than one policy maker
voted for a 50 basis point cut and one opted for no change.  “The generally dovish stance should signify at least one
additional rate cut to come,” Bret Rosen, a Latin America
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank, wrote in a note to
clients today. “With the currency well below the 1,800 level,
another rate cut could potentially take a little appreciation
pressure off of the peso as well.”  The peso depreciated 0.5 percent to 1,771 per U.S. dollar
at the close in Bogota, extending its drop since Dec. 28 to 0.6
percent. That is the first weekly decline since the period ended
Nov. 16. The peso touched 1,750.50 on Jan. 2, the strongest
intraday level since July 2011.  The Colombian currency weakened earlier today on
speculation policy makers will take further measures to ease its
gains after central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said Jan. 2
on RCN Radio that the strong peso is a concern and reiterated
Banco de la Republica will buy at least $20 million a day
through at least the first quarter.  Dollar Purchases  The central bank might increase daily dollar purchases or
extend them should the peso continue its rally, said  Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s
second-biggest bank.  “Given slowing growth, the central bank is more
susceptible to intervene at these levels,” Perez said in a
telephone interview.  The economy grew 2.1 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, less than half the 4.9 percent rate in the prior
three months, the government reported Dec. 20. That was weaker
than all 28 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
debt due in July 2024 rose two basis points to 5.68 percent,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  