-- Credit Markets Pare Weekly Gain in Europe as Bond Sales Subside
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-04T14:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/credit-markets-pare-weekly-gain-in-europe-as-bond-sales-subside.html
Credit markets pared their biggest
weekly rally since September and bond sales slowed in  Europe  as
a rise in U.S. payrolls added to signs the  Federal Reserve  may
stop buying bonds this year.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated companies rose six basis points to 425
at 2:20 p.m. in  London , up from a 17-month low yesterday. French
lenders Caisse de Refinancement de l’Habitat SA and Banque
Federative du Credit Mutuel SA tapped bond markets after banks
led 6.3 billion euros ($8.2 billion) of deals yesterday.  The U.S. jobless rate held at a revised 7.8 percent,
matching the lowest since December 2008, Labor Department data
show. Federal Reserve members said in the minutes of the Dec.
11-12 meeting that they may end quantitative easing in 2013,
which Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said would continue until the
labor market improves.  “If QE is finished sooner than expected, yields could go
up quicker than everyone thinks,” said Barnaby Martin, a credit
strategist at Bank of America Corp. in London.  With corporate bond yields near record lows, investors are
seeking riskier assets from Europe’s most indebted countries.
The premium investors demand to hold Ireland’s Electricity
Supply Board’s 6.25 percent bonds due 2017 instead of benchmark
German government debt narrowed by 363 basis points to 227 since
they were issued in September. The spread on  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) ’s 4.5 percent 2017 bonds tightened 157 basis points to 240
since their issue in September.  BFCM, CRH  BFCM and CRH issued securities as yields on financial
company debt are 2.1 percent on average, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Financial index. That’s just above
the record-low 2 percent on Dec. 28.  BFCM in Strasbourg raised 1.25 billion euros from five-year
bonds that will yield 72 basis points more than the swap rate,
people familiar with transaction said. That compares with an
average 153 basis points for securities in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s financial index.  Paris-based CRH sold 1 billion euros of 12-year covered
bonds, securities backed by loans and an issuer guarantee, at a
spread of 46 basis points, said people familiar with the deal,
who asked not to be named because they’re not authorized to
speak about it.  Spain ’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and BNP Paribas
SA led yesterday’s bond sales, which were more than double last
year’s daily average of 2.8 billion euros, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Rally  Even though bond sales subsided compared with yesterday,
banks and companies are already putting their funding plans in
place for 2013. Deutsche Bank AG plans to sell 10-year senior
unsecured bonds, while U.S. satellite-television producer
 DirecTV (DTV)  will meet fixed-income investors in Europe this quarter,
according to people with knowledge of the deals.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index fell 11.8 percent this
week, the biggest decline since the beginning of September, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit-default swaps insuring senior financial debt rose
one basis point today, paring this week’s 12 percent decline,
according to the Markit iTraxx Financial Index. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of contracts on 125 investment grade
companies increased one basis point to 104.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  