-- Cutting Taxes in Half Lures Foreigners to Colombia: Andes Credit
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-01-04T20:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/cutting-taxes-in-half-lures-foreigners-to-colombia-andes-credit.html
The cost for Colombia to finance
itself in domestic markets rather than borrowing pesos overseas
is poised to fall after the government cut taxes on foreigners’
local bond profits by more than half.  The difference between yields on locally issued notes due
in 2024 and similar-maturity peso notes sold on international
markets will shrink to 60 basis points, or 0.6 percentage point,
in six months from 148 basis points today and 218 in November,
according to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the country’s
fourth-largest bank. The yield differential is three basis
points in  Peru  and 148 in  Chile .  President  Juan Manuel Santos  cut taxes on overseas
investors’ earnings from domestic securities to 14 percent from
33 percent as of Jan. 1 to help boost demand and lower borrowing
costs. Only 3 percent of government peso bonds are held by
foreigners, compared with 55 percent in Peru and 36 percent in
 Mexico .  “There’s a lot of interest in participating in the local
Colombian market,” Alvaro Vivanco, a strategist at BBVA, said
in a telephone interview from  New York . The tax cut makes
“yields very attractive. Investors will be moving into the
local curve as the fundamental reason for holding global bonds
disappears.”  While increased investment from abroad may add to last
year’s 9.7 percent rally in the Colombian peso, the central bank
said as recently as this week it will continue to buy dollars to
curb currency gains that have hurt exporters.  ‘Can’t Lose’  The  Finance Ministry  didn’t respond to telephone and e-mail
messages seeking comment.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said Dec. 20, when
lawmakers approved the tax reduction, that the government may
take other measures to stem gains in the peso should the
reduction in the levy spur more appreciation.  Colombia “can’t lose the chance of lower borrowing
costs,” Cardenas told reporters in Bogota. “If this leads to
problems with the  exchange rate , we’ll resort to other
instruments.”  Brazil  imposed taxes on foreign investors’ purchases of its
local debt in 2009 as part of an effort to stem gains in the
real that had crimped exporters’ profits.  In Colombia, most foreign investors will pay the 14 percent
levy on profits from the bonds, known as TES, except those from
countries considered  tax havens , which face a 25 percent tax.  The  tax cut  will lead investors to switch to Colombia’s
domestic debt from the overseas securities, according to Mario Castro, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  ‘More Attractive’  “This is a significant tax reduction that has a material
impact on the final yield received by the investor,” Castro
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “In the local
market, investors find more attractive yields and much more
liquidity.”  Felipe Hernandez, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, says the peso will
strengthen 4 percent to 1,700 per dollar from 1,771, increasing
the pressure on the government to protect exporters.  The peso has advanced 1 percent since the tax bill was
approved in Congress. It dropped 0.5 percent today on
speculation the central bank will lower borrowing costs further.
The strong peso is threatening jobs in agriculture and industry,
Cardenas said on Oct. 4. In August, the Treasury joined the
central bank in buying dollars to curb the currency’s rally.  Central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said Jan. 2 on RCN
Radio that the strengthening peso is a concern and reiterated
that Banco de la Republica will buy at least $20 million a day
through at least the first quarter.  ‘Collateral Effect’  “There’s a collateral effect as foreign capital rises,”
Hernandez said. “It’s an additional factor that will lead to
the peso’s appreciation” amid increased foreign-direct
investment and high commodity prices, he said.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries widened two basis
points to 103 basis points at 3:14 p.m. in New York, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  cost to protect  Colombian debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point to 92 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash
equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on  Colombia ’s dollar bonds due in July 2021 rose two
basis points to 2.41 percent.  ‘More Gains’  The change in the levy will cause the yield gap between
local and overseas peso debt to narrow to 115 basis points,
according to Jorge Cardozo, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Corredores Asociados SA. The gap reached a record low 134 basis
points on Oct. 12.  “There’s room for more gains” in local bonds, Cardozo
said in a telephone interview. “Everyone can come in to the
market now. TES are now an investment alternative not only for
locals but for foreigners as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  