-- Duane Morris, Troutman Sanders, Munger: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/duane-morris-troutman-sanders-munger-business-of-law.html
Duane Morris LLP hired former K&L
Gates LLP intellectual-property litigator Karineh Khachatourian
to head its new office in  Palo Alto , California.  The office, the firm’s 24th and fifth in California, will
handle patent portfolio management, technology licensing, life
sciences and immigration matters.  “Our new office in Silicon Valley represents a key
strategic growth initiative for us, and is a direct response to
feedback from our clients,”L. Norwood “Woody” Jameson,
chairman of the Duane Morris intellectual property practice,
said in a statement.  The firm’s Silicon Valley clients include Cisco Systems
Inc., which awarded Duane Morris the litigation counsel of the
year award for its 2011 patent litigation work.  The new managing partner, Khachatourian, focuses her
practice on intellectual property litigation, including patent,
trade secret and trademark. She also counsels clients on IP
enforcement matters. She will be joined in the Palo Alto office
by an associate from K&L Gates. More than 10 Duane Morris
lawyers will have dual residency at the office.  “The leadership group of our IP practice is making a
substantial commitment to the West Coast, with a priority on
strategic hiring for Silicon Valley, as well as our other
California offices,” Jameson said.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 24 offices in
the U.S., London and Asia.  Troutman Sanders Names Dantzler New York Managing Partner  Commercial litigation partner J. David Dantzler Jr. was
named managing partner of the  New York  office of Troutman
Sanders LLP.  Dantzler, who previously led the law firm’s securities
litigation and critical matters practices, succeeds Aurora Cassirer, who will continue to serve on the firm’s executive
committee, the firm said.  Dantzler, who joined the firm in 2005 from McKenna Long &
Aldridge LLP, where he was a partner, has experience in
corporate and securities litigation, including cases involving
allegations of fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and other
business torts. His work has included the Chapter 11 bankruptcy
case of Florida-based mortgage lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. and the Securities and Exchange Commission
receivership of convicted Ponzi schemer Albert E. Parish in
Charleston,  South Carolina .  Cassirer has led the New York office since 2005, when 89
attorneys from the former Jenkins & Gilchrist law firm joined
Troutman Sanders. A trial attorney and partner in the firm’s
business litigation practice, Cassirer has experience in
securities fraud class actions, breach of contract and valuation
actions.  She served in 2010 as receiver in the case of convicted
 Ponzi scheme  operator  Kenneth Starr  and served as Chapter 11
trustee in the bankruptcy case of attorney  David Schick , who
also ran a Ponzi scheme, the firm said.  “I’m excited about the opportunity to continue building on
the strong foundation in our New York office,” Dantzler, who
has relocated to New York from the firm’s Atlanta office, said
in a statement.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers at 15 offices in
the U.S. and China.  Moves  Nassau County Supervising Judge Kase Re-Joins Kase & Druker  Kase & Druker  said John L. Kase, supervising judge of the
criminal courts in Nassau County, rejoined the firm as partner
as of Jan. 2.  Kase co-founded the firm in 1978 with partner James O.
Druker. The two men were colleagues at the Nassau County
District Attorney’s Office, where they served as chiefs of the
narcotics, district court, rackets and frauds bureaus, the firm
said.  Kase was senior partner at Kase & Druker for 26 years
before sitting on the Nassau County Criminal Court beginning in
January 2005. He was appointed supervising judge in January 2012
by Chief Administrative Judge A. Gail Prudenti. He stepped down
from the bench at the end of last year at age 70 after reaching
the state’s mandatory retirement law.  At Kase & Druker, he intends to resume representing clients
in criminal and other matters and to further expand the firm’s
federal practice.  “I’ve had the unique opportunity in my career to see the
practice of criminal law from all three sides -- prosecution,
defense and now the bench -- and I am thrilled to be returning
to criminal defense, the work I find the most rewarding,” Kase
said in a statement.  Kase & Druker has offices in Garden City and Mamaroneck,
New York, and Longboat Key, Florida. The firm specializes in
criminal and civil litigation, tax matters, commercial
litigation, wills, trusts and estates, and appeals.  Mayer Brown Hires Banking & Finance Partner in Houston  Mayer Brown LLP said Bill Hart Jr., formerly of Baker Botts
LLP, joined the firm in Houston as a partner in the banking and
finance practice.  Hart concentrates his practice on advising clients on
financial transactions, including the placement of high-yield
debt securities, large syndicated  bank transactions , project
finance and oil and gas financings.  Mayer Brown has about 1,500 lawyers at 20 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Munger Tolles Advises Transocean on $1.4 Billion Spill Deal  Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP partner Brad D. Brian led the
representation of  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  in negotiating its settlement
with the  Justice Department  of more than $1.4 billion, including
a $400 million criminal penalty. The agreement settles federal
claims arising from the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill , according
to a court filing.  Transocean will plead guilty to one count of violating the
 Clean Water Act , according to a consent decree between the
company and the U.S. filed yesterday in federal court in  New
Orleans . Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean will pay $1
billion plus interest in civil penalties, according to the
filing.  The U.S. sued Transocean in 2010, alleging violations of
federal pollution law. Transocean was the owner and operator of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, which burned and sank in the Gulf
of Mexico in April 2010 after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well exploded,
setting off the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.
Under the agreement, Transocean must establish a technology
innovation group to focus on drilling safety, devoting a minimum
of $10 million to this effort.  “This agreement holds Transocean criminally responsible
for its conduct,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in a
statement. “This resolution of criminal allegations and civil
claims against Transocean brings us one significant step closer
to justice for the human, environmental and economic devastation
wrought by the Deepwater Horizon disaster.”  The settlement will end the Justice Department’s criminal
investigation of Transocean, the company said in a statement.
Transocean said it had accrued an estimated loss contingency of
$1.5 billion for Justice Department claims as of Sept. 30. The
settlement payments and interest aren’t deductible for tax
purposes, the company said.  Allen Katz, formerly of counsel with Munger Tolles, joined
Transocean in November as its interim general counsel.  The civil and criminal agreements, “which the company
believes to be in the best interest of its shareholders and
employees, remove much of the uncertainty associated with the
accident,” Transocean said in the statement.  The agreement doesn’t cover costs to Transocean for natural
resources damage under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the
company said. That requires responsible parties to reimburse
governments for the cost of restoring natural resources to pre-
incident conditions.  The blowout and explosion aboard Transocean’s drilling rig
killed 11 workers and sent millions of barrels of crude leaking
into the gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits
against Transocean, London-based BP, the well’s owner, and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services.  BP previously agreed to pay $4 billion to the Justice
Department to resolve charges connected to the spill and $525
million to settle the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
claim that the company misled investors about the rate of oil
flowing into the gulf.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Ex-Satyam Directors Get Accounting Fraud Claims Thrown Out  Former  Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS)  directors persuaded a
judge to dismiss claims in a U.S. lawsuit over a $1 billion
accounting fraud.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in New York dismissed
claims against former members of Satyam’s audit committee and
other directors, citing insufficient allegations in the
complaint. The Jan. 2 ruling in the class action, or group
lawsuit, involved only the former board members, not other
defendants in the case.  “We are gratified by Judge Jones’s decision,” said Irwin Warren, a partner with the New York firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP who represented five of the seven directors in the case and
was lead counsel on the motions. “It was truly unfortunate that
these directors -- diligent individuals of the highest integrity
and reputation -- were ever named defendants.”  Satyam, based in Hyderabad, has been embroiled in India’s
biggest corporate fraud probe. Former Chairman  Ramalinga Raju 
disclosed in January 2009 that he overstated assets by more than
$1 billion. In 2011, the company agreed to pay $125 million to
settle a U.S. shareholder lawsuit alleging securities
violations. Other defendants in the lawsuit have also reached
settlements.  Most allegations in the complaint “concern an intricate
and well concealed fraud perpetrated by a very small group of
insiders and only reinforce the inference” that some former
board members “were themselves victims of the fraud,” Jones
said in a 71-page ruling.  Steven Singer, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t return a
call after regular business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is In re Satyam Computer Services Securities
Litigation, 09-md-2027, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Fees  Objection to Lawyers’ Fees Filed in Citigroup Settlement  Plaintiffs lawyers led by Kirby McInerney LLP are seeking
almost $100 million in fees in their $590 million class-action
settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , partly by applying substantial
mark-ups for contract attorneys, according to a Dec. 21 filing
in the case reported by  Forbes .  Ted Frank, a class member and a founder of the Center for
Class Action Fairness, objected to the plaintiff lawyers’ fee
petition, saying the firms “wildly exaggerated hourly rates.”
Contract lawyers who normally might earn about $45 an hour as
subcontractors are being listed as lead lawyers with a billing
rate of more than $1,000 an hour, Frank said.  One of those lawyers, according to her LinkedIn account, is
a 2010 New York University graduate who moonlights as a fashion
adviser, Forbes said.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in Manhattan, who is
presiding over the suit, granted preliminary approval to the
unopposed accord Aug 29. Company shareholders alleged that the
third-biggest  U.S. bank  hid risks tied to toxic assets.  A lawyer with Kirby McInerney said the firm’s use of the
contract attorneys was endorsed by courts, according to Forbes.  The case is In re Citigroup Inc. Securities Litigation, 07-
cv-9901, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  