-- Vatican Hit as Card Ban Leaves Sistine Chapel Visitors Cashless
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-04T15:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/electronic-transactions-suspended-in-the-vatican-correct-.html
A suspension of electronic payments
in the  Vatican City  is threatening finances in the world’s
smallest state as thousands of pilgrims and tourists are forced
to use cash only in museums and shops with yearly sales of more
than $100 million.  Credit and debit card payments as well as cash withdrawals
remained suspended in the papal state for a fourth day after the
 Bank of Italy  refused a request by the operator,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s Italian unit, to keep providing the services. The central
bank acted because the Vatican doesn’t comply with international
money laundering rules, a Bank of  Italy  official said.  “We expected to buy tickets with the credit card, but we
had to use the cash which is a problem for us as we will now
have less money to use for the rest of the day,” said Zhou
Lingli, an university student from Zhejiang,  China , before
entering the Vatican museums, which includes the Sistine Chapel
decorated by Michelangelo.  The sale of memorabilia, postage stamps and admission
tickets to the Vatican museums is the main source of revenue for
the  Holy See  apart from investments and donations. The Vatican
museums alone, with over 5 million visitors, had sales of 91.3
million euros ($119 million) in 2011, according to a July 5
statement from the Holy See.  Online Tickets  The interruption to electronic payment services will be
“brief,” the Vatican, which is home to  Pope Benedict XVI  and
is located in central  Rome  near the Tiber river, said in a
statement yesterday. Cash withdrawals from machines operated by
the Vatican bank IOR are not affected, a Vatican spokesman, who
declined to be named, said. Tourists will be able to buy tickets
for the Vatican museums online until Jan. 15, he said.  The ban also affects souvenir and book shops within the 0.2
square-mile papal state. Items to be paid in cash at the Vatican
museums’ gift shops include a hand-painted miniature of Fra
Angelico’s painting of the  Virgin Mary  with diamonds and 18-
karat gold frame bearing a tag price of 430 euros and a 720-euro
medal depicting late Pope  John Paul II  weighting 21 grams. Many
people complained because they didn’t have enough cash at hand,
a shop assistant, who declined to be named, said.  The Rome-based central bank found in an inspection in 2010
that the Deutsche Bank unit, which started operating the papal
state’s point-of-service payment services in 1997, didn’t have
the authorization to operate in the Vatican City, a Bank of
Italy official said. The central bank on Dec. 6 refused a permit
request to Deutsche Bank SpA because the state lacks required
banking and financial legislation, the official said. A Deutsche
Bank spokeswoman for Italy declined to comment.  New Operator  Vatican authorities are trying to find another bank
provider, the Vatican press office said in a statement
yesterday. A new operator may be announced Jan. 7, the Financial
Times reported today, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the matter.  “At the gift shop we bought a book and four rosaries, but
we had cash and we spent about 50 euros,” said Sheila
Schlageter from Birmingham,  Michigan , who’s travelling in a
group of three. “Normally I would have paid with  credit card ,”
she said. An online ticket to the Vatican museums costs 16
euros.  Moneyval, the Council of  Europe ’s monitoring body for money
laundering and terrorism financing, said last year that the
Vatican is making progress in complying with international
standards on financial transparency, though more work needs to
be done. The body’s recommendations are used by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development to decide whether a
nation should be included on the so-called white list of
countries complying with international standards on financial
transparency.  Financial Scandals  In the report Moneyval also recommended that the Vatican
bank should be independently supervised. The IOR has been at the
center of several financial scandals in recent years. Paolo
Cipriani, director general of the bank, and its former head,
Ettore Gotti Tedeschi, were placed under investigation by
Italian prosecutors in 2010 for allegedly omitting data in wire
transfers from an Italian account.  Prosecutors seized 23 million euros from a Rome bank
account registered to the IOR amid suspicion or  money-laundering 
violations, as part of the probe. The Italian investigation
triggered calls to bring the city-state in line with European
Union financial rules and become more transparent.  “It would have been better to pay with credit card, but it
doesn’t matter, we will pay in cash,” said Gianni Bianchi,
visiting from Milan with his wife. “It’s not a big deal and
anyway it’s not worth to get upset because of so little.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  