-- Helix Disposals Create Deepwater Operator Takeover Bait
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-01-04T21:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/helix-disposals-create-deepwater-operator-takeover-bait.html
Helix Energy Solutions Group Inc. (HLX)  is
turning into a takeover target after streamlining the company to
focus on its expanding operations for offshore oil-well support.  The Houston-based company agreed last month to sell its
oil-and-gas unit and earlier exited a pipe-laying business,
helping Helix reduce debt and center its operations on deepwater
vessels and robotics for well maintenance. The divestments make
the $2.2 billion company more appealing to a potential suitor
such as  Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO)  or  Technip SA (TEC)  that may want to expand
in marine contracting, said Capital One Financial Corp.  Helix also may attract other oilfield-services providers,
according to Stephens Inc., while Iberia Capital Partners LLC
says a rig owner such as  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  could be
interested. Even after Helix’s moves led to a 31 percent gain in
2012 that beat U.S. energy equipment and services stocks, the
company trades at a 23 percent discount to its closest
competitor Oceaneering International Inc. based on this year’s
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a cleaned-up company,” Trey Stolz, an analyst at
Iberia Capital in New Orleans, said in a telephone interview.
“Helix would be attractive as an add-on for existing offshore
service providers to immediately get a head start on the well
intervention side. It’s the next step forward in further
specialization of the offshore equipment.”  Terrence Jamerson, director of investor relations at Helix,
declined to comment on the prospects for a takeover of the
company.  Oilfield Divers  Helix, which traces its  roots  to a group of oilfield divers
in the 1960s, evolved into an offshore energy company with
operations spanning deepwater construction, oil-and-gas
production and well maintenance and repair.  The company in October said it sold off its pipe-laying
vessels and in December announced that it had agreed to sell its
oil-and-gas unit as part of a plan to shift its focus toward so-
called well-intervention services. This business, which
encompasses undersea well maintenance, salvage and repair using
floating vessels and robotics, is more profitable than pipe-
laying while requiring less capital outlays than are needed for
exploration and production, Chief Financial Officer Anthony Tripodo told investors during a presentation in November.  The asset sales spurred gains in Helix shares that
contributed to the  biggest advance  last year among the 11
members in the Standard & Poor’s Midcap Energy Equipment &
Services Index. The stock closed yesterday at $20.86.  Today, Helix shares gained 4.7 percent to $21.84, the
highest since October 2008.  ‘Simpler Package’  By helping to center Helix’s operations on a single,
growing business, the disposals also have bolstered the
company’s allure as a potential takeover target, said David Streit, an Appleton, Wisconsin-based equity analyst at Thrivent
Financial for Lutherans. The firm oversees about $76 billion in
assets, including Helix shares.  “This focuses the company and provides potential acquirers
with a much more focused and simpler package of assets,” Streit
said in a phone interview. The sale of the oil-and-gas unit
“removed the last major impediment to an acquisition. The
balance sheet will be net cash positive after the divestiture of
the business is complete. And beyond that it’s a very
straightforward and clean business.”  Including its current net debt of $589 million, Helix’s
enterprise  value  as of yesterday was 6.64 times its 2013
 estimated earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
multiple for its Houston-based rival  Oceaneering International (OII) 
was higher at 8.64 times this year’s estimated Ebitda, the data
show.  Deepwater Appeal  “It’s trading at a multiple out of whack with other
offshore asset-based service companies,” Iberia Capital’s Stolz
said.  In its streamlined form, Helix may appeal to some
contractors already operating in deepwater oil fields, Stolz
said. The addition would give them a leg up as demand grows for
well-intervention services, which use equipment sent down from
vessels on the water’s surface to tap into aging wells on the
sea floor and boost production.  Well-intervention vessels are in demand because they’re a
cheaper alternative to drilling rigs, which have long been the
standard and are now able to charge near-record leasing rates
due to higher oil prices, Stolz said. The market for well
intervention could experience growth similar to the past five
years, when the number of aging wells nearly doubled to 3,500,
he said.  Aker, Technip  Aker Solutions , a Lysaker, Norway-based oil-services
company with well-intervention operations, could be a potential
suitor for Helix, said Joseph Gibney, a Houston-based analyst
with Capital One. The $5.8 billion company has a fleet of three
deepwater well-intervention vessels, according to its  website .  Paris-based Technip, with a market value of $13 billion,
also could be a logical buyer because of its experience working
in deep waters offering construction and engineering services
for oil fields, Gibney said.  Ivar Simensen, a spokesman at Aker Solutions, declined to
comment on whether the company is interested in Helix, as did
Floriane Lassalle-Massip, a public relations manager for
Technip.  Other oilfield-services companies may want to buy Helix to
augment their businesses and gain technical expertise, said
Michael Marino, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in Houston. Rig
contractors such as Diamond Offshore may be interested in Helix
as a way to recapture some of the work lost to lower-priced
well-intervention vessels, Gibney and Stolz said.  Going Alone  Darren Daugherty, a spokesman for Diamond Offshore,
declined to comment on whether the company is interested in
Helix.  With Helix now focused on well intervention, the company
could look to stay independent or even seek out acquisitions
itself, said Todd Smurl, president and chief investment officer
of Houston-based Ascendant Advisors.  “It might put them in play down the road but now they
might actually be strong enough to be an acquirer as opposed to
being acquired,” Smurl said in a phone interview. What’s more,
after the  stock  rose 19 percent in the past month alone, “it’s
not the screaming bargain it was,” he said.  Still, Stephens’s Marino estimates the company could fetch
$25 in a takeover, a 20 percent premium to yesterday’s close.  “A takeout at those levels doesn’t seem crazy,” said
Marino, who recommended that investors buy the stock after Helix
announced plans to sell its oil-and-gas unit. “It makes a lot
of sense for someone who wants to increase their presence
internationally and offshore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  