-- Elliott’s Unit Probed by French Regulator Over APRR Trade
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-01-05T00:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/elliott-s-unit-probed-by-french-regulator-over-aprr-trade.html
Elliott Management Corp., the $21.5
billion hedge fund run by Paul Singer, said a French regulator
is investigating possible insider trading by its U.K. unit in
Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhone SA in 2010.  Elliott received a “letter of grievance” on Dec. 28 from
Autorite des Marches Financiers that said the hedge fund may
have purchased APRR shares between May 28, 2010, and June 11,
2010, based on material, nonpublic information, the New York
based firm said yesterday in a filing sent to investors, a copy
of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The French regulator
said Elliott may have inflated the stock price before selling
and made a profit of about 2.75 million euros ($3.6 million).  “The statements made by the AMF in its letter are without
merit and are not supported by the evidence,” Elliott said in
the filing. “Elliott’s trading in APRR did not at any time make
use of any material nonpublic information, was for a legitimate
business purpose, and did not artificially inflate the price of
APRR shares.”  Eiffarie, a joint venture owned by construction company
 Eiffage SA (FGR)  and Macquarie Infrastructure Group, said in 2010 it
planned to acquire shares of APRR from Elliott. In yesterday’s
filing, Elliott said its purchase of APRR’s stock was part of a
long-term investment strategy and that it bought the stock on
over 300 trading days between December 2005 and June 2010. The
French regulator raised questions with respect to the last 11 of
those 300 trading days, according to the filing.  Elliott said it had a “Chinese Wall” in place with
respect to APRR during the period in question and no material,
non-public information was given to personnel who directed the
purchase of the stock.  Vigorous Defense  The letter marks the start of administrative proceedings
against the fund, according to the filing. Elliott plans to
defend the administrative proceedings “vigorously” and that
none of the costs, including potential penalties, will be borne
by Elliott funds, according to the filing.  No Elliott staff have been disciplined nor terminated with
regard to the trade, according to a person with knowledge of the
firm who asked not to be identified because the person wasn’t
authorized to discuss it publicly. Elliott’s U.K. unit is
registered with the country’s markets regulator, the Financial
Services Authority, according to its  website .  Peter Truell, a spokesman for Elliott, declined to comment
beyond the filing. Florence Gaubert, a spokeswoman for AMF in
Paris, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment
after regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  