-- Emerging Stocks Retreat From 17-Month High on Fed Minutes
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-04T21:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/emerging-market-stocks-fall-from-17-month-high-on-fed-minutes.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in 10 days and most currencies weakened after U.S.
Federal Reserve policy makers said they will probably end debt
purchases that have fueled investor demand for riskier assets.  Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (005930) , which got 28 percent of
revenue from America in the third quarter, dropped 1.2 percent.
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , South Africa’s second-largest producer of the
metal, and  PKN Orlen SA (PKN) , Poland’s biggest oil company, fell for
the first time in three days as commodities retreated. Brazilian
iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3)  declined and  MediaTek Inc. (2454) , Taiwan’s
largest chip designer, slumped the most since April after UBS AG
cut its stock rating.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.4 percent to 1,077.9
in  New York , falling from the highest level since Aug. 2011. The
gauge, which is having its best start to a year since 2010,
pared its decline after U.S. data showed employers added workers
last month and the jobless rate matched a four-year low. Fed
board members said they will probably end their $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases in 2013, minutes of their Dec. 11-12
meeting issued yesterday show.  “Given how strong the markets have been, this is probably
more of a correction,” Greg Lesko, who helps manage about $750
million at Deltec Asset Management said by phone from New York.
“People are very reactive to what the Fed’s doing because the
Fed has a huge balance sheet. If we get a big change in bond
buying there could be some competition for things like emerging
market debt.”  ETF Gains  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.2
percent to $45 in New York, after earlier sliding as much as 0.7
percent. The ETF added 3 percent this week. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, fell 5.1 percent to 17.82, dropping for a fourth day.  “Emerging-market assets have enjoyed a nice rally
recently, and I think it’s a healthy pause,” Chu Moon Sung,
 fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $30 billion, said by phone in  Seoul . “While some
may be worried of the Fed’s potential end of bond purchases,
this could be seen as a sign of its confidence in the recovery
of the economy.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index surged 108 percent during
the Fed’s first round of bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing. The  gauge  has climbed 9.8 percent since the Fed
announced a third round on Sept. 13. The  21 nations  in MSCI’s
developing-nations gauge send about 17 percent of their exports
to the U.S. on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  U.S. payrolls rose by 155,000 workers last month, after
gaining a revised 161,000 in November, Labor Department figures
released in  Washington  today showed. The  unemployment rate  in
the world’s biggest economy held at 7.8 percent, matching the
lowest level since December 2008.  Currencies Weaken  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong sank 0.4 percent, the most since Dec. 21.
 Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index dropped 1.3 percent and Poland’s  WIG20
Index (WIG)  fell 1 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi index  lost 0.4
percent, while the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose less than 0.1 percent as
mainland Chinese markets traded for the first time this year.
Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rallied 1.6 percent, the biggest one-day
advance since October. Russian markets were closed for holidays.  India ’s rupee lost 1.1 percent against the dollar, the most
since Nov. 5, and the Indonesian rupiah weakened 1.4 percent.
Hungary’s forint and the Polish zloty sank 0.5 percent against
the euro.  Emerging-market stock funds attracted $3.4 billion in the
week to Jan. 2, Citigroup Inc. said in a report today that cited
EPFR Global data. Global equity funds drew $5.1 billion in the
week to Jan. 2, exceeding the $2.3 billion that went into bonds,
according to the report.  Materials Drop  Eight of the 10  industry groups  in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index retreated today, led by technology and materials
companies. The developing-nations measure’s 2.2 percent climb
this week compares with a 3.3 percent increase in the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index trades at 11 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting against swings in emerging-market
equities was at a record low this week as investors bet the
stocks will extend gains. Implied volatility for three-month
options closest to the iShares MSCI ETF fell to 18.68 Jan. 2, an
all-time low.  Samsung Electronics dropped 1.2 percent, taking its two-day
decline to 3.2 percent.  LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, sank 2.5 percent in
Seoul, the most since Dec. 21.  Gold Fields,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  and  Harmony Gold Mining
Co. (HMY)  all dropped more than 3 percent in Johannesburg. Gold
futures slid 1.5 percent to settle at $1,648.90 an ounce on the
Comex in New York for its sixth week of declines, the longest
run of weekly losses since 2004. Silver slumped 2.5 percent.  Korea Zinc  Korea Zinc Co. (010130) , which produces gold and silver, sank 7
percent to the lowest level since Aug. 9. The stock was the
worst performer in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  PKN Orlen declined 2.1 percent in Warsaw.  Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) ,
Poland’s second-biggest oil company, slipped 3.7 percent.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore miner, fell 2.2 percent
in  Sao Paulo . Preferred stock of power producer  Eletropaulo
Metropolitana Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA  slipped 5 percent
after its valuation climbed to the most expensive level in at
least two years Jan. 2.  Oil gained 0.2 percent in New York, after earlier slipping
as much as 1.5 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24
raw materials fell 0.5 percent.  MediaTek tumbled 6.3 percent in Taipei after UBS downgraded
its stock rating to neutral, citing concerns about weaker
smartphone demand in  China  and fiercer price competition.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493)  climbed 6.6 percent
in  Hong Kong , the most in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The
company was named among CCB International Securities Ltd.’s
picks on progress in turning around its business, according to a
report dated yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, at 246 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  