-- EPA Lax on States in Bush-era Soot Rules, Court Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-04T22:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/epa-gave-states-too-much-leeway-on-soot-rules-court-says.html
The U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  gave states too much flexibility in meeting soot
standards, a federal court said in a ruling that could force
some states to increase pollution-control efforts.  The EPA applied the wrong section of the Clean Air Act,
relying on general implementation standards instead of particle-
specific requirements, U.S. Circuit Judge Karen Lecraft Henderson said in today’s 18-page opinion, which evaluated
guidelines issued by the environmental agency in 2007, during
the administration of President George W. Bush.  “We agree with the petitioners that EPA erred,” Henderson
wrote on behalf of the three-judge appeals panel. The court sent
the guidelines back to the EPA with instructions to re-craft
them according to the more detailed requirements.  Alisha Johnson, an EPA spokeswoman, in a phone interview
declined to comment and referred questions to the Department of
Justice, which tried the case on behalf of the agency.  The Justice Department is reviewing the decision and had no
further comment,  Wyn Hornbuckle , a department spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The ruling will apply to previous soot standards set by the
EPA, as well as to new ones issued last month, according to Paul
Cort, an attorney for  Earthjustice , a San Francisco-based
environmental advocacy group, who argued the case on behalf of
the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club and other
plaintiffs.  ‘Tighter Controls’  “If a state can meet the standards within five years, then
nothing really changes,” Cort said in a phone interview. “But
now, those areas that need extra time are going to have to
accept tighter controls.”  For example, if an area isn’t in compliance with soot
standards within five years, requirements for pollution controls
that now apply to coal-fired power plants annually producing 100
tons of emissions would extend down to plants generating 70
tons, according to Cort. “It’s going to sweep up smaller
pollution sources,” he said.  Under the 2012 standards, compliance is required within
five years from whenever the EPA issues rules for the new
standards, which means the clock may start ticking in about two
years, according to Cort.  The EPA evaluated compliance in 2005, so noncompliant areas
within states passed the five-year mark in 2010 and would be
subject to the more stringent standards, Cort said.  Removes Flexibility  The ruling takes away flexibility that would make it easier
and more cost-effective for states to comply with soot
standards, said Howard Feldman, director of regulatory and
scientific affairs for the  American Petroleum Institute , a
Washington-based oil and gas trade group, which intervened in
the case on behalf of the EPA.  “It’s an unfortunate decision,” Feldman said in a phone
interview. “It’s going to increase costs on our economy.”  Feldman declined to offer an estimate of compliance costs,
saying the problem exists in localities across the U.S. and is
too diffuse for accurate expense measures.  The case is Natural Resources Defense Council v.
Environmental Protection Agency, 08-01250, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  