-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Shrink More Than Estimated
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-04T09:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/euro-area-manufacturing-services-contract-more-than-estimated.html
European services and factory output
contracted more than initially estimated in December, adding to
signs a recession in the region may extend into this year.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries was revised down to 47.2 from an initial
estimate of 47.3 published on Dec. 14, London-based Markit
Economics said in a report today. That compares with 46.5 in
November. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The euro area is struggling to pull out of its second
recession in four years as governments cut spending to combat
the sovereign debt crisis and consumers curtail spending.
Economists foresee a further drop in gross domestic product in
the final three months of 2012 and the  European Central Bank 
forecasts a contraction of 0.3 percent in 2013.  “The improvements in December are unlikely to prevent the
euro-zone economy having contracted at a sharper rate in the
fourth quarter,”  Chris Williamson , Markit’s chief economist,
said in today’s report. “Strong growth disparities are likely
to persist for some time.”  The euro extended losses after the report and traded at
$1.3009 at 10:16 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.3 percent.  A gauge of euro-region services production rose to 47.8
from 46.7 in November, while a measure of  manufacturing output 
released on Jan. 2 showed the industry contracted more than
initially estimated.  Fastest Pace  This week has produced signs of some stabilization in
global growth as U.S. manufacturing picked up in December after
dropping to a three-year low and  China ’s services industry grew
at the fastest pace in four months.  The Stoxx 600 has rallied about 14 percent since European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in July that he would
do whatever it takes to save the euro. He announced an unlimited
government bond-purchase program in September and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Dec. 31 that progress is being
made on the latest plan to combat the debt turmoil.  Data yesterday showed  German unemployment  increased less
than economists had forecast in December and  business confidence 
in  Europe ’s largest economy rose for a second month after demand
from outside Europe boosted factory orders and exports.  Williamson said today’s Markit surveys “bring some
substance to the belief that the worst is over and that a return
to growth is in sight for the region in 2013.”  ‘Far From Over’  Still, Merkel said that while reforms aimed at tackling the
debt crisis “are starting to take effect,” the turmoil is
“far from over” and economic conditions will be more difficult
this year than in 2012.  The euro region’s jobless rate rose to a record 11.7
percent in October, the highest since the data series started in
1995. Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics office, will
publish November data on Jan. 8.  Accenture Plc (ACN) , incorporated in Dublin and the world’s
second-largest technology consulting company after International
Business Machines Corp., reported first-quarter sales on Dec. 19
that missed analysts’ estimates as customers put off investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  