-- Lewis Adam, Expert on Fuel Prices, Dies at 68 on Retirement Day
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-04T20:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/lewis-adam-expert-on-fuel-prices-dies-at-68-on-retirement-day.html
Lewis Adam, a veteran fuel trader and
president of supply consultant ADMO Energy LLC of  Kansas City ,
Missouri, died on Jan. 2, on the first day of his retirement. He
was 68.  His business partner, Steve Mosby, announced Adam’s death in
yesterday’s edition of ADMO’s Energy Tracks, the company’s daily
commentary.  “I am greatly saddened to report that Lewis, my longtime
business partner and dear friend, had a heart attack last night
and did not make it,” Mosby wrote. “While he had had some
health challenges lately he seemed to be doing great and I was
really surprised. It was, in fact, his first day of retirement,
and losing him was an absolute tragedy.”  Mosby added, “I’m sorry to be the bearer of bad news but I
hope that we all can take a chance to reflect on things and take
a little better care of ourselves.”  Adam and Mosby founded  ADMO Energy  in 2005 to provide their
analysis of supply, trading and risk management to retailers,
marketers and distributors. The subscription-only Energy Tracks
commentary reports daily on  New York  Mercantile Exchange prices
for gasoline, heating oil and crude oil, as well as cash
markets.  “Lewis was like  Will Rogers ,” Mosby said in an interview
today. “He never met a stranger. And he forgot more about this
industry than most will ever know.”  ‘Gentle Person’  Adam’s son, Brian, said his father “would give you the
shirt off his back. He was the most kind-hearted gentle person
I’ve ever known.”  Adam was born on Nov. 29, 1944, in  San Antonio ,  Texas , one
of six children of Albert Adam and the former Mary Ellen Haden.  A graduate of the  University of Houston , he began his
career in the mailroom of ConocoPhillips in Houston in 1963, his
son said. He also worked at Atlas Oil Co., located in Taylor,
 Michigan ; Intl FC Stone Inc., a New York-based financial
services company; and Farmland Industries Inc., an agricultural
supply company in Kansas City, Missouri.  His career in fuel markets was interrupted only by service
in the U.S. Army from 1969 to 1971.  He was an often-quoted expert in articles on gasoline
supply and prices. “The number one thing putting pressure on
prices is the cheap crude oil,” he said in his final interview
with  Bloomberg News  on Dec. 28.  In addition to his son, survivors include his wife, Merita,
and three grandchildren. Another son, Brad, predeceased him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  