-- Fed’s Bullard Says 7.1% Unemployment Possible by Year-End
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-04T19:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/fed-s-bullard-says-7-1-unemployment-possible-by-year-end.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said that he sees the possibility of
U.S.  unemployment  dropping to 7.1 percent by the end of this
year, which could warrant pulling back the central bank’s $85
billion a month of bond purchases.  “I think that unemployment will continue to tick down
through 2013,” Bullard said today in an interview on CNBC
television. A 7.1 percent rate “would probably be substantial
improvement” in the labor market, he said, referring to the
Fed’s goal for halting its open-ended monthly purchases.  Federal Reserve officials are debating when to halt their
$85 billion a month of mortgage-bond and Treasury purchases. The
buying program was designed to boost an economy that generated
155,000 jobs last month and saw the  unemployment rate  at 7.8
percent.  “Several” members of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said it would “probably be appropriate to slow or stop
purchases well before the end of 2013,” according to minutes of
their Dec. 11-12 meeting released yesterday. A “few” were
willing to let the program run to the end of the year while “a
few others” didn’t give a time frame.  Asked about the minutes, Bullard said “Why are we talking
about dates? The idea is to have state-contingent policy.”  December Meeting  At the FOMC’s December meeting, the committee ceased
linking its outlook for its target interest rate to the
calendar, and instead specified the economic conditions that
would prompt an increase.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Bullard scheduled to slide onto the committee at the FOMC’s
January 29-30 meeting. Also joining the committee are Boston’s
 Eric Rosengren , Chicago’s  Charles Evans  and Kansas City’s Esther
George.  Bullard cautioned lawmakers in Washington that a looming
battle over whether to raise the U.S. Treasury’s legal borrowing
limit could be risky.  “The debt ceiling is a dangerous thing to fight over,”
Bullard said. “It did not go well in 2011.”  When partisan gridlock last brought the government to the
brink of default in August 2011, the stock market fell and
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating. After House
Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , withdrew from
negotiations on July 22, 2011, the S&P 500 Stock Index fell more
than 16 percent in the next 11 trading days.  Bond investors were unrattled. Yields on 10-year  U.S.
Treasury  notes declined from 2.96 percent on July 22 to 2.56
percent on Aug. 5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade. Yields
continued to drop, reaching 1.72 percent on Sept. 22 of that
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  