-- Fed’s Bullard Says ECB Debt Buying Would Be Fiscal Policy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/fed-s-bullard-says-ecb-debt-buying-would-be-fiscal-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said purchases of sovereign debt by the
 European Central Bank  would amount to fiscal policy that is
better conducted by democratically elected governments.  “This is ‘fiscalization’ of monetary policy: Asking the
central bank to take actions far outside the remit of  monetary
policy ,” Bullard said today in a speech to a conference of
economists in  San Diego . “Assistance like this from a central
authority to a region is best brokered through the political
process in democratically elected bodies.”  The ECB unveiled its Outright Monetary Transactions bond-
buying plan, known as the OMT, in September, pledging to spend
as much money as needed to restore confidence in the region’s
bond markets. The program provides support to debt-strapped
nations as long as they agree to economic reforms as part of a
bailout from  Europe ’s rescue fund.  Bullard, speaking as part of a National Association for
Business Economics panel, said that is the equivalent of the Fed
buying debt of individual states.  “Standard monetary policy has become wrapped up in the
fiscal policy package and subject to the negotiations that
surround that package,” he said in prepared remarks. “This
defeats one of the original purposes of central bank
independence: Having a monetary authority that can react to
macroeconomic shocks quickly and effectively.”  Bullard instead called for “a fiscal stabilization
authority” that could make independent decisions “in speedy
reaction to macroeconomic events.”  Policy Outlook  The St. Louis Fed official didn’t discuss the outlook for
monetary policy in his prepared remarks.  Earlier in a CNBC interview, Bullard said an end to the
Fed’s asset purchase program should be in response to economic
data. If unemployment falls near 7 percent, that could prompt an
end to the program, he said. “Why are we talking about dates?”
Bullard said.  The Fed last month said it will buy $45 billion a month of
 Treasury securities  starting in January, expanding its asset-
purchase program to $85 billion monthly, and for the first time
linked the outlook for its main  interest rate  to unemployment
and inflation. The central bank may end bond purchases sometime
in 2013, some policy makers said, according to minutes of the
meeting released yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  