-- Fed’s Bullard Focuses on Economy Not Dates for Change
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-04T20:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/fed-s-bullard-focuses-on-economy-not-dates-for-change.html
One day after the  Federal Reserve  put
forth dates at which it might end $85 billion a month of bond
purchases, a Fed policy maker instead described the economic
conditions that may warrant a halt to the policy.  “Why are we talking about dates?” Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis President  James Bullard , who votes on the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said in an
interview with CNBC television. If unemployment falls near 7
percent it could prompt an end to the policy, he said.  Fed officials are debating when to halt their $85 billion a
month of mortgage-bond and Treasury purchases. The buying
program was designed to boost an economy that generated 155,000
jobs last month and saw the  unemployment rate  at 7.8 percent,
according to a Labor Department report today.  “Several” members of the Federal Open Market Committee
said it would “probably be appropriate to slow or stop
purchases well before the end of 2013,” according to minutes of
their Dec. 11-12 meeting released yesterday. A “few” were
willing to let the program run to the end of the year while “a
few others” didn’t give a time frame.  Bullard said the future of bond purchases should hinge on
the performance of the economy. He said he sees the possibility
that U.S.  unemployment  may drop to 7.1 percent by the end of
this year, which could warrant halting the program.  “I think that unemployment will continue to tick down
through 2013,” Bullard said. A 7.1 percent rate “would
probably be substantial improvement” in the labor market, he
said, referring to the Fed’s goal for halting its open-ended
monthly purchases.  Contingent Policy  “The idea is to have state-contingent policy,” Bullard
said.  At the FOMC’s December meeting, the committee ceased
linking its outlook for its target interest rate to the
calendar, and instead specified the state of the economy, that
would prompt an increase.  Unemployment falling to 6.5 percent or the outlook for
inflation rising to 2.5 percent would prompt consideration of
raising rates, the FOMC said. They provided no such thresholds
for ending their bond purchases.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  proposed in a November
speech that the central bank should continuing buying bonds
until the unemployment rate falls to 7.25 percent.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Bullard and Rosengren scheduled to join the committee at the
FOMC’s January 29-30 meeting. Also joining the committee are
Chicago’s  Charles Evans , who led the campaign to link  interest
rates  to economic conditions, and  Kansas City ’s Esther George.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  