-- Fed’s Yellen Says Tighter Regulation Needed for Crises
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-04T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/fed-s-yellen-says-tighter-regulation-needed-for-crises.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said financial markets should be regulated more tightly
to reduce the risk of 2008-like credit crises.  “Experience -- most importantly, our recent financial
crisis -- as well as a growing body of academic research
suggests that interconnections among financial intermediaries
are not an unalloyed good,” Yellen said today in a speech in
 San Diego . “Certain types of externalities, such as those
arising from incomplete information or a lack of coordination
among market participants” can be “devastating during a
crisis,” she said.  U.S. regulators have sought to prevent excessive risk
taking in financial markets since the 2008 credit freeze led to
the worst U.S. recession since the 1930s. The Fed during the
past four years has cut its  benchmark interest rate  to near zero
and is buying bonds to reduce borrowing costs, spur growth and
combat unemployment.  “A lack of complete certainty about potential outcomes is
not a justification for inaction, considering the size of the
threat encountered in the recent crisis,” Yellen said at the
American Economic Association’s annual meeting.  Regulators could make financial markets more resilient by
setting higher  capital requirements  for so-called systematically
important global banks and mandating that standardized
derivatives be cleared by a central counterparty, she said.
Financial institutions should also disclose more of their trades
to central authorities, she said.  Monetary Policy  Yellen didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or
 monetary policy .  Regulators must carefully weigh the benefits and costs of
new rules, mindful that close ties among financial institutions
helps them to diversify their risks, Yellen said.  The Fed last month moved to subject two dozen foreign banks
with at least $50 billion of global assets to stricter U.S.
capital rules. The central bank also proposed that most of the
banks be forced to comply with more-stringent liquidity rules
and pass stress tests analyzing how they would fare in a severe
economic downturn. The plan would take effect in July 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  