-- Futures Traders Erase Bets for Euro Drop Against U.S. Dollar
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-04T21:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/futures-traders-erase-bets-for-euro-drop-against-u-s-dollar.html
Futures traders reversed bets that
the euro will decline against the dollar, wagering for the first
time since August 2011 that the shared currency will gain,
figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop, so-called  net longs,  was 5,126 on Jan. 1,
compared with net shorts of 2,549 a week earlier. The figures
reflect holdings in currency-futures contracts at the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange as of Tuesday.  The euro halted a two-year losing streak versus the
greenback in 2012 as European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi ’s commitment to backstop the shared currency stymied the
debt-contagion threat. The shared currency rose 1.8 percent in
2012, after sliding almost 10 percent during the prior two
years, aided by a 2.6 percent gain in the fourth quarter.  The dollar fell from a three-week high versus the euro
today after data showed the U.S. unemployment rate was higher
than forecast in December, fueling bets the  Federal Reserve 
won’t end its stimulus efforts any time soon. The euro rose
earlier after minutes of the Fed’s last meeting showed yesterday
the central bank might end its third round of monthly bond
purchases under quantitative easing this year. The shared
currency gained 0.2 percent to $1.3074.  Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price
and date. Each Friday the CFTC publishes aggregate numbers for
long and short positions for speculators such as  hedge funds  and
institutional investors that buy or sell futures to protect
against price moves. Analysts and investors follow changes in
speculators’ positions because such transactions can reflect an
expectation of a change in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  