-- Gasoline Slips as Feds May Halt Bond Purchases to Boost Growth
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-04T14:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/gasoline-slips-as-feds-may-halt-bond-purchases-to-boost-growth.html
Gasoline slid as the  Federal Reserve 
signaled an end to bond purchases and labor market gains gave
the central bank more reason to ease stimulus efforts,
threatening to slow economic growth and reduce demand for fuel.  Futures fell after Fed officials said they will probably
end their $85 billion monthly bond-buying program this year,
according to minutes of a December policy meeting released
yesterday. U.S. payrolls rose by 155,000 workers last month and
the jobless rate matched a four-year low, Labor Department
figures showed today. Oil product inventories jumped last week,
the  American Petroleum Institute  reported.  “The Fed minutes really pulled the plug on a lot of
commodities yesterday, and a better-than-expected jobs number is
bearish because it increases pressure to remove extra
stimulus,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in Chicago.  Gasoline for February delivery fell 3.05 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $2.7672 a gallon at 9:27 a.m. on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  The median estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for an increase of 152,000 jobs in December. The
 unemployment rate  held at 7.8 percent after the November figure
was revised up from a previously reported 7.7 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Dec. 12 that the Fed
will continue its bond-buying program until officials see
“substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market.”  The Fed minutes yesterday “raised expectations that the
easing policies will taper off this year,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
Connecticut.  Inventories Rise  The industry-funded API reported yesterday that  gasoline
inventories  rose 3.32 million barrels last week and  distillate
stockpiles  increased 6.71 million.  “Products are under pressure as the API stats show a
significant gain in both gasoline and distillate inventories,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 11 a.m. today in Washington.  The department will probably report that distillate
inventories rose 1.25 million barrels, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg. Gasoline
inventories probably increased 2.2 million barrels last week,
the survey showed.  Heating oil for February delivery declined 1.87 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $3.0064 a gallon on the exchange.  The average nationwide  retail price  for regular gasoline
rose 0.3 cent to $3.295 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  