-- German Bunds Fall as Spanish Notes Climb on Global-Growth Signs
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-01-04T16:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/german-10-year-yields-rise-to-two-month-high-after-retail-sales.html
Germany ’s bonds fell, with 10-year
yields climbing to the highest level in two months, as signs
that global growth is gaining momentum undermined demand for the
region’s safest assets.  Benchmark bund yields rose the most this week since July as
data today showed German retail sales improved and U.S.
employers hired more workers than economists forecast. Spanish
and Italian notes advanced, extending their largest weekly gains
since September, as reports showed services in the two nations
contracted at a slower pace last month. Investors should buy
 Europe ’s so-called peripheral bonds should they decline, Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Wealth Management said.  “There is a bit of a recovery in sentiment,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate strategy at Royal Bank
of Canada in  London . “The expectations for Europe are not as
dire as they used to be. There is a decent chance that bund
yields could go to the upper end of their range” and reach
about 1.75 percent this quarter, he said.  Germany’s 10-year yield climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.54 percent at 4:50 p.m. London time after
reaching 1.56 percent, the highest level since Oct. 26. The 1.5
percent bond maturing in September 2022 fell 0.515, or 5.15
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,306) face amount, to 99.67. They rose
23 basis points this week.  Payrolls Increase  U.S. payrolls rose by 155,000 last month following a
revised 161,000 gain in November that was more than initially
estimated, the Labor Department said in  Washington . The estimate
of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of
152,000. German retail sales, adjusted for inflation and
seasonal swings, increased 1.2 percent from October, the Federal
Statistics Office said.  “Flight to safe havens is fading and we think we will see
slightly better data out of Europe this quarter,” said Ralf Umlauf, a research analyst at Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
 Frankfurt . “Fading support for bunds is pushing yields up.”  The 10-year German yield may increase to 1.70 percent by
the end of March, Umlauf said. A Bloomberg survey of analysts
predicts the rate will end the first quarter at 1.59 percent.  German bonds lost 1 percent this week through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italy’s debt gained
1.4 percent and  Spain ’s returned 1.5 percent.  Spanish Notes  Spanish two-year yield dropped to the lowest level in nine
months after Markit Economics said its gauge of the nation’s
services improved to 44.3 in December from 42.4 a month earlier.
Italy’s services index climbed to 45.6 from 44.6, separate
Markit data showed.  Spain’s  two-year rates  fell four basis points to 2.43
percent after reaching 2.39 percent, the least since March 21.
They declined 46 basis points this week, the most since the
period ended Sept. 7.  Similar-maturity Italian yields were little changed at 1.65
percent, having dropped 32 basis points since Dec. 28.  “I’m still quite happy not to push too far in terms of
risk,” Johannes Jooste, a senior strategist at Merrill Lynch
Wealth Management in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson  and  Francine Lacqua .
“Rather, have a mindset this year to use the volatility. Use
the weakness to add” peripheral bonds, such as those from Italy
and Spain, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German rates shrank to as
narrow as 349 basis points, the least since April 2.  “Convergence is a trend,” Georg Grodzki, head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management in London,
which has about $290 billion of bond funds, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with Francine Lacqua.
“The trend, as it feels at the moment, will be a further
convergence between the core and the periphery, on the
assumption that the periphery is bottoming out.”  Volatility on Finnish debt was the highest among euro-area
nations tracked by Bloomberg, followed by that of the
Netherlands and Germany, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  