-- Buy Citigroup Options Before Earnings, Goldman Sachs Advises
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2013-01-04T22:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/goldman-sachs-tells-clients-to-bet-on-citigroup-before-earnings.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  told clients
to bet on  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shares before fourth-quarter earnings
later this month as new Chief Executive Officer Michael Corbat
cuts costs and withdraws from some markets.  Investors should buy call options on shares in Citigroup
before the bank announces its results Jan. 17, Goldman Sachs
said today in a note to clients. Calls are contracts that
provide the right to buy shares at a certain price. The New
York-based firm also added Citigroup to its “conviction buy
list” and said shares could rise to $49 within a year.  Corbat, 52, who replaced Vikram Pandit in October, is
laying off thousands of workers and pulling out of some
countries as he seeks to reduce costs at Citigroup. His plans,
announced last month, make the New York-based bank the “best
large-cap restructuring story,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by
 Richard Ramsden  said in another note.  “Under new CEO Michael Corbat, we believe Citi is poised
to improve returns and increase efficiency,” the analysts
wrote. “Citi shares are mispriced given the company’s core
earnings power, especially considering further restructuring
could generate additional upside for shares.”  Citigroup  climbed  2.5 percent to close at $42.43 in New
York, outpacing the 1.7 percent gain of the 24-company  KBW Bank
Index. (BKX)  The shares have increased 7.3 percent this year.  Volume Surges  Goldman Sachs advised clients to purchase calls with the
option to buy Citigroup shares at $42 by Jan. 19, two days after
Corbat announces his first earnings results as CEO. This will
position investors for a potential rally in the stock, according
to Goldman Sachs strategists.  Prices for Citigroup calls are “attractive,” the Goldman
Sachs strategists wrote.  Implied volatility , a key gauge of
options prices, for 30-day contracts closest to Citigroup’s
current share price slumped 50 percent from its high in May to
27.42 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since June 2011.  The volume of Citigroup calls surged to 231,842 yesterday,
the most in almost a year and more than triple the number of
options to sell the shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the Goldman Sachs recommendations.  Corbat announced plans last month to cut about 11,000 jobs
and pull back from markets including Pakistan, Paraguay and
Turkey. The lender will take a $1 billion charge to cover the
 workforce reduction . Shares have jumped 16 percent since the
Dec. 5 announcement.  ‘Conviction Buy’  Citigroup replaced  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on the Goldman
Sachs “conviction buy” list, which includes the firm’s top
stock picks.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the Birmingham, Alabama-
based lender that’s also on the list, gained 3.6 percent to
close at $7.59, the top performer on the KBW Bank Index.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , which Goldman Sachs upgraded to buy
from neutral, rose 2.8 percent to $29.42. The Atlanta-based
lender will benefit from the “continued rebound in Southeast
housing,” the analysts wrote.  Goldman Sachs downgraded its recommendations on JPMorgan,
which is based in New York,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  BB&T Corp. (BBT) 
While the three banks can still provide “best in class”
returns, they have “fewer levers” to increase profits, the
analysts wrote.  JPMorgan  gained  1.8 percent to close at $45.36. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Winston-Salem, North Carolina-
based BB&T both advanced less than one percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  