-- Google, KFC, Macy’s, Groupon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-04T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/google-kfc-macy-s-groupon-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , avoiding a potentially
costly legal battle with U.S. regulators, ended a 20-month
antitrust probe by pledging to change some business practices
and settling allegations it misused patents to thwart
competitors in smartphone technology.  The Federal Trade Commission voted 5-0 to close its
investigation into whether Google unfairly skewed its search
results, with the company saying it would voluntarily remove
restrictions on the use of its online search advertising
platform, and offer companies the option to keep their content
out of Google’s search results.  Under a consent decree regarding patents, Google will have
little chance to seek court orders barring competitors’ products
when the company has agreed to license its technology on
reasonable terms.  “The changes Google has agreed to make will ensure that
consumers continue to reap the benefits of competition in the
online marketplace and in the market for innovative wireless
devices they enjoy,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said yesterday
at a news conference in Washington. “This was an incredibly
thorough and careful investigation by the commission, and the
outcome is a strong and enforceable set of agreements.”  The agency’s decision to close its probe of Google’s search
practices without any enforcement action is a blow to
competitors including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  and  Expedia
Inc. (EXPE)  An alliance of such e-commerce and Web-search companies
pressed the agency to bring a lawsuit, claiming Google’s
dominance of Internet search, combined with favoring its own
services in answers to queries, violates antitrust laws.  Google said in a blog posting yesterday that it agreed in a
letter to the FTC that websites will be allowed to remove their
own content such as reviews from search-results pages including
those for local, travel and shopping services. Advertisers will
also be able to compare data from other search engines within
third-party services that use Google’s AdWords software, Google
said in the posting.  Beth Wilkinson , the Washington litigator hired by the FTC
to oversee a potential lawsuit, said that the evidence didn’t
show Google’s actions were against the law.  The agreement requires Google to give the FTC reports on
its compliance with the agreement for five years. The agency has
the right to review company documents and interview Google
employees if it suspects non-compliance, Peter Levitas, a deputy
in the bureau of compliance, told reporters.  The agency voted 4-1 on the patent settlement, a formal
consent decree that restricts the situations in which Google can
seek court injunctions against competitors’ products that rely
on so-called standard-essential patents. Google would still be
able to try to block rivals from using those patents if it can’t
reach a licensing agreement, the agency said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Yum’s KFC Seeks ‘Official Sponsor of Couchgating’ Trademark  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Kentucky Fried Chicken has filed an
application to register a trademark related to the consumption
of its products while watching television.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, KFC filed an application in September to register
“Official Sponsor of Couchgating.” The Louisville, Kentucky-
based company said it will use the mark for restaurant services,
and is presently running ads featuring the “ gameday box ” and
“gameday bucket.”  KFC’s “Couchgating” also has  its own page  on  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s social media site.  The chicken company isn’t presently listed as a sponsor for
the upcoming broadcast of the  National Football League ’s
Superbowl XLVII, set for Feb. 3 in New Orleans.  Among the
companies that are known to be planning Superbowl ads are
 Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) , Cars.com, Mars Inc.,  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  and
 Gildan Activewear Inc. (GIL) , according to a Dec. 27  story  in
Advertising Age magazine.  Macy’s Trial Over Martha Stewart Rights Set for Next Month  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s bid to prevent Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. from executing a sales agreement with  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)  is set to go to trial Feb. 19.  The case won’t be tried before a jury and there will be no
need to decide damages, Judge Jeffrey K. Oing said yesterday in
 New York  state court in Manhattan.  Any potential damages in the dispute “are going to pale in
comparison to the injunction,” Oing said during a hearing.
“That’s the real big bucks there -- if I stop this deal.”  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
claims it has an exclusive right to sell  Martha Stewart Living (MSO) 
products in certain categories. The Cincinnati-based retailer
sued both J.C. Penney and Martha Stewart Living seeking to halt
their sales agreement, announced in December 2011.  In one of the suits, Macy’s said Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, the No. 4 U.S. department-store chain, caused it to
“incur substantial damages and threatens to inflict
incalculable further harm” and that the Martha Stewart accord
is “transparently designed to eliminate the competitive
advantage that Macy’s enjoys in the area of home products.”  Oing in July granted Macy’s request for an initial
injunction blocking Martha Stewart Living from taking any steps
under the deal on making, marketing, distributing or selling
certain Martha Stewart-branded products. In August, he said he
wouldn’t impose a similar injunction against J.C. Penney because
Macy’s hadn’t proved it was likely to succeed on some claims.  J.C. Penney announced in December 2011 that it was entering
into a “strategic alliance” in which it was investing $38.5
million for a 16.6 percent stake in Martha Stewart Living. As a
component of the deal, the companies planned to open distinct
Martha Stewart home and lifestyle merchandise stores inside many
J.C. Penney locations starting in February and sell specialty
merchandise online, according to the announcement from J.C.
Penney.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp., 652861/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The old case is Macy’s
Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, New
York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Groupon, Groupion Agree to Settle Trademark-Infringement Suit  A trademark dispute between a California coupon-management
company and Chicago’s  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  was dismissed, according to a
Dec. 21 court filing.  Groupion LLC , based in Palo Alto, sued Groupon in federal
court in  San Francisco  in February 2011, claiming the shopping-
website company infringed marks it had used since 2007 and that
the public was confused by the name similarity.  The companies reached a confidential agreement and will
each pay their own litigation costs and legal fees, according to
the court filing. Other terms of the accord weren’t disclosed.  Google Inc. was dismissed as a defendant in the case in
September.  The case is Groupion LLC v. Groupon Inc., 11-cv-870, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Life Is Good’s Non-Infringement Ruling Affirmed by Appeals Court  Life is Good Inc., a New Hampshire-based clothing company,
defeated a copyright-infringement claim brought by a Colorado
artist.  Gary D. Blehm  sued the company in federal court in Denver
in December 2009, claiming some Life is Good t-shirt designs
infringed his copyrights for  Penmen , a series of stylized hand-
drawn stick figures. The artist said he first created his Penmen
when he was 12 years old in 1977, and that by 1995 he was
earning his living from a variety of Penmen-related products and
publications.  He objected to the “Jake” stick-figure characters
appearing on Life is Good’s t-shirts. Blehm claimed that several
Life is Good products contained images of characters he said
were directly derived from his work.  In September 2011, U.S. District Judge Richard P. Matsch
granted Life is Good’s request that the case be dismissed. Blehm
then filed an appeal with a federal circuit court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Denver affirmed the dismissal
on Dec. 27, saying that the lower court correctly determined
that the elements of his work that Blehm claimed were infringed
weren’t protectable under U.S. copyright law.  The “everyday activities, common anatomical features and
natural poses” used in both the shirts and Blehm’s art “are
ideas that belong in the public domain,” the appeals court
said. “Mr. Blehm does not own these elements.”  The court also found that “no reasonable juror could
determine that the Jake figure is substantially similar to the
protected expressive choices” that Blehm used for his Penmen
figures.  The appellate court case is Blehm v. Jacobs, 11-1479, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The lower court case is
Blehm v. Jacobs 09-cv-2865, U.S. District Court, District of
Colorado (Denver).  Leader of IMAGiNE Piracy Group Gets Five-Year Prison Sentence  Jeramiah Perkins, leader of the Internet piracy group
“IMAGiNE,” received a five-year prison sentence yesterday,
according to a filing in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia.  The 49-year-old resident of Portsmouth, Virginia, pleaded
guilty in August to a charge of conspiracy to commit copyright
infringement. He and three others were indicted in April in
connection with IMAGiNE’s release on the Internet of movies that
were only being shown in theaters.  Perkins said in court papers that he used electronic
devices in theaters to record the movies and create files that
were shared over the Internet. He agreed to provide restitution
to trade groups of content owners, including the Motion Picture
Association of America, the Business Software Alliance, the
Recording Industry Association of America, the Software and
Information Industry Association and the Entertainment Software
Association.  In addition to the prison term, Perkins faces three years
of supervised release and was ordered to pay $15,000 in
restitution. He also surrendered the electronic equipment he
used to record and transmit the movies.  Three of Perkins’s co-defendants previously pleaded guilty
and received prison sentences.  The case is U.S. v. Perkins, 12-cr-59, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Duane Morris Hires Khachatourian for Silicon Valley Office  Duane Morris LLP hired Karineh Khachatourian for its
 intellectual-property  practice, the Philadelphia-based firm said
in a  statement  yesterday.  Khachatourian , a litigator, joins from Pittsburgh’s K&L
Gates LLP and will head a new Duane Morris office in Palo Alto,
California.  She does both patent litigation and acquisition, and has
also done copyright, trade-secret and trademark work. Her
clients’ technologies have included computer hardware and
software, consumer electronics and computer peripherals,
encryption, video gaming, social media, semiconductors and
enterprise cloud computing.  Khachatourian has an undergraduate degree from New York
University and a law degree from George Washington University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  