-- Gross ‘Cautious’ on Munis as Tax-Benefit Debate Looms
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-04T22:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/gross-cautious-on-municipal-bonds-as-tax-benefit-debate-looms.html
(Corrects name of TV program in second paragraph.)  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said he’s taking a “cautious” approach to
state and local debt on the view that Congress may change the
tax-exempt status of the securities.  Gross, who oversees the  $285 billion  Total Return Fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., has directed 5 percent of the
fund to munis for three straight months, the longest stretch
where the level has been that high since at least 2006. The
 Newport Beach , California-based  fund manager  may not increase
that allocation because lawmakers might limit or change the tax-
benefit that munis offer, Gross said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  “We’re holding on to our positions, but muni rates are in
this cloud of ‘will they or won’t they’ be taxed in terms of
withholdings,” Gross said. “So we’ll take a cautious stance.”  President  Barack Obama  has proposed limiting the value of
the muni tax break for higher earners to 28 percent. The
proposal is part of a strategy to help reduce the federal
deficit.  Gross, 68, more than doubled his holdings of municipal debt
sold in New York to a $3 billion market value in the quarter
ending Sept. 30, from $1.4 billion as of June 30, according to a
semiannual filing the firm released last month. It was the
biggest increase by amount among U.S. states.  Gross said he doesn’t plan to continue that strategy.  “Congress at this point can do lots of things that are
surprising, so we’ll be relatively cautious on munis,” he said.
“We won’t be selling them. But loading up on more  New York 
munis? Probably not.”  The Total Return Fund earned about 10.4 percent last year,
beating 95 percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It has gained an average of 8.03 percent annually over the
past five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  