-- Li Ka-Shing Sees Hong Kong Home Prices Fluctuating 10%
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-01-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/li-ka-shing-sees-hong-kong-home-prices-to-fluctuate-up-to-10-.html
Hong Kong’s home prices will
fluctuate as much as 10 percent this year given that an
uncertain economic outlook may offset higher land prices,  Cheung
Kong Holdings Ltd (1)  Chairman  Li Ka-shing  said.  “There won’t be big changes,” Li told reporters in Hong
Kong before Cheung Kong’s annual dinner yesterday. “It’ll be at
most 10 percent on either side. The economy isn’t that great.
It’s just so-so.” Still, bidding prices on the city’s plots may
be higher, Li said.  Home prices  climbed 20 percent last year and reached a
record in November on low mortgage rates, an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers and a lack of new housing supply. Hong Kong Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying, who will give his first policy
address this month, has imposed three rounds of measures to curb
home prices since taking over in July, including a plan to
increase land supply.  Li, Asia’s richest man, declined to comment on Leung’s
housing policy or his governance. Cheung Kong didn’t reduce
investments in Hong Kong, Li said, adding that he has no plans
to retire this year.  According to an e-mailed transcript of a speech he was to
give at the dinner, Li said Cheung Kong had “an outstanding
year” in 2012 as its core operations around the world
“achieved solid performances.”  “The geopolitical and economic landscape is ever changing
and challenges abound in the future,” Li said, according to the
speech, distributed to the media yesterday. “We will maintain a
healthy debt ratio, we will vigilantly strengthen our core
business and operations, and be agile on investments and
technological opportunities.”  Cheung Kong has 260,000 employees globally, Li said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  