-- IBM Insider Case Analyst to Return to U.S. From Hong Kong
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2013-01-04T02:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/ibm-insider-case-analyst-to-return-to-u-s-from-hong-kong.html
Trent Martin, the analyst wanted by
the U.S. for an alleged  insider-trading  scheme tied to
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s $1.2 billion acquisition
of SPSS Inc., won’t challenge his extradition, a Hong Kong court
was told.  Martin consents to surrender, his lawyer, Kyle Wombolt,
told Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates Court today. Martin told
the court he was aware of the extradition proceedings and signed
the required consent.  Martin was charged with conspiracy and securities fraud in
 Manhattan , federal prosecutors  said  on Dec. 26. The 33-year-old,
who allegedly made a profit of $7,900 from insider trading,
faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted. He also faces
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over the
alleged scheme.  Wombolt, a partner at Herbert Smith Freehills in  Hong Kong ,
couldn’t be reached for comment before today’s hearing.  Prosecutors and the SEC didn’t identify where Martin worked
when the alleged crimes occurred in 2009. According to the SEC’s
complaint, Martin left a New York brokerage in September 2009 to
join a “related” firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , where he
remained until November 2010.  RBS Group  Martin worked at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in the
U.S. and an RBS joint venture in Australia before joining  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in September 2011, according to two people
familiar with the situation who asked not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak about the matter.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority lists a Trent
Martin who left  ABN Amro  in 2009 to work at the Stamford office
of RBS, which participated in ABN Amro’s takeover in 2007.
Martin’s broker registration at RBS ended in November 2010,
Finra documents show.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS, declined
to comment on the Martin case. Felicity Albert, a spokeswoman
for Tokyo-based Nomura, also declined to comment on Martin.  Martin learned confidential information from a corporate
lawyer, not identified in court papers, who was working on the
IBM deal and with whom he was close friends, according to
prosecutors.  SPSS Stock  Martin bought SPSS stock based on the information in June
2009 and shared the tip with his Manhattan roommate, Thomas
Conradt, who worked as a stockbroker, according to the
government. Contradt in turn tipped off his co-worker and friend
David Weishaus, who passed the information to two other
unidentified brokers they worked with, prosecutors said.  When the companies issued a press release on July 27, 2009,
on IBM’s plan to buy SPSS for about $1.2 billion, or almost $50
a share, SPSS’s stock price rose 41 percent in one day. Martin
and the brokers earned about $1.2 million in illicit profits
from trades based on the information about the deal, prosecutors
said. IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , is the largest computer-
services provider.  Conradt and Weishaus were indicted on charges related to
the alleged scheme on Nov. 29. They have pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Martin, 12-cr-887, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  