-- IBM’s Services Chief Will Step Down
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-01-04T21:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/ibm-s-services-chief-will-step-down.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
said Senior Vice President Mike Daniels is retiring after 36
years with the company, leaving two lieutenants in charge of
services, the company’s biggest division.  Daniels, 58, will leave Armonk, New York-based IBM on March
31. Instead of replacing him, Erich Clementi, senior vice
president for global technology services, and Bridget van Kralingen, senior vice president for global business services,
will now report to the chief executive officer, said  Ed Barbini ,
a company spokesman.  Daniels ran a business that accounted for about 60 percent
of revenue at IBM, the world’s largest provider of computer
services. He also was seen as a potential CEO candidate before
Ginni Rometty took the post a year ago. Daniels made his mark as
a cost cutter, helping boost IBM’s margins in recent years.  Daniels joined IBM straight out of college, with a
trajectory similar to Rometty’s through experience in sales and
services. In 2005, when then-CEO Sam Palmisano split the
services business into consulting and technology units, Daniels
first took over only the latter.  Cost Cutter  Daniels fired thousands of employees and moved jobs to
lower-cost regions such as  India  to trim expenses and boost
profits. IBM has a five-year plan to reach annual operating
earnings of at least $20 a share by 2015, up from $13.44 in
2011.  Rometty took the reins at IBM in January of last year,
becoming the company’s ninth CEO and first female leader. In
October, she became chairman of IBM’s board, replacing
Palmisano.  During her tenure, she has filled two other senior
executive positions with internal candidates. Bruno Di Leo took
the head of sales job she held before becoming CEO. Van
Kralingen was promoted to head of business services a year ago,
replacing Frank Kern, who retired after 35 years at the company.
Kern in October became CEO at Aricent Group, a technology
consulting firm.  IBM shares fell 0.7 percent to $193.99 at the close in New
York. The stock climbed 4.2 percent in 2012, marking its fourth
straight year of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  