-- Microsoft’s Windows 8 Lifted by $617 Million Defense Deal
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-01-05T15:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/microsoft-s-windows-8-lifted-by-617-million-defense-deal.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  won a $617 million
contract with the U.S. Defense Department to provide its latest
software, including the Windows 8 operating system.  The three-year agreement announced yesterday by the world’s
largest software maker covers 1.5 million of the Pentagon’s
computers. The deal gives the Army, Air Force and Defense
Information Systems Agency access to the latest versions of
Windows 8 and programs such as Microsoft Office 2013 and
SharePoint 2013, a file-sharing platform.  “The large majority of the United States Department of
Defense just made the decision to go with Microsoft,” Tim
Solms, general manager for Pentagon business at the Redmond,
Washington-based company, said in a phone interview. “That’s
very positive from a business perspective.”  The military received seven bids for the contract,
according to a December news release. The competitors weren’t
identified. The award went to a reseller of Microsoft products,
Insight Public Sector, a division of Tempe, Arizona-based
 Insight Enterprises Inc. (NSIT)   Microsoft, long dominant in personal computers, has lost
ground to smartphones and tablets championed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)   U.S. retail sales of devices running Windows fell 21
percent from a year earlier in the four weeks after Microsoft
released Windows 8 on Oct. 26, according to a Nov. 29 report by
Port Washington, New York-based NPD Group Inc.  Windows Sales  The decrease has been fueled by a 24 percent drop in sales
of notebook computers as customers opt for Apple’s iPad or
tablets powered by Google’s Android software.  The Pentagon award is “a validation point for Windows 8
after the media has been fairly negative on it as an operating
system,” Richard Williams, an analyst at Cross Research in
Livingston, New Jersey, said in a phone interview.  “The fact that large organizations are adopting it adds
credence to the idea that this software is an industry
standard,” said Williams, who rates Microsoft shares a buy.  Brad Reback, an Atlanta-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., said the agreement may buoy Microsoft’s business selling
applications that compete with the Internet-based documents
offered by Google.  Military Savings  The Pentagon deal also may allay corporate clients’
concerns about the security of some of the services that would
be provided under the deal, Reback said.  While the contract shows the Defense Department’s support
of Microsoft’s desktop operating system, it doesn’t necessarily
mean all the users will convert to the latest version, said
Reback, who rates Microsoft shares a buy.  “I don’t think this signals widespread adoption of Windows
8” within the Pentagon, he said in a phone interview. “Access
is different than usage.”  The military expects to save “tens of millions” of
dollars through lower software license costs under the
agreement, according to a news release from the Defense
Department.  The Pentagon represents about two-thirds of all prime, or
direct, federal contract spending. The U.S. government awarded
more than $530 billion in direct contracts in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30, 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  