-- Intercontinental Exchange Picked as Top Stock at Sandler O’Neill
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-01-04T17:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/intercontinental-exchange-picked-as-top-stock-at-sandler-o-neill.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , which
last month agreed to buy NYSE Euronext, is the top stock pick
this year as earnings should grow 25 percent in 2014, according
to Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP analyst  Richard Repetto .  The $8 billion acquisition would create the second-largest
futures market by volume, behind  CME Group Inc. (CME) , according to
data from the Futures Industry Association. By folding the  New
York  Stock Exchange and European equity markets owned by NYSE
Euronext into the derivatives business, Chief Executive Officer
Jeff Sprecher should derive about 70 percent of income from
derivatives and 30 percent from stock and other operations,
Repetto wrote in a note today.  Sprecher, 57, is on his third try to acquire contracts
based on  interest rates  after failed attempts to buy the Chicago
Board of Trade in 2007 and NYSE Liffe in 2011. Intercontinental,
based in Atlanta, specializes in energy commodities and
guaranteeing credit-default swaps with clearinghouses in  London 
and the U.S. The interest-rate futures traded in London at  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s Liffe exchange will give Sprecher an entry into
clearing over-the-counter  interest-rate swaps , Repetto said.  “The opportunity that isn’t being talked about as much is
all these assets and partnerships that position him for the
over-the-counter” market, the analyst said in an interview.  Joint Venture  He was referring to a joint venture between NYSE and the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., known as New York Portfolio
Clearing, that allows investors to combine cash and derivative
positions in one clearinghouse to lower margin costs.  The joint venture is in talks with LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.
to include interest-rate swaps in the mix of contracts to offset
margin, the companies said last year. The deal is known as
Project Trinity.  Sprecher has also worked with the world’s biggest banks to
create the largest clearinghouse for credit-default swaps.  “Now you’re giving him the opportunity to move beyond
credit-default swaps, where he’s been as effective as possible,
to a much bigger playground,” Repetto said. The rate swap
market totaled $379 trillion in outstanding notional value as of
June 2012, compared with $26.9 trillion for credit swaps,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  Intercontinental  shares  have gained 10 percent in the past
year while NYSE Euronext has  jumped  20 percent. Repetto picked
Intercontinental as his top pick today among the online brokers,
exchanges and trading companies he covers.  Cost Savings  There has been no change so far in the proposed Project
Trinity after the Intercontinental acquisition was announced
Dec. 20, said Nina Truman, a spokeswoman for LCH.Clearnet.
Brookly McLaughlin, an Intercontinental spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Tom Callahan, chief executive officer of NYSE Liffe
U.S., the company’s New York-based futures market, said the
project was moving forward.  “We continue to work closely with our partners at DTCC,
LCH and the team at NYPC to include over-the-counter interest
rate swaps alongside fixed income, cash, repo and futures” that
New York Portfolio Clearing uses to offset margin rates, he said
in an e-mailed statement.  The cost savings for banks such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that are active in these markets come
from combining positions in Eurodollar and Treasury futures with
interest-rate swaps to allow long and short positions to cancel
each other out. The lower risk of that entire position leads to
less margin having to be pledged to back the trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 