-- Iran, World Powers to Try to Break Negotiating Stalemate ‘Soon’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-01-04T12:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/iran-world-powers-to-try-to-break-negotiating-stalemate-soon-.html
Iran  and world powers confirmed
they’re in talks to restart stalled negotiations over the
Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear projects.  The so-called P5+1 group, including China, France, Germany,
Russia, the U.K. and U.S., will meet “very soon” with Iran,
European Union spokesman Sebastien Brabant told reporters today
in Brussels. Iran’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , said
in New Delhi that he expected negotiations later this month, the
 Associated Press  said.  The last round of negotiations broke down in June after two
days of talks in Moscow failed to achieve a breakthrough that
would alleviate the threat of military strikes against Iran’s
atomic infrastructure. The U.S. and its allies say Iran has
sought the capability to make atomic bombs. Iran, under dozens
of international sanctions over its nuclear work, insists its
program is peaceful.  After meeting with Indian government officials, Jalili said
that while Iran was determined to continue using nuclear energy
for peaceful purposes, it was prepared to strengthen its
cooperation with UN atomic monitors.  International Atomic Energy Agency officials expect to
complete an agreement that would give them wider access to
suspected Iranian nuclear facilities when they travel to Tehran
on Jan. 16, the IAEA’s chief inspector said last month. The IAEA
investigation of Iran is in its 10th year.  While  Iran’s nuclear program  hasn’t crossed the so-called
“red line” that might trigger a military response, it remains
Israel’s primary threat, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said
yesterday, according to the Jerusalem Post. Netanyahu, facing an
election in Israel this month, presented a cartoon of a short-
fused bomb at the UN in September to illustrate the Iranian
threat.  Iran and the P5+1 nations, led by EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton , are trying to finalize “the modalities and
the details” for the next meeting, Brabant said. Both sides
have yet to confirm where the meeting will take place, AP cited
Jalili as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  