-- Iraqi Forces Fire Into Air as Anti-Maliki Demonstrations Spread
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2013-01-04T14:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/iraqi-forces-fire-into-air-as-anti-maliki-demonstrations-spread.html
Iraqi forces fired into the air to
disperse protesters as demonstrations spread to eight regions
demanding that Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki share more power.  Thousands of protesters gathered in the capital,  Baghdad ,
and Ramadi, Falluja, Tikrit, Mosul, Samarra, Kirkuk and Diyala,
according to footage shown by Al Jazeera television. “The
people want the downfall of the regime,” chanted a crowd in
Mosul, echoing a slogan repeated in protests that led to the
fall of the leaders of Tunisia,  Egypt , Yemen and Libya.  Maliki warned in a statement on his website that “foreign
agendas” were trying to divide the country and stir sectarian
infighting in  Iraq , the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. One of his main
opponents, former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi , called for
Maliki’s resignation and early elections in a statement read by
the local al-Sharqiya television station.  Violence and political clashes in Iraq have increased since
the end of 2011 when the U.S. pulled out the last of the troops
it deployed since the 2003 invasion that ousted Saddam Hussein.
Allawi’s Sunni-backed al-Iraqiya coalition boycotted parliament
and Cabinet sessions for several weeks last year to denounce
what they say is a power grab by Maliki, a Shiite ally of
neighboring  Iran . Tensions have also run high between the Maliki
government and Iraq’s Kurds, mainly focused on disputed land and
control of the nation’s oil wealth.  There were no reports on casualties as security forces
fired warning shots and beat a number of protesters in Mosul,  Al
Jazeera  and a witness reported.  Friday Prayers  “They used batons against people who had just finished
Friday prayers in Sultan mosque, and then fired in the air to
force them to go back and prevent them from joining other
protesters,” Omar Thanoon, a 32-year-old government employee,
said by phone from Mosul.  Opponents of Maliki have been holding street protests in
various regions with mostly Sunni Arab and Kurdish populations.
Many Sunnis, Kurds and followers of Shiite leader Moqtada al- Sadr have asked Maliki to share more power.  Maliki’s opponents have also asked for the release of
prisoners. The Justice Ministry issued a statement yesterday to
announce that 11 women detainees were freed..  The opposition has also called for a general amnesty and
the revocation of laws they say are being used to target Sunnis
accused of being terrorists or members of  Saddam Hussein ’s Baath
party, which has been banned since the U.S.-led invasion.  Government soldiers clashed for the first time with Kurdish
forces on Nov. 16, leaving one person dead. The Kurds have since
halted crude exports as agreements with the federal government
over payments for oil sales faltered.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics that include  Canada ’s oil sands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  