-- Mississippi Seen Navigable Until Jan. 26 as Rocks Removed
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-04T16:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/mississippi-seen-navigable-through-jan-26-after-rock-removal.html
The drought-depleted  Mississippi
River  will remain safe for barge traffic at least for the next
week and possibly until Jan. 26, as the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers makes progress in removing submerged rocks.  Mike Petersen, a Corps spokesman, said water levels near
the so-called rock pinnacles at Thebes in southern  Illinois  will
remain above 10 feet through Jan. 10. Expedited work to remove
the obstacles will add an additional two feet of depth to the
channel by Jan. 11, he said yesterday in an interview.  Barge operator AEP River Operations LLC said the agency
provided the company with a more optimistic estimate.  “The Corps is now stating that our 10 feet of water depth
looks to be good through the 26th of January,” Martin Hettel,
senior manager of bulk sales for the St. Louis-based company,
said yesterday in a phone interview. While Petersen would not
confirm the Jan. 26 date, he said the Corps expects the river to
remain open.  Closing the river could threaten as much as $2.8 billion in
cargo, including grain, coal and crude oil that is expected to
move along the  Mississippi  this month, according to the American
Waterways Operators, an Arlington, Virginia-based industry
group.  ‘Logistical Difficulties’  “Low Mississippi River levels are presenting logistical
difficulties and consequently creating a sense of urgency to
ensure product availability for the spring,” Jim Prokopanko,
chief executive officer of  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the largest U.S.
fertilizer producer, said in a statement today as the company
reported earnings.  Tonnage of grain moved by barges in the week ended Dec. 29
was down 28 percent from a year earlier, the government said
yesterday.  The Corps and shippers had been at odds over the
possibility of a river closure, after the  National Weather
Service  on Jan. 2   forecast  that the waterway near St. Louis may
drop to 9 feet by Jan. 9. That’s the minimum depth the Corps
tries to maintain to keep barge traffic flowing.  Shippers have said most tow boats, which pull barges, need
more than 9 feet of water to operate safely. Shipping companies
have called for more water to be released from upstream
reservoirs.  The U.S. Coast Guard has the authority to close the river
in an emergency.  “We do not foresee the necessity to close the river,”
Colin Fogarty, a Coast Guard spokesman in  St. Louis , said
yesterday in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  