-- Jobs Lost Hit 5 Million With Rigged Currencies: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/jobs-lost-hit-5-million-with-rigged-currencies-cutting-research.html
Exchange-rate manipulation by
countries from  China  to Denmark has cost the U.S. as many as
five million jobs in recent years, according to the Peterson
Institute for International Economics.  More than 20 nations have increased reserves of currencies
such as the dollar by an average of almost $1 trillion a year,
economists C. Fred Bergsten and Joseph E. Gagnon said in a
 report  published last month.  By buying foreign currencies, countries reduce the value of
their own and make their products cheaper on international
markets. That squeezes out foreign competitors and pushes up
trade deficits elsewhere, prompting job losses. The biggest
loser is the U.S., where the  trade  and current account deficits
have been $200 billion to $500 billion larger each year as a
result, costing between one million and five million jobs, the
economists’ calculations show.  “Half or more of excess U.S. unemployment -- the extent to
which current joblessness exceeds the full employment level --
is attributable to currency manipulation by foreign
governments,” Bergsten and Gagnon wrote.  Among the 22 nations Bergsten and Gagnon deem currency
manipulators, which they say account for almost a third of
global output, are China,  Denmark ,  Japan ,  Norway , Russia, Israel
and Switzerland. Of these, China is the biggest intervener,
amassing about $3.3 trillion of reserves by the end of 2011.  Bergsten and Gagnon asked Federal Reserve staff to simulate
the effects of a 10 percent decline in the trade-weighted value
of the U.S. dollar beginning in the first quarter of this year.
Their calculations suggest that would boost gross domestic
product by 1.5 percent in two to three years and raise
employment by nearly 2 million jobs as the current account
deficit declines by almost 1 percent of GDP.  * * *  The central banks of Norway and Sweden proved to be more
successful than New Zealand’s in shaping investor expectations
of short-term  interest rates .  That’s according a  study  published in December by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis , which studied the
effectiveness of central banks giving guidance to financial
markets about the likely path of borrowing costs.  Such a practice, introduced by New Zealand as early as
1997, is in vogue at the moment. The Fed last month tied the
bank’s rate outlook to unemployment and inflation goals. The
central bank had previously said it would keep rates
“exceptionally low” through the middle of 2015.  The report, by Daniel L. Thornton of the St. Louis Fed and
Utrecht University’s Clemens J.M. Kool, found evidence that
official rate outlooks improved market participants’ ability to
predict short-term rates. There was no sign long-term yields
were easier to forecast.  The writers also found a reduction in the variation of
private economists’ rate forecasts after a central bank begins
providing guidance. The economists said their evidence suggested
Norway and Sweden were more successful than  New Zealand  in
improving forecasting ability.  * * *  Governments face the risk of more sophisticated forms of
protectionism that move beyond traditional trade barriers.  Foreign direct investment and offshore sourcing are among
the international business activities that may be subjected to
what Oxford Analytica, a U.K.-based research group, called
“global protectionism” in a Dec. 14 report.  The U.S.,  Canada  and  Germany  are among those to have begun
restricting foreign takeovers and introducing powers to probe
foreign state-owned investors.  Brazil  has reviewed eligibility
criteria for investing in agriculture and there have been calls
in  Europe  to evaluate overseas investment on strategic grounds.  The result is greater corporate uncertainty, particularly
with regard to entering new markets, the report said.  “Its geographical incidence is broader than that of trade
protectionism and its targets are increasingly business from
large  emerging markets ,” said the report. “National
governments will become increasingly assertive in their dealings
with business.”  * * *  The euro area may be poised to benefit from a quantitative
easing in the form of bond purchases. The twist is it could be
Japan’s government doing the buying.  “What the market does not seem to be pricing at present
are Japanese foreign bond buying plans to weaken the yen, which
could exert a significant downward impact on Bund yields,”
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-rate strategy at  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
in  Frankfurt , said in a Dec. 6 report.  The  Liberal Democratic Party  led by Shinzo Abe secured a
landslide victory in last month’s lower-house election on a
platform that included establishing a fund to buy sovereign
debt. Takatoshi Ito, a former finance ministry official and a
possible contender to become central-bank governor, said in a
Dec. 6 interview that the  Bank of Japan (8301)  “can and should buy
foreign bonds.”  Rieger says the bonds of Germany and Europe’s rescue funds
could be “prime targets” for the buying given their high
ratings, although he warned that Japan could face criticism from
other governments.  * * *  The more technology you have, the less it makes you happy.  So say fellows at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington ,
who found technology is positive for well-being in general yet
gives diminishing marginal returns to those who have a lot of
access to it.  “We also find some signs of increased stress and anger,
including among cohorts for whom access to the new technologies
is relatively new and for those who gain new access to financial
services via mobile banking,” Carol Graham and Milena Nikolova
said in their  report , published last month.  That meshes with previous studies of so-called frustrated
achievers, who sometimes resent economic change and development
even as they benefit from them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  