-- JPMorgan Is Sued by National Credit Union Administration
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/jpmorgan-is-sued-by-national-credit-union-administration.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was sued for
alleged securities fraud in its role as successor of Washington
Mutual Bank by the  National Credit Union Administration  board,
the liquidator of three failed federal  credit unions .  The agency said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Kansas City, Kansas, that the offering documents for
residential mortgage-backed securities underwritten or sold by
Washington Mutual to the credit unions contained false and
misleading information about the underlying home loans.  The Alexandria, Virginia-based agency is responsible for
recovering losses to minimize the costs to its industry-funded
stabilization fund. Its complaint was filed as the liquidator of
wholesale credit unions that collapsed and were placed in
conservatorship in 2009 and 2010.  “The damage caused by the actions of firms like  Washington
Mutual  has been extremely expensive to contain and repair, and
that job isn’t finished, yet,” NCUA Board Chairman Debbie Matz
said in a statement.  Representatives of New York-based JPMorgan didn’t
immediately return a call for comment yesterday on the lawsuit.  Yesterday’s complaint follows similar lawsuits the credit
union agency filed against other banks, including one last month
against JPMorgan as successor of Bear Stearns & Co., and those
previously against  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBS) , Credit Suisse Group AG,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the Wachovia Corp. unit of
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Barclays filed papers in November seeking dismissal of the
lawsuit against it, arguing the claims were filed too late.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
agreed in November 2011 and March to pay a combined $171 million
to resolve similar accusations, with $145 million from Deutsche
Bank, $20.5 million from Citigroup and $5.3 million from HSBC.
The banks didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  The case is NCUA v. JPMorgan, 13-02012, U.S. District
Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  