-- Natural Gas May Rise on Outlook Colder Weather Late January
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-01-04T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/natural-gas-may-rise-on-outlook-colder-weather-late-january.html
Natural gas futures may rise next
week as forecasts for colder weather later this month signaled
increased demand for the heating fuel.  Five of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey, or 50 percent,
predicted that futures will advance on the New York Mercantile
Exchange through Jan. 11. Four, or 40 percent, said gas will
fall and one said prices will stay the same. Last week, 50
percent of participants said gas would drop this week.  Below-normal temperatures will return to the western U.S.
over the next 11 to 15 days with more seasonal weather in the
Midwest, according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . Predictions for mild weather before then sent gas
futures to a three-month low yesterday.  “The significant selloff that has taken place in the last
three trading sessions suggests that a rebound might be in order
next week with any cool-down in the weather forecasts,” said
Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas
SA in New York. “It would be premature to write off the entire
winter heating season.”  Natural gas dropped 27.1 cents, or 7.8 percent, to $3.198
per million British thermal units this week through yesterday in
New York, heading for the first weekly decline since mid-
December. Gas is up 6.8 percent from a year ago. Prices have
tumbled 19 percent from a one-year high on Nov. 23 as above-
normal temperatures reduced fuel use.  Even with slightly warmer-than-anticipated weather so far
this heating season, prices should find support well above $3,
Viswanath said.  Price Cap  “However, re-emerging concerns of a supply surplus will
likely keep prices under $3.50 in the very near-term,” she
said.  Gas inventories probably fell by 130 billion cubic feet
last week, based on the median of 16  analyst estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. That would be above the five-year average decrease
for the week of 111 billion and the year-earlier decline of 77
billion, Energy Department data show.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. in  Washington , delayed by a day because New Year’s.  Stockpiles totaled 3.652 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Dec. 21, 12.8 percent above the five-year average for the
period, department data show. The  surplus  expanded from 4.6
percent at the end of November.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  5      4      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  