-- New Delhi Rape Accused in Court as Protests Force Closed Hearing
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2013-01-07T10:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/new-delhi-rape-triggers-supreme-court-hearing-on-sex-crime-laws.html
Five men charged with the rape and
fatal beating of a woman on a bus in New Delhi appeared before a
 court  amid chaotic scenes that forced the magistrate to order a
private hearing over concerns for the safety of the accused.  The five, all aged over 18, will be tried for abduction,
rape and murder, among other charges, government prosecutor
Rajiv Mohan said yesterday. The sixth accused, a juvenile, will
be presented before a separate judicial panel today, he said.
The police have submitted evidence including DNA test results of
the accused to the court, he said by phone.  Before the men were brought before the court in the
capital, lawyers and journalists jostled and argued, delaying
the start of the hearing for two hours. As at least 25 police
were unable to restore calm, magistrate Namrita Aggarwal ordered
the court room be cleared and an in-camera session held.  “It has become completely impossible to proceed,”
Aggarwal said. “There is apprehension about the safety of the
under-trials present.” One group of lawyers from the local
district area denounced other advocates, who stepped forward to
defend the accused.  The assault on the woman and her male friend, which led to
her death almost two weeks later, has triggered nationwide
protests and forced the government to address demands for
swifter justice, safer streets and heavier sentences in rape
cases. India’s top court on Jan. 4 began considering demands for
faster trials and the suspension of lawmakers accused of sex
crimes amid the outpouring of anger.  Victims Lured  “The only way to decrease such heinous crimes is by
tougher  law enforcement , which means an equal treatment of minor
and major crimes,” said Dipankar Gupta, a former professor of
sociology at New Delhi-based Jawaharlal Nehru University. This
would prevent “smaller criminals from graduating into more
gruesome ones.”  The male friend of the woman, who was repeatedly raped and
brutalized aboard the bus last month, has recounted the two-hour
attack which ended with the couple being thrown on to the
roadside, ignored by passersby and argued over by police.  In a Jan. 4 interview with the Zee News television channel,
the man, who along with the rape victim hasn’t been identified,
described how they were lured on to the bus operating illegally
on the night of Dec. 16 as they returned home from a movie
theater in a southern neighborhood of the Indian capital.  The six men aboard the bus, “which had tinted windows and
curtains, had laid a trap for us,” he told the channel. “They
beat us up, hit us with an iron rod, snatched our clothes and
belongings and threw us off the bus on a deserted stretch.” The
woman, who was flown to  Singapore  for medical treatment, died in
the hospital Dec. 29.  Bus Brawl  Police have charged the five men with raping and murdering
the 23-year-old physiotherapy student. The sixth accused, who is
under 18, faces a separate judicial process where sentencing is
more lenient. That has brought calls from some of India’s states
for the juvenile age limit to be lowered to 16.  “The bus occupants had everything planned,” the man said
in the interview. “Apart from the driver and his helper, the
others behaved like they were passengers. We even paid 20 rupees
(36 cents) as fare. Then they started teasing my friend and it
led to a brawl” that ended with an attack with an iron rod, he
said. “Before I fell unconscious, they took my friend away.”  Victim’s Identity  In revelations that will add to pressure on the government
to overhaul policing in the city, the man who survived the
attack told Zee News how officers took 45 minutes to arrive at
the scene after the couple were thrown from the bus without
clothes, with the drivers of several cars, rickshaws and
motorbikes failing to stop to help. Police have since rejected
the claim they took almost an hour to respond.  Once police did arrive, they failed to provide blankets and
delayed taking the couple to a hospital as officers decided
which station had jurisdiction in the case, he told the channel.  Zee showed images of the man sitting in a wheelchair and
wearing a leg support.  After the interview was broadcast, police in the capital
filed a criminal case against Zee News for revealing the
identity of the man who was attacked, Rajan Bhagat, a spokesman
for the force, said by phone. The interview made it possible to
identify the murdered woman, he said, which is prohibited in
rape cases.  Change in Attitude  The Sunday People, a U.K. tabloid newspaper, named the
victim yesterday. The newspaper said the victim’s father said in
an interview he wanted his daughter’s name made public so she
would inspire victims of sexual assault, a claim he later
denied.  A woman was raped every 22 minutes in  India  in 2011,
according to the  National Crime Records Bureau . There were 572
cases of rape reported in New Delhi that year, a 23 percent
increase from 2008, the latest bureau data show. The rise may
reflect a greater confidence in reporting assaults.  “The number of rape cases happening in India is
unbelievable; some men feel they can get away with rape,” said
Ranjana Kumari, director of the New Delhi-based Centre for
Social Research. “At the moment the law does not act as a
deterrent.” Only one in four rape cases results in conviction,
she said.  Newspapers and television channels have reflected the
public fury, dedicating front pages and hours of programming to
discussions of the threats facing women in traditionally
patriarchal India, where sexual harassment is regularly brushed
off as the fault of the woman or dismissed as “eve teasing.”  Fast Track  Breaking with precedent, the rape case will be heard on a
day-to-day basis once it begins. Other fast-track courts have
begun sitting in  New Delhi .  The five men who appeared in court today are Ram Singh,
Mukesh Singh, Vinay Sharma, Akshay Singh and Pawan Gupta. Indian
courts can hand down the death penalty for murder, while rape
has a maximum sentence of life in prison.  India’s Women and Child Development Minister Krishna Tirath
said in a speech on Jan. 4 she wants the law changed so that
judges can punish rapists with the death sentence.  “Cases of rape where the survivor is no longer able to
enjoy a normal state of existence and functioning should have a
provision for the death penalty,” Tirath said. “If the death
penalty becomes the norm, this may reduce the conviction rate.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has appointed a retired Delhi
High Court judge to investigate the crime and suggest ways to
fix lapses in policing. He also asked a panel headed by a former
chief justice to  rewrite  criminal codes to allow harsher
penalties to be imposed, including capital punishment in the
“rarest of rare” rape cases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  