-- New Year Kicks Off With Rate Bets Piling Up: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-04T13:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/new-year-kicks-off-with-rate-bets-piling-up-south-africa-credit.html
Investors are increasing bets that
South Africa’s central bank will cut interest rates this year as
a resurgent rand reduces inflation concern amid slowing economic
growth.  Six-month forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on
borrowing costs, fell to 4.90 percent on Jan. 2, 22 basis points
below the Johannesburg interbank agreed  rate , indicating traders
are pricing in an almost 50 percent chance of a rate cut by
June, Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics said in a Jan. 2 note to
clients. The contracts have declined 13 basis points since the
start of December, while FRAs for  Turkey  are unchanged at 6.28
percent in the period.  The rand’s 3.7 percent jump versus the dollar over the past
month helped reverse sentiment that in mid-December had
investors expressing concern about inflation. The stronger
currency is helping to alleviate the effects of rising oil
prices, which may allow Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus to
focus on stimulating the economy.  “I do see scope for a rate cut” in the second half of the
year, Mokgatla Madisha, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.3
billion at Argon Asset Management in Cape Town, said by phone
yesterday. “The rand has recovered nicely and I don’t think at
these levels inflation is going to be a problem.”  Inflation Expectations  The yield difference between five-year fixed-rate bonds and
index-linked securities of similar maturity, an indication of
investors’ expectation of average inflation over the period,
dropped 13 basis points in the past month to 5.92 percentage
points, within the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent range.  The rand traded at the strongest level in three months
against the dollar on Jan. 1, and declined 0.4 percent to 8.6269
as of 3:45 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency may strengthen to
8.44 per dollar by the end of 2013, according to the median
estimate of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Inflation, which stayed at 5.6 percent in November, will
probably peak at 5.7 percent in the first quarter and average 5
percent in 2014, Marcus said on Nov. 22 when she left the
benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 5 percent.  The economy expanded at its slowest pace since a 2009
recession in the third quarter, and may have been “very low”
in the final three months of 2012, Marcus said on Nov. 28. The
bank reduced its forecast for growth in 2012 to 2.5 percent,
down from 3.5 percent in 2011. Growth this year is expected to
average 2.9 percent,  it said .  Basket Weightings  New weightings in the inflation basket will probably add to
increases in the consumer price index in the first quarter,
according to Michael Grobler, a Cape Town-based fixed-income
analyst at Afrifocus Securities (Pty) Ltd.  That means inflation-linked bonds may continue to
outperform fixed-rate securities in the first half of 2013,
Grobler said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.
Inflation-linked bonds returned 20 percent in 2012, compared
with a 16 percent return for fixed-rate debt, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “I see inflation-linked bonds as expensive on a yield
basis, but the lesser of two evils on a two- to three-month
investment horizon,” said Grobler, who forecasts a 50-basis-
point rate cut in the second half. “Looking ahead I am more
positive” on fixed-rate bonds, with forecast returns of 9
percent for the year.  Rate Bets  The Reserve Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meets on Jan.
25 to review borrowing costs. The MPC will probably leave the
repurchase rate unchanged at 5 percent until the third quarter,
reducing it to 4.75 percent in the final three months of the
year, according to the median estimate of 11 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “The level of inflation won’t be a sufficient deterrent to
cut, with core under control and any breaches of the target
likely to be related both to the new index and to short-run and
non-core factors,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
analyst at Nomura International Plc, said in a note e-mailed to
clients yesterday. “We maintain our view of a rate cut for
now.”  Demand for the nation’s bonds may spur further currency
gains. Foreign investors bought a net 93.4 billion rand ($11
billion) of South African debt in 2012, driving yields on the
benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 to a record low of
6.34 percent on Dec. 21. They rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.44 percent yesterday.  “Our rates are still high compared with developed
markets,” Argon’s Madisha said. “ Emerging markets  will
continue to attract inflows” from investors in developed
nations, benefiting the rand, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  