-- NFL’s Record-Setting Rookie Quarterbacks Narrow Long Shots’ Odds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-04T16:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/nfl-s-record-setting-rookie-quarterbacks-narrow-long-shots-odds.html
Robert Griffin III, Russell Wilson
and  Andrew Luck  set rookie-quarterback records all season,
exceeding expectations. Now they will get their first taste of
the playoffs, with two of their teams going head-to-head in the
opening round.  When Griffin’s Washington Redskins host Wilson’s favored
 Seattle Seahawks  on Jan. 6, it will mark the second postseason
game in the  National Football League ’s 47-year Super Bowl era to
feature two first-year starting quarterbacks.  Luck and the  Indianapolis Colts  play the same day in
Baltimore against the favored Ravens, giving the NFL three
rookie starting quarterbacks in the same postseason for the
first time in its modern era. The NFL playoffs begin tomorrow,
when the Houston Texans host the  Cincinnati Bengals  and the
 Minnesota Vikings  visit the  Green Bay Packers .  “It’s really exciting and the guys have done great against
all of the odds and the history,” Seahawks coach  Pete Carroll 
said about the rookie quarterback crop. “This just has been a
fantastic class. We can talk about them all year and we’re still
doing it because they deserve it.”  The surprising success of the trio of rookies is reflected
in how much their teams’ odds of winning the Super Bowl have
narrowed: The Redskins started at 60-1, they are now 20-1,
according to RJ Bell of Pregame.com. The Seahawks went from 50-1
to 12-1 and the Colts from 125-1 to 80-1.  A bettor who wagered $100 on the Redskins at the start of
the season would collect $6,000 in profit if Washington took the
title; he would get $2,000 if the bet were placed now.  Missed Playoffs  The Redskins, Seahawks and Colts all missed the postseason
a year ago, going a combined 14-34.  “To have three rookie quarterbacks with winning records
this year, it’s really hard to explain,” said Redskins coach
 Mike Shanahan , who credited more sophisticated passing offenses
at the college level. “They have the ability to come in and
really learn the system in the offseason. Twenty years ago, you
never had an opportunity like that. A lot of these guys are
coming out ready to go.”  Luck, the first pick in the 2012  NFL draft , set a league
record for passing yards by a rookie with 4,374 in leading the
Colts to an 11-5 record. Indianapolis, which went 2-14 a year
ago, is the second team in NFL history to win at least 11 games
following a season with two or fewer victories.  Griffin, drafted second, had the highest rookie quarterback
rating in league history, completing 65.6 percent of his passes
for 3,200 yards, 20 touchdowns and five interceptions. He also
rushed for a rookie quarterback-record 815 yards in leading the
Redskins to a 10-6 record and their first division title since
1999.  “Our coaches didn’t baby me,” Griffin said during a news
conference. “They threw everything at me and made me learn on
the fly.”  Griffin has also had off-field success, with the best-
selling jersey in the NFL and endorsements including Subway
Restaurants,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Gatorade.  Jersey Sales  Luck finished No. 4 in jersey sales this year, according to
NFLShop.com, while Wilson ranked 19th, ahead of players such as
Vikings running back  Adrian Peterson , Detroit Lions receiver
 Calvin Johnson  and Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton.  Wilson, a third-round pick, had the second-highest rookie
quarterback rating in league history and tied  Peyton Manning ’s
first-year record for touchdown passes with 26.  Wilson has thrown three game-winning touchdown passes in
the final two minutes of regulation or in overtime, the most by
a rookie since the NFL’s merger with the American Football
League in 1970. He also won a fourth game for the Seahawks
(11-5) by rushing for a score with less than two minutes left.  “He’s done everything we could have hoped for,” Carroll
said during a new conference. “We raised him up and he took off
and ran with it. The offense has really grown and improved, and
he’s been highly efficient, great with the football and a guy
you can trust. He’s been dynamic and a great leader.”  Rookie Matchup  The only previous playoff matchup of rookie starting
quarterbacks in the NFL’s modern era came last year, when  Andy Dalton  of the Cincinnati Bengals faced Houston’s T.J. Yates, a
third-stringer pressed into action by injuries.  Beyond Griffin and Wilson, Washington- Seattle  is a matchup
of the two hottest teams in the opening round.  Washington finished the season with a seven-game winning
streak, the fifth team in NFL history to reach the playoffs
following a 3-6 start. The Seahawks won seven of their final
eight games.  Seattle is a 3-point favorite for the game at FedExField in
Landover, Maryland, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super
Book. The Seahawks are the only visiting team favored during the
opening round even though they had a 3-5 record away from
Seattle this season and have lost eight road playoff games in a
row dating back to 1983.  Top Defense  Oddsmakers said the biggest difference between the teams
may be on defense. Washington allowed 24.3 points a game -- 22nd
among the league’s 32 teams -- while Seattle set a franchise
record in allowing an NFL-low 15.3 points per game.  The  Denver Broncos , at 3-1, are favored to win their third
 Super Bowl , according to Bell. The New England Patriots have 4-1
odds, followed by the San Francisco 49ers (6-1), Atlanta Falcons
(7-1), Packers (8-1), Texans (18-1), Ravens (25-1), Bengals
(50-1) and Vikings (75-1).  Packers Favored  In the other NFC wild-card playoff game, the Packers are a
7 1/2-point favorite against the Vikings at Lambeau Field in
Green Bay, Wisconsin. Minnesota beat Green Bay 37-34 in
Minneapolis last week to earn the NFC’s final wild-card berth as
Peterson rushed for 199 yards, finishing nine short of Eric Dickerson’s single-season record. The wild cards go to the two
non-division winners in each conference with the best records.  In the AFC, the Texans are 4 1/2-point favorites against
the Bengals after losing three of their final four regular-
season games to miss out on a first-round bye.  Luck’s Colts are 6 1/2-point underdogs in Baltimore against
the Ravens, who went 1-4 down the stretch.  “Everybody at this level has played big games,” Luck
said. “Even if they are rookies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  