-- Tom Corbett's Misguided Yet Worthwhile Lawsuit Against the NCAA
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-01-04T20:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/tom-corbett-s-misguided-yet-worthwhile-lawsuit-against-the-ncaa.html
There’s no denying that Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett's  lawsuit  against
the NCAA over its sanctions against Penn State University is shamelessly
opportunistic and fundamentally compromised. It is also, as the  New York  Times
 says today , “brazenly misguided,” “short-sighted” and “foolhardy.” As a
political play -- which it clearly is -- it seems certain to backfire. It also happens to be worthwhile. Corbett, who sits on the university's board of trustees, was Pennsylvania’s
attorney general when the state first started its investigation into former Penn
State coach Jerry Sandusky in 2009. He was sworn in as governor two years later.
Not only was Sandusky still a free man, Corbett had, in the interim, accepted
hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from unsuspecting
members of the board of Sandusky’s charity, Second Mile. Corbett didn’t object when the NCAA sanctions -- bowl bans, scholarship cuts,
vacated wins, a $60 million fine -- were handed down last summer. In fact, he
called them part of the “corrective process.” Now, with the 2014 election
looming, Corbett probably figures he can boost his popularity by coming to the
defense of his state’s most revered institution: the Nittany Lions football
team. It’s a craven move, and from a political perspective, it’s not going to work.
All the suit is really going to do is invite moral scorn for its apparent
attempt to exonerate an institution that sheltered a man who sexually abused
children -- while also reminding  Pennsylvania  voters of the scandal and their
incumbent governor’s mishandling of it. Yet when you strip away the misguided political motivations, the suit
contains, at its core, an important and persuasive argument: The NCAA exists, by
its own definition, to advance the cause of “fair competition” among its
members, while promoting the ideal of the so-called student-athlete. It has the
authority to discipline schools that act in violation of those goals.
Period. The NCAA knows this. It said as much in its  consent decree  with Penn State,
explaining that the Sandusky scandal represented an extraordinary situation that
called for extraordinary measures. The NCAA justified its overreach by saying it
was necessary to address a “culture” that exalted the football program to a
position of “deference” at Penn State. The NCAA was absolutely right about that “culture,” which owes its existence
in part to the NCAA itself, which has enabled the arms race of athletic
facilities, stadiums and dormitories; the soaring pay of college coaches; and
multimillion-dollar apparel and TV contracts. The messenger may deserve all of the scorn being heaped on him, but the
message -- that the NCAA has no business punishing an institution for a
situation it helped create -- shouldn’t be ignored. (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.  Follow him  on
Twitter. Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .