-- Opt-Out Possibility on Airline Battery-Fire Rule Offered
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-01-04T21:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/opt-out-possibility-on-airline-battery-fire-rule-offered.html
Regulators are considering an about-
face that would exempt U.S. cargo airlines from new
international restrictions on shipping  lithium batteries , which
have been linked to three fires that destroyed aircraft.  Groups representing airlines, pilots and electronic-device
makers said they were surprised by the  notice , which will be
filed Jan. 7 in the Federal Register. They didn’t oppose the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s
proposal last year to harmonize U.S. rules with the
international standard.  “We thought everything was set for a final rule at the end
of December,” George Kerchner, executive director of the
Rechargeable Battery Association, said in an interview. The
organization is a Washington-based trade group representing
companies such as  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)   “We are a little disappointed that this is the direction
they are going because it slows down the whole harmonization
process,” Kerchner said.  In 2010, the U.S. regulator proposed rules more restrictive
than the  United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation
Organization ’s standards, which took effect Jan. 1.  No Opposition  Congress blocked the proposed rules, inserting a provision
in a bill to prohibit standards stricter than the UN’s, after
they were opposed by industry trade groups and firms such as
Apple Inc. The agency then proposed in April 2012 to adopt the
international rules and received no opposition, according to
government records.  Battery shippers and airlines can voluntarily adopt the
international standards, Jeannie Layson, a spokeswoman for the
hazardous materials regulator, said in an e-mail statement. The
agency determined it needed additional feedback before acting,
Layson said. In its notice, PHMSA posed a series of questions,
such as whether keeping existing requirements would cause
confusion.  Lithium batteries, which power electronic devices including
 laptop computers  and smartphones, can be shipped on U.S. cargo
planes with few restrictions today.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  has barred
passenger planes from transporting non-rechargeable lithium
batteries since 2004 because, if they catch fire, flames can’t
be stopped by cargo-compartment extinguishers.  The UN rules adopted Jan. 1 require all but the smallest
lithium shipments to be labeled as hazardous and that cargo
haulers, such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,
train employees on handling the batteries. Current U.S.
regulations don’t have such requirements.  Higher Risk  American carriers would be at higher risk than foreign
cargo carriers if allowed to follow U.S. rules, said Mark
Rogers, who leads hazardous-materials-handling issues for the
 Air Line Pilots Association  union.  “We would have a situation where domestically we could fly
around with thousands of lithium batteries on board without the
pilots even being aware of their presence,” Rogers said in an
interview. “They are backing off without any reasonable
opposition” to the international standards. ALPA represents
more than 50,000 pilots in  North America .  The agency’s notice undercuts cargo safety, Robert Travis,
president of the Independent Pilots Association, which
represents UPS’s pilots, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Its new plan to allow air carriers to pick and choose
their own regulation on the domestic carriage of lithium cells
and batteries is a bad idea,” he said.  Tougher Standard  Cargo carriers also favor adopting the tougher standard so
they don’t have to train their staffs to adhere to different
rules around the world, Stephen Alterman, president of the Cargo
Airline Association, said in an interview. In addition to FedEx
and UPS, the Washington-based group represents  Atlas Air
Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW)  and  Air Transport Services Group Inc. (ATSG) ’s
ABX Air.  While ALPA was disappointed that ICAO’s rules didn’t go
further, it views the international standards as better than the
current U.S. regulations, Rogers said. ALPA represents pilots at
FedEx.  Three pilots on a UPS  Boeing Co. (BA)  DC-8 were forced to land
with a fire burning on Feb. 7, 2006, in Philadelphia, a U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board investigation found. The
jet contained “numerous” lithium batteries in computers and
other devices, according to the NTSB. The investigation, which
focused on batteries, was unable to determine the cause of the
fire.  Aircraft Fires  A UPS Boeing 747-400 caught fire 22 minutes after it left
Dubai on Sept. 3, 2010, and crashed as pilots attempted to
return. Both pilots died. The jet was was carrying more than
81,000 lithium batteries, according to a preliminary report by
the General Civil Aviation Authority of the  United Arab
Emirates .  An  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  747-400 went down into the China
Sea on July 28, 2011, after pilots reported a cargo fire. Both
pilots died. It also was carrying a large quantity of batteries,
according to an NTSB  recommendation  Nov. 28 calling for enhanced
fire protections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  