-- Orders to U.S. Factories Unchanged as Non-Durables Decrease
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-04T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/orders-to-u-s-factories-unchanged-as-non-durables-decrease.html
Orders to U.S. factories were little
changed in November, depressed by a drop in non-durable goods,
masking gains for capital equipment that point to a pickup
in business investment in 2013.  Bookings, which include durable and non-durable goods,
totaled $477.6 billion in November compared with $477.4 billion
the prior month, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington . Demand for non-defense capital equipment
excluding aircraft, a proxy for future spending, climbed 2.6
percent after rising 3 percent in October.  Sustained gains in employment offer additional evidence
that companies are willing to invest and expand as global growth
stabilizes and American consumers keep spending on goods such as
automobiles even as lawmakers battled over the budget in late
2012. Further pickup in production may depend on a stronger
rebound in the global economy and a boost in exports.  “It is surprising that orders were as solid as they were
in November,” Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the report. “In general
in 2013, we do have the economy beginning to recover a bit more
and growth picking up.”  The median estimate of 55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 0.4 percent advance in factory bookings. Estimates
ranged from a drop of 0.7 percent to a gain of 1.3 percent. The
gain in October was unrevised at 0.8 percent.  Payrolls Rise  Another report today showed payrolls rose by 155,000
workers in December following a 161,000 advance the prior month,
according to the Labor Department. The increase was in line with
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 unemployment rate  held at 7.8 percent after the November figure
was revised up from a previously reported 7.7 percent.  Factory employment climbed by 25,000 workers, the biggest
gain since March, the report also showed.  Factory orders excluding the volatile transportation
category increased 0.2 percent in November after rising 1
percent the previous month, according to today’s Commerce
Department report.  Demand for non-durable goods, which is often influenced by
swings in prices, decreased 0.6 percent, led by a 2.9 percent
drop for petroleum and coal products. Booking for durable goods
rose 0.8 percent.  Today’s estimate of orders for capital goods excluding
aircraft and military equipment, and including items such as
computers, engines and communications gear, was little changed
from the 2.7 percent increase the Commerce Department estimated
in its Dec. 21 durable goods report.  Business Investment  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, rose 2 percent, the biggest gain in almost a
year. The reading was up from the previously projected 1.8
percent advance the Commerce Department previously estimated.  Factory inventories were little changed in November for a
second month, today’s report showed. Shipments climbed 0.4
percent, pushing the inventory-to-sales ratio down to 1.27
months from 1.28 months in October.  The automobile industry remains a source of strength for
the U.S., sustaining a boost from sales in the wake of
superstorm Sandy as consumers began replacing damaged or
destroyed vehicles. Light vehicle sold at a 15.3 million annual
rate in December, capping a third-straight annual gain of at
least 10 percent which is the first such industry streak since
1973.  “It sure feels a lot better to be selling cars today than
a few years ago,” Geoffrey Pohanka, president of the Pohanka
Automotive Group, said in a telephone interview. “The age of
the fleet and the attractiveness of a lot of cars that are being
designed now are going to help sustain sales going forward.”  Auto Sales  That confidence in continued demand has his Washington,
D.C.-area dealer group expanding only a few years after
retrenchment. Pohanka closed three Saturn stores and a Chrysler-
Dodge outlet as part of the 2009 restructurings of the
predecessors to  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. In
2013, he plans to build a second Honda store in as many years
and also will add a new Volkswagen dealership.  Another report this week signaled manufacturing sustained
gains at the end of 2012. The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory gauge rose to 50.7 last month from November’s 49.5,
which was the weakest since July 2009. Fifty marks the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  