-- Mosaic Beats Estimates After Potash Sales Exceed Forecast
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-04T21:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/mosaic-beats-estimates-after-potash-sales-exceed-forecast-2-.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the largest U.S.
fertilizer producer, reported fiscal second-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates after North American sales helped
potash volumes to exceed its own forecast.  Net income rose to $1.47 a share in the three months
through November from $1.40 a year earlier, Plymouth, Minnesota-
based Mosaic said today in a statement. Profit excluding a tax
benefit and a foreign-exchange loss was $1.02 a share,
surpassing the 88-cent average of 11  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales declined 16 percent to $2.54 billion, more than
the $2.51 billion average of 12 estimates.  Mosaic’s North American fertilizer sales benefited from a
longer-than-expected fall season, offsetting a lack of potash
exports to Asia. The agreement announced Dec. 31 by North
America’s largest potash producers to supply  China  with 1
million tons in the first half may signal and end to the
deadlock with the biggest Asian consumers and foreshadow a
revival in demand. Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko
forecast record 2013 global shipments for potash and phosphates.  The China deal “indicates very strong demand” for potash,
Prokopanko said today on a conference call. “The contract
provides a baseload to get the global potash market functioning
smoothly again.”  Potash is a form of potassium used by farmers to boost crop
yields by helping plants to strengthen their root systems and
better resist drought. Most of Mosaic’s potash production is
from mines in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.  Asian Negotiations  Mosaic rose 3.3 percent to $58.62 at the close in New York,
the biggest climb in six weeks.  The shares  had increased 7.9
percent in the 12 months through yesterday.  Net income rose to $628.8 million in the quarter, from
$623.6 million a year earlier. Potash sales fell to 1.5 million
metric tons from 1.8 million tons as China and  India  delayed
purchases and other buyers awaited the outcome of Asian price
negotiations. The average selling price was $443 a ton.  Total potash sales volumes surpassed Mosaic’s November
forecast of as much as 1.4 million tons. Mark Connelly, a New
York-based analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA, had
estimated shipments of 1.36 million tons at an average of $444 a
ton. Adam Schatzker, a Toronto-based analyst at RBC Capital
Markets, projected 1.3 million tons at $445.  “There was a longer, stronger tail to the fall application
season in North America than we anticipated,” giving farmers
more time to put fertilizers on crops, Prokopanko said today in
a phone interview. “It was a darn good fall season -- if it’s
not a record in North America it would be approaching record
volumes.”  Canpotex Sales  Canpotex Ltd., the offshore potash marketing arm of Mosaic,
 Canada ’s  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , said
Dec. 31 it will sell to China for about $400 a ton. India will
probably hammer out an agreement with potash suppliers within
the first three months of this year, Connelly said in a Dec. 31
note.  Mosaic today forecast fiscal third-quarter potash sales of
1.5 million to 1.8 million tons at an average price of $370 to
$400 a ton.  The company’s phosphate sales, which account for most of
its revenue, were 3 million tons at an average price of $544 a
ton in the second quarter. Third-quarter phosphate sales will be
2.5 million to 2.8 million tons at $485 to $515 a ton, it said.  Prokopanko said global potash shipments this year will be
55 million to 57 million tons and phosphate shipments will rise
as much as 3 percent to 63 million to 65 million tons.  “Crop nutrients have never been more affordable, and
farmers around the world continue to have strong incentives to
use our products to increase crop yields,” Prokopanko said
today in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  