-- House Panel Scraps Draft Farm Bill After Democrat Balks
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-01-04T19:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/house-agriculture-committee-cancels-farm-law-draft-lucas-says.html
The House Agriculture Committee
canceled tentative plans to draft a new farm bill after its top
Democrat sought a commitment that the legislation will be
considered by the full chamber, according to committee leaders.  “There’s going to be no markup in the foreseeable future
without it,” Representative Collin Peterson of  Minnesota  said
today in an interview. Peterson had said the committee would
meet on Feb. 27, and that “is off.”  The timing of a meeting of the committee, which may occur
as lawmakers debate raising the federal debt ceiling, also comes
into play, Chairman Frank Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican, said
today in an interview. Lucas, who hasn’t confirmed a Feb. 27
meeting, had said a session could happen as early as late
February.  U.S. agricultural law that governs food aid to poor
families as well as crop subsidies to farmers this week was
extended to Sept. 30 as part of the congressional tax and
spending settlement. The law approved in 2008 lapsed last year,
triggering rules dating to 1949 that would have pushed up milk
prices.  Peterson sent letters yesterday to House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  and Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia ,
both Republicans, saying that without a guarantee that farm-
policy legislation would be debated on the House floor this
year, Democrats won’t work on a bill, which will require
bipartisan support to pass. Peterson said House Republican
leaders “bottled up” the panel’s bill last year, keeping the
measure off the House agenda.  ‘Next Swarm’  “I, too, would like to have a commitment” from House and
Senate leaders that a farm bill will be voted on this year,
Lucas said. “I don’t see how you can have a markup at the same
time as the next swarm is swirling over the debt ceiling and
everything else.”  The extension lacked a dairy-support program backed by
leaders of both congressional agriculture committees, prompting
Peterson to seek a written commitment from Boehner and Cantor.  Farm bills, usually passed every five years, set policy and
fund U.S. Department of Agriculture programs, which benefit
companies such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  by
encouraging lower raw-material costs. Farmers had record profits
and exports under the 2008 law while USDA food-stamp spending
more than doubled since 2007 because of the recession. Food
stamp spending is about half of the agency’s budget.  Peterson was one of 16 House Democrats to vote against the
deal to avoid higher taxes and spending cuts, known as the
fiscal cliff. Lucas supported the plan, as did Debbie Stabenow
of  Michigan , the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate farm panel.  Stabenow said Dec. 30 that her panel hadn’t set a date for
drafting farm legislation and work would begin “soon.”
Peterson, who led the House Agriculture Committee in 2008, said
current law may need additional extensions until the impasse
with leadership is resolved.  “In Minnesota, we can live with current law if it keeps
getting extended,” he said. “I wrote it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net 
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  