-- Love Their Jobs: U.S. Arts Chiefs Outlast U.K. Colleagues
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/love-their-jobs-u-s-arts-chiefs-outlast-u-k-colleagues.html
Richard Nixon  was president and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  was 929 points when  Lynne Meadow 
was hired as chief of the fledgling  Manhattan Theatre Club . Her
annual salary: $10,400.  She remains at the helm 40 years later.  Speight Jenkins  became general director of the  Seattle
Opera  in 1983. The 75-year-old, who earned $384,000 in pay and
benefits in 2010, says he still loves his job.  “I’m as excited about producing an opera as when I did my
first one here,” he said in an interview. He expects to leave
in 2014, but so far no successor has been announced.  Unlike some of their European counterparts, American arts
leaders tend to stay put once they’re in a high-status job.  Longevity can help cultivate donors and sustain an
organization.  “We have a different tradition here,” said Meadow, 66,
who helped grow MTC’s budget 157-fold while her pay and benefits
increased 40-fold, to $428,000 in 2010. “You have to look at
the track record.”  But a seemingly permanent appointment can also perpetuate a
sensibility that may grow stale.  Turnover “is a good cleanse, it’s a new set of tastes,”
said playwright Adam Rapp, a Pulitzer Prize finalist whose
“Through the Yellow Hour,” a drama set in post-apocalyptic New
York, was recently seen at the  Rattlestick Playwrights Theater .
“I don’t know that it’s a good idea for one person to run a
theater for 30 years.”  James Bond  The question was raised by the release of the new  James
Bond  film, “ Skyfall ,” of all things. The movie was directed by
Sam Mendes, who led  London ’s Donmar Warehouse for a decade until
2002, when he left to make movies and direct elsewhere.  Likewise,  Michael Boyd  oversaw the  Royal Shakespeare
Company , creator of the Broadway-bound musical “Matilda,” for
a decade until passing the baton to Gregory Doran in September.
 Nicholas Hytner  has run London’s  National Theatre , producer of
“War Horse,” since 2003. He’s said he plans to leave by about
2015.  Todd Haimes has run New York’s  Roundabout Theatre Co . for
22 years and Andre Bishop has led  Lincoln Center Theater  for 21
years.  Six Pulitzers  Under Meadow, the Manhattan Theatre Club has presented six
plays that went on to win Pulitzers, more than any other New
York nonprofit. Among them was “Doubt,” one of eight John
Patrick Shanley plays the company has staged since 1986.  “Lynne Meadow kept me in the game when a new leader might
not have had that loyalty,” Shanley said in an e-mail. “MTC
has remained vibrant and financially stable for decades. Two
great arguments for Lynne Meadow’s long tenure.”  But turnover can be a plus for theater administrators and
up-and-coming writers.  “There’s a sense of opportunity, ascendancy and openness
as new roles open up and people move on and up,” said Nina
Steiger, a Princeton,  New Jersey , native who’s associate
director of London’s  Soho Theatre .  Steiger said she isn’t critical of longstanding U.S
artistic directors, many of whom she admires. Those at theater
companies with budgets over $5 million stay on average of 14
years, according to a Theatre Communications Group survey.  Huge Rewards  Chief executives at Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
last an average of 8.4 years, according to a 2012  report  by the
 Conference Board , a research organization. A CEO can earn huge
rewards but also risks being summarily fired.  “A nonprofit CEO has no  stock options  but more  job
security ,” said  Melissa Berman , president of  Rockefeller
Philanthropy Advisors , which advises donors.  Michael Kaiser, head of the John F. Kennedy Center for the
 Performing Arts , said many arts chiefs lack alternatives.  “There aren’t many places to go,” Kaiser said. “Each
organization has its own aesthetic. It’s not so hard to go from
one corporation to another. You’re still pursuing the same
mission, earning profit for shareholders.”  He plans to leave at the end of 2014 after 14 years but
won’t go far: He’ll run the Kennedy Center arts management arm
through 2017.  Great pay is an incentive to stay. Kaiser made $1.3 million
in salary and benefits in 2010, roughly double that of Tony Hall, the chief executive of the Royal Opera House who recently
left for the  BBC  after 11 years.  ‘Relationship Business’  Longtime leaders insist their experience helps the arts.
Mark Volpe, managing director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra
since 1997, said he’s in the “relationship business.”  “It takes time to develop the relationships” with
musicians, staff and donors, he said.  Even so, the BSO has found it challenging to replace
conductor  James Levine , who was ailing for years and resigned in
March 2011. The orchestra is still without a leader. Volpe, who
made $587,500 in pay and benefits to manage the orchestra in
2010, said it will hire a new music director within months.  The San Francisco Opera board asked David Gockley, 69, to
stay until 2016. He joined in 2006 after 33 years at the Houston
Grand Opera and earned $459,000 in pay and benefits in 2010.
Like Jenkins in  Seattle , he downsized to suit a smaller budget.
But would a younger leader connect more easily to a different
donor set and develop a new artistic imperative?  Complicating Factors  Assessing success in the arts is subjective, complicating
the turnover discussion.  James Steinberg  of the Harold and Mimi Steinberg Charitable
Trust, a theater philanthropy, singled out New York’s
 Playwrights Horizons  for staying vibrant 17 years after Tim
Sanford took over.  Rapp differed. “I wonder if his long tenure has created an
aesthetic that needs to be shaken up a bit,” said Rapp, who
hasn’t been presented at Playwrights since November, 2008.  Sanford notes he often presents little-known writers. “I’m
not a believer in turnover for turnover’s sake,” he said.
“Shaking things up is my identity and the theater’s identity.”  Oskar Eustis , the artistic director of New York’s  Public
Theater , said that while management longevity can help with
fundraising, some English institutions were created fully-
funded. Artistic directors there move more easily between
theater, film and television than in the U.S., he said.  After the departure of Meadow and Executive Producer Barry
Grove, who created MTC “out of nothing,” it should consider
limiting successors to ten-year stints, Eustis said.  Comfort Zone  “It’s a good thing in principle for those jobs to turn
over at a reasonable rate,” said Eustis, who himself took over
in 2005 and tries to produce outside his comfort zone of
“hyper-articulate, left-wing intellectual male playwrights.”  Gregory Mosher, director of Lincoln Center Theater from
1985 to 1992, said U.S. theaters have been slow to adapt to new
technology and replace the subscription model.  “We don’t need new leadership because the plays will be
better, but because young leaders will have a much better sense
of how to connect artists and audiences in the 21st century,”
Mosher, a Columbia University professor, said in an e-mail.  ‘It’s very hard to transform a successful institution --
much harder than fixing a broken one -- but the world changes,
and institutions need to change with it,” Mosher said.  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  -- Editors: Jeremy Gerard, Zinta Lundborg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 