-- How Vanderbilt Defeated a Dictator and Delivered the Mail
-- B y   T . J .   S t i l e s
-- 2013-01-04T17:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/how-vanderbilt-defeated-a-dictator-and-delivered-the-mail.html
No sooner had the  House of
Representatives  finished listening to the reading of the
president’s veto message than the chamber erupted in outrage.  Representative Theodore Hunt of  Louisiana  jumped to his
feet and thundered, “This abominable veto just brought into the
House is the very height of tyranny and usurpation.” Amid cries
for impeachment, one Ohio congressman shouted, “The time for
revolution has come!”  It was March 3, 1855. The president was Franklin Pierce.
And the vetoed bill, that treasure of liberty, worth impeachment
or revolution? An extension of a subsidy of $858,000 -- more
than 1 percent of the entire  federal budget  -- for just one
steamship company.  During the 1840s and ’50s, an era better known for laissez-
faire policies, Congress paid enormous sums to private steamship
lines to carry the mail. At the time, the federal government
wanted to achieve far-reaching goals, but it was held back by
both political ideology and limited administrative capacity --
it couldn’t do very much by itself. So it farmed out the work.
The result was a wild tale of unintended consequences, one that
reveals a starkly unfamiliar debate over a very familiar topic.  Polk’s Conundrum  The subsidies first emerged under President James K. Polk.
That’s odd, because Polk was a Jacksonian Democrat. He
disapproved of active government, which he thought would lead to
monopolies, special privileges for a favored few, and an
artificial aristocracy.  But Polk was also an expansionist. His war with  Mexico  gave
the U.S. a long Pacific coast, which created a strategic
conundrum. The easy capture of  California  illustrated its
vulnerability, either to foreign powers or unruly settlers. To
defend the territory, the U.S. would need a reliable
 communications system .  At the time, shipping was the only practical mode of fast,
regular travel between the coasts. So in 1847, Congress
authorized unprecedented mail contracts for steamship lines on
the Pacific (at $348,250 a year) and the Atlantic (at $290,000),
connecting via a land transit of  Panama .  The best argument for this subsidy-by-contract was that no
such lines existed yet. With only a few thousand Americans
living on the Pacific, there was no market. But the gush of
federal dollars gave rise to two new corporations, the Pacific
Mail Steamship Co. and the U.S. Mail Steamship Co., which put
ships in place by January 1849.  The best argument against these subsidies was also that no
such lines existed yet. The contracts went to Albert G. Sloo of
Cincinnati and Arnold Harris of Nashville,  Tennessee . They
weren’t mariners, but politically connected speculators. They
immediately flipped their rights to actual entrepreneurs.  No sooner had the new lines commenced operations than the
California gold rush began. Tens of thousands of migrants
clamored for tickets. Prices soared, and large gold shipments
yielded additional profits. The market went from nonexistent to
among the most lucrative on the planet.  Seemingly everyone who could build, buy or lease a
steamship put one on the run to  San Francisco . American
businessmen began to construct a railroad across Panama, which
would also prove immensely profitable. Cornelius Vanderbilt
proposed a privately funded ship canal across  Nicaragua . When
London bankers declined to invest, he started a steamship line
and transit route across the country, organized as the Accessory
Transit Co. He made a great deal of money, even in competition
with the subsidized mail lines.  Infernal Scoundrels  At this point, one might think the subsidy had served its
purpose and could be reduced or eliminated. Indeed, Vanderbilt
offered to carry the mail for far less. But the subsidies had
created vested interests that steamship men protected through
lobbyists. The recipient of the trans-Atlantic contract, Edward
K. Collins, operator of the confusingly named United States Mail
Steam Ship Co. (different from the U.S. Mail Steamship Co.)
deployed them with particular zest. One of his lobbyists was
described by a friend as suffering only one flaw -- “He is such
an infernal scoundrel.” Bribery wasn’t so much alleged as
assumed. And the federal subsidies continued.  With the California lines, immense profitability led to
dramatic conflicts. Vanderbilt feuded with his partners, forced
them to buy him out, then took control again just as William
Walker, an American adventurer with a private army, seized power
in Nicaragua. Walker stripped Vanderbilt’s company of its rights
and property and sold them to his former partners. Vanderbilt
dispatched a secret agent who led Costa Rican troops on a
commando raid that shut down Nicaraguan transit operations and
helped drive Walker from power. Vanderbilt reopened competition
with the mail companies, gained the postal contract in 1859, and
forced the Pacific Mail to establish a joint monopoly with him.
They still collected federal money, but in vastly reduced
amounts.  For a time, though, Pacific Mail paid him a large monthly
fee to keep his ships in port. The payoff briefly gave them
total control of the market, well worth the price. Curiously,
Henry J. Raymond, the editor of the  New York Times (NYT) , blamed
Vanderbilt. Raymond compared Vanderbilt to medieval German
robber barons -- the first known use of that metaphor in
American journalism.  Raymond’s reasoning reveals some of the philosophy behind
the subsidy. He decried “competition for competition’s sake;
competition which crowds out legitimate enterprises ... or
imposes tribute upon them.” An old Whig, Raymond believed in the
partnership of government and private enterprise to develop the
young republic; competition destroyed badly needed capital.
Pacific Mail, he argued, existed to carry out a federal plan to
serve the public interest, and deserved protection.  Clashing Ideologies  In 1855, Congress debated the subsidy-extension bill (which
benefited Collins’s company) in a tone somewhere between candor
and sarcasm. Congressman William “Extra Billy” Smith denounced
the bill. He noted that one colleague had changed his vote, and
Smith accused him of being corrupted. The other man replied, “If
the gentleman were so opposed to extras, how he got the name of
‘Extra Billy?’” (Smith claimed it was for extra service to the
 Democratic Party .)  “Money passed this bill,” the  New York  Tribune claimed,
“money counted down into the palms of Members of Congress
themselves -- this is as clear as the noon-day sun.” Another
newspaper falsely attributed Pierce’s veto to a $50,000 bribe
from Vanderbilt, who was bidding low for the same contract.
Congress later extended the subsidy through a rider on another
bill. The New York Times predicted that Vanderbilt would set up
a competing Congress for half price.  The debate was a late clash between two ideologies that
would largely disappear by the end of the century: the Whigs’
active-government conservatism and the Democrats’ populist
laissez-faire. Senators spoke of the “honor of the country” in
maintaining an American steam fleet. Pierce countered in
Jacksonian terms, calling the bill a “donation” that established
a monopoly and eliminated “the benefits of free competition.”  Vanderbilt, too, attacked the huge subsidy, saying the mail
could be carried far more cheaply. And he defended himself from
claims that his competition was destructive. Competition
“founded this great Republic,” he wrote, and was “now drawing
the commerce of the world to our shores.”  In time, Vanderbilt’s rivalry helped kill the subsidies.
Collins went bankrupt, Vanderbilt carried the mail for much
less, and the Civil War changed the subject. The political
debate turned upside down by 1900. Corporations began to evolve
from instruments of public policy into plain and simple
businesses; individual competition would seem less egalitarian
in an economy dominated by big companies.  But Whig ideas about using corporations to achieve public
goals didn’t simply die off. In the 1860s, the Republicans --
the Whigs’ heirs -- believed it was in the national interest to
build an unprecedented piece of engineering through private
companies supported by public money. They called it the
transcontinental railroad. Historians are still arguing about
the wisdom of that.  (T.J. Stiles is the author “The First Tycoon: The Epic Life
of  Cornelius Vanderbilt ,” which won the Pulitzer Prize and the
National Book Award. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: T.J. Stiles at
 tjstiles@tjstiles.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 