-- Lloyds Sells Moran Loans to Canyon, Hotel Operator Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-04T16:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/lloyds-sells-moran-loans-to-canyon-hotel-operator-says.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  sold its
loans in Ireland’s Moran Hotel Group to Canyon Capital Advisors
LLC, according to the hotel operator.  The group is “at an advanced stage of a restructuring
plan” it said in an e-mailed response to  Bloomberg News  from
Dublin today. Lloyds agreed to sell as much as 140 million euros
($183 million) in loans at a discount of about 70 percent to a
unit of the U.S. hedge fund, said two people with knowledge of
the transaction who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  Lloyds, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, is selling
Irish loans after being caught up in the implosion of the
country’s real estate bubble. The London-based bank has taken
11.8 billion pounds ($18.9 billion) of impairment charges on
Irish loans since the property collapse in 2008, according to
Bloomberg News calculations. That equates to about 40 percent of
its peak Irish loan book.  Officials at Brunswick Group LLP, who represent Los
Angeles-based Canyon Capital, didn’t return calls seeking
comment. Ian Kitts, a Lloyds spokesman, declined to comment.  Moran Hotels owed 693 million euros to banks at the end of
2011, latest available filings by Dublin-based T&S Taverns Ltd.,
the group holding company, at Ireland’s companies office
registry show.  Business Plan  The Canyon accord leaves Moran Hotels owing money to Bank
of Ireland Plc,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ’s  Ulster Bank  and the hedge fund, the people said. The
banking syndicate hired accounting firm Grant Thornton Ireland
last year to review a five-year business plan for the indebted
hotel group, the  Sunday Times  reported in May.  Much of the debt stems from the Tom Moran-led company’s
acquisition of the Bewley’s Hotel Group in 2008 from Bert Allen,
a director at Slaney Meat Packaging Co.  Profit per room at Irish hotels has dropped 44 percent
since 2007 and the industry has debts of about 6.7 billion
euros, Galway University economist  Alan Ahearne  said in October.  The sale of the Moran loans continues Lloyds’s retreat from
Ireland. New York-based  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest
buyout firm, bought the 501-bedroom Burlington Hotel in Dublin
for 67 million euros in November from  Grant Thornton , which was
acting for Lloyds. That’s less than a quarter of the 288 million
euros an Irish real estate developer paid in 2007.  The same month, Lloyds said it would sell 1.5 billion
pounds of Irish commercial real estate loans to New York-based
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  for 10 percent of the face value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  