-- Penn State Coach O’Brien Won’t Leave School for NFL, Agent Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-04T18:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/penn-state-coach-o-brien-won-t-leave-school-for-nfl-agent-says.html
Bill O’Brien will remain  Penn State
University ’s football coach after leading the team to an 8-4
record in its first season since unprecedented penalties in the
wake of the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal.  The 43-year-old O’Brien received calls from five National
Football League teams but no discussions advanced past the
initial conversations, his agent, Joe Linta of  JL Sports , said
today in a telephone interview. O’Brien’s decision to stay at
the  State College , Pennsylvania, school was an easy one, the
agent said.  “This year made such an impact on his life with the bond
that he felt and came to with the school and specifically the
players and kids he spent the year recruiting,” Linta said. He
did not say how long O’Brien anticipated staying at Penn State
but called the commitment “long-term.”  A former assistant with the NFL’s  New England Patriots ,
O’Brien was hired in January to follow  Joe Paterno , who coached
the Nittany Lions for 46 years before being fired for his
inaction following the disclosure of molestation of boys by
Sandusky, a former coach.  In June, the National Collegiate Athletic Association
handed the school and football team unprecedented sanctions for
its handling of those allegations, including a $60 million fine,
and a four-year postseason ban. The team was also stripped of
112 wins from 1998 through 2011 and lost 20 total scholarships
annually for the four seasons. The state of Pennsylvania sued
the NCAA this week to challenge the penalties.  O’Brien is scheduled next season to receive a $1.3 million
raise, paid for by a private donor, which will bring his total
compensation to about $3.5 million, according to the  Associated
Press .  Not Money  Linta, who has represented O’Brien for the past year and a
half, declined to comment on whether or not O’Brien would re-
negotiate the five-year contract he signed last year.  “I don’t think if anyone offered him $10 million a year,
he would have taken it,” Linta said. “This decision was made
unilaterally and irrespectively of money from the school or
money from any NFL offer.”  The Nittany Lions finished their season with a 24-21
overtime victory over the University of Wisconsin, which lost
earlier this week in the Rose Bowl.  ESPN reported that the  Philadelphia Eagles  and  Cleveland
Browns  were interested in O’Brien.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  