-- Petrobras Losing on Record Gas Use for Power
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-01-04T13:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/petrobras-losing-on-record-gas-use-for-power.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-run energy company, is selling at a loss record amounts of
natural gas for electricity generation as hydropower dams
operate at the lowest water levels in more than a decade.  Petrobras, as the company is known, increased imports of
the  fossil fuel  to 11.9 billion cubic meters (420 billion cubic
feet) last year through November, the most for any year since at
least 2000, when Brazil’s oil regulator started keeping records.
Petrobras may be losing 240 million reais ($117 million) a month
by selling imported liquefied natural gas, or LNG, at a discount
of about $6 per million British thermal unit, said Marco Tavares, chairman of research firm Gas Energy.  Brazil’s driest rainy season in a decade is affecting dams
that provide about 85 percent of the country’s electricity,
prompting utilities to make up for the shortfall with gas-
powered plants. Policies that force Rio de Janeiro-based
 Petrobras (PBR)  to sell fuel at subsidized prices have hurt earnings,
disappointing investors and making the stock the worst-
performing major  oil company  in the past year.  “You have these distortions in the market that end up
affecting the numbers at Petrobras,” Lucas Brendler, who helps
manage about 6 billion reais at Banco Geracao Futuro de
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Porto Alegre ,
Brazil. “Given the supply and demand, we can see these problems
showing up in their numbers.”  Stock Returns  Petrobras is also selling imported gasoline at a loss to
ensure domestic supplies. The company lost investors 17 percent
in the past year including dividends, the worst performance of
any oil company worth more than $100 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 5.7 percent total
return for shares of Exxon Mobil Corp. and a 46 percent gain for
 Colombia ’s  Ecopetrol SA. (ECOPETL)  Petrobras shares slid 0.4 percent to
20.32 reais at 11:39 a.m. in Sao Paulo today.  Government fuel-price controls caused Petrobras to post a
1.35 billion-real loss in the second quarter, its first in 13
years. The company’s 5.57 billion-reais profit in the third
quarter missed the 7.02 billion-real average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The government controls the price of gasoline, diesel and
natural gas sold to distributors through a 50.2 percent voting
stake in Petrobras, the country’s only major fuel producer.  Petrobras set a gas supply record of 98.1 million cubic
meters on Nov. 9, of which 43.4 million went to thermal plants,
including its own, the company said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions. The daily average was 93 million in
November and 87 million in December, Petrobras said.  Reservoir Levels  Hydroelectric reservoirs in Brazil’s southeastern and
central regions, the most populated and industrialized, were
28.9 percent full in December, the least since 2000, according
to  data  on the national power grid operator’s website. The
minimum required for optimal operations in the region is 28
percent. In the northeast, reservoirs were 32.1 percent full,
less than the 34 percent considered optimal in the region.  Reservoir levels are unlikely to rise in the next two
months, meteorologist Flavia Matioli at weather forecaster Somar
Meteorologia said in a telephone interview.  “Rainfall in January and February is expected to be
spotty, poorly distributed,” Matioli said in a Dec. 27
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Precipitation won’t be
enough to cover the ongoing deficit.”  Petrobras, which has capacity to process 27 million cubic
meters per day of LNG, set a regasification record of 22 million
cubic meters on Dec. 8, the company said.  Sustained Demand  In yesterday’s response, Petrobras declined to say how much
it pays for LNG. Gas Energy’s Tavares said the company is paying
$16 to $18 per BTU on the global spot market and selling it in
Brazil for about $10 to $12. Low dam levels probably will
sustain high demand from thermal plants through the southern
hemisphere summer, Petrobras said.  Rising gas demand for power generation doesn’t necessarily
mean that Petrobras will lose money because it’s also selling
electricity from its own thermal plants at a time when prices
are near record highs on the domestic  spot market , according to
Gustavo Gattass, an analyst at Banco BTG Pactual SA.  Petrobras owns 18 thermoelectric plants in Brazil,
 according  to its website.  “With high spot prices, Petrobras won’t necessarily have a
loss,” Gattass said in a telephone interview. “Honestly,
Petrobras is not good at disclosing these figures.”  Net income at Petrobras, the world’s most indebted publicly
traded oil producer, is forecast to rise to $32.2 billion next
year from $24.5 billion in 2012, according to the average of 16
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ’Non Competitive’  For utilities, the higher cost of producing electricity
from gas are partly passed through to consumers. In yesterday’s
response, Petrobras said thermal electricity is sold at the so-
called PLD price set by the government, which at current levels
pays generators at “satisfactory” levels.  “If there isn’t an improvement in water levels, you depend
on Petrobras for supplies at non-competitive prices,” Geracao
Futuro’s Brendler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  