-- Philippine Bonds Advance as Inflation Beats Estimate; Peso Drops
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-04T08:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/philippine-bonds-advance-as-inflation-beats-estimate-peso-drops.html
Philippine bonds due 2031 gained for
a third day this week after official data showed inflation in
December was slower than economists estimated. The peso had its
biggest drop in more than three months, paring a weekly advance.  Consumer prices  rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier, the
 National Statistics Office  reported in Manila today, after a 2.8
percent increase in November. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expected a 3.1 percent gain. Central bank Governor Amando
Tetangco said today inflation risks remain fairly balanced,
suggesting current monetary policy is appropriate. Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 100
basis points in 2012.  “We reacted to the positive news on inflation and the
positive outlook for local bonds in 2013,” said Jan Briace Santos, a debt trader who helps manage the equivalent of $17
billion at BPI Asset Management Inc. in Manila.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent notes due July 2031
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.47 percent
as of 4 p.m. in  Manila , according to prices from Tradition
Financial Services. That’s the lowest level since Dec. 4. It
declined eight basis points this week.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 40.905 per dollar in
Manila, reducing its gain in the week to 0.4 percent, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc. It advanced 6.8 percent last year, the
best performance after  South Korea ’s won among Asian currencies.  Federal Reserve policy makers said they will probably end
their $85 billion monthly bond purchases sometime this year,
with members divided between a mid- or end-of-year finish,
according to minutes of last month’s meeting that were released
yesterday in  Washington .  “The news in the U.S. is supportive of the dollar,”
Santos said.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged at 4.3
percent today. It fell 20 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  