-- Philippine Inflation Accelerates Less Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-01-04T01:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/philippine-inflation-accelerates-less-than-economists-estimated.html
Philippine inflation accelerated less
than economists estimated in December, giving the central bank
room to keep  interest rates  low and support growth.  Consumer prices  rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier, after
a 2.8 percent advance reported earlier for November, the
 National Statistics Office  said in Manila today. The median in a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists was 3.1 percent.  A stronger peso has helped make imports cheaper, even as
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas takes measures to stem capital flows.
The monetary authority lowered borrowing costs four times last
year, and it’s difficult to justify further cuts if the economy
is strong and inflation is benign, Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “Local food prices have remained relatively stable and
price pressures have been easing because of the strong peso,”
Marc Bautista, head of research at Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co.
in Manila, said before the release. “BSP can keep policy rates
at 3.5 percent for the whole year if inflation pressure doesn’t
increase.”  The Philippine peso fell 0.2 percent to 40.845 against the
 U.S. dollar  as of 9:03 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. It advanced to the strongest level in almost five
years yesterday.  The central bank held its  benchmark rate  at a record-low
3.5 percent last month after the economy grew 7.1 percent in the
third quarter, and said it targets inflation to average 3
percent to 5 percent until 2014. The impact of damage to crops
and infrastructure from Storm Bopha last month may be seen in
2013, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan has said.  Core inflation  was 3.3 percent in December, today’s release
showed. Food and non-alcoholic beverage costs rose 2.3 percent
from a year earlier, compared with a 2.2 percent gain in
November. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco climbed 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  