-- Power Grid Plans Debut Dollar Bonds After Busiest Day in a Month
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-04T04:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/power-grid-plans-debut-dollar-bonds-after-busiest-day-in-a-month.html
Power Grid  Corp. of  India , Hong Kong
Broadband Network Ltd. and  Champion REIT (2778)  are meeting fixed-
income investors after the busiest day of issuance for U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds in  Asia  in more than a month. Debt risk
fell to the least in two years.  Power Grid, India’s largest electricity-generation company
by market value, hired banks to arrange bond investor meetings
from Jan. 7, a person familiar with the matter said. The company
hasn’t sold bonds in the U.S. currency before, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds from non-payment in Asia is set for its lowest
close in two years, credit-default swap trader prices show.  Companies in Asia outside of Japan sold $1.25 billion of
notes yesterday, the most since Nov. 28, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638) , headquartered
in Shenzhen, received almost $10 billion in orders for its $500
million of 10.25 percent notes, a person familiar with that sale
said. Country Garden Holdings Co. issued $750 million of 7.5
percent notes due 2023, Bloomberg data show.  “People are getting more comfortable putting money to
work,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. The U.S. high-yield market has seen some
fund outflows and money is flowing into  emerging markets ,
improving investor sentiment toward Asia credit, she said.  Speculative-grade bonds sold by companies in emerging Asia
pay an average 561 basis points more than government debt as of
Jan. 3, 156 basis points more than similarly-rated corporates
globally, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investor Meetings  Hong Kong  Broadband Network, which provides voice and data
communications services in the city, hired JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG for its proposed sale of
dollar bonds and will meet investors in Asia and  Europe  from
Jan. 8, a person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private. Champion REIT is
holding meetings after establishing a $1 billion medium term
notes program, another person familiar said.  Power Grid hired Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Standard Chartered to arrange its investor meetings and
a Reg S, unsecured dollar bond may follow, a person familiar
with the matter said.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  decreased 2 basis points to 101.5 basis
points as of 8:19 a.m. in Hong Kong, RBS prices show. The
measure is set for its lowest close in two years and its first
weekly decline since the five-day period ending Dec. 14,
according to data provider CMA.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped 10 basis points to
148 as of 9:16 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. That’s
the biggest one-day decline since Sept. 7 and puts the index on
track for its lowest close since March last year, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the private market. Markets in Japan have
been closed since Dec. 28 due to national holidays.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 2 basis points to
114 as of 11:17 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. The index is on course for its lowest close in 17 months,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  