-- Traders Turn Bakers in Pursuit of Life, Liberty and Bread
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/traders-turn-bakers-in-pursuit-of-life-liberty-and-bread.html
Traders, eyes fixed on their screens,
might be forgiven for dreaming of another way to earn a crust.
For two such professionals, that vision took the form of a loaf.  Tom Molnar, 46, who specialized in trading energy with
Cargill Inc., helped create a bakery. Stephen Harrington, who
worked in foreign exchange with Trade Development Bank, began
more modestly, founding a baking school at his  London  home.  “When I first started trading, it was very stressful and
with this it was also very stressful,” Molnar, who co-founded
 Gail’s Artisan Bakery , said in an interview.  “With trading, sometimes it just became esoteric. It
became so big you didn’t touch it and feel it any more. Now, you
are dealing with making a product from flour to bread every day.
If you’re a trader, you’re in these big buildings and you’re
dealing worldwide: You live two existences. And I actually live
one and the tradeoff is you work all the time.”  Molnar, who lives in Camden with his Italian wife and their
children, who are four and five years old, was born in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland . His dream, growing up in Cocoa Beach,  Florida ,
was to become a fish farmer. He studied aquatic ecology at
 Dartmouth  and conducted tropical research in  Costa Rica  and
 Jamaica .  He went on to work with Cargill in  Boston , Houston and
Geneva before quitting. He surfed in  Mexico  for a few months and
then went to study at the  Insead  business school and landed a
job at McKinsey & Co., where he stayed for more than four years.
Along the way, he studied Arabic in  Beirut  and spent time in
Syria and Jordan.  Good Bread  “I wanted to do something different,” he said of the move
into baking. “A friend of mine from McKinsey, Ran Avidan, and I
were thinking there just wasn’t any good bread in London and
saying how frustrating it was. We set out to meet the top two or
three bakers in London and Gail (Stephens) was one of them.”  Stephens was supplying some of London’s leading restaurants
-- many don’t bake their own bread -- and Molnar and Avidan went
into partnership with her to found the retail business. Gail’s
Artisan Bakery started in Hampstead about eight years ago. There
are now 13 outlets and 200 employees, with sales in the latest
year of about 7.6 million pounds ($12.2 million). The company
added a restaurant, Gail’s Kitchen, in Bloomsbury last year.  (The entrepreneur Luke Johnson acquired a stake in the
business in 2011 and is backing its expansion. Gail’s competes
with  Paul , which has more than 30 outlets across London.)  “We’re the kind of guys who keep on liking to do new
things,” Molnar said. “My sanity check is I take my kids to
school every morning, even on my bike or my skateboard. They’re
on their scooters and I deliver them. It’s a beautiful time.”  Kitchen Passion  Harrington’s Kitchen , based in Beckenham, is a much smaller
business in scale, though big on passion.  Harrington, 55, started in London, working in foreign
exchange and money broking. His career took him to  Tokyo , then
to Paris, where he was a bond broker, with Pollack & Cie. He
returned to London at the end of 1997, working for Fimat.  “Our job was to come up with trade ideas and put those
ideas out to traders at banks and  hedge funds ,” he said. “We
got paid commission. If you performed, you did very well.”  He bought a house in the south of  France  and started a
cookery school that failed, not helped by a shortage of visitors
from the U.S. around the time of the first  Gulf War . Harrington
returned to the U.K. in 2004 and worked as a head-hunter before
coming up with the idea for his baking school in 2011.  “I decided to do something food-related,” he said. “Food
is my life: It’s my passion and I didn’t immediately know what
to do. I went through the possibilities and came up with bread-
making classes. For one thing, it didn’t require any investment.  “My ex-colleagues all say: ’Hats off to you. You’re doing
something different.’ I think a few of them feel a bit envious
because they’re doing something which is paying them a lot of
money but they’d like to be doing something more enjoyable.  “I never found trading or broking particularly stressful,
although there are pressures on you to perform. Now, my stress
is very much based on getting what I’ve started off the
ground.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 