-- Transocean $1.4 Billion Gulf Spill Deal Lures Investors: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-01-04T14:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/transocean-1-4-billion-gulf-spill-deal-lures-investors-energy.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s agreement to pay
$1.4 billion in penalties for its role in the worst U.S.
maritime oil spill frees the world’s largest offshore driller to
attend to rising competition in deep-water rig markets.  Transocean will plead guilty to one misdemeanor count of
violating the Clean Water Act as owner of the Deepwater Horizon
rig that drilled  BP Plc (BP/) ’s ill-fated Macondo well off the
 Louisiana  coast in 2010, according to a filing yesterday in
federal court in  New Orleans . The company is scheduled to be
arraigned on the charge Jan. 9.  The Vernier, Switzerland-based driller will pay a $400
million criminal fine and $1 billion in civil penalties plus
interest for the calamity that killed 11 workers, spewed
millions of barrels of crude into the sea, and halted fishing
for months across a Nebraska-size swath of the Gulf of Mexico.  Transocean shares  surged the most in 28 months after the
settlement was announced yesterday and yields on company debt
fell, signaling rising investor demand. A “significant
valuation recalibration” is in order for Transocean’s stock now
that most of the uncertainty about potential liabilities for the
Macondo accident has been resolved, said James C. West, an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.  “The painful lesson learned for Transocean and these other
companies involved in deep-water exploration is that going
forward they have to put the environment ahead of profit,” said
Laurence Balter, who helps manage $100 million, including
Transocean shares, at Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,
 Washington .  Largest Gain  Transocean rose 2.3 percent to $50.32 at 9:35 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Yesterday, the stock
increased 7.9 percent for the largest intraday gain since
September 2010.  Transocean’s 3.8 percent bonds maturing in October 2022
traded at 103.96 cents on the dollar yesterday to yield 3.32
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Transocean’s $1.4 billion settlement would be enough to
build two state-of-the-art ultra-deep-water rigs of the sort
that command rental fees of $500,000 a day.  “This settlement is definitely a strong positive for the
company and should put the biggest issues regarding the  oil
spill  behind them,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones
& Co. in  St. Louis , said yesterday in an interview.  Transocean shares that lost half their value since the
April 2010 blowout are undervalued and “highly attractive” at
current prices, Barclays’ West said yesterday in a note to
clients. The stock is trading at about 75 percent of the
company’s net-asset value, compared with the 10-year average of
115 percent for the industry group, he said.  Manslaughter Charges  BP managers overseeing the Macondo project about 40 miles
(64 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast were distracted by cost
overruns and personal conflicts in the weeks preceding the
disaster that destroyed the $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig,
a joint U.S. Interior Department-Coast Guard panel said in a
September 2011 report.  Two BP managers who were aboard the rig the night of the
blowout were charged in November with involuntary manslaughter
and other crimes. The men, Robert Kaluza and  Donald Vidrine ,
have pleaded not guilty in federal court in New Orleans. A
former BP executive,  David Rainey , has been charged with
obstruction of Congress and making false statements about the
size of the spill. Rainey also has pleaded not guilty.  BP, Halliburton  The federal panel’s 2011 report found BP, as operator of
the well, “ultimately responsible” for the accident and spill.
The panel said Transocean and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  also violated
offshore safety regulations.  Halliburton, provider of the cement used in the well, is
the sole remaining Macondo participant that hasn’t settled any
possible incident-related liabilities, West said. Settling any
such claims “should accelerate the company’s plans to hike its
dividend and buy back stock,” West said in his note.  While Halliburton has been sued by private plaintiffs, the
U.S. didn’t name Halliburton as a defendant in its oil-pollution
lawsuit.  “Halliburton remains confident that all the work it
performed with respect to the Macondo well was completed in
accordance with BP’s specifications for its well construction
plan and instructions,” Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for the
Houston-based company, said in an e-mail.  Punitive Damages  BP has to indemnify Halliburton for compensatory damage
claims under its drilling contract, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who is overseeing litigation stemming
from the spill, ruled last year. Any punitive damages awarded or
civil penalties imposed under the Clean Water Act against
Halliburton don’t have to be paid by BP, the judge said in
January 2011.  Barbier also ruled last year that BP must indemnify
Transocean for pollution-related economic damage claims under
its drilling contract. Transocean said in court papers that it
accepted responsibility for equipment losses and paying personal
injury and death claims, citing contract provisions.  The judge said the indemnification meant that BP would be
responsible for “compensatory damages asserted by third parties
against Transocean related to pollution that did not originate
on or above the surface of the water, even if the claim is the
result of Transocean’s strict liability” or negligence or gross
negligence.  Ensco, Noble  Almost three years after the disaster, Transocean still
dominates the Gulf of Mexico’s deep-water drilling market.
Fourteen of the 39 rigs actively drilling in Gulf water depths
of at least 1,000 feet (305 meters) are owned by Transocean,
more than any other operator, according to Dice Holdings Inc.’s
Rigzone, which tracks global offshore rig data.  Transocean’s biggest rivals in the deep-water regions of
the Gulf based on rig counts are Ensco Plc and Noble Corp.,
according to data compiled by Rigzone. Worldwide, Transocean
operates a fleet of 82 offshore rigs, according to a statement
published yesterday on the company’s website.  By pleading guilty to a violation of the  Clean Water Act ,
Transocean and its affiliates “may be subject to suspension and
debarment from obtaining future U.S. government contracts,” the
company said in an SEC  filing  yesterday. If suspended,
Transocean said it “may be prohibited from serving as
contractors” to companies holding U.S. Department of Interior
leases for offshore drilling.  Innovation Group  The U.S.  Justice Department  sued Transocean in 2010,
alleging violations of federal pollution laws. Under the
agreement announced yesterday, Transocean must establish a
Technology Innovation Group to focus on drilling safety,
devoting a minimum of $10 million to this effort.  “This agreement holds Transocean criminally responsible
for its conduct,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said
yesterday in a statement. “This resolution of criminal
allegations and civil claims against Transocean brings us one
significant step closer to justice for the human, environmental
and economic devastation wrought by the Deepwater Horizon
disaster.”  The settlement will end the Justice Department’s criminal
investigation of Transocean, the company said in a statement.
Transocean had accrued an estimated loss contingency of $1.5
billion for claims by the Justice Department, as of Sept. 30,
the company said.  The civil and criminal agreements, “which the company
believes to be in the best interest of its shareholders and
employees, remove much of the uncertainty associated with the
accident,” Transocean said in the statement.  BP Plea Deal  BP, based in  London , previously agreed to pay $4 billion to
the Justice Department to resolve charges connected to the spill
and $525 million to settle the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s claim that the company misled investors about the
rate of oil flowing into the Gulf.  BP announced Nov. 15 that it reached a deal with the
Justice Department to plead guilty to 14 counts, including 11
for felony seaman’s manslaughter. U.S. District Judge Sarah S. Vance in New Orleans said last month she would determine at a
Jan. 29 hearing whether to accept BP’s plea.  BP also agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to settle
most private plaintiffs’ claims related to the explosion aboard
the  Deepwater Horizon  and subsequent spill.  Barbier granted final approval to the economic-loss and
property-damage portion of the settlement last month. He hasn’t
ruled on the medical benefits part of the agreement.  February Trial  Barbier has set Feb. 25 for a nonjury trial to apportion
fault for the incident.  The BP private party settlement excludes claims of
financial institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of
Florida and  Texas , and residents and businesses claiming harm
from the Obama administration’s moratorium on deep-water
drilling prompted by the spill. It also doesn’t cover federal
government civil claims and those of Gulf Coast states Louisiana
and Alabama, or lawsuits against co-defendants.  BP has also reached settlements with other participants in
the Macondo project.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , an explorer based in The
Woodlands, Texas, owned a 25 percent stake in the well and
agreed to pay $4 billion to BP to settle claims related to the
spill.  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007, which also owned an
interest in the project, paid $90 million to settle Clean Water
Act claims and $1.065 billion to BP.  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided blowout-
prevention equipment for the well, agreed in 2011 to pay $250
million to BP in exchange for the oil company’s indemnifying it
from damage claims. That settlement doesn’t cover fines,
penalties or punitive damages.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Inc., 13-
cr-00001, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The civil case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  