-- Transocean Soars to 2-Month High on Spill Deal: Zurich Mover
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   N a d i n e   S k o c z y l a s
-- 2013-01-04T09:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/transocean-soars-to-2-month-high-on-spill-deal-zurich-mover.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  jumped to a two-month
high in Zurich trading after the world’s biggest operator of
offshore drilling rigs agreed to settle federal claims arising
from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The stock  rose  as much as 2.9 percent to 45.89 Swiss
francs, the highest intraday level since Nov. 8, and traded at
45.62 francs at 9:59 a.m. local time. That gave Transocean a
market value of 16.4 billion francs ($17.8 billion).  Transocean, based in Vernier,  Switzerland , will pay more
than $1.4 billion, including a $400 million criminal penalty, to
settle the claims, plead guilty to one misdemeanor count of
violating the  Clean Water Act  and agree to five years probation,
the U.S. said in a filing in federal court in  New Orleans 
yesterday. It was the owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
drilled BP Plc’s ill-fated Macondo well.  The agreement lets a “big chunk of uncertainty
disappear,” Fabian Haecki, an analyst at Vontobel with a hold
rating on the stock, said in a note. “It is a big relief that
the total amount is slightly below the provisions” of $1.75
billion, he said.  The stock has lost more than half its value since the April
2010 explosion. Transocean’s U.S. shares surged the most in 28
months yesterday after the deal was announced.  “Transocean will be able to move past a significant
portion of its Macondo-related liabilities, allowing management
to focus more fully on operational execution,” Goldman Sachs
said in a note to customers. “We believe this should also
remove some overhang from Transocean’s stock, which has been
trading at a wide discount.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Skoczylas in Jerusalem at 
 nelsibai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  