-- Reverse-Mortgage Suit Against HUD Revived on Appeal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-04T22:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/reverse-mortgage-lawsuit-against-hud-revived-by-appeals-court.html
A federal appeals court revived a
lawsuit accusing the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development of setting up its reverse-mortgage program in a way
that makes it more likely a surviving spouse will end up in
foreclosure.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  today ruled that a case brought by two widowers
challenging HUD regulations on reverse-mortgage loans may
proceed. The widowers claim that HUD rules on when loans become
due and payable conflict with language in the law aimed at
protecting surviving spouses from foreclosure.  “We admit to being somewhat puzzled as to how HUD can
justify a regulation that seems contrary to the governing
statute,” U.S. Circuit Judge Laurence Silberman wrote in the
13-page opinion.  Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for HUD, declined to comment on
the decision.  Reverse-mortgage loans pay out a home’s equity to the
homeowner, often in installments, and are usually repaid when
the borrower dies or moves out of the house. Borrowers are
considered in arrears if they don’t keep current on their
property taxes and insurance.  The loans are available only to borrowers who are at least
62 and who have significant equity in their homes.  ‘Surviving Mortgagor’  The lawsuit involves changes to the program that were
mandated by Congress in 1987 in authorizing HUD to administer a
mortgage-insurance program. Congress, in the law, said the loan
obligation was deferred until the homeowner’s death,
specifically stating that the term “homeowner” includes the
spouse of the homeowner.  The language HUD crafted when implementing the law states
that the balance of the loan is due and payable in full “if a
mortgagor dies and the property is not the principal residence
of at least one surviving mortgagor.”  HUD said in its response to the lawsuit that it was
concerned a homeowner, after taking out a reverse mortgage,
might marry a young spouse, which would increase a lender’s
risk.  The lawsuit had been dismissed by a lower court judge who
found that because the widowers weren’t borrowers on the loans
at issue, winning the lawsuit wouldn’t save their homes because
it was the lender’s decision on to whether to foreclose.  HUD Remedy  In establishing that the widowers have the authority to
sue, the appeals court said today that HUD could come up with a
remedy that would allow them to keep their homes.  “HUD could accept assignment of the mortgage, pay off the
balance of the loans to the lenders, and then decline to
foreclose,” Silberman said.  Craig Briskin, one of the lawyers for the plaintiffs, said
he’s “thrilled with the decision.”  “The ball is really in HUD’s court right now,” Briskin,
of Mehri & Skalet PLLC in Washington, said in an interview.
“The D.C. Circuit clearly told HUD it made a mistake.”  The case is Bennett v. Donovan, 11-5288, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  