-- Romania Leu Weakens Second Day; Yields Rebound From Record Low
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-01-04T15:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/romania-leu-weakens-second-day-yields-rebound-from-record-low.html
Romania ’s leu weakened for a second
day after posting the biggest gain among eastern European
currencies in December as companies and households covered loans
in euros. Eurobond yields rebounded from record lows.  The leu dropped 0.2 percent to 4.4249 per euro by 5 p.m. in
Bucharest. Yields on Romania’s 2016 euro-denominated bonds rose
14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 3.07 percent,
snapping a six-day decline after dropping to a record low
yesterday of 2.93 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The leu gained 1.5 percent last month, the third-best
performer among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
in the period. Romanian companies and citizens are buying the
single currency to benefit from that appreciation as they seek
to cover their loan repayments in euros. About 63 percent of
private loans are in foreign currencies, according to central
bank data.  “The retreat of the leu to softer levels today points to
the potential commercial demand kicking in at the attempts of
the local currency to reach the 4.40 per euro threshold,” Mihai Tantaru, an economist at ING Bank Romania SA, wrote in a note.  Emerging-market stocks fell for the first time in 10 days
today and currencies weakened after U.S. Federal Reserve policy
makers said they will probably end debt purchases that have
fueled investor demand for riskier assets.  The Romanian central bank’s foreign exchange reserves
increased to 31.2 billion euros ($41 billion) at the end of
December from 31.17 billion in November, showing that the leu’s
appreciation was “market-driven,” according to Vlad Muscalu, a
Bucharest-based economist at ING.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  