-- Russian Cyber-Fraud Orchestrator Gets 3-Year Prison Term
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-04T21:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/russian-cyber-fraud-orchestrator-gets-3-year-prison-term.html
     Jan. 4 (Bloomberg) --- A Russian national was sentenced to
three years in U.S. prison for being part of a cyber-fraud
scheme from  Europe  that illegally gained computer access to bank
accounts via websites claiming to offer goods and merchandise.  Vladimir Zdorovenin, 55, pleaded guilty in federal court in
Manhattan in February to a count of conspiracy and a count of
wire fraud. Federal prosecutors alleged that a scheme from 2004
to 2005 in Russia, Zdorovenin, his son, Kirill, and others
preyed on U.S. consumers who believed the unauthorized charges
were for legitimate goods.  Zdorovenin’s lawyer, Sabrina Shroff today asked the judge
to impose a term of for 24 months in prison while prosecutors
said a term between 51 to 63 months was appropriate.  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in Manhattan said before
he imposed his sentence that a lesser term was appropriate
because he believed the defendant didn’t have the technical
expertise which Kirill Zdorovenin, the defendant’s son, had to
commit the fraud scheme.  “In my mind, he poses little or no risk of recidivism and
I believe that his involvement in the scheme was aberrational
and undoubtedly conducted at the volition of the son,” Gardephe
said. “There is no evidence that the defendant was involved in
the technical aspects of the fraud or understood how his son was
obtaining the information.”  Leniency Request  The judge said he believed a term of imprisonment was
necessary because the defendant, instead of rebuffing his son
from involvement in the scheme, joined him.  Zdorovenin asked for leniency from the court saying his
youngest child, a 5-year-old boy in  Russia , needed his father.  “I’m very sorry your honor,” Zdorovenin said. “I want to
ask you for leniency for my family because they are forced to be
punished. They will suffer more than I will. The lessons I have
learned will be with me for the rest of my life.”  Zdorovenin has been in U.S. custody since he was extradited
to New York after his arrest in Zurich in 2011. His son, Kirill,
who the U.S. says was part of the scheme, remains at large,
prosecutors said.  Financial Services  Prosecutors alleged that the Zdorovenins and unidentified
accomplices controlled U.S.-registered companies Sofeco LLC,
Pintado LLC and Tallit LL that appeared to be legitimate
Internet merchants which sold legitimate goods.  The defendants both took unauthorized charges on customers’
credit cards, prosecutors said. They also got credit card
numbers by either buying them from unidentified people who had
obtained them illegally or by using computer programs that were
surreptitiously installed on victims’ computers, the U.S.
alleged.  Zdorovenin pleaded guilty to engaging in a scheme with his
son from June 2004 to February 2005 to access financial services
accounts of U.S. victims and attempted to transfer hundreds of
thousands of dollars into bank accounts they controlled at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a company identified in the indictment
as Asia Europe America’s Bank, prosecutors said.  The defendants also maintained a financial services account
at Ameritrade Inc. and bought and sold securities in publicly
traded companies through a business called Rim Investment
Management Ltd., prosecutors said.  Securities Fraud  The Zdorovenins were accused of committing securities fraud
by purchasing and selling thousands of shares of securities of
companies, including Terayon  Communications Systems Inc. (JCS)  and
Internet Capital Group Inc., by trading in the accounts of U.S.
victims, prosecutors said.  The Zdorovenins bought and sold securities in the same
companies in their Rim account at Ameritrade, manipulating and
earning profits they wouldn’t otherwise have made, the U.S.
said.  The indictment alleges that in July 2004 both Zdorovenins
participated in meetings with unidentified co-conspirators in
Cyprus. Those co-conspirators transferred almost $300,000 from a
financial services account of a person in the U.S. to a bank
account controlled by Vladimir and Kirill Zdorovenin, the
government said.  The case is U.S. v. Zdorovenin, 07-cr-00440, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  