-- Samsung, LG Display Fined by China for Fixing LCD Panel Prices
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-01-04T09:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/samsung-lg-display-fined-by-china-for-fixing-lcd-panel-prices.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG
Display Co. (034220) , the world’s biggest makers of flat panels, were
among six companies fined by China’s government for
participating in a price-fixing scheme.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , Innolux Corp., Chunghwa Picture Tubes
Ltd. and  HannStar Display Corp. (6116)  also were cited by the National
Development and Reform Commission, which ordered the companies
to pay a combined 353 million  yuan  ($56.7 million). LG Display
will pay 118 million yuan and Samsung 101 million yuan.  The six companies held 53 meetings in Taiwan and  South
Korea  between 2001 and 2006 to agree on prices for the liquid-
crystal-display panels, mainly used for TVs, and shared other
confidential information, the commission said today in a
statement. The U.S. and European Union previously fined panel
makers -- including Samsung, LG Display and Sharp Corp. -- for
fixing prices through similar cartels.  “The enterprises involved in the price monopoly acts have
harmed the legitimate rights and interests of the domestic color
TV enterprises and consumers,” said the commission, which is
 China ’s top economic planning agency. The companies “confessed
to their crimes,” the agency said.  Samsung’s display-making unit, Samsung Display Co. of Asan,
South Korea, said in a statement it stopped participating in any
form of price fixing at the end of 2005, and that the company
will abide by China’s fair-trade law.  Apple Suppliers  LG Display, based in Seoul, said in a statement the
decision covers events between 2001 and 2006, and “we do not
expect this decision to impact our relationship with customers
or panel sales.”  Both companies  supply  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s government also ordered Innolux, formerly known as
Chimei Innolux; AU Optronics;  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475) ; and
HannStar to pay. These four companies are all based in Taiwan.  “The company has cooperated in the relevant
investigations,” Yawen Hsiao, a spokeswoman at AU Optronics,
said by phone today. “There is no material impact on company
operations.”  Innolux cooperated with the NDRC on investigations, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. The ruling won’t affect
company operations as related costs have been booked as a non-
operating charge, it said.  Justice Department  Eric Chiang, a spokesman for Chunghwa Picture, said the
company is cooperating with antitrust investigators and a
provision has been made for related costs. There will be no
significant impact on company finances or operations, he said.  The six companies earned 208 million yuan from the scheme,
the  NDRC  said.  A U.S. court said in December 2011 that Samsung, Sharp and
six other makers of panels for TVs and computers agreed to pay
$388 million to settle price-fixing claims by direct purchasers
of the products.  The litigation stemmed from a U.S.  Justice Department 
investigation that led to guilty pleas by LG Display, Chunghwa
Picture Tubes and Sharp. The companies agreed in 2008 and 2009
to pay $585 million in criminal fines.  Separately, the European Union said in December 2010 it
fined six makers of LCD panels a combined 649 million euros
($845 million) for fixing prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  