-- Sikorsky Poised to Win $6.8 Billion U.S. Chopper Contract
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-05T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/sikorsky-poised-to-win-6-8-billion-u-s-chopper-contract.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky
helicopter unit is in position to win a U.S. Air Force contract
valued at as much as $6.8 billion for 112 rescue helicopters
after competitors failed to bid, according to company spokesmen.  A team of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and AgustaWestland NV; a
partnership of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Bell Helicopter  Textron Inc. (TXT) ; and
European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co. all declined to
submit bids by a Jan. 3 deadline, company spokesmen  Randy
Belote , Andrew Lee and James Darcy said yesterday in e-mailed
statements.  “AgustaWestland is Sikorsky’s main rival here, so if they
don’t bid it’s a nice win for Sikorsky,” Richard Aboulafia,
military market analyst for the Teal Group of Fairfax, Virginia,
said. “They get to keep a profitable segment that they’ve kept
for decades.”  Air Force spokesman Charles Gulick declined in an e-mail to
discuss the bidding or when Sikorsky might be expected to
receive the contract. Gulick confirmed that the contract for the
Combat Rescue Helicopter is valued at about $6.8 billion.  The helicopter is  intended  to rescue pilots downed during
missions and perform civil search and rescue, humanitarian
missions,  disaster relief  and casualty evacuation.  “Sikorsky can confirm that we have submitted a bid”  with
a “fully compliant H-60 variant,” company spokesperson Frans
Jurgens said in an e-mailed statement, referring to its
candidate for the helicopter contract.  Gulick said “the Air Force is committed to a fair, open
and transparent process to select a new combat search-and-rescue
helicopter that meets the established warfighter requirements at
an affordable price for the taxpayer.”  “We are prohibited from releasing information while in the
request for proposal and selection processes,” he said. “Once
we select and announce the final contractor we will be able to
openly discuss the details.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  