-- SocGen to Resume Turkey Commentary as New Law Triggers Reviews
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-01-04T16:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/socgen-to-resume-turkey-commentary-as-new-law-triggers-reviews.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said it’s
resuming commentary on  Turkey  after reviewing new legislation
that threatens up to five years imprisonment for certain types
of commentary on financial markets.  Turkey’s Capital Markets Law enacted on Dec. 31  stipulates 
punishment for “those who provide untruthful, wrong or
misleading information, start rumors, or provide news,
commentary, or prepare reports with the intention of influencing
prices, values of capital markets instruments or investor
decisions.” Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Commerzbank AG
said they were reviewing how the new law will affect their
business in Turkey.  “After seeking advice we’re quite comfortable that the new
law doesn’t affect normal research activities and are therefore
comfortable covering markets as we have done in the past,”
 Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said by e-mail today. Anne said earlier
today the bank wouldn’t be commenting on Turkish markets while
the review was in progress.  While the new legislation outlaws market manipulation, it
risks reducing the quality of financial information available to
investors, according to Isik Okte, a strategist at the
investment unit of state-run  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  in
Istanbul. The Capital Markets Board in Ankara had no comment,
said an official who asked not to be named.  Free Expression  “I am going to be much more careful in what I say or don’t
say from now on,” Okte said in e-mailed comments today.
“Strategists and economists will be worried about going to jail
for saying something if it moves the markets, so they will shut
up.”  Commerzbank has called off analyst trips to Turkey “until
the law has been clarified,”  Tatha Ghose , a London-based
economist at the bank, said in e-mailed comments today. Arko Sen, a debt and currency strategist at Bank of America in
London, said he’s asked the compliance team to review the law.  International criticism of Turkey’s record on free
expression intensified last year. The New York-based Committee
to  Protect Journalists  said in an October report that Turkey has
the most reporters imprisoned of any nation and that Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  was leading “one of the biggest
crackdowns on press freedom in recent history.”  The European Commission expressed “serious concern” over
the rising number of court cases related to freedom of
expression, in a report published the same month.  Badly Worded  The new law is probably meant to target people who
manipulate security prices with misleading information, said
 Slim Feriani , the London-based chief investment officer of
Advance Emerging Capital Ltd. Policy makers probably aren’t
trying to restrict local institutions or foreign investors, he
said.  “While we are for free markets and against excessive
regulation, we can see the merits for such regulation,”
Feriani, who oversees about $800 million in emerging and
frontier markets, said in an e-mail today. “We would hope that
this would lead to a more level playing field.”  The law may have been badly worded, said Julian Rimmer, a
trader at CF Global UK Ltd. in London. The Capital Markets Board
didn’t provide a translation in English on its website.  “If interpreted as written it implies no one can opine on
Turkish financial assets without incurring a prison sentence,”
Rimmer said by e-mail. The legislation is “doomed from the
start and destined for revision,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  