-- Colombia Dissenting Interest Rate Decision Signals Further Cuts
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-04T19:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/some-colombian-policy-makers-wanted-bigger-december-rate-cut-1-.html
More than one of Colombia’s seven
central bank board members voted for a bigger  interest-rate  cut
than the majority agreed to last month, fueling speculation that
further reductions are likely. The peso fell.  Policy makers, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
settled on a reduction in the overnight lending rate by a
quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent. While some dissenters
voted for a half-point cut, another favored no change, according
to minutes of the Dec. 21 meeting released today. Only 11 of 32
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast the quarter-point
cut, while 21 expected rates to stay on hold.  Policy makers, citing the weakening global economy, have
lowered interest rates at four of their last six board meetings,
tying Colombia with  Peru  for the lowest borrowing costs among
major economies in Latin America. The economic weakness means
more rate cuts are likely, said Alejandro Reyes, the head
analyst at brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA in Bogota.  “The Colombian economy is facing a slowing cycle, but not
too far beyond its potential,” Reyes said in a telephone
interview. “We see probably there’s space for a 25 to 50 basis
points cut in the first half of 2013.”  The peso fell 0.5 percent to 1,771 per U.S. dollar,
weakening for the first time in three days and extending its
loss after the minutes were released. The yield on Colombia’s 10
percent peso-denominated debt due in July 2024 rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.68 percent, according to
the central bank.  Slowing Down  “The market is reacting to the minutes,” said Juan Pablo
Colmenares, a currency trader in Bogota at Corp. Financiera
Colombiana. “A greater chance of more cuts is leading the peso
to correct those strong levels we saw earlier this week.”  Colombia’s growth rate fell to a three-year low in the
third quarter and  inflation  slowed below the mid-point of the
central bank’s target range in November for the first time since
April 2011.  “GDP growth data for the third quarter points to a
slowdown in economic activity that’s bigger than was expected,
indicating a possible excess in productive capacity,” the board
said in the minutes released today. The members who supported a
bigger cut emphasized that “almost all indicators on the
progress of the economy denote an apparent deterioration.”  Inflation Outlook  The central bank expects inflation to remain below its 3
percent target for “some time,” the board said in today’s
minutes. The economy may have grown less than 4 percent last
year, and growth should accelerate in 2013, it said.  Gross domestic product grew  2.1 percent  in the third
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 4.9 percent in the
previous three months. The result was weaker than all 28
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey, where the median estimate was
3.9 percent.  Colombia’s urban unemployment rate of 9.8 percent as of
November is the highest among major Latin American economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The inflation rate in November fell to a two-year low of
2.77 percent on cheaper food and transport costs, showing that
the El Nino weather phenomenon didn’t cause the gain in food
prices that some economists had forecast and that the central
bank was right to cut interest rates in November, Finance
Minister Mauricio Cardenas said in a Dec. 5 interview. Colombia
targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage
point.  When inflation is close to the central bank’s target, rate
policy depends to a large extent on whether the economy is
growing faster or slower than its so-called potential rate,
board member Cesar Vallejo said in a Dec. 18 telephone
interview.  The bank estimates the economy can expand 4.2 percent to
5.3 percent a year without triggering faster inflation.  “The bank’s statement shows an interesting divergence
amongst its decision makers, but clearly the authorities are
concerned with the deceleration in activity,” Bret Rosen, a
Latin America strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. “Inflation trends
appear benign and should stay so for some time. The generally
dovish stance should signify at least one additional rate cut to
come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 