-- Straumann Names Former Finance Chief Gadola as CEO
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-01-04T16:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/straumann-names-former-finance-chief-gadola-as-ceo.html
Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the world’s
biggest maker of dental implants, named former finance chief
Marco Gadola as chief executive officer, replacing Beat Spalinger after sales and earnings declined.  Gadola, 49, will begin the job before April, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in a statement today. Chairman
Gilbert Achermann will serve as interim CEO until Gadola rejoins
the company, Straumann said. Gadola is currently CEO for Asia
Pacific at  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG. (PWTN)  Straumann shares
rose the most in a month.  “The dental markets have become increasingly challenging,
squeezing topline and profitability,” Achermann said in the
statement. “To take the organization forward requires specific
leadership qualities and impulses at top level, and we believe
Marco Gadola is the right person to do this.”  Straumann shares tumbled 56 percent in Spalinger’s 2 1/2
years as CEO. Sales dropped about 6 percent in 2011, and
analysts predict they rose 0.4 last year, based on the average
 estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Straumann rose 3.2 percent to 117.80 francs in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 1.85 billion francs ($1.97
billion). It was the stock’s biggest advance since Dec. 3.  Strategic Plan  The recession and unemployment prompted consumers to cut
back on discretionary spending. Dental implants typically are
paid for out of pocket by patients. Straumann has also been hurt
by the strength of the Swiss franc against other major
currencies.  Under Spalinger, Straumann put in place a long-term
strategic plan known as Vision for 2020, and in October
announced an effort to reduce the workforce by 6 percent and
improve profit margins, said Oliver Metzger, an analyst at
Commerzbank.  “We are surprised about the change in management,
especially as it will be effective immediately,” Metzger wrote
in a note to clients today. He has a reduce rating on the stock.  Spalinger, who was CFO from 2008 to 2010, left “by mutual
agreement with the board,” according to Straumann’s statement.
He helped the company navigate “through economic recession,
market contraction and currency headwind,” the company said.  “He managed the company with a steady hand in what has
been very challenging markets over the past few years,” Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London ,
said in a report today. Still, profit margins declined on his
watch, she said. Clive has a “market perform” rating on
Straumann shares.  Gadola served as Straumann’s CFO and executive vice
president for operations from 2006 to 2008, when he left to join
Panalpina, a  freight forwarder .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  