-- Sun Life CEO Bets on Smaller Acquisitions for Growth
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-04T21:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/sun-life-ceo-bets-on-smaller-acquisitions-for-growth.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  rallied 40
percent last year as investors rewarded decisions to shed
riskier assets and emphasize insurance and  wealth management .
Chief Executive Officer Dean Connor says the narrower focus can
still boost earnings in 2013.  “This is a transformational change for Sun Life that
substantially de-risks the company, strengthens our balance
sheet and provides funding for smaller acquisitions that can
move our strategy forward,” Connor said in an e-mail interview
yesterday.  Canada ’s third-largest insurer agreed to sell its U.S.
annuities unit to a firm owned by Guggenheim Partners LLC for
$1.35 billion in December, reducing risks from exposure to U.S.
equity markets while focusing on its North American benefits and
wealth-management business and growing in  Asia .  The divestitures helped send the stock to its best gains
since the Toronto-based company soared 189 percent in 2000, its
first year as a public company. It was the  third-best  performing
North American insurance stock and the  best  Canadian financial
stock in 2012.  “The challenge will be to grow their earnings,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4 billion ($4.1
billion), including Sun Life shares. “I’m not sure if they’ve
got the capital to do something with the profit from the
Guggenheim deal. Will they make acquisitions or will they plow
it back into their existing line of business? They need to do
something to balance out the fact that there will be less
revenue from their risk assets.”  Growth Challenge  Sun Life rose 0.5 percent to C$27.14 at market close in
Toronto.  Sun Life’s earnings have been volatile in recent years as
global  capital markets  have fluctuated. Exposure to U.S.
annuities increased obligations to clients as stock markets
plunged during the financial crisis, while the lowest  interest
rates  in at least half a century makes it harder for insurers to
generate profit on funds backing policies.  The company recorded a net loss of C$300 million in 2011,
down from a high of C$2.22 billion in 2007. Revenue was C$22.6
billion last year from C$27.6 billion in 2009. Sun Life will
report profit of C$1.46 billion, or C$2.43 a share, for 2012,
according to the average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue is estimated at C$20.3 billion.  Rising Rates  Earnings will be reduced by about 22 cents a share in 2013
after the sale of the annuities business, the company said.
While the business generated 10 percent of Sun Life’s earnings,
it also produced 50 percent of its equity risk and 35 percent of
its interest risk, said Connor, who took over as CEO in December
2011.  “We see good organic opportunities in each of our four
pillars of growth -- Canada, U.S. group benefits and voluntary
benefits, asset management and Asia,” Connor said in the e-
mail. “I think investors appreciate the clarity of the strategy
and the speed of execution.”  Sun Life shares outpaced  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and
 Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , the largest and second-largest Canadian
insurers and was third in the North American market, behind
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)   Rising interest rates will lead to higher returns for Sun
Life because of its fixed-income heavy portfolio,  Craig Fehr ,
Canadian market strategist with Edward Jones & Co., said on the
phone from  St. Louis . Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
reiterated Dec. 4 that he may raise interest rates as the
economic expansion progresses, though economists do not expect
an increase from the 1 percent benchmark rate in 2013, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  Wake-up Call  Fehr rates the stock a buy, as does TD Newcrest Inc., while
Credit Suisse rates it outperform, the equivalent of a buy.
Eleven analysts say hold the stock and three say sell, according
to  ratings  compiled by to Bloomberg.  Not all analysts have applauded Sun Life’s moves away from
capital markets. Manulife will replace Sun Life as the best-
performing insurer in Canada in the next six months as assets
tied to global growth gain in the new year, said  Bob Decker , who
manages investments in financial companies at Aurion Capital in
Toronto.  “The removal of some of the growth component of Sun Life
was a wake-up call that this is a structurally different
business than it used to be and quite difficult to grow in an
environment of low interest rates,” Decker said in a phone
interview. “2013 should be different because interest rates are
going to rise and we’ll see a strong rally in equity markets.
Sun Life may miss out on the benefits of that.”  Hedging Instead  Aurion, which manages about C$5.5 billion, sold its Sun
Life shares around the time of its U.S. annuities sale. The
insurer’s stock slipped 3.9 percent on Dec. 17 when the deal was
announced. Decker manages Manulife shares.  Manulife has aggressively hedged its exposure to equity
markets and interest rates, achieving hedging targets two years
ahead of a 2014 goal last quarter.  “Unfortunately Sun Life can’t go right back to their
acquisitive ways once they’ve signaled to the market that
they’re shedding riskier businesses,” Decker said.  The sale of the U.S. annuities business, which Connor said
is expected to close in the second quarter of 2013, will leave
them with about C$1.9 billion in cash at its holding company
following the transaction.  Right Acquisitions  Sun Life doesn’t “need acquisitions to grow,” Connor
said. The company expanded its asset management capabilities in
 China  in 2012 with the creation of Sun Life Everbright Insurance
Asset Management Co. and created a new life insurer in  Vietnam ,
PVI Sun Life, in partnership with PVI, a property and casualty
insurer in the country.  “But the right acquisitions can also create value for
shareholders,” he said. The company made a small acquisition in
the Philippines in 2011 that included a bank distribution
relationship. “The first full year of sales and profitability
are encouraging.”  In Canada, the company has positions in group benefits and
pensions and individual insurance.  MFS Investment Management ,
the company’s Boston-based asset-management subsidiary, “is
firing on all cylinders” with a record US$303 billion under
management as of the third quarter, Connor said.  Sun Life will boost profit from acquiring wealth management
units in deals under C$500 million, according to  Peter Routledge , analyst at National Bank Financial.  Drank Kool-Aid  “I hope they stay away from the U.S. and invest in
Canadian wealth management assets,” he said in a phone
interview from  Vancouver . “Everyone drank the Kool-Aid that ‘we
have to be a big North American life insurer, get our name on a
football stadium’ and Connor was unsentimental when he came on
board. And in the end it worked to the company’s benefit.”  Sun Life needs to rely on acquisitions and wealth
management for growth since the “best-case scenario” for life
insurance companies right now is a rate hike in mid-2014,
Routledge said.  “I don’t think there will be many headlines coming out of
the company next year -- and that’s a good thing,” Nakamoto
said. “Investors will be worrying less about the stock. This
year was about setting the course and next year will be keeping
on that course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  