-- Swiss Stocks Extend Four-Year High on U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-01-04T17:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-near-four-year-high.html
Swiss stocks  rose for a second day,
extending a four-year high, after U.S. data showing increased
employment and service-industry growth indicated a sustained
recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  Transocean Ltd. climbed 5.9 percent after the world’s
largest offshore rig contractor confirmed it will settle federal
claims arising from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in 2010. Julius
Baer Group Ltd., Switzerland’s third-biggest wealth manager,
advanced 2.6 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.6 percent to 7,058.92 at the
close in Zurich, the highest since September 2008. The gauge
rallied 3.5 percent this week, the biggest jump in 13 months, as
U.S. lawmakers approved a budget deal that avoided tax increases
and spending cuts which may have pushed the economy into a
recession. The broader Swiss Performance Index also increased
0.6 percent today.  “A number in line with estimates is the perfect scenario
that would suggest a continuation of the current monetary
policy,” Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG
in Lucerne, said in a phone interview before the release of the
U.S. payrolls data. “There is a lot of liquidity, so we should
see higher markets in the next two to three weeks.”  The SMI gained 15 percent in 2012, its first annual rally
in three years, as the European Central Bank announced an
unlimited bond-buying plan and the Federal Reserve expanded
asset purchases. U.S. policy makers said their third round of
so-called quantitative easing will continue until the
 unemployment rate  makes a major improvement.  U.S. Jobs  The SMI erased an earlier drop of as much as 0.2 percent
today as a Labor Department report showed U.S. payrolls rose by
155,000 workers last month following a revised 161,000 advance
in November that was more than initially estimated. The median
estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
increase of 152,000. The unemployment rate held at 7.8 percent
after the November figure was revised up from a previously
reported 7.7 percent.  Separate U.S. data showed service industries expanded in
December at the fastest pace in 10 months. The Institute for
Supply Management’s non-manufacturing index climbed to 56.1 last
month from 54.7 in November, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Minutes released yesterday showed Federal Open Market
Committee participants were divided on how long bond buying
should last. Policy makers were “approximately evenly divided”
between those who said purchases should end in mid-2013 and
those who said they should continue.  Bernanke Put  “The Fed’s comments were a bit of a surprise, but
ultimately investors still think the ‘Bernanke put’ is in
place,” Galliker said. He was referring to Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernake’s policy of supporting financial markets through
monetary policy, which some investors liken to the insurance
against losses offered by owning a put option.  Transocean rose 5.9 percent to 47.27 Swiss francs. The
company will pay more than $1.4 billion, including a $400
million criminal penalty, to settle claims stemming from the
world’s worst accidental oil spill, it said yesterday after the
Swiss market closed.  The offshore drilling contractor will plead guilty to
violating the Clean Water Act and agree to five years probation,
the U.S. said in a filing in a federal court in New Orleans
yesterday. The stock jumped 11 percent yesterday after a person
familiar with the situation said the company and the government
had agreed on a settlement.  ‘Turning Point’  Citigroup Inc. analysts referred to the settlement as “a
turning point” for Transocean in a report today. The bank
reiterated a buy recommendation on the shares, with a price
estimate of $62, compared with yesterday’s closing price of
$49.20 in  New York  trading.  Julius Baer climbed 2.6 percent to 33.85 francs for the
second-largest gain in the SMI.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  advanced 3.2 percent to 117.80 francs.
The world’s biggest maker of dental implants named former
finance chief Marco Gadola as chief executive officer, replacing
Beat Spalinger after sales and earnings declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  