-- U.K. Must Rule Out Peak Rail Fare Rises, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/u-k-must-rule-out-peak-rail-fare-rises-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K. government must rule out
using higher fares on the rail network to cut demand at peak
times, a panel of lawmakers said, as commuters returned to work
for the New Year faced with above-inflation fare rises.  Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin must “urgently set
out a long-term policy on fares” and “shine a light on
complacent management, waste and profiteering by ensuring
greater transparency in the finances of the rail industry,”
Parliament’s cross-party  Transport Committee  said in a report
published in London today.  Returning this week from seasonal vacations, passengers on
London’s Underground and commuter rail networks saw an average
4.2 percent rise in fares. Overall, prices have gone up by 3.9
percent in  England ,  Wales  and  Scotland  under rules that allow
them to rise by 1 percentage point more than the retail  price
index . Average weekly earnings rose by 1.8 percent in the year
through October, less than RPI inflation of 3.2 percent.  “There are good economic, social and environmental reasons
for the government to provide a 4 billion-pound ($6.5 billion)
subsidy to the railway,” the committee chairman, opposition
 Labour Party  lawmaker  Louise Ellman , said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is vital we know far more about how public money
is spent so that there is confidence it does not leak out of the
system in the form of unjustified profits.”  Fare Variations  Train companies such as Stagecoach Group Plc’s South West
Trains, Virgin Rail Group Ltd. and Chiltern Railway Co. Ltd.
that run services to and from London may vary regulated fares by
up to 5 percent above, or by any amount below, the average
change in response to demand.  The  Trades Union Congress , which represents 6.2 million
workers, published research last month showing that average
train fares have risen nearly three times faster than average
wages since the beginning of the recession in 2008.  “We are looking at how fares might be used to spread
demand more evenly, including rewarding passengers who are able
to avoid the busiest services,” Transport Minister Simon Burns
said in a statement. “However, we have been quite clear that
the government’s fares and ticketing review, which is due to
conclude in May, is not about squeezing more revenue out of
regulated fares and that any changes stemming from it would need
to be balanced and fair.”  The committee said today it also supports a target to
achieve substantial savings across the rail network set out in a
 2011 report  by a civil servant, Roy McNulty, who advised on best
business practice. Even so, it said it considers his target of
saving 3.5 billion pounds by 2018-19 to be “challenging” and
expressed specific concerns about safety, staffing and the
protection of passengers’ interests.  Franchise ‘Debacle’  The report did not focus on the lessons of last year’s
stalled award of the West Coast Main Line franchise, which
lawmakers dubbed a “debacle.” The award was halted in October
after the Department of Transport reported serious flaws in its
choice of FirstGroup Plc’s 5.5 billion-pound bid over one from
Virgin, the incumbent.  The panel said it “sees merit in continuing with longer
rail franchises but suggests the government explores options for
reviewing contracts every five years and looks at spreading
premium payments over the full length of each franchise
contract.”  The lawmakers also recommend that franchises, which need to
be re-let soon, should be tendered on the basis of medium-term
franchises of seven to 10 years’ duration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  