-- U.K. Urged to Curb CO2 Concessions for Biggest Energy Users
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-04T11:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/u-k-urged-to-curb-carbon-concessions-for-biggest-energy-users.html
A 250 million-pound ($404 million)
U.K. government program that helps heavy energy users shoulder
the cost of cutting carbon emissions must be tightened to avoid
over-compensating polluters, a panel of lawmakers said.  The program was set up to curb the cost of carbon-reduction
policies for industries including steel and chemical producers.
It doesn’t take into account the profits they may have made from
receiving free emission credits in the European Union Emissions
Trading System, the Environmental Audit Committee said today.  The government “shouldn’t throw good money after bad by
giving compensation to those already making windfall profits,”
Joan Walley, the Labour Party lawmaker who chairs the cross-
party committee, said in a statement.  The 250 million pounds was allocated in 2011 to ensure that
energy-intensive companies wouldn’t move plants abroad to escape
emission costs. It followed lobbying by the Confederation of
British Industries, which said policies such as a minimum cost
for emissions, or “carbon floor price,” may lead units of Tata
Steel Ltd. and chemicals maker Ineos Group Holdings Plc to fail.  Tata Shutdowns  Tata in November said it planned to close 12 U.K. sites
with the loss of 900 jobs to improve the competitiveness of its
operations. It didn’t refer to the cost of complying with carbon
regulations.  In the past three months, the government held a
 consultation  on the compensation package, which will run from
this year and pay out until April 2015. When Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  presented an energy bill to parliament on Nov. 29, he
vowed to exempt large energy users from the costs arising from
new carbon policies, and to hold another consultation this year.  The Environmental Audit Committee said today that large
industrial companies across  Europe  have accumulated 4.1 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) worth of surplus emission allowances
because “overly optimistic” forecasts for economic growth
meant more permits were allocated than needed.  “It is nonsensical that the government will compensate
energy-intensive companies for the impact of the Emissions
Trading System on their electricity bills, when those companies
are making windfall profits from the very same program,” the
committee said in an e-mailed  report .  Panel Recommendations  The panel recommended taking into account companies’ own
generation of electricity, helping them form groups to bulk-buy
power, and reining in compensation to businesses that have
benefited from the Emissions Trading System by selling surplus
permits.  The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said it
welcomed the committee’s inquiry and would respond in due
course.  EEF, a manufacturers’ lobby group, said the committee had
mixed up power-intensive companies with carbon-intensive
industry, which face “different issues.”  “Electro-intensive industries face rising electricity
prices driven up by the government’s climate-change policies and
it is vital that they are properly compensated,” Steve Radley,
EEF director of policy, said in an e-mailed statement. Carbon-
intensive companies receive free emission allowances and it’s
“vital that their free allocation continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  