-- U.K. Labour to Strip Jobless of Benefits If Work Refused
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-04T11:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/u-k-s-labour-to-strip-benefits-from-unemployed-if-job-refused.html
The U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party 
called for a compulsory jobs guarantee for the long-term
unemployed, making state welfare payments dependent on paid
employment.  The party’s treasury spokesman, Ed Balls, said the
guarantee would initially be for adults who are out of work for
24 months or more, though Labour would seek to reduce this to 18
or 12 months over time. The party said there are currently
129,400 adults over the age of 25 who have been out of work for
two years or more, a rise of 88 percent in a year.  To pay for the jobs guarantee, which Balls estimates would
cost 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion), he would restrict tax
relief on pension contributions for people earning more than
150,000 pounds a year.  “A One Nation approach to welfare reform means government
has a responsibility to help people into work and support those
who cannot, but those who can work must be required to take up
jobs or lose benefits as a result -- no ifs or buts,” Balls
wrote in an  article for the Politics Home website  today.
“Britain needs real welfare reform that is tough, fair and that
works, not divisive, nasty and misleading smears from an out-of-
touch and failing government.”  ‘Squeezed Middle’  Labour and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives are
battling to attract what the premier calls the “strivers” and
opposition leader Ed Miliband the “squeezed middle” of voters
whose wages aren’t rising in line with inflation and who are
suffering from cuts in public services.  An overhaul of the welfare system is at the heart of the
debate, with the Tories seeking to portray themselves as
defenders of hard-working families by cutting the welfare bill,
and Labour saying it is protecting the most vulnerable in
society. Today’s announcement by Balls seeks to show Labour will
also be tough on the long-term unemployed.  The  Conservative Party  said Balls had already pledged in
March last year to spend the 1 billion pounds from pension tax
relief to increase tax credits for low-paid workers and families
with children.  “We are taking firm action to help the long-term
unemployed Labour left behind get back into work,” Conservative
Party Chairman Grant Shapps said in an e-mailed statement. “ Ed
Balls  is trying to spend the same money twice. That means more
borrowing and more debt -- exactly how Labour got us into this
mess in the first place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  