-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Rise to Highest Level Since January
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-04T09:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rise-to-highest-level-since-january-1-.html
U.K. mortgage approvals  rose to the
highest in 10 months in November, adding to signs that the  Bank
of England ’s credit-boosting program is helping to ease strains
in lending.  Lenders granted 54,036 mortgages, the most since January
2012, compared with 53,071 in October, the Bank of England said
today in London. Economists forecast 54,000 approvals, based on
the median of 17 estimates in Bloomberg survey. While approvals
are increasing, they are still only about half the monthly
average in the decade to 2007, when the financial crisis struck.  The data comes a day after the central bank published a
survey of lenders showing the availability of mortgages rose
“significantly” in the fourth quarter. The Credit Conditions
Survey also showed that demand for home loans increased in the
quarter and that spreads narrowed “significantly.”  “The initial success of the Funding for Lending Scheme had
been to improve the availability of credit to households, and
that continued in the latest survey,” Rob Wood, an economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said of the BOE credit survey. “That
should help consumption a little, but may have a bigger effect
on the housing market.”  Separate BOE data today showed that overseas investors
increased their holdings of U.K. government bonds for a fifth
straight month in November. Non-residents bought 2.31 billion
pounds more gilts than they sold, after increasing their
holdings by 4.31 billion pounds in October.  Mortgage Lending  In another release, Markit Economics said its index of U.K.
services unexpectedly fell to 48.9 in December from 50.2 in
November, indicating the sector shrank last month.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
reports. It was trading at $1.6045 as of 9:33 a.m. in London,
down 0.4 percent from yesterday.  The BOE lending data showed that net mortgage lending fell
by 169 million pounds ($271 million) in November. Consumer
credit increased by 61 million pounds, with credit-card lending
up 152 million pounds.  The BOE report yesterday showed that an index of the
availability of mortgages rose in the three months through
December to the highest since the survey began in the second
quarter of 2007. Availability is expected to increase again this
quarter, the central bank said.  “Lenders noted that the FLS had been an important factor
behind this increase, consistent with a reported easing in
wholesale funding conditions, pushing up significantly on credit
availability,” it said. “Market share objectives had also
contributed significantly to the increase.”  In a separate report today, the BOE said today that U.K.
money supply fell 0.2 percent in November from the previous
month. From a year earlier, M4 was down 2.8 percent.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed to 4.3
percent from 5.4 percent. The gauge excludes financial companies
that specialize in intermediating between banks, such as holding
companies and non-bank credit grantors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at  gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  