-- U.S. Credit Swaps Cap Biggest Weekly Drop in Year as Jobs Expand
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-04T22:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-little-changed-as-payrolls-advance.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
capped the biggest weekly drop in 13 months as employers added
more workers in December and the  unemployment rate  matched a
four-year low.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, plunged 13.9
basis points this week to a mid-price of 85.6 basis points, the
largest decline since the period ended Dec. 2, 2011, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index reached a more than
three-month low of 85.1 basis points on Jan. 2.  Labor Department figures showed payrolls rose by 155,000
workers last month following a revised 161,000 advance in
November that was more than initially estimated. The index
erased an earlier increase today to as high as 87.1 basis points
as Federal Reserve minutes yesterday showed policy makers began
debating an end to their unprecedented bond-buying as early as
this year, stoking concern that a reduction of economic stimulus
might crimp the ability of companies to repay debt.  “There’s still uncertainty about how the Fed will set up
their exit strategy further down the road, and if a market
recovery will start to play in the policy response,” Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager for an investment-grade
debt fund at ING Investment Management, said in a telephone
interview. “Despite an increase in payrolls, the unemployment
rate is still way beyond the comfort zone of the Fed. It will be
a bumpy road.”  Cliff Aversion  The credit-swaps index had its biggest one-day decline
since November 2011 on Jan. 2 after U.S. lawmakers passed a
budget deal averting tax increases for most wage earners that
the  Congressional Budget Office  had warned may have tipped the
economy into recession.  The unemployment rate held at 7.8 percent, matching the
lowest since December 2008, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The November number was revised up from a
previously reported 7.7 percent. The median estimate of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase of
152,000 in payrolls.  Orders to U.S. factories were little changed in November,
depressed by a drop in non-durable goods. Bookings, which
include durable and non-durable goods, totaled $477.6 billion in
November compared with $477.4 billion the prior month, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today.  Service industries  in
the U.S. expanded in December at the fastest pace in 10 months,
the Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management said
today.  Liquidity Gauge  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Moody’s Investors Service’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which
declines when corporations’ ability to manage cash needs appears
to improve and rises when it weakens, decreased to 3.6 percent
in December from 4 percent in November, remaining above the
record-low 3.1 percent recorded in July.  The index “continues to suggest the default rate will
remain modest in 2013,” analysts led by John Puchalla wrote in
a report yesterday. Speculative-grade liquidity rating upgrades
outnumbered downgrades in December, reversing a two-month trend,
according to the report.  First Default  This week saw the first global corporate default of 2013,
 Diane Vazza ,  Standard & Poor’s  head of global fixed-income
research in New York, said in a report today. S&P lowered the
corporate  credit rating  on a unit of LBI Media Holdings Inc.
yesterday to “selective default,” after the company completed
a so-called distressed exchange of about $174.6 million of notes
due in 2017 for bonds that allow it to pay holders with more
debt instead of cash.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 1.5 basis points to 442.3 basis points today,
dropping 72.2 basis points on the week, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
Bausch & Lomb Inc. fell 5 basis points to 68.3 basis points as
of 3:30 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The eye-care company, which Warburg Pincus LLC is seeking
to sell, has attracted interest from Abbott Laboratories,
Johnson & Johnson and Sanofi, said people with knowledge of the
matter. Warburg, working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is
giving interested parties access to its financial data and
seeking first-round bids by month’s end, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the process is private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  