-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Dec. 28 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-01-04T16:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-dec-28-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 15.3 million
barrels per day during the week ending December 28, 13 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 90.4 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging over 8.9
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased
last week, averaging about 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 7.1 million barrels per day last
week, down by 931 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
8.0 million barrels per day, 475 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 487 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 108 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 11.1 million barrels
from the previous week. At 359.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
increased by 2.6 million barrels last week and are well above
the upper limit of the average range. Finished gasoline
inventories decreased while blending components inventories
increased last week. Distillate fuel inventories increased by
4.6 million barrels last week but remained below the lower limit
of the average range for this time of year. Propane/propylene
inventories decreased by 2.2 million barrels last week, but
remained well above the upper limit of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 10.0 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged over 19.1 million barrels per day, up by 3.1 percent
from the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged about 8.6 million barrels
per day, down by 2.3 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged just under 3.7
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 6.4
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.7 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  