-- Hulu CEO Kilar Plans to Depart Web TV Company by April
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/hulu-ceo-kilar-announces-resignation-on-company-s-website.html
Jason Kilar , chief executive officer
of Hulu LLC, said he is leaving the online video service, two
months after receiving a multimillion dollar payout.  Kilar, 41, will step down by April and is working with
Hulu’s board on a transition, according to a  statement  yesterday
on the company’s website. Chief Technology Officer Rich Tom will
also exit. Kilar declined to comment beyond the announcement,
said Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman.  The executive received about $40 million from the sale of
Hulu stock back to the company in October, people told Bloomberg
at the time. Hulu also repurchased a 10 percent stake held by
Providence Equity Partners Inc. for $200 million, a deal that
valued the company at about $2 billion. The moves left ownership
of Los Angeles-based Hulu fully in the hands of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
 News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal .  “The loss of Jason is a negative for all the media
companies involved,”  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in
New York, wrote in an e-mail. “Consumers lost one of the few
executives who really understood how to put the consumer
experience and user interface ahead of the business model.”  The resignation comes as Hulu seeks to expand its original
and exclusive programming, after extending contracts for ABC and
Fox shows. Kilar asked Hulu’s owners last month to contribute
$200 million for original series, the Wall Street Journal
reported Dec. 20.  Online Commercials  Kilar, who helped create Hulu in 2007, at times clashed
with the website’s owners over business strategy and the number
of commercials that appeared in TV episodes online. In February
2011, he  suggested  online video commercials offer more value
than traditional TV ads.  Formed by NBC and Fox, Hulu allowed viewers to watch shows
online with fewer commercials. Disney became an investor in
April 2009. The $8-a-month Hulu Plus subscription service,
started in 2010, provides access to a bigger library of shows
and the ability to watch programs on mobile devices, Web-
connected TV sets and video-game consoles.  “I believe Hulu will now transition into more of a pay
service, with more content behind a pay wall,”  Laura Martin , an
analyst at Needham & Co., said yesterday in an interview.  Greenfield predicts News Corp. will buy out its partners in
Hulu. With new long-term TV deals from NBC and ABC, Fox could
focus on creating original programming for the service, he wrote
in a Jan. 3 report.  Joint Ventures  “Media joint ventures are hard, especially when you are
trying to innovate and go beyond traditional ways of doing
business,” Greenfield said in an e-mail.  Comcast Corp. is barred from an operational or board role
due to an agreement with federal regulators related to approval
of its NBC Universal acquisition in January 2011.  Hulu said last month 2012 revenue climbed 65 percent to
about $695 million as subscribers more than doubled to 3
million.  The company remains behind  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s more than 30
million worldwide subscribers, and faces emerging competition
from the new Redbox Instant service offered by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , as well as Amazon.com.  The U.S. online video advertising market grew 47 percent to
$2.93 billion in 2012, according to researcher eMarketer. This
year advertisers are expected to spend $4.14 billion on U.S.
online video ads, eMarketer said.  Online viewing in the U.S. continues to grow. More than 30
percent of the  U.S. population  watched TV online in 2012, up
from 27 percent a year earlier and 22 percent in 2010, eMarketer
said.  “Jason has been an integral part of the Hulu story,
transforming it from an interesting idea into an innovative
business model that continues to evolve,” Bob Iger, Disney’s
chairman and CEO, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company is “incredibly well-positioned for the road
ahead,” News Corp. Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch  said in a
separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  