-- Lululemon Drops as Analyst Cuts Rating, Target: Vancouver
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-04T21:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/lululemon-drops-as-analyst-cuts-rating-target-vancouver.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LLL) , the
Canadian yoga-wear retailer, lost the most since November as
Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the stock, citing a sales
slowdown.  Shares of the athletic goods company  declined  4.2 percent
to $71.95 at market close in New York, the biggest one-day drop
since Nov. 14. Shares of Vancouver-based Lululemon advanced 63
percent in 2012.  Sales growth in the country’s mature stores shows signs of
slowing while margin pressure is a “distinct risk”, Christian Buss, based at Credit Suisse in New York, said. Buss, who
defines mature stores as five years or older, cut the company’s
rating to neutral, the equivalent of a hold, from outperform. He
also lowered his target to $80 a share from $86.  “New and winter product lines appear to have stretched
outside of the company’s comfort zone,” Buss wrote in his note
to clients today. Repricing, broader discounts, and higher
markdown levels are higher than “historically seen” and add
risk to the company’s ability to drive sales, he wrote.  “Stores that are that old are not going to be coughing up
double digits forever -- it’s normal,” John Kernan, an analyst
at Cowen & Co. LLC, said in a phone interview from New York.
“The company is discounting, but on the other hand they’re
driving foot traffic. When they filled up the discount rack with
product this season, word of mouth in New York city spread like
wildfire and the stores were jammed.”  Kernan, who rates the stock a buy, said he doesn’t see any
risk to earnings in 2013.  “Lulu will be fine,” Kernan said. “The company’s problem
is that it doesn’t have a lot of room to move margins higher.
They’ve been able to reach the operating margin that no one else
in retail has been able to replicate ever for a significant
period of time. They have to be perfect in everything they do.”  The 201-store company said sales at company-owned locations
jumped 36 percent to $712.1 million in the nine months ended
Oct. 28, according to its latest quarterly filing. About 43
percent of the company’s revenue in 2012 came from sales in
 Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  