-- Muni Bonds Gain Appeal as Rich Seek to Blunt Tax Increase
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/muni-bonds-gain-appeal-as-rich-seek-to-blunt-tax-increase.html
Municipal bond and other tax-exempt
investing strategies may gather more money as wealthy U.S.
investors respond to higher tax rates approved by Congress this
week.  “The bad news is rates are going up,” said Gary Schatsky,
president of New York-based financial advisory
ObjectiveAdvice.com and a past chairman of the National
Association of Personal Financial Advisors. “The good news is
it could have been much worse for people in higher tax brackets,
and there are things you can do about it.”  The budget deal passed by Congress on New Year’s Day raises
the  capital gains  and dividends taxes to 20 percent from 15
percent for individuals earning more than $400,000 and couples
earning more than $450,000. The 2010 health-care law also tacks
a 3.8 percent surcharge on net investment income for singles
earning above $200,000 and for couples above $250,000, starting
this year.  Investors seeking shelter from taxes are likely to turn
increasingly to municipal bonds, index-based funds and tax-
managed mutual funds, wealth advisers said. They shouldn’t
abandon dividend-paying equities and high-yield bonds, but
concentrate those in tax-deferred retirement vehicles to avoid
the blow, according to Schatsky.  Municipal bonds in the U.S. have long offered returns
exempt from federal and most state taxes as a way of encouraging
investment in public development projects.  The $3.7 trillion market earned 7.3 percent in 2012,
compared with 2.2 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. Muni-bond funds got about $51
billion in deposits last year, the most since 2009, according to
Investment Company Institute estimates.  ‘More Attractive’  “Higher marginal rates for at least some investors, along
with little prospect of changes to municipal bonds’ tax status,
makes munis even more attractive on an after-tax basis,”  Russ Koesterich ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s global chief investment strategist,
wrote in a Jan. 2 note. New York-based BlackRock, with $3.67
trillion in assets as of Sept. 30, is the world’s biggest money
manager.  Firms including  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  and  Fidelity Investments ,
both based in  Boston , offer mutual funds designed to minimize
capital-gains taxes for investors, typically by turning over
holdings relatively rarely. When a manager sells a stock at a
profit, the fund records a capital gain that must be distributed
to shareholders at year’s end.  The after-tax advantage of index mutual funds and exchange-
traded funds, which tend to turn over their holdings less
frequently than actively run funds, will be greater now for the
same reasons, said Fran Kinniry, a principal in the investment
strategy group at  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard
Group Inc., the largest U.S. mutual-fund firm.  Retirement Plans  Even if some investments are becoming less attractive from
a tax standpoint, that doesn’t mean the wealthy need to reduce
their allocation in those areas, according to Laura Scharr-
Bykowsky, a financial planner in Columbia,  South Carolina , who
oversees $50 million in client assets. High earners typically
have assets in tax-deferred  retirement plans  as well as in
taxable accounts, Scharr-Bykowsky said.  Investors should think about keeping passive mutual funds
and ETFs in taxable accounts while putting investments such as
real estate investment trusts, high-yield bonds and dividend-
paying funds in tax-protected retirement accounts.  People can use investments in other ways to lower their tax
bills. When clients of ObjectiveAdvice.com’s Schatsky want to
make a sizable charitable donation, he suggests they donate
securities that have gone up in value instead of writing a
check.  ‘One Part’  “If you give $10,000 in Apple stock that you bought for
$5,000, you still get to take a $10,000 deduction and don’t have
to pay capital gains on the $5,000,” he said.  Advisers caution against becoming too fixated on taxes.  “There are big benefits to being tax-efficient, no matter
what,” said George Padula, an adviser in Boston with Modera
Wealth Management LLC, which oversees about $1 billion. “But
you have to make sure you’re making the right decisions for the
long run, and taxes are just one part of that issue.”  U.S. tax rates “didn’t move up a whole lot” under the
budget deal, said Todd Jones, director of investments at Gratus
Capital Management, an Atlanta-based firm that oversees about
$600 million.  “We are back to the historical norms that existed in the
1990s,” Jones said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  