-- Uranium Rebound Seen as Japan Considers Nuclear: Energy Markets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-01-04T16:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/uranium-rebound-seen-as-japan-considers-nuclear-energy-markets.html
Uranium is poised to rebound from a
second annual decline as  Japan  considers restarting its atomic
plants almost two years after the Fukushima disaster and  China 
pushes ahead with the world’s biggest nuclear building program.  The price of the fuel for immediate delivery may average
$55 a pound in 2013, according to the median of five analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey conducted last month. The
nuclear fuel slipped 14 percent to an average $48.72 in 2012 and
traded at a three-year low of $40.65 in November, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  A revival in demand from Japan is raising the prospect that
supplies of the radioactive metal will shrink at the same time
as China continues with a project to increase its nuclear power
capacity at least fivefold by 2020. That’s a boost for uranium
producers such as Perth, Australia-based  Paladin (PDN)  Energy Ltd.
It’s also a blow for liquefied natural gas exporters including
Qatar and  Australia , which have helped plug Japan’s power
shortage since the earthquake that led to the meltdown at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in March 2011.  “The biggest pressure on price at the moment is not
necessarily the downgrade to demand since Fukushima, it’s this
massive inventory overhang,” said Joel Crane, the vice
president of research at Morgan Stanley in  Melbourne . “Should
the Japanese government give the green light to restarts, that
overhang is instantly gone and that will be very positive for
prices.”  The uranium forecasts for 2013 ranged from $45 to $62.60 a
ton in the Bloomberg survey conducted Dec. 10 to Dec. 19. That
compares with a three-year high of $73 in February 2011,
according to data from Roswell, Georgia-based Ux Consulting,
which advises the nuclear industry. The fuel averaged $56.80 in
2011 and was $43 a pound on Jan. 3.  Price Plunge  The price plunged as low as $49.75 a ton in March 2011
after Japan’s biggest earthquake on record and a subsequent
tsunami damaged reactors at the Fukushima site run by  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) , releasing radiation and causing the
evacuation of 160,000 people. The government responded to the
disaster by keeping all 54 of the nation’s then-functioning
atomic plants shut after safety checks, while countries from
China to  France  reviewed their nuclear policies and  Germany  said
it would close its facilities.  Japan’s 10 regional utilities generated or purchased 2.4
percent of their electricity from nuclear plants in November,
down from 27 percent in February 2011. Japan’s installed nuclear
capacity is 46,148 megawatts at its 50 operable plants. Fossil-
fuel plants accounted for 73 percent, up from 50 percent.  Power Shift  Speculation that uranium demand will rebound has grown
since Dec. 16, when Japan’s Liberal Democrat Party won a
landslide election victory. The previous administration of the
 Democratic Party  of Japan, which ordered the shutdowns, planned
to phase out nuclear power by the end of the 2030s. The LDP was
ousted in 2009, two years before Fukushima, after ruling for all
but 10 months since 1955 and overseeing the country’s
development of atomic energy.  The new government plans to establish a variety of sources
for electricity generation within 10 years, including a review
of the plan to exit nuclear power, Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said Dec. 28.  “We can’t say for sure that Japan will be free of nuclear
power by the 2030s,” Motegi said at a news conference in  Tokyo .
“We will make our decisions based on technological findings and
not with prejudgment.”  The government and Japan’s utilities face public opposition
to nuclear power amid concern that some plants are at risk of
damage by future earthquakes. All but two of the nation’s
reactors are still idled since  Kansai Electric (9503)  Power Co. resumed
units at its Ohi plant in July.  ‘Fairly Slow’  The restart of reactors in Japan is going to be “fairly
slow” and is unlikely to be done this year, capping uranium
price gains, according to Thomas Neff, a physicist and uranium-
industry analyst at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “It’s probably 2015 before you are going to get any strong
demand signals sent to the market,” Neff said in a phone
interview Dec. 28. “There’s no particularly good reason to
think that it’s going to go up in the next year.”  Japan Atomic Power Co.’s Tsuruga and Tohoku Electric Power
Co.’s Higashidori plants may be sitting on active geological
faults, teams of scientists working for Japan’s Nuclear
Regulation Authority said last month.  Kansai Electric  is
conducting additional checks after an NRA team delayed a
decision on whether a fault under its Ohi plant is active.
Utilities aren’t allowed to construct reactor buildings and
other important facilities above an active quake fault.  Nuclear Opponents  Tens of thousands of nuclear power opponents held weekly
protests outside previous Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
official residence last year. A government-backed public forum
found in August that 47 percent of participants favored cutting
nuclear power to zero, while newspaper polls in the last 18
months showed support for ending atomic power in Japan.  The government will await new safety standards before
deciding whether to restart idled reactors, Shinzo Abe, Japan’s
new prime minister, said Dec. 26. Japan’s new nuclear regulator
has said it will announce the rules in July and Abe indicated
some reactors may restart during the next three years if they
meet the tougher safety standards.  “The uncertainty around Japan is holding prices back,”
Jonathan Hinze, a senior vice president at Ux Consulting, said
in an e-mailed response to questions last month. “The number
one thing to help the price recover even more is additional
Japanese reactor restarts.”  Uranium Stocks  Stockmarket investors have been betting that the
resumptions will occur and boost uranium demand just as China
pushes on with plans to build at least 26 new reactors. At the
same time, analysts are predicting a drop in the price of LNG as
Japan’s utilities seek to reduce their electricity-generation
costs by switching back to nuclear.  Paladin, which operates two uranium mines in  Africa  and has
exploration assets in Australia, rose 22 percent in Sydney in
the two days through Dec. 18.  Energy Resources of Australia
Ltd. (ERA) , whose Ranger mine in the  Northern Territory  produces about
10 percent of the world’s mined uranium, advanced 13 percent
over the same period. Australia has the world’s largest known
deposits of the fuel, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  “The uranium price and Paladin would benefit from a re-
start of Japanese reactors,” UBS AG analysts including Glynn Lawcock in Sydney said in a Dec. 17 report as the bank upgraded
its rating on the stock to “buy” from “neutral.” “The
latest change in government puts the re-start one step closer,
in our opinion, albeit timing remains unclear.”  Kansai Electric  Kansai Electric’s shares rose 18 percent in Tokyo, the most
since at least 1974, the day after the LDP returned to power.
The company plans to restart the No. 3 and No. 4 units at its
Takahama nuclear plant after July, it said in a Nov. 26
statement. Tokyo Electric, which surged 33 percent on Dec. 17,
aims to start seven reactors at its Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant
between April 2013 and September 2015, according to a business
plan announced in May.  China has 14 reactors operating and the new ones planned,
accounting for more than 40 percent of the plants being built
globally, may increase the nation’s capacity to 60 gigawatts by
2020, according to the  World Nuclear Association . The government
put a temporary halt on authorization of new facilities after
Fukushima, while continuing current projects. It approved a
five-year nuclear safety plan at the end of May, without saying
when it will start permitting more reactors.  LNG Demand  The average price of LNG sold into northeast Asia will be
$14.50 per million British thermal units this year as Japan’s
nuclear resumptions curb demand while new supplies from
countries including Angola and Algeria start, according to the
median estimate of six analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  last
month.  The cost of Japan’s  LNG imports  almost doubled in the past
three years, reaching a record $18.07 per million Btu in July,
according to Finance Ministry data. Purchases for the first 11
months of last year increased 11.5 percent from the same period
in 2011 to a record 79.5 million tons, according to data from
the ministry.  LNG for delivery to northeast Asia in four to eight weeks
rose for a 14th week through Dec. 31, climbing 60 cents to
$17.25 per million Btu, according to  assessments  by World Gas
Intelligence. That’s the highest price since June.  The country must restart reactors quickly because of the
price of fossil fuels, LDP General Council Chairman Hiroyuki
Hosoda said Nov. 27. Tokyo Electric and seven other Japanese
power utilities reported combined first-half losses equal to
$8.4 billion after the shutdowns drove up the costs of
electricity generation at oil-, gas- and coal-fired plants.  “Eventually Japan will have to make hard choices and
restart,” Morgan Stanley’s Crane said. “There is simply not
enough alternative to make up for the lost nuclear generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  