-- Murban Premium to Dubai Falls; African Exports Climb: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-04T10:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/murban-premium-to-dubai-falls-african-exports-climb-asia-crude.html
The premium of  Abu Dhabi ’s flagship
Murban crude to Middle East benchmark Dubai fell 9 percent.
Exports of West African crude to Asia rose to the highest in
eight months.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. set the official selling price
of Murban for December at $110.75 a barrel, according to a
notice sent to buyers yesterday. That puts the grade at a $4.41
premium to Dubai as assessed by Platts, the energy-information
unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., down from $4.84 the previous month,
according to  Bloomberg News  calculations.  Refiners in Asia will boost imports of West African crude
for loading this month to the most since May as more sales to
 Taiwan  and record purchases of Angolan oil by India offset a
drop in Chinese imports from the region.  Asia bought 59 cargoes totaling 1.8 million barrels a day
from  Angola , Nigeria,  Equatorial Guinea , Republic of Congo,
Gabon,  Ghana  and  Democratic Republic  of Congo, according to a
survey of five traders and an analysis of loading plans obtained
by Bloomberg News. That exceeds the 1.76 million barrels a day
imported in December, the survey showed.  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  is seeking between
650,000 barrels to 1 million barrels of low-sulfur crude oil for
delivery during the first half of March, according to a document
sent to potential sellers yesterday. Offers are due Jan. 9.  Yemen issued a tender to sell 2.1 million barrels of Masila
crude for loading in March, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg yesterday. Bids are due at 3 p.m. London time today.  Mideast Crude  Asia-Pacific benchmark  refining margins , or the profit from
processing Dubai crude into fuels such as diesel and gasoline
priced in the regional oil-trading hub of  Singapore , averaged
$3.56 a barrel during the last five days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day average was $2.82.  The February Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European crude’s premium to Middle East oil, advanced 10
cents to $5.40 a barrel, according to data from PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based broker. The March EFS rose 12
cents to $4.63.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when near-term shipments cost
more than future deliveries, rose 8 cents a barrel. Spot prices
were $1.31 higher than cargoes for two months later, according
to PVM data.  Oman futures for March delivery settled 31 cents lower at
$107.31 a barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  Vitol Group bought the only two Dubai partials traded today
in the Platts pricing window, according to a survey of people
who monitor the market. China National United Oil Corp, known as
Chinaoil, sold the 25,000 barrel lots at $107.50 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  