-- Turkish Lira’s Real Exchange Rate Stays Below Bank Threshold
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2013-01-04T14:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/turkish-lira-s-real-exchange-rate-stays-below-bank-threshold.html
The Turkish lira’s value as measured
by the central bank’s  real effective exchange rate  index fell
last month, signaling there’s no need for action by the bank to
weaken the currency.  The index, which measures the lira’s purchasing power
against the currencies of  Turkey ’s main trading partners,
declined to 118.3 in December from 119.4, the central bank in
Ankara said on its website today.  The bank is monitoring the index, and a reading above 120
would signal an overvalued lira and may trigger a policy
response, Governor Erdem Basci said in November. Basci last
month cut the benchmark rate for the first time in 16 months to
spur growth and halt gains in the lira that boost imports and
swell the current-account deficit.  The exchange-rate figures, together with an increase in the
 core inflation rate  announced yesterday, “support the view that
the central bank is unlikely to cut the policy rate,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Istanbul-based lender Finansbank AS,
said in response to emailed questions.  The lira gained 6 percent against the dollar last year. It
hit a six-month high in November after Fitch Ratings awarded
Turkey its first investment-grade credit score since 1994. Lira
volatility fell close to 6 percent in December, the lowest since
the currency was allowed to float in 2001.  Yields on two-year benchmark  lira bonds  rose nine basis
points to 6.37 percent at 4:40 p.m. in Istanbul. The Turkish
currency traded at 2.0573 against a  euro/dollar basket ,
monitored by many investors.  “The central bank will spare its bullets” unless the rate
falls below 2.03, said Emre Tekmen, an economist at Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS in Istanbul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  