-- Verizon to Showcase Redbox, Internet-Linked Cars at CES
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-04T21:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/verizon-to-showcase-redbox-internet-linked-cars-at-ces.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , touting
new uses for its network, plans to demonstrate Internet-
connected cars and the  Redbox Instant  streaming-video service
next week at the  Consumer Electronics Show .  Lowell McAdam, Verizon’s chief executive officer, will give
an evening keynote address on Jan. 8, the first day of the four-
day technology show in  Las Vegas . McAdam’s presentation may
include the introduction of a new company slogan and its
exclusive video agreement with the  National Football League  that
lets customers watch games on mobile devices, Verizon said.  The company aims to promote its edge over  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in building a network with a technology
called long-term evolution. The company’s mobile division,
 Verizon Wireless , covers about  470 U.S. cities  with its LTE
service. The speedier network allows customers to connect to the
Web faster and makes it easier to watch video and run other
bandwidth-heavy applications.  “Their greatest strengths are their LTE footprint and
their reputation for a solid, extensive network,” said Jan Dawson, an analyst at the New York office of London-based Ovum
Ltd. “They have to milk their LTE network as much as possible
while it’s still significantly ahead of everyone else’s. In the
next year or so, AT&T will close the gap there.”  Verizon’s Redbox venture, a partnership with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ,
has begun offering video streaming and DVD rentals on a limited
trial basis. It plans to expand the service in the first
quarter, with CES serving as its broader debut. Verizon also
will discuss its automobile strategy -- with a demonstration of
in-car navigation -- and mobile Internet services.  Enterprise Services  Verizon, based in  New York , is slated to showcase its
enterprise services division as well. That business focuses on
using Verizon’s networks -- both LTE and landline -- to sell
data hosting, video delivery and cloud-computing services.  AT&T, meanwhile, plans to unveil products such as wireless
home monitoring and security services at the Las Vegas
conference. Using the brand Digital Life, the Dallas-based
company will demonstrate wireless cameras for home monitoring,
remote control of thermostats, lighting and appliances -- along
with 24-hour security with call-center support.  Verizon rose 0.5 percent to $44.30 at the close in New
York, while AT&T climbed 0.6 percent to $35.23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  