-- Vietnamese Coffee Trades at London Price as a Third of Crop Sold
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-04T16:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/vietnamese-coffee-trades-at-london-price-as-a-third-of-crop-sold.html
Buyers of coffee from  Vietnam , the
world’s largest producer of the robusta variety, are paying the
same price for their beans as the futures in London, with about
a third of the crop already sold, according to Volcafe Ltd.  This week’s price compares with a premium of $20 a metric
ton to the NYSE Liffe exchange price in the week ended Dec. 21,
the Winterthur, Switzerland-based unit of commodities trader
ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. said in a weekly report e-mailed today.
Robusta coffee futures climbed 3.1 percent over the same period.
The premium, known as the differential, usually drops when
futures rise. The 2012-13 season in Vietnam started on Oct. 1.  “Farmers continue to sell at a steady pace into the rising
market at slightly softer differentials,” Volcafe said in the
report. The Vietnamese export market “has been active as can be
seen from heavy shipments and rising Ho Chi Minh City stocks,
with good demand keeping prices steady.”  Vietnam’s coffee exports were estimated at 201,000 tons in
December by the Ministry of Agriculture and  Rural Development .
Shipments climbed 40 percent to 1.76 million tons last year,
according to a report published Dec. 26. The country will
produce 25 million bags of coffee in 2012-13, down from 26
million bags a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
estimates. A bag of coffee usually weighs 132 pounds.  Beans are bigger than expected “even with the much lower
rainfall last year,” Volcafe said. “Good harvest weather has
meant moisture and defects are lower also.”  The weather in Vietnam is sunny and cool, “normal” for
this time of the year, according to the trader’s report.
Rainfall was 10 percent below average last year, it said.  In  Indonesia , the third-biggest robusta grower, buyers are
paying a premium of $150 a ton to the exchange price, unchanged
from Dec. 21, Volcafe said. Bean arrivals at ports were “very
slow,” in the in the range of 180 to 220 tons, the trader said.  Robusta coffee for March delivery was 0.4 percent higher at
$1,953 a ton in  London  recently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 