-- Australia Leads Sri Lanka by 48 Runs in Cricket Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-04T08:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/warner-hughes-50s-get-australia-within-167-of-sri-lanka-in-test.html
Australia  took a 48-run lead over Sri
Lanka on day two of their third cricket Test in Sydney as the
home team seeks to sweep the series 3-0.  Phil Hughes top scored with 87, while opener David Warner
smashed 85 and captain Michael Clarke hit 50 to help lift
Australia to 342-6 at the close of play after bowling Sri Lanka
out for 294 on day one.  Sri Lanka fought back to restrict the scoring rate after
Australia had raced to 127-1 at the lunch break. Warner and
Clarke were caught when playing attacking shots to spin bowlers,
while  Ed Cowan  and Mike Hussey got run out.  “It’s going to be very tough from here on but the great
thing is that we certainly haven’t been blown away,” Sri Lanka
coach Graham Ford said at a news conference. “We’ll take a lot
of heart from that.”  Matthew Wade, promoted up a spot to No. 6 in the batting
order, was unbeaten on 47 at stumps after the umpire’s decision
to give him out to a bat-pad catch when on 22 was reversed on
review.  Peter Siddle  will resume on 16.  Hughes and Warner earlier fell short of centuries, though
combined for a 130-run partnership after Cowan was run out for 4
when he hesitated while going for a second run.  Warner struck 85 from 84 balls before skying a catch to
Dhammika Prasad off part-time spin-bowler Tillakaratne Dilshan,
while Hughes was nearing his fourth Test century when he edged a
Rangana Herath delivery to wicketkeeper Dinesh Chandimal.  Hussey Run Out  Hussey, who announced his surprise retirement from
international cricket on Dec. 29, then shared a 50-run stand
with Clarke before getting run out by a direct hit from Dimuth
Karunaratne when on 25. Hussey had been given a guard of honor
by the Sri Lankan players before facing his first delivery.  “It’s never nice to get run outs,” Hughes said. “Two in
one day in Test cricket is a bit disappointing. It’s something
we’re going to have to fix going forward. I think there’s been
four in the series now.”  Herath then removed Clarke, Test cricket’s top run-scorer
in 2012, when the Australian skipper played a slog-sweep shot
that swirled to Karunaratne at midwicket.  Australia edged past Sri Lanka’s total before Nuwan Pradeep
had Mitchell Johnson caught behind for 13 to make it 307-6. Wade
and Siddle then added late impetus to the scoring rate with
their unbeaten 35-run partnership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  