-- Wegelin Guilty Plea, Basel ‘Babel,’ FTC Fine: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-04T13:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/wegelin-guilty-plea-basel-babel-ftc-fine-compliance.html
Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old Swiss
bank, pleaded guilty to helping U.S. taxpayers hide more than
$1.2 billion from the Internal Revenue Service.  Otto Bruderer, an official at the St. Gallen-based bank,
appeared in Manhattan federal court yesterday to enter a plea on
the company’s behalf to a single count of conspiracy. Wegelin
was indicted on Feb. 2, becoming the first Swiss lender charged
in a U.S. crackdown on offshore firms suspected of helping
Americans evade taxes.  Under a proposed plea agreement, the bank will pay $20
million in restitution to the U.S., forfeit $15.8 million,
representing fees on undeclared accounts, and pay a fine of more
than $22 million. The agreement requires the court approval.
Sentencing is set for March 4.  Prosecutors said that from 2002 to 2011, more than 100 U.S.
taxpayers conspired with Wegelin and bankers in Zurich. The bank
held more than $1.2 billion in assets not declared to the IRS,
according to the indictment.  The U.S. said Wegelin and the Zurich bankers wooed U.S.
clients fleeing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank. The effort to
retain the UBS clients was backed by Wegelin’s senior
management, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Wegelin, 12-00002, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  Basel Becomes Babel as Conflicting Rules Undermine Bank Safety  The  first Basel agreement  on global banking regulation,
adopted in 1988, was 30 pages long and relied on simple
arithmetic. The latest update, known as Basel III, runs to 509
pages and includes 78 calculus equations.  The complexity is emblematic of what happened during the
past four years as governments that injected $600 billion to
rescue failing banks during the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression devised ways to make the global banking system
safer. Those efforts have been stymied by conflicting laws,
divergent accounting standards and clashing rules adopted by
nations to protect their interests, all of which have created
new risks.  While higher capital requirements, curbs on banks trading
with their own money and other rules have reduced risk, they
have magnified the complexity of supervision, according to two
dozen regulators, bankers and analysts interviewed by Bloomberg
News.  Risk has been reduced by a complex web of rules. Twenty-
seven nations represented on the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  agreed in 2010 to require banks to hold more
capital, or shareholders’ money, to absorb losses. Dozens of
countries including the U.S. have issued other regulations or
passed laws to curtail risk, and lenders on both continents have
boosted capital and improved its quality since the crisis.  Trading of most derivatives, an opaque  $639 trillion
market , is being forced onto central clearinghouses, where
transactions are backed by collateral. The Volcker rule, part of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the U.K.’s proposed Vickers rule and a
European Union version named for Bank of Finland Governor Erkki
Liikanen seek to separate riskier trading from other businesses.
Seven nations have created resolution mechanisms for an orderly
shutdown of their biggest lenders if they fail, according to the
Basel, Switzerland-based Financial Stability Board.  Still, the global financial system remains vulnerable. Only
11 of the more than 100 nations that vowed to adopt the latest
Basel rules met a Jan. 1 deadline to start implementation. The
U.S. and the EU, each of which drafted  700-page proposals , are
still debating them, while banks work within their nations on
capital standards.  For more, click here.  EU to Examine National Bank Rules as Germany Limits Capital Flow  The European Union is examining whether national banking
regulators are hindering the free movement of capital after
Germany limited the flow of funds from units of foreign lenders
in the country to their parents.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has eroded cross-border
lending to clients and prompted depositors to transfer funds to
markets that are considered safe within the 17-member euro area.
German financial regulator BaFin has curtailed the amount of
funds foreign banks can pull out of the country on concern that
it may leave their local units under-capitalized.  The European Commission and London-based European Banking
Authority are conducting the examination, Stefaan De Rynck,
spokesman for EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier ,
told reporters in Brussels today. The EBA can play a “mediating
role” in the event of disagreements between national
regulators, he said.  DeRynck also said there is a procedural requirement
requiring different national supervisors “to cooperate with
each other if they want to adopt certain measures.”  Sven Gebauer, a spokesman for Bonn-based BaFin, declined to
comment on De Rynck’s comments when contacted by phone today.  Compliance Action  Google Probe by FTC Ends in Voluntary Changes, Patent Decree  Google Inc. (GOOG) , avoiding a potentially costly legal battle
with U.S. regulators, ended a 20-month antitrust probe by
pledging to change some business practices and settling
allegations it misused patents to thwart competitors in
smartphone technology.  The Federal Trade Commission voted 5-0 to close its
investigation into whether Google unfairly skewed its search
results, with the company saying it would voluntarily remove
restrictions on the use of its online search advertising
platform and offer companies the option to keep their content
out of Google’s search results.  A consent decree on patents curbs Google’s ability to seek
court orders barring competitors’ products where the company has
agreed to license the technology on reasonable terms.  The decision to close the probe of Google’s search
practices without enforcement action is a blow to competitors
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  An
alliance of such e-commerce and Web-search companies pressed the
agency to bring a lawsuit, claiming Google’s dominance of
Internet search, combined with favoring its own services in
answers to queries, violates antitrust laws.  For more, see Interviews, below.  Egyptian Scholars to Consider Sukuk Ownership of State Assets  Officials of Egypt’s Finance Ministry will meet with
scholars from al-Azhar next week to ensure that the country’s
draft sukuk law is Shariah-compliant, according to e-mailed
statement yesterday.  The meeting comes after reservations raised by scholars
centering on the possibility that sukuk holders may own state
assets. The law will be referred to the upper house of
parliament after the consultation, according to the ministry.  Egypt needs to sell sukuk to secure foreign currencies and
diversify funding sources, the ministry said.  The state-run Middle East News Agency reported Jan. 2 that
President Mohamed Mursi referred the draft law to religious
scholars to examine its compliance with Shariah law.  FSA Fines Co-Operative Bank $181,000 Over PPI Complaints  Co-Operative Bank Plc, a customer-owned lender, was fined
113,000 pounds ($181,300) by U.K. financial regulators over
delays in handling complaints about sales of payment-protection
insurance.  Co-Operative, based in Manchester, treated customers
unfairly when they complained about so-called PPI during a
period in 2011 when guidelines for handling such grievances were
being challenged in court, the Financial Services Authority said
today in a statement.  Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s director of enforcement and
financial crime, said in the statement that while no one
suffered financial loss, Co-Operative’s actions results in
delays in the resolution of valid complaints for “no good
reason.”  By last October, U.K. banks had already reserved more than
9 billion pounds to compensate clients who were forced to buy,
or didn’t know they had bought PPI to cover repayments on
mortgages, credit and other loans. Martin Wheatley, the U.K.’s
chief markets regulator, said about 95 percent of PPI policies
were sold inappropriately.  The bank, a unit of Co-Operative Group Ltd., which also
runs grocery stores, received a 30 percent discount for settling
the PPI dispute at an early stage, the FSA said.  Co-Operative “put some complaints on hold which were
capable of being progressed without waiting for the judicial
review to be concluded,” the bank said today in an e-mailed
statement. “In this instance our procedures have fallen short
of the high standards rightly expected of us.”  JPMorgan to BofA Get Delay on Rule Isolating Derivatives  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of
America Corp.  won a delay of Dodd-Frank Act requirements that
they wall off some derivatives trades from bank units backed by
federal deposit insurance.  Commercial banks including the Wall Street firms may get as
long as an additional two years -- until July 2015 -- to comply
with the rules, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
said in a notice yesterday. The provision was included in Dodd-
Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation law, as a way to limit
taxpayer support for risky derivatives trades.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other
regulators need to complete swap rules to allow “federal
depository institutions to make well-informed determinations
concerning business restructurings that may be necessary,” the
OCC said in the notice. The so-called push-out provision of
Dodd-Frank requires that equity, some commodity and non-cleared
credit derivatives be moved -- or pushed out -- into separate
affiliates without federal assistance.  In February, the U.S. House Financial Services Committee
approved with bipartisan support legislation that would let
banks keep commodity and equity derivatives in federally insured
units by removing part of the push-out rule.  The OCC is prepared to “consider favorably” requests for
transition, the regulator said in the six-page notice. The
agency said delays could be extended for a third year based on
consultations with other regulators.  For more, click here.  Berkshire Ex-Executive Sokol Won’t Face SEC Action, Lawyer Says  David Sokol , the executive who left Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  amid allegations he broke insider-
trading rules, won’t face enforcement actions from the
Securities and Exchange Commission, his lawyer said.  The U.S. agency ended its investigation of Sokol, attorney
Barry Levine said yesterday in a phone interview after hearing
from the SEC’s division of enforcement.  Sokol, who stepped down as chairman of Berkshire’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. in April 2011, bought shares of
Lubrizol Corp. in January of that year, less than three months
before Berkshire announced a $9 billion acquisition of the
company. Buffett was misled by Sokol about his dealings before
the takeover, a Berkshire audit committee concluded. Levine has
said Sokol never broke the law or violated Berkshire policies.  “They have intensely reviewed the facts, they’ve done it
with uncommon care, and they have of course comprehensively
reviewed the law,” said Levine, a partner at Dickstein Shapiro
LLP in Washington. “Neither the law nor the facts suggest any
impropriety.”  The SEC’s decision was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. Buffett
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
an assistant outside normal business hours.  Courts  Ex-Broker Sentenced to 18 Months for Muni-Bond Bid-Rigging  Adrian Scott-Jones, a former broker for Tradition NA, was
sentenced to 18 months in prison for his role in a municipal
bond bid-rigging case. He was also fined $12,500.  Scott-Jones, of Morriston, Florida, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and wire fraud in 2010, agreeing to cooperate with a
U.S. investigation of auction-fixing in the market for
investments bought by states and local governments. He was
sentenced yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Scott-Jones pleaded guilty to conspiring with former
executives of  General Electric Co. (GE)  from as early as 1999 to
2006, the Justice Department said in the statement. He gave co-
conspirators information about competitors’ bids, an illegal
practice known as a “last look,” the government said.  The investigation has resulted in convictions and guilty
pleas against 19 individuals and one company, the Justice
Department said. One person is awaiting trial.  The case is U.S. v. Scott-Jones, 1:10-cr-00794, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Trading  Mathew Martoma, the former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager charged in what prosecutors called the biggest
insider trading scheme in history, pleaded not guilty to
criminal charges.  Martoma, 38, entered the pleas yesterday at his arraignment
in Manhattan federal court to one count of conspiracy and two
counts of securities fraud. Prosecutors say he used inside
information about a clinical drug trial to help SAC make $276
million in profits and averted losses through trades in  Elan
Corp. (ELN)  and  Wyeth LLC. (PFE)   Assistant U.S. Attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said in court
that the government’s investigation is “ongoing” and the U.S.
expects to produce more evidence.  Martoma isn’t discussing a plea deal with the government,
his lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said outside court.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC, has said Cohen and SAC acted appropriately in making
the trades. Cohen hasn’t been charged criminally or sued by
regulators in the case.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Amazon.com, Macy’s, Sears Settle FTC Suits Over Mislabeling  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Macy’s (M)  Inc. and  Sears Holding Corp. (SHLD)  agreed
to settle U.S. Federal Trade Commission lawsuits over claims the
companies misled consumers by selling rayon fabrics labeled as
made from bamboo fiber.  The retailers, without admitting or denying the
commission’s allegations, agreed to make payments to the
government and to accept compliance monitoring and reporting,
according to proposed settlements filed yesterday in federal
court in Washington. Leon Max Inc. agreed to settle a similar
suit.  The settlements need approval by a federal judge.  “We cooperated with the FTC in reaching this settlement in
lieu of pursuing further litigation,” Howard Riefs, a spokesman
for Sears, said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to take
these regulations seriously.”  A message left with Amazon.com’s media relations department
seeking comment on the case wasn’t immediately answered.  Jim
Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment on the settlement.  The cases are U.S. v. Amazon.com, 13-cv-00002; U.S. v.
Macy’s Inc., 13-cv-00004; U.S. v. Sears, Roebuck and Co., 13-
cv-00005; and U.S. v. Leon Max Inc., 13-cv-00003, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews/Speeches  Stiglitz Urges Greater Curbs on Risk-Taking by Banks  Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, a professor
at Columbia University, discussed banking regulation and
monetary policy during a speech in Mumbai.  Among other topics touched upon in the speech were Libor
and central bank policy.  For the video, click here.  Leibowitz Says FTC’s Google Decision ‘Absolutely Right’  Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, talked about the agency’s decision to close its
investigation into some of Google Inc.’s operational practices.  Google ended a 20-month antitrust probe by pledging to
change some business practices and settling allegations it
misused patents to thwart competitors in smartphone technology.
Leibowitz spoke with  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  