-- Won Leads Asian Currencies’ Weekly Advance on U.S. Budget Deal
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-01-04T21:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/won-ringgit-lead-weekly-advance-in-asia-on-u-s-budget-deal.html
South Korean’s won led gains in Asian
currencies this week after the U.S. averted $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts, easing the risk of a slowdown in
the world’s largest economy.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched a 16-month
high on Jan. 3 and regional stocks rallied 1.8 percent in the
last four days of the week after Congress passed a bill on Jan.
1 that makes the George W. Bush-era income-tax cuts permanent
for most workers, while letting them expire for top earners.
Regional currencies fell yesterday after minutes of a Federal
Reserve meeting in  Washington  indicated a probable end to the
monetary authority’s bond-buying program this year.  “Emerging-market assets had a strong start to 2013 after
the  U.S. Congress  passed legislation delaying the fiscal cliff
issue,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB
strategist in  Hong Kong . “Risk remains to the upside for Asian
currencies given positive momentum in the equity market.”  The won appreciated 0.6 percent this week to 1,063.68 per
dollar at the close yesterday in  Seoul , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.3 percent
to 3.0525 and Thailand’s baht climbed 0.3 percent to 30.52. The
Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active
currencies excluding the yen, was little changed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares rose to a
17-month high yesterday after international funds pumped $1.1
billion into Indian, Taiwanese and South Korean stocks this
week, exchange data show.  Weekly Gain  The ringgit had its biggest weekly gain since November
before data due Jan. 9 that is forecast to show the nation’s
exports increased 2.1 percent in November, compared with a 3.2
percent decline the month before.  U.S. lawmakers may need to approve an increase in the $16.4
trillion debt ceiling as early as mid-February.  “The resolution of the fiscal cliff issue helped partly to
remove concerns about a global slowdown but it’s not a permanent
solution,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based foreign-exchange
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   Chinese data released this week indicated a recovery in the
region’s largest economy may be gathering pace. A non-
manufacturing purchasing managers’ index was at a five-month
high of 56.1 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics and
 China  Federation of Logistics & Purchasing said on Jan. 3. A
report released Jan. 1 showed the manufacturing PMI was 50.6
during the same period, equal to November’s level that was the
highest since April.  The  yuan  strengthened 0.03 percent to 6.2303 per dollar
from Dec. 28. Mainland financial markets were closed from Jan. 1
through Jan. 3 for public holidays.  Fed Buying  “The world industrial cycle steadily improved through
December with China and the U.S. leading the way, but smaller
economies like Korea and Taiwan are bouncing back,”  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economics research at HSBC Holdings
Plc in Hong Kong, wrote in a note released Jan. 3.  Fed policy makers said they will probably end their $85
billion monthly debt purchases in 2013, with members divided
between a mid- or end-of-year finish, according to the minutes
of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 11-12 meeting that
were released Jan. 3.  “Stopping bond buying will hurt investor confidence in the
market,” said Samson Tu, a Taipei-based  fund manager  at Uni-
President Assets Management Corp., which oversees $700 million.
“Investors doubt whether the U.S. recovery is strong enough to
warrant an end to quantitative easing.”  Elsewhere, the  Philippine peso  advanced 0.4 percent this
week to 40.905 against the greenback. Taiwan’s dollar was little
changed at NT$29.125, India’s rupee slipped 0.5 percent to
55.0750, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,660, while
Vietnam’s dong was steady at 20,843.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  