-- World Sports Alliance, CAR to Create $1 Billion Mining Fund
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-04T10:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-04/world-sports-alliance-car-to-create-1-billion-mining-fund.html
The World Sports Alliance, an
intergovernmental body supporting the  United Nations ’ poverty
reduction goals, plans to create a $1 billion fund to mine
diamond and gold deposits in the Central African Republic.  The WSA-CAR Mining Development Fund will help cultivate
mineral resources worth as much as $100 billion, the Toulouse,
France-based World Sports Alliance said today in an e-mailed
statement. The agreement was signed by Central African
Republican President Francois Bozize, who has been battling an
insurgency by rebels since Dec. 10.  The so-called Seleka militia, who say Bozize has failed to
honor the terms of a 2008 peace deal, may hold peace talks with
the government in nearby  Gabon , a spokesman for the Gabon’s
foreign affairs ministry said today.  Central African Republic  is one of the world’s poorest
nations with an annual gross domestic product of $3.6 billion.
Its main industries include the production of cotton, coffee and
tobacco and the export of  gold , diamonds and timber, according
to the CIA World Factbook.  The 30-nation World Sports Alliance, created in 2003 to
promote physical education and anti-poverty programs, is funded
by its investments in profitable public-private ventures such as
the mining project, according to the statement.  The alliance, via its Curtis Whitney Holdings commercial
arm, also plans to invest $200 million building a waste
processing plant with a capacity to generate 22.5 megawatts of
electricity. This will enable the development of $60 million
worth of “sports, community infrastructure and youth
programs,” the group said in a statement.  In 2000, the UN established its Millennium Development
Goals, a 15-year plan to reduce poverty and child mortality and
boost access to health care in developing nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  