-- ABB to Buy Thomas & Betts for $3.9 Billion
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2012-01-30T11:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/abb-to-buy-thomas-betts-for-3-9-billion-to-expand-u-s-power-equipment.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power-distribution equipment, agreed to buy  Thomas & Betts
Corp . for $3.9 billion to expand its North American distribution
network and boost sales of low-voltage gear.  ABB offered $72 for each share of  Memphis , Tennessee-based
Thomas & Betts, the Zurich-based company said in a statement
today. That’s 24  percent more  than the close on Jan. 27. ABB is
paying cash for the target, and said the deal will be accretive
within the first year after closing.  Thomas & Betts marks the second major acquisition for ABB
under Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan , who joined in 2008 from
 General Electric Co. (GE)  The U.S. is the world’s largest market for
low-voltage gear, which is ABB’s most profitable line of
equipment, and Hogan said the purchase will help his company
build critical mass and distribute its products in the region.  “This fills one of the largest gaps in the company, which
was not having a meaningful presence in the world’s largest low-
voltage market,” Hogan said on a call with journalists.  ABB  shares fell  1.4 percent to 19.15 Swiss francs at 12:02
p.m. in Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of 44
billion francs ($48 billion). The stock has risen 0.9 percent in
the past six months, compared with a 5.5 percent drop in the 98-
company Stoxx 600 Industrial Goods and Services Index.  Competitor  Siemens (SIE)  AG lost 18 percent in the past six
months, while Thomas & Betts rose 19 percent.  More Firepower  Hogan already bolstered ABB in the U.S. with the January
2011 purchase of Baldor Electric Co. for $3.1 billion. Baldor
had revenue of $1.7 billion from industrial motors and drives in
2010 and strengthened ABB in automation, where it competes with
Siemens. Thomas & Betts is estimated to report 2011 sales of
about $2.3 billion, ABB said. ABB is still on the lookout for
additional deals, though nothing is imminent, Hogan said on the
call today.  ABB has said purchases may boost annual sales growth by as
much as 4 percent until 2015. The company has allocated as much
as $18 billion for possible deals over five years from 2011, and
said today it’s still at the low end of that range.  The Swiss company estimates the purchase will double the
size of the low-voltage market in  North America  that will be
open to its products to approximately $24 billion. Previously,
its revenue in low-voltage in the region was just $240 million.  Market Share  Hogan’s acquisition push contrasts with that of Siemens CEO
 Peter Loescher , who has refrained from major transactions in
past years and wrote down the value of some acquisitions.
Siemens reported earnings last week that fell short of analyst
estimates and cautioned that reaching its goals this year will
be challenging. ABB reports fourth-quarter profit on Feb. 16.  The deal is the third-largest by a western European
industrial company since the beginning of last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. ABB is offering 1.73 times Thomas
& Betts’ revenue in the transaction, compared with the median
multiple of 1.19 for 49 industrial acquisitions, the data show.
The average premium paid was 25 percent, according to the data.  “The price for sure is not cheap,” said Richard Frei, an
analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank. “But a company with as good a
performance and market share like Thomas & Betts simply doesn’t
go cheap.” He said ABB will probably sell some parts of Thomas
& Betts’ product portfolio.  Connectors, Boxes  ABB plans to reap about $200 million in annual cost savings
from the transaction by 2016, mainly from sourcing and
purchasing. Hogan has cut more than $3 billion in costs in
recent years by streamlining sourcing and moving more production
to  emerging markets . This year, he’s seeking $1 billion in
savings. ABB will have about $80 million in implementation costs
linked to the synergies, as well as $120 million in one-time
charges, it said.  Thomas & Betts Chief Executive Officer Dominic J. Pileggi
will be in charge of a new global business unit, ABB said.
Profitability of its low-voltage gear is similar to that of
ABB’s own offerings, with margins as high as 20 percent, ABB
Chief Financial Officer Michel Demare said on the press call.  The two sides worked for about a year to get to know each
other and make the deal happen, Hogan said.  ‘Near Perfect’  Thomas & Betts was founded in 1898 as a sales agency for
electrical wires and raceways, and its products are used in the
telecommunications, construction and power utility industries.
Now it makes cable ties, connectors and steel boxes that house
electrical wiring, with 9,400 people generating revenue of about
$2.3 billion last year.  “The timing for any such transaction is near perfect into
what look like the beginnings of strong upturns in U.S. utility
and construction markets,” Scott Davis, a New York-based
analyst with Barclays Plc, wrote in a report yesterday. “Cross-
border M&A with European companies buying U.S. assets also makes
strategic sense as a logical hedge against softening European
markets and a weakening currency.”  Among Thomas & Betts’s products are also towers for
electrical power transmission and a business that produces
heating, ventilation and air conditioning units, which ABB said
will be new areas to its own line-up of products. Hogan said
he’d consider the future of these lines at ABB.  American Push  ABB was created in 1988 from the combination of Asea AB of
 Sweden  and  Switzerland ’s BBC Brown Boveri.  Investor AB (INVEA) , the
Swedish Wallenberg family’s holding company, remains ABB’s
largest shareholder, with a stake of about 7.2 percent.  Hogan has made the Americas one of his main regions in
which to pursue growth in power systems, discrete automation and
low-voltage products. By 2015, ABB wants to generate as much as
30 percent of revenue from the region, compared with 19 percent
in 2010.  Buying Thomas & Betts will give ABB access to a network of
more than 6,000 distributor locations and wholesalers in North
America, a strategy ABB already pursued with Baldor as it sought
to expand its regional footprint.  The company has said that it will continue to focus on
power and automation and doesn’t intend to divest assets. Davis
said the electrical equipment industry has “long struggled with
scale issues, global coverage, and pricing power.”  For Thomas & Betts, ABB has set up a $4 billion financing
commitment from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which will be
repaid through a combination of cash and the issuance of debt,
it said. The bank also advised ABB on the purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  