-- Actelion ‘Make or Break’ Lung Drug Is Seen as Having 63% Chance of Success
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/actelion-make-or-break-lung-treatment-seen-having-63-chance-of-success.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Clozel has staked the future of the company he
founded on an experimental drug that analysts say has a 63
percent chance of success.  Actelion will probably announce the results of a decisive
trial of the lung treatment, macitentan, in the second quarter,
Clozel said this month. Among 12 analysts asked by Bloomberg
News to predict the likelihood the drug will meet the main goal
of the study, estimates ranged from 20 percent, by Sebastien Malafosse at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, to 85 percent by
Helvea SA’s Olav Zilian in Geneva. The median was 63 percent.  The outcome will determine the future of the Allschwil,
Switzerland-based company that Clozel and his wife Martine
started in 1997. Success would propel Actelion’s stock and make
it a takeover target, said Michael Leuchten, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in London. Failure may mean Europe’s biggest
biotechnology company ends in a fire sale.  “It’s make or break,” Leuchten said in a telephone
interview. “If macitentan fails, what’s left to manage?”
Leuchten, who rates Actelion  “overweight/neutral,”  is the  top-
ranked analyst  on the company in the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors who followed his advice
would have made 42 percent on the stock.  ‘All Options’  Actelion has fallen 39 percent since Nov. 19, 2010, when
speculation peaked that the company would attract a bid from
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  or another potential acquirer. The stock fell 2.7
percent to close at 34.68 Swiss francs in Zurich trading
yesterday, giving the company a market value of 4.5 billion
francs ($4.9 billion). Actelion shares are  worst performers  in
the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index of 18 companies over
the past year.  Actelion is banking on macitentan to replace sales of its
top-selling lung drug Tracleer, which accounted for  90 percent 
of product revenue in 2010 and starts to lose patent protection
in 2015. Macitentan has a “very high” probability of success,
Clozel said in a Jan. 10 interview in  San Francisco .  “There are big chances that macitentan works so we are
trying to prepare its future launch,” he said. Should it fail,
the company’s board would be forced to consider “all options,”
he added, declining to elaborate.  Roland Haefeli, a spokesman for Actelion, declined to
provide a more specific estimate of the likelihood that
macitentan will meet its primary goal, and declined to comment
on the future of the company after the trial.  Market Share  Tracleer is losing market share to  Gilead Sciences Inc.’s (GILD) 
Letairis after U.S. regulators in March allowed the  Foster City ,
California-based company to remove a reference to the risk of
liver damage from the drug’s label. Actelion said Jan. 10 that
revenue will fall this year because of greater pricing and
competitive pressure.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  sells Letairis outside
the U.S. under the brand name Volibris.  Tracleer, macitentan and Letairis are all designed to treat
 pulmonary arterial hypertension , or PAH, a condition in which
the arteries that move blood from the heart to the lungs narrow,
forcing the heart to work harder and causing elevated  blood
pressure . Over time the  heart muscle  can weaken and fail,
causing death. The three drugs block a chemical called
endothelin that causes blood vessels to constrict.  “The best way to think about macitentan is as the son of
Tracleer,” Leuchten said. “It’s basically the same mechanism
of action, but it’s turbo-charged.”  Clinical Trial  Actelion is  testing  macitentan in 742 patients with an
early stage of PAH, to determine whether the drug can delay the
time either to the disease worsening or to death.  Because it’s comparing macitentan with a placebo, rather
than with Tracleer or Letairis, the trial has an 80 percent
chance of meeting at least the target of delaying disease
progression, Leuchten said. Whether it will prevent earlier
deaths is less certain, he said.  That may make it a tough sell to persuade doctors to switch
patients to macitentan from Tracleer or Letairis, especially
when cheaper copies of Tracleer become available.  “It’s really going to come down to pricing, and getting
physicians and payers to recognize the benefits,” said Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London .
“Which is going to be an uphill battle, there’s no doubt about
it.” He has a “buy” rating on Actelion.  ‘Mortality Benefit’  Bryan Garnier’s Malafosse is even less optimistic. There’s
no previous data on macitentan in patients with PAH on which to
make a judgment, and the drug in August failed in a study of
people with a lung ailment called  idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ,
he said.  John Wort, the clinical lead for pulmonary hypertension at
Royal Brompton Hospital in London, said he would hope to see a
“clear mortality benefit” in the PAH trial, as well as fewer
side effects and interactions with other drugs.  “There would also need to be a significant improvement in
patients’ functional outcomes, such as the walking test as well
as a cost benefit, for clinicians to look at changing their
prescribing practices,” Wort said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The failure of macitentan in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
followed a string of other setbacks. Actelion scrapped
development of an insomnia pill a year ago, after abandoning
another drug called clazosentan that didn’t help patients with
bleeding in the brain. The company also failed in 2010 in an
attempt to have Tracleer approved for wider use.  ‘Pure Gamble’  “It’s a pure gamble,” Malafosse said in a telephone
interview. “A positive surprise is still possible, but at the
current price the risk is too high and for now that’s not
something I’m advising my clients.” He recommends selling the
stock.  The current price doesn’t include any value for the
likelihood of a successful trial, an event that would propel the
stock into the “high 40s,” said Adrian Howd, an analyst with
Berenberg Bank in London. He recommends buying the stock.  “If there’s one area that Actelion have typically been
successful in, it’s PAH studies,” Howd said by phone. “This is
their market. They know the levers to pull, they know how to get
things on to the market and how to sell them.”  A successful trial result may also attract interest from
suitors such as  Bayer AG (BAYN)  or Amgen, according to Jefferies’s
Welford. Bayer plans to announce results this year of a late-
stage trial of its own drug for PAH called riociguat, Joerg
Reinhardt, chief executive of the Leverkusen, Germany-based
company’s health-care division, said in a Jan. 10 presentation.  Amgen’s Interest  Christian Hartel, a Bayer spokesman, declined to comment on
speculation about Actelion, as did Mary Klem, a spokeswoman for
 Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen.  Amgen considered making an offer for Actelion, two people
familiar with the situation said in November 2010. Clozel
subsequently fought off an attempt by Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd.
to oust several board members and force Actelion to consider
options including a sale, citing the future success of
macitentan as a reason for keeping the company independent.  Failure would also put a sale back on the table, Andrew Oakley, Actelion’s chief financial officer, said at a conference
in June.  “The board would have to reconsider the strategy of the
company in terms of whether we’re better off as an independent
company or perhaps better off as part of a larger concern,
whether that’s -- we’re talking about a merger or we’re talking
about outright sale,” Oakley said, according to a transcript of
the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  