-- Afghanistan War Allies Risk Fracture Over Timetable for Troop Withdrawals
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-30T20:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/afghanistan-war-allies-risk-fracture-over-timetable-for-troop-withdrawals.html
Undersecretary of Defense Michele Flournoy, who is stepping down from the No. 3 Pentagon post this
week, urged that allies fighting in  Afghanistan  coordinate their
withdrawal of troops and commit the money needed to fill the
gaps they leave behind.  Flournoy stressed the need for an orderly transition days
before French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  last week accelerated
the pace of his country’s withdrawal.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s  Chicago  summit in
May should lead to a detailed plan for troop levels leading to
the anticipated handover of security control to the Afghans by
the end of 2014, Flournoy told reporters at the Pentagon on Jan.
23 as she prepared to leave office this week.  “Some countries may be wanting to put their own plans on
the table at that point,” Flournoy said. “What we’re
emphasizing is the importance of us all coordinating.”  Sarkozy preempted such planning with his Jan. 27
announcement after a Paris meeting with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , saying  France  will withdraw its combat troops by the end
of 2013, a year ahead of schedule. The French president
shortened the timetable after Afghan soldiers killed five French
troops in two incidents in the past month.  Sarkozy’s announcement essentially reneged on an agreement
among all the NATO allies at their 2010 Lisbon summit to stick
with the fight until the end of 2014, according to Ian
Brzezinski, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council policy group
in Washington.  Slap in the Face  “We had the French basically standing up and slapping the
administration in the face with their own plan to accelerate a
withdrawal from Afghanistan,” Brzezinski said.  President  Barack Obama  and other leaders in the 50-nation
Afghan war coalition are under pressure to speed a withdrawal
because of their own budget crises and waning public support at
home. Obama last year announced he’d cut the 97,000 U.S. troops
by more than a third before this September, and other nations
are reducing their forces.  “In Chicago, the U.S. wants countries to make some sort of
long-term commitment” financially to the Afghan national
security forces, said Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow at the
Center for American Progress policy group in Washington.
Officials have estimated the Afghan government may need $4
billion to $6 billion a year at first to supplement its own
funding for the Afghan army and police.  The timing and scale of the U.S. exit haven’t been decided
beyond the reduction of 33,000 American troops by September,
Flournoy said.  Taliban Split  Taliban militants may be split over whether to wait for the
U.S. and its foreign partners to leave or to proceed with
negotiations to end the conflict, Flournoy said.  A political settlement takes on added urgency amid
lingering concerns that the Afghan security forces may not be
strong enough to counter the insurgency once the U.S. and other
foreign troops leave, Wadhams said.  Flournoy, 51, leaves her post as undersecretary of defense
for policy on Feb. 3. Obama has nominated her deputy,  James
Miller , to replace her.  As the highest-ranking female civilian to hold office at
the Pentagon, Flournoy had been considered a prospect to become
the first female U.S. Defense Secretary. Obama and Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  last year picked another undersecretary,
 Ashton Carter , to move into the deputy secretary slot.  Re-Balancing Life  Flournoy announced in December that she would leave the
department to spend more time with her family. She is married to
Department of Veterans Affairs Deputy Secretary W. Scott Gould.
They have three children.  She said she needed to re-balance her life with more
attention to her family and planned to support Obama’s re-
election this year, the  Associated Press  reported at the time.  Flournoy left her stamp on major policy reviews in the past
three years, said John Hamre, president and chief executive
officer of the Center for Strategic and International Studies
policy group in  Washington .  “Michele could well become secretary some day,” said
Hamre, a former deputy defense secretary. “It will help her to
broaden her base of activity on defense matters to include
personnel policy issues and acquisition issues.”  On  Iran , Flournoy rated as “very low” the risk that the
U.S. would miscalculate in a way that would prompt an unintended
conflict.  “What worries me is the irresponsible rhetoric and
activities that we see on the Iranian side, whether it’s
terrorism, support for proxies,” she said.  China Talks  “We’ve urged them to be more restrained in their
activities,” she said, without elaborating how the messages
were conveyed.  Flournoy also has led talks with  China  in the past three
years aimed at elevating military relations to the level of
regular, substantive talks held on economic and diplomatic
issues. She said defense talks with Chinese leaders have
broadened and, in the last round in December, even included
discussions about the fallout from the Arab Spring revolutions
in the  Middle East .  “The key areas where we need to make progress is greater
understanding of one another’s strategic intentions,” she said.
“I spend a lot of time trying to explain that our objective is
not to contain China.”  The U.S. is seeking to encourage China to integrate into
the international community and commit to resolving disputes
without the use of force, she said.  “We need to see a lot more transparency” from China, she
said. “We see aspects of their military modernization that
don’t make sense to us unless you assume they are seeking to
deny others freedom of access, freedom of navigation and the
ability to protect international interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  