-- Africa Seen Mirroring Brazil in Atlantic Coast Drilling: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-01-30T12:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/africa-seen-mirroring-brazil-in-atlantic-coast-drilling-energy.html
The world’s next great oil finds may
be buried under a layer of salt more than two miles beneath the
seabed off  Africa ’s Atlantic coast.  The salt excites oil executives because on the South
American side of the Atlantic the same mineral capped some of
the largest fields found in the last 10 years, putting  Brazil  on
the path to becoming the world’s fourth-largest oil producer.
Geologists say the trouble with salt is that it masks what’s
underneath, making drilling deepwater exploratory wells a gamble
of $60 million or more each.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and other explorers stand to profit
from exploiting as many as 75 billion barrels of untapped oil
off West Africa, worth $7.5 trillion at today’s prices. They’re
expected to spend $30 billion a year finding and developing oil
in rock that was formed by the Earth before salt was deposited
on top, according to Morgan Stanley estimates, supporting
oilfield services including drillships, platforms and pipes.  “It’s probably the hottest basin in the world right now,”
Evan Calio, a New York-based analyst for Morgan Stanley, said in
an interview. “If we get one commercial discovery, then the
risk factor for everyone is decreased.”  Drilling for so-called pre-salt oil is set for Gabon, the
Republic of Congo and  Namibia  this year. Higher  oil prices 
encourage explorers to increase investment and venture into new
frontiers. Brent oil, which averaged about $112 a barrel in the
last year, is up about 3.8 percent since Jan. 1.  Atlantic Mirror  The opposite Atlantic shelf shares a similar geology. That
gave rise to the industry’s Atlantic mirror theory that both
sides are impregnated with pre-salt oil formed more than 100
million years ago when Africa and Brazil were a single
continent. The rock was formed by evaporation over the millennia
and was then topped by salt that’s as thick as 2,000 meters and
has trapped oil to form crude reservoirs.  “Many of the same ingredients for the hydrocarbons systems
you see in Africa on the west coast” are found in Brazil, BP
Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in an interview. “You
would expect us to continue to secure acreage in places like
southern Angola.”  In Brazil,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  is developing the Western
Hemisphere’s largest oil discoveries in three decades in pre-
salt fields offshore holding more than 20 billion barrels.
Further north,  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  proved the Atlantic mirror theory
worked, finding a 700 million-barrel field off  French Guiana 
similar to a deposit it discovered off  Ghana  in 2007.  “Whether an analogue for the reservoir in the Brazilian
pre-salt play exists in West Africa is a subject of much
debate,” said Tullow Oil Exploration Director Angus McCoss,
whose team opened a new oil frontier off French Guiana. The
fundamentals of an existing petroleum system and the salt, which
can help oil and gas to accumulate underground, are clearly
present in West Africa, he said.  Gearing Up  The world’s largest oil companies are gearing up to
explore. BP,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Statoil and  Total (FP)  were among oil
producers that won licenses in Angola’s pre-salt areas largely
running from the equator south to the Tropic of Capricorn.
Paris-based Total intends to sink a well off Gabon later this
year, and Petrobras plans to drill off Namibia.  Speculation runs high because the first two drillers to
find pre-salt oil off Angola haven’t estimated the reserves.  The first find off Angola was claimed by Danish explorer
 Maersk (MAERSKB)  Oil, which  said  its Azul-1 well might produce more than
3,000 barrels a day.  Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE)  on Jan. 10
said its pre-salt Cameia-1 well in the west African country’s
Kwanza basin found a “high-quality” oil reservoir. The
Houston-based explorer will drill the Bicuar prospect this year.  “This is proof that the petroleum system is there,” said
 Lars Nydahl Jorgensen ,  Maersk (MAERSKB) ’s head of exploration. “Is it as
big as Brazil? It’s far too early to say.”  Extending Reach  North of Angola, companies such as  Soco International Plc (SIA) ,
 Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  and Petrobras are targeting pre-salt wells in
the Republic of Congo and Gabon. Drilling will be cheaper in
Gabon than Brazil, because of shallower waters and thinner salt
layer, Ophir CEO Nick Cooper said.  “There is potential there,” said Roger Cagle, the chief
financial officer at Soco, which found pre-salt oil in the Congo
basin last month in quantities too small to be commercially
viable. “It’s just a different setting.”  Drilling is technically challenging because the layer of
salt is difficult to penetrate with seismic survey techniques
that identify potential  oil fields , Morgan Stanley said in a
note earlier this month. The U.S. bank estimates the average
cost of drilling a deepwater well in  Angola  at $60 million.  “We’ve seen very little drilling so far, so the next
couple of years we will be quite keen to determine where we
go,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities in
 London . “You’ve got some pretty heavyweight companies involved
in terms of drilling that acreage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  