-- Stanford Used Threats, Charm to Influence Antiguan Regulator, Witness Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/allen-stanford-deputy-asked-to-falsify-returns-witness-says-2-.html
An Antiguan judge who is also the
island’s top banking regulator told the jury at R.  Allen Stanford ’s investment fraud trial that he repeatedly tried to
influence the agency that oversaw his banking operations there.  Marian Althea Crick said she complained to Antiguan
officials shortly after Stanford relocated his bank to the
island until the financier was removed as a director of the
agency that predated the Financial Services Regulatory
Commission, where she is now chairman. She said it was “a clear
conflict” to have the owner of a regulated entity participating
in the agency that oversees the business.  “It reminded me of a saying we have at home,” Crick, a
government witness, testified yesterday in federal court in
Houston in the second week of the trial. “It was a classic case
of the rat being put in charge of the cheese.”  Stanford, 61, who was indicted in June 2009, is charged
with 14 counts including mail fraud,  wire fraud  and obstruction
of a probe by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. He
denies the charges.  Crick testified that Antigua’s prime minister told her
Stanford wanted her fired after she had a series of public and
private disagreements with the financier in the 1990s. She said
Stanford even briefly took control of her agency while she was
out of the country in 1998, until she got Antigua’s Attorney
General to reverse the decision on legal grounds.  Month-Long Trip  In 1999, Stanford paid for  office space  and placed several
of his employees on the official committee tasked with
conducting a formal review of Antigua’s international banks,
Crick said. In 2001, she said, Stanford urged government
officials to send her and an auditor examining Stanford
International Bank Ltd. on a month-long trip so that a different
auditor could complete the bank’s audit.  Stanford tried charm when threats failed, Crick said. Once,
Stanford unsuccessfully tried to upgrade her economy flight to
first class for a British banking conference. After another
disagreement, when she informed Stanford forcefully that she
“was not a yes person” and wouldn’t rubber-stamp his requests,
she said, “He held  my hand, and looked me straight in the eye
and said, ‘You remind me so much of myself.’”  When Crick resigned from the regulatory commission in 2002,
she was replaced by Leroy King, whom Stanford is accused of
bribing with millions of dollars and tickets to the  National
Football League ’s Super Bowl championship games. When King was
accused of complicity in hiding Stanford’s alleged fraud in
2009, the agency removed him and put Crick back in charge.  Crick was scheduled to resume her testimony today.  Negative to Positive  Yesterday, the jury also heard from a former research
analyst at Stanford Financial Group Co. who said that
Laura Pendergest Holt, former chief investment officer of
Stanford International Bank Ltd., asked him to change negative
investment returns to positive ones that could be shown to Allen
Stanford.  Mark Collinsworth testified that Holt made the request in
March 2008 after showing him an e-mail she said she received
from Stanford. The financier was requesting performance results
for part of the bank’s investment portfolio.  “She showed me the e-mail on her iPhone and said, ‘I’m
going to forward this to you but I want you to make the numbers
positive,’” Collinsworth, a prosecution witness, said during
cross-examination. “I thought, surely she wouldn’t ask me to
change negative numbers to positive numbers,” he told Ali
Fazel, one of Stanford’s attorneys.  Holt, Davis  Collinsworth’s testimony may bolster defense contentions
that Stanford grew increasingly reliant upon information
provided to him by Holt and Chief Financial Officer James M. Davis, as the organization grew in size and complexity.  Holt was indicted on criminal charges and has pleaded not
guilty. Davis pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 and is cooperating
with the U.S.  A lawyer for Holt,  Dan Cogdell  of Houston, was present for
Collinsworth’s testimony yesterday. Citing a gag order imposed
by U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who is presiding over the
trial, Cogdell declined to comment on what Collinsworth said.  Collinsworth said he refused to make the changes and didn’t
know if Stanford was presented the correct investment results at
a meeting the next day.  “I was not going to lie to the owner of the company,” he
said, adding that he sat silently at the meeting with Stanford
and was relieved not to be called upon.  Collinsworth said Holt reassured the bank’s research
analysts in a conference call designed to “neutralize”
concerns about the safety of the Antigua-based bank’s portfolio
after New York investment manager  Bernard Madoff  was arrested
for running a massive  Ponzi scheme  in December 2008.  ‘Very Good Salesman’  Holt told the analysts she had seen the bank’s entire
portfolio “and I had nothing to worry about,” Collinsworth
said. “Laura was a very good salesman. She could make you feel
warm and fuzzy and stuff,” he said.  Collinsworth said he later came to believe that Holt’s
claim the portfolio was performing well made little sense
because she had said it was invested largely in real estate,
private equity and hedge funds. The real estate market at the
time was down 50 percent to 60 percent, and private equity
valuations were dropping as well, he testified.  “My brain began to kick in a day or so later,”
Collinsworth testified. “How can you make money on real estate
going down? You can’t short real estate. There was a total
disconnect.”  Hired Friends  Stanford never personally asked him to falsify numbers or
commit any crimes, Collinsworth said. He said he also believed
Stanford wasn’t aware that Holt and Davis had hired friends to
fill key bank positions for which they were unqualified.  Davis hired one of his former farm hands as a commodities
analyst and his preacher as an analyst for Middle Eastern
affairs, Collinsworth said.  Holt invested some of the bank’s funds with a hedge fund
run by her husband, a former personal trainer, Collinsworth
said. Holt had pressure applied to get another senior bank
executive to resign after she ended an affair with him,
Collinsworth said.  “Would it be important for the owner of the company to
know about these things so he could come in and clean house?”
Fazel asked.  “Oh yeah,” Collinsworth replied.  “Is it very clear in your mind that Mr. Stanford relied on
Mr. Davis and Ms. Holt to run the numbers side of the business
when it came to SIB?” Fazel said.  “Yes,” Collinsworth replied.  Under questioning by Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Warren,
Collinsworth said he had no idea how often Stanford spoke, met
or exchanged e-mail with either Davis or Holt.  Tracking Data  He identified several e-mails the prosecutor showed to the
jury as including attachments where Davis sent portfolio
tracking data to Stanford from late 2007 to late 2008.  The Stanford bank’s investment holdings didn’t resemble
traditional, well-designed portfolios, the witness said.  “When it is finished, it should be like a work of art,”
said Collinsworth. Instead, the portfolio suffered from what he
called “Noah’s Ark syndrome, where you buy two of everything,
with no rhyme or reason, and you end up with a zoo instead of a
well-designed portfolio.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  