-- Alpha, Eurobank Suspended as Alpha Stalls on Merger Plans
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-01-30T14:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/alpha-eurobank-suspended-as-alpha-stalls-on-merger-plans-1-.html
Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA)  and  EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  were suspended in Athens trading after Alpha said
the potential cost of Greece’s debt swap means it can’t say when
the two will complete their merger.  The two lenders, respectively the country’s second- and
third-biggest, said in August they would combine to help them
ride out a deepening recession and the country’s sovereign debt
crisis. The merged bank will be Greece’s biggest.  Alpha said today that “it cannot, at present, provide an
accurate estimate of the timetable and overall development” of
the merger, citing the debt swap. Eurobank said in a separate
filing it’s in talks with Alpha to complete the merger “as soon
as possible” and sees no reason for the deal to be delayed.  “Today’s announcements lack adequate information to secure
the smooth operation of the market and protect investors,” the
operator of the Athens exchange said in  a statement as it
suspended trading in both stocks.   Alpha shares climbed 9.4 percent to 1.28 euros ($1.68) in
Athens and Eurobank declined 0.3 percent to 80 cents before the
shares were suspended. Alpha has slumped 70 percent in the past
12 months and Euro bank by 81 percent as the two lenders were
hurt by writedowns on their holdings of domestic government debt
and a contracting domestic economy.  “Alpha wanted more time to evaluate new facts, which have
clearly changed since” the deal was announced, Managing
Director George Aronis said in a telephone interview. “Our
objective is to meet the targets we had initially announced.”  ‘Nothing New’  Greece ’s finance ministry said it supported the merger when
it was originally announced and that nothing has changed on the
debt swap framework, according to an e-mailed statement today.  “The management teams of the two banks closely monitor the
talks,” the ministry said. They have known “for a long time
the context of the private sector involvement.” it said.
“There is nothing new,” the ministry added.  The country and its private creditors said Jan. 28 they
expect to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders
signaled they would cede to European government demands for a
bigger cut in the value of their debt holdings.  European leaders agreed in October to a debt swap that
would reduce the value of bonds held by private creditors by 50
percent. That replaced a July 21 agreement for a 21 percent cut.  “As soon as definitive facts emerge, the bank will duly
update its disclosure,” Alpha said  in the filing .  The July agreement triggered about 608 million euros of
writedowns for Alpha, according to the lender’s nine-month
results. The bank said it held 3 billion euros of Greek
 government bonds  that would be subject to further markdowns from
the Oct. 26 agreement. The bank posted a loss of 41.9 million
euros in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  