-- Ancestral Mother of All Horses Galloped 160,000 Years Ago
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ancestral-mother-of-all-horses-galloped-160-000-years-ago-scientists-say.html
Every horse in the world can be
traced to a single mare that trotted the earth about 130,000 to
160,000 years ago, scientists discovered for the first time.  The research identified 18 different genetic clusters that
arose from the ancestral mare, suggesting that domestication
occurred in many places across  Europe  and  Asia , according to
work published today in the  Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences .  The study helps pinpoint the time when humans began
domesticating horses, though it was known to be after dogs,
sheep, pigs and cattle. The research may also help scientists
classify horse fossils, figure out the pedigree of modern breeds
and perhaps evaluate how genetics affect racehorse performance,
said  Samantha Brooks , an assistant professor of equine genetics
at  Cornell University , in a telephone interview.  “When you think about animals that shaped human history,
the horse is No. 1,” said Brooks, who wasn’t involved in the
study. “Domesticated animals define what it is to be a human.
Without that, it’s unlikely we’d have the culture and technology
we have today.”  Horses and chariots were used as weapons until the 20th
century, when machine guns, tanks and airplanes were developed.
They were used to clear forests, plow land and herd cattle.
Until the 1800s, the fastest way to travel over land was on
horseback.  Mother Genes  The study, led by  Alessandro Achilli , a researcher in the
department of cellular and environmental biology at the
Universita di Perugia in  Italy , analyzed  mitochondrial DNA ,
which contains genes that are essential for the cell’s energy
functions. These genes are inherited solely from the mother.  Horses lived throughout Europe and Asia during the
Paleolithic period, although many lineages probably didn’t
survive the peak of the last glacial period, from 26,500 to
20,000 years ago and another later period that covered Europe in
ice. There were probably horse refuges in the Ukraine, Turkestan
and the Iberian Peninsula, because those places were less cold.  The 18 genetic clusters suggest that horses were
domesticated multiple times, in different places. At least one
horse domestication happened in Western Europe, possibly in the
Iberian Peninsula, the authors wrote.  The study was conducted using 83 genomes from horses across
Asia, Europe, the  Middle East  and the Americas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 