-- Apple Fuels Silicon Valley Hiring Amid Bubble 2.0 Concern: Tech
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/apple-juggernaut-fuels-silicon-valley-hiring-amid-bubble-2-0-concern-tech.html
Hiring in the technology sector is
gaining momentum.  Among U.S. technology companies with a market value of more
than $100 million, almost 50 increased employment by more than
half in the most recently reported two-year period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Some small and mid-size businesses
boosted payrolls by almost fivefold, underscoring the resilient
demand for Internet services, software and electronics.  Rohit Dhingra is one face behind the statistics. He went to
 Columbia Business School  in  New York  so he could land a
consulting job. Instead, he got hired by a company making
computer gear in Silicon Valley.  “A few years back, it just would have been a slam dunk
that you want to do  investment banking ,” Dhingra said. “The
future of financial services does not seem as bright.”  Dhingra is joining thousands of workers who have switched
to technology careers during the economic slump, lured by an
industry that kept hiring while other businesses cut jobs or
forced current employees to take heavier burdens.  While the broader  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5 percent
in December, reaching a three-year low, few companies outside of
technology have as voracious an appetite for workers. In the
software and services industry, 74 companies with more than $100
million in market value expanded their workforce by at least 10
percent. That was more than any other industry group measured by
Bloomberg.  Apple, Google  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google Inc.,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  were among the
companies that increased their workforce by at least 50 percent
in the past two years, Bloomberg’s data showed. The growth has
prompted Silicon Valley companies to consider more people from
nontechnical backgrounds and ramp up recruitment everywhere from
 Wall Street  to  Seattle . Workers who would have shied away from
the volatility of 1990s-era startups are seeing the technology
industry as a haven of stability.  Web.com Group Inc. (WWWW) , a Jacksonville, Florida-based provider
of website services to small businesses, grew the most on the
list in percentage terms. It has 1,148 employees, according to
its most recent annual report, a 380 percent gain from two years
earlier.  Silicon Graphics International Inc. ranked second,
increasing its employment 372 percent to 1,500, followed by Kit
Digital Inc. at 319 percent and  Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD)  at 208
percent. Apple, which started with a larger employee base, grew
76 percent. That amounted to 26,100 new jobs.  ‘Tough Battlefield’  At Riverbed, an in-house recruiting team of 20 people
scours the country for new hires.  “We operate it like a search firm,” said Mike Guerchon,
senior vice president of employee services at the San Francisco-
based network-equipment company. “It’s a tough battlefield for
talent all the time.”  The appetite for employees isn’t showing signs of waning.
Amazon and Facebook Inc. each plan to add thousands of jobs in
2012, many in new satellite offices.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and Tibco
Software Inc. also are stepping up their recruiting.  “We are hiring quite rapidly now, all in sales and
service,” Tibco Chief Executive Officer Vivek Ranadive said
last week at the  World Economic Forum ’s annual conference in
Davos,  Switzerland . “It’s a good time to hire.”  Some employers are concerned that the hiring spree
resembles the go-go days of the dot-com bubble. When technology
stocks crashed in 2000, thousands of jobs vanished. Silicon
Valley lost more than  85,000 positions  between 2001 and 2008,
and the other technology hotbeds suffered similar losses.  Bubble 2.0?  “After some real dark days, there’s a lot of excitement
and innovation happening again, but as a guy who has been
through Bubble 1.0, I can’t help but see a lot of
similarities,” said Stuart MacDonald, chief marketing and
revenue officer at  Freshbooks.com , a maker of online business
software in Toronto. “I can’t help but think I’ve seen this
movie before.”  For many graduates, technology still seems less risky than
Wall Street. East Coast MBAs, who might have opted for financial
jobs in the past, are more willing to go to the West Coast.
 Google (GOOG)  and Amazon are two of the top employers for graduates of
Columbia, according to Associate Dean Regina Resnick.  In 2011, more than 9 percent of the school’s graduates went
to work for technology and media companies, up from 6 percent in
2009, according to university employment  reports .  “You’re always reading good news about tech, despite
what’s happening in the economy,” Dhingra said.  New Locations  Job candidates who have engineering and technology-related
skills are in higher demand than before, said Jesse Harriott,
senior vice president and chief knowledge officer at Monster
Worldwide Inc., the world’s largest online recruiter.  Silicon Valley companies also are bolstering offices
outside the San Francisco Bay area. Facebook is opening an
engineering office in New York and plans to hire thousands of
workers in total this year.  EBay, which runs the largest Internet marketplace, is
expanding its operation in Redmond,  Washington , the home of
Microsoft Corp. It plans to about double the number of employees
there to 150 by the end of 2012, according to Johnna Hoff, a
spokeswoman for EBay. The  San Jose , California-based company
also is staffing up at its New York office.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, increased its
employment by almost 18,000 people in 2011, driven by
acquisitions and hiring in research and manufacturing. Amazon,
meanwhile, plans to open fulfillment centers throughout
Tennessee and  Virginia  in 2012, creating more than 4,500 jobs.  Matthew Kambic spent three years handling investments at
Nationwide Insurance. Now he’s getting an MBA from Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management to ease his move into
technology.  “There’s a fusion of young talent in the tech space,” said
the 26-year-old resident of Evanston,  Illinois . “There’s not a
whole lot of innovation in insurance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  