-- Tariffs on China Solar Gear Threaten U.S. Jobs, Report Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-01-30T22:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/tariffs-on-china-solar-gear-threatens-60-000-jobs-report-says.html
More than 60,000 U.S. jobs would be
threatened by tariffs on Chinese solar-energy equipment that are
being sought by American companies, according to a study
prepared for competitors that oppose the additional duties.  Tariffs of 100 percent on solar cells and modules would
result in the loss of as many as 50,000 net jobs, with an
additional 11,000 in jeopardy from retaliation by  China  on U.S.
exports, according to the report by the Brattle Group, a
Washington-based consulting firm.  The report was in response to a complaint filed last year
by  SolarWorld AG (SWV) ’s U.S. unit on behalf of companies that said
they are harmed because China’s government uses cash grants,
discounts on raw materials, preferential loans and tax
incentives to boost exports of solar cells. The U.S. Commerce
Department is weighing duties.  “We cannot allow one company’s anti-China crusade to
threaten the U.S. solar industry and tens of thousands of
American jobs,” said Jigar Shah, president of the Washington-
based Coalition for Affordable Solar Energy, which opposes the
duties, and founder of Sun Edison LLC, a solar-energy services
company based in Belmont,  California .  The 100 percent tariffs would result in losses from $698
million to $2.6 billion in losses to consumers, according to the
report. Tariffs of 50 percent would cut as many as 43,000 jobs.  ‘Highly Speculative’  Gordon Brinser, president of SolarWorld’s Hillsboro,
Oregon-based unit, said the report is “highly speculative” and
ignores China’s illegal activities.  “We do know that thousands of good-paying American
manufacturing jobs have already been lost to illegal Chinese
dumping and subsidies for solar products,” Brinser said in a
statement issued by the Coalition for American Solar
Manufacturing, which includes SolarWorld and six unnamed
companies that filed a complaint about China’s practices.  Commerce is scheduled to make a preliminary finding March
2. The U.S. International Trade Commission said on Dec. 2 the
Chinese subsidies have harmed equipment makers, ruling on the
petition by Bonn-based SolarWorld seeking antidumping and
countervailing duties.  The commission is investigating possible economic harm to
SolarWorld from Chinese imports, while the department determines
the penalty for companies that illegally dump products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  