-- FTC’s Asset Acceptance Case Signals Crackdown on Debt-Collection Industry
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-01-31T18:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/asset-acceptance-unit-to-pay-2-5-million-in-ftc-settlement-1-.html
The Federal Trade Commission’s
$2.5 million settlement with  Asset Acceptance Capital Corp. (AACC)  is
intended to signal it will move against abusive practices in the
debt collection industry, agency officials said.  Under the agreement with the company’s Asset Acceptance LLC
unit announced yesterday, consumers whose debt may have passed
the legal time limit for collection in their state won’t be
threatened with lawsuits, the officials said.  “We do hope that this settlement will be seen by the
industry as a framework on how to interact with consumers on
time-barred debt,” Reilly Dolan, assistant director for the
division of financial practices at the FTC, said today in a
telephone interview.  The FTC has brought eight cases against debt collectors in
the past two years as it steps up enforcement in the industry in
response to growing complaints, Dolan said. The Asset Acceptance
fine is the second-largest placed on a debt collector by the
FTC, after the $2.8 million penalty levied against West Asset
Management Inc. in March. Asset Acceptance reported net income
of $7.8 million in the first nine months of the year.  Under the FTC settlement, Asset Acceptance must also
investigate disputes over debt to ensure it has a reasonable
basis for claiming the consumer owes the money. It is barred
from placing negative information on consumers’ credit reports
without their knowledge, which violates the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, the agency said.  ‘Sending a Signal’  “We are sending a signal that we’ve been long critical
about some of the practices of debt buyers,” said  David Vladeck , director of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection, on
a conference call with reporters yesterday.  Asset Acceptance, based in Warren,  Michigan ,  pays  pennies
on the dollar for debt owed to companies including credit card
issuers, health clubs and telecommunication and utility
providers, according to the regulator. It has bought tens of
millions of consumer accounts, targeting those more than a year
past due that other collectors have given up on.  Some of the debt is too old to be legally enforceable under
state statutes, the FTC said.  “It’s time to rein in debt collection abuses with some
common sense rules that protect consumers from unfair
harassment,” said Suzanne Martindale, staff attorney for
 Consumers Union , a non-profit organization based in  New York  and
the publisher of “Consumer Reports” magazine. “Some debt
collectors unfairly target consumers even when the statute of
limitations has passed or when they don’t have the proper
documentation to prove the debt is owed.”  Increased Oversight  Consumers Union said more reforms are needed, including
increased oversight to ensure consumers are properly notified of
lawsuits and the establishment of a “sell-by” date for old
debt that would make it illegal under federal law to sell or
attempt to collect debt that is more than seven years old -- too
old to be reported on a credit report under the federal Fair
Credit Reporting Act.  Asset Acceptance said the settlement won’t have a
“material adverse effect” on its business and doesn’t
represent any admission of the FTC’s claims, according to a
statement. The company said it agreed to “undertake industry-
leading consumer protection practices” under the accord.  The FTC has issued a new publication to help consumers
understand how debt collectors attempt to collect old debts,
along with their rights in these cases. The publication, “Time-
Barred Debts: Understanding Your Rights When It Comes to Old
Debts,” is a guide on when debt is too old for a collector to
sue and what consumers should do if a collector calls about such
a debt, the regulator said.  The case is U.S. v. Asset Acceptance LLC, 12-cv-182, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 