-- AT&T View Change Shows It Wants Dish Spectrum, Analysts Say
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-30T21:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/at-t-opinion-change-signals-it-wants-dish-s-spectrum-credit-suisse-says.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s change of view on  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH) ’s request for a spectrum waiver from U.S.
authorities signals the phone company is eager to buy airwaves
from the satellite-TV provider, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  There should be no “restrictions on the transfer and/or
leasing” of the spectrum, AT&T wrote in comments to the Federal
Communications Commission on Jan. 26. The letter is a “change
of heart” for AT&T, Stefan Anninger, a Credit Suisse analyst,
said in a note yesterday. AT&T also urged the agency to require
a fast-track network buildout, a stipulation that could make it
difficult for Dish to keep the spectrum, Anninger said.  AT&T trails main rival  Verizon Wireless  in the amount of
spectrum suitable for higher-speed services such as video
streaming and Web browsing. Last month, AT&T abandoned its $39
billion acquisition of  T-Mobile USA  in the face of regulator
opposition, withdrawing from a deal that would have given it
more airwaves. Dish obtained spectrum last year and is waiting
for regulatory approval to use it for wireless services.  “AT&T wants the spectrum,” Jonathan Chaplin, a Credit
Suisse analyst, said in an e-mail. “Previously AT&T was pushing
for a more extensive review of the waiver request. Now they seem
to be supportive of an expedited review.”  AT&T had  submitted comments  on the Dish spectrum in
November, before its T-Mobile deal collapsed.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment. Aaron Johnson, a representative of Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Takeover Target?  Dish  rose  2.8 percent to $28.41 at the close in New York.
AT&T added 0.6 percent to $29.34.  The Dish spectrum, acquired from the bankruptcies of DBSD
North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc., is worth about
$8.6 billion, according to Anninger. His estimate is based on
the $3.9 billion price of Verizon Wireless’s pending purchase of
unused airwaves from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
Cox Communications Inc.  Analysts including Stifel Nicolaus & Co.’s Christopher King
have said that Dish may be an acquisition target for AT&T, which
is under pressure to add capacity to accommodate network traffic
growth and keep up with Verizon Wireless.  While AT&T probably doesn’t want Dish’s satellite-TV
service, Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen may decide that he will
only sell the spectrum and the TV business together, Chaplin
said. If that’s the case, AT&T may divest the satellite-TV
business after acquiring the entire company, Chaplin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  