-- Australia Selling the Farm as 20% Price Slump Lures Influx of Global Funds
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-01-30T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/australia-selling-the-farm-as-20-price-slump-lures-influx-of-global-funds.html
Winston Heywood ended a 200-year
family history when he sold his parched wheat fields to a fund
managed by U.S. investor  Westchester Group Investment Management
Inc.  for more than A$6 million ($6.4 million).  “They offered me the money I could live off for the rest
of my life,” said the 62-year-old, who in August left for the
New South Wales coastal town of Coffs Harbour after enduring his
driest season since 2000. “My kids didn’t want to go through
the ups and downs I went through.”  At least four other funds are seeking A$1.6 billion to buy
similar assets in  Australia , lured by fresh rain, the prospect
of bumper crops, and land prices that have dropped 20 percent
nationwide, and in some areas have fallen by half, since the end
of 2007. Now, three years after billionaire  James Packer  sold
off cattle ranches larger than the Netherlands, rural land
prices may have bottomed, according to Colliers International.  The influx has pushed lawmakers to consider legislation
that would increase scrutiny of overseas purchases after foreign
ownership of land almost doubled since 1984. The funds also need
to defy a history of farming ventures that have struggled to
reward investors.  Laguna Bay Pastoral Co. , the Australian fund advised by
commodities investor  Jim Rogers  that’s seeking to raise A$600
million, is targeting annual returns of about 10 percent, helped
by the appetite of a growing global population.  “I am bullish on all agriculture, everything from sugar to
rice, to wheat to corn,” said Rogers, the Singapore-based
commodities investor who created the Rogers International
Commodity Index in 1997. “Australia has a lot of land and
people who understand agriculture, and who are good farmers.”  ‘Unprecedented Interest’  Anglo-Australian Southern Agricultural Resources is seeking
A$150 million in  London  to spend in Australia, while  Sustainable
Agriculture Fund , based in  Melbourne , wants A$250 million.
Queensland’s  PrimeAg (PAG)  Australia Ltd., whose farms span an area
wider than  Texas , is raising A$600 million.  “There’s unprecedented interest, and I’ve been in the
business 35 years,” said Peter Corish, managing director of
PrimeAg. “The outlook for production is much improved as a
result of coming out of the long drought in 2009 and early
2010.”  Still, foreign buyers who attempt to run Australian assets
without local expertise may struggle, said David Leyonhjelm at
Baron Strategic Services, a Sydney-based agricultural
consultancy he set up in 1989.  “Unless they employ good managers who know how to run a
farm under Australian conditions, they’ll lose their shirt,”
said Leyonhjelm. “The history of investment in agriculture in
Australia is poor return on capital.”  Commodities Index  PrimeAg, which plans to start buying properties for its new
fund in the first half of 2012, closed at A$1.05 in Sydney
trading yesterday. It sold shares at A$2 each in December 2007.
 Australian Agricultural Co. (AAC) , the Queensland cattle breeder
formed in 1824, has lost 61 percent since January 2008.  The Commodity Research Bureau/Reuters US Spot Foodstuff
index fell 1.1 percent in 2011, beating the 7.6 percent decline
in the  MSCI World index .  As Illinois-based asset manager Westchester adds to its 400
farms worldwide, a 12-strong team in Australia is scouting for
more land, said Matt Bull, a former Rabobank executive who heads
the local business.  “We’d like to acquire a few properties in 2012,” said
Bull, who is based in the rural town of Wagga Wagga, a five-hour
drive southwest from Sydney.  No Successor  According to data on  Westchester’s website,  investors have
fared better wagering on agriculture than on the  S&P 500 index 
in the past four decades. Between 1970 and 2009, annual returns
from Illinois farmland averaged 10.25 percent, said  Westchester ,
whose New York-based parent, TIAA-CREF, manages $440.7 billion
of assets. The  stock index  advanced an average 8 percent.  Heywood’s final drought was so severe that he didn’t even
attempt to grow a crop. Without a successor among his four
children, the offer for the 6,750-acre (2,732 hectares) farm
northwest of Moree was more than a local suitor would ever pay,
he said, declining to give an exact sale price.  Westchester’s Bull declined to confirm the deal.  “It’s a cyclical industry and we think it’s bottomed,”
said Tim Altschwager, the Adelaide-based senior executive of
rural and agribusiness investment sales for Colliers. “That’s a
bit of the reason why these investment funds are getting
interested.”  He said last year was the best for sales in a decade.  Some asset managers, including Westchester, buy land mostly
to lease while some aggregate plots with nearby assets. Others
invest jointly with the owners.  Few Winners  In Australia, the world’s  driest  inhabited continent, the
best-performing farms are a profitable minority, according to a
 survey  in April by the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and
Resource Economics and Sciences. The top 25 percent of grain,
seed, crop and livestock farms bring in 85 percent of profits
and achieved an average annual return of 7 percent in the five
years to 2010, said Abares, as the government department is
known.  “The only way to achieve elite returns is to joint venture
with elite farmers,” said Tim McGavin, Laguna Bay’s chief
investment officer, on the eve of an overseas trip to court
investors including Asian sovereign wealth funds. “Earnings are
volatile, so you have to be there for a long time.”  Early Exporter  Laguna Bay, with east-coast offices in Sydney, Noosa and
Brisbane, plans to buy properties in New South Wales this year
and lock in investors for a decade, he said.  Claimed by Britain in 1788 as a penal colony, Australia has
been an agricultural exporter since convicts started clearing
bush and scrub to grow wheat and rear livestock.  Two centuries later, the country produces more than twice
the food consumed by its 22.8 million population, according to
Abares. Wheat is the largest agricultural export, making
Australia the second-biggest overseas seller after the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  La Nina-linked weather brought record rainfall to eastern
parts of Australia in 2010, replenishing dams to irrigate cotton
crops, and last year was the third-wettest on record, the Bureau
of Meteorology  said . The nation, which typically suffers a
severe drought every 18 years, is set to produce the biggest
winter crop ever with unprecedented wheat and cotton harvests,
Abares said in December.  Investor Education  Even with those forecasts, it can be tough to persuade
investors to part with money, according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
the Australian investment bank that runs a fund managing more
than 3 million hectares of land for sheep and cattle.  “This is the conundrum: it’s a 10,000-year-old sector that
people are just learning about,” said Tim Hornibrook, an
 executive director  at the Sydney-based bank who helps run the
fund. “It takes time to educate the market.”  As word spreads that funds are buying, farmers may hold out
for higher offers, said Arthur Apted, chairman of Sustainable
Agriculture Fund, which owns farms in Tasmania, Victoria and New
South Wales.  “It may tighten the market up,” said Apted. The total
he’s seeking from investors -- A$250 million -- would be almost
twice the size of its first fund in 2009.  China ’s Cofco in July won control of Tully Sugar Ltd., and
 Thailand ’s Mitr Phol Sugar Corp. agreed to buy  Queensland’s MSF
Sugar Ltd. (MSF)  in November with a bid valuing the company at A$313
million. Chinese buyers have snapped up vineyards in the Hunter
Valley north of Sydney, and half of Australia’s 23 licensed
wheat exporters are foreign owned, according to Abares.  Concerned Farmer  The arrival of corporate or overseas landowners stems from
the need to till ever-larger areas in a bid to turn a profit,
said David Kingston, who farms wheat, canola and sheep on an
8,000-acre property near Wagga Wagga.  “Around here, everyone would buy their next-door neighbor
in a breath if they could,” said Kingston, 40, who has almost
tripled his family’s land since 1994. “The margins aren’t big
enough to be small. But my biggest concern is overseas investors
coming in and Australians not benefiting.”  The proportion of agricultural land wholly or part-owned by
overseas entities almost doubled to 11 percent at the end of
2010 from 5.9 percent in 1984, according to government data. In
 South Australia , the proportion almost tripled to 12 percent and
in the Northern Territory, it rose to 24 percent from 18
percent.  Greater Scrutiny  A bill to enforce greater scrutiny of foreign land
investment was introduced in the Australian Senate in November
2010 by independent Senator Nick Xenophon and Greens Senator
 Christine Milne . They want purchases of agricultural land of
more than A$5 million to require approval from the Foreign
Investment Review Board, rather than the current threshold of 15
percent of any Australian business valued above A$231 million.
The  bill  has been debated and amended in the Senate and is yet
to be voted upon.  The government on Jan. 18 defended the benefits of foreign
investment in agriculture, releasing a  report  it commissioned
that said overseas capital boosts production and creates jobs in
rural communities. Buying tracts of Australian farmland is
unlikely to significantly help foreign nations improve their
 food security , the report said.  ‘Fear of Foreigners’  “Concessions to concerns about sovereignty, distrust or
fear of foreigners are likely to come at an economic cost to
countries that restrict the inflow of foreign capital,” Abares
said in the report.  The marriage of capital and farmland can suit both parties,
said Andrew Parkes, managing director of  Customised Farm
Management Pty , an agricultural consultancy formed in 2008
that’s helping Southern Agricultural Resources raise funds from
U.S., U.K. and Asian investors.  Investing in properties that offer potential, rather than
backing top performers, may generate the best returns, he said.  “Capital would enable them to get to that top level,”
said Moree-based Parkes. “Some of them are willing sellers and
are looking to head to the coast and put their feet up.”  Heywood, the former Moree farmer, looks to the sea from his
second-floor balcony in Coffs Harbour and contemplates the life
he left 500 kilometers (311 miles) inland.  “It has come to an end,” he says. “My family will never
be able to buy it back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  