-- Auto Hacking Seen as Growing Risk With Electronics Frenzy: Cars
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/auto-hacking-seen-as-growing-risk-with-electronics-frenzy-cars.html
Drivers can talk with each other via
Bluetooth phone connections, ask their cars for directions and
dial up satellite radio. The same cars use electronic components
to signal the gas pedal to accelerate and control stability.  What increasingly worries scientists is that entertainment
computers could be manipulated to tell the safety computers what
to do.  “There clearly is a vulnerability,” said Adrian Lund,
president of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, based
in Arlington, Virginia. “All these electronics we’re bringing
into cars seem to exacerbate that.”  A National Academy of Sciences panel, including Lund,
elevated the concerns in a  report  Jan. 18 reviewing U.S.
regulators’ work in finding the cause of unintended acceleration
in Toyota Motor Corp. vehicles.  While safety and entertainment systems are intended to be
separate, “it is not evident that this separation has been
adequately designed for cybersecurity concerns,” the academy
wrote. It agreed with U.S. regulators who said they found no
evidence the Toyota incidents were caused by faulty electronics.  Automotive engineers at a conference in  Washington  last
week said they aren’t immediately concerned that a hacker will
take over a car and drive it off a bridge. Instead, they said,
they want to help automakers spot vulnerabilities while they’re
hypothetical and ease fears of consumers who are already
familiar with cyberattacks in other areas.  Listening In  Car thieves could exploit security weaknesses to remotely
open and start a car, or a spy could listen to conversations
inside a car, Stefan Savage, a University of California-San
Diego computer science professor, said in a telephone interview.
He co-authored a  paper  last year after discovering ways to hack
into cars.  Any electronic system in a car from brakes to radios is a
potential target for hackers, said Andre Weimerskirch, chief
executive officer of Escrypt, a closely held security company in
 Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , with automotive clients. While the risk is
hypothetical so far, automakers and regulators need to address
it now, he said in telephone interview.  “Once you have access through the infotainment system, the
question is could a hacker get access to the safety-critical
components,” Weimerskirch said.  Weimerskirch spoke last week in Washington at the annual
conference of SAE International, a group of automotive engineers
whose members are helping draft an industry standard for car
electronics.  Fast-Moving Technology  Savage and co-author Tadayoshi Kohno, from the  University
of Washington , found vulnerabilities in telematics systems,
which make the connections between cars and mobile
communications. They also successfully inserted an infected CD
into a car’s compact-disc player and directed it to control
safety systems. They aren’t aware of any real-world examples of
car hacking.  “The issue for the industry and for the government is that
you’re one really bad situation away from it becoming a thing
that people think about,” Savage said. “Much better to try to
address it early.”  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,
which regulates automotive safety, needs better expertise in
vehicle electronics, the science panel’s report concluded after
studying the agency’s response to the Toyota incidents.  “This technology is changing so fast that NHTSA needs to
make sure they can keep up,” Lund said.  Standards, Research  NHTSA is researching auto cybersecurity, Lynda Tran, an
agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “The agency recognizes there are potential
vulnerabilities, especially those related to future connected
vehicles, that need to be fully understood and addressed,” she
said. “NHTSA has been conducting exploratory research and is
now planning further efforts that would evaluate the
vulnerabilities and possible counter-measures on an industrywide
basis,” including more research and evaluation.  Both SAE and the United States Council for Automotive
Research, whose members include  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, have groups working on engineering
standards aimed at cybersecurity.  Unlike automotive standards that specify performance
minimums, a security standard would have to specify what systems
shouldn’t do, Savage said, such as not allowing a CD to send
signals to the brakes. Improving electronic security in cars
takes a combination of hardware, software and more personal
expertise, he said.  Potential Sales  “The knowledge how to do it is known, but it’s not a
market where you have off-the-shelf products,” Weimerskirch
said.  The cost to automakers and their suppliers will depend on
the model of car and level of desired protection, he said. It’s
unlikely car companies will offer special security systems as an
option because automakers wouldn’t want to imply that customers
would need to buy something to protect their cars, Savage said.  “It sends the wrong message,” he said.  Coverity  Inc., based in  San Francisco , and  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s Fortify unit are among the companies that may gain sales
to manufacturers, Weimerskirch said. Computer security companies
such as McAfee Inc., a unit of  Intel Corp. (INTC) , might also try to
sell automotive-security products, he said. A spokesman for
McAfee didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking
comment.  Industry Has Time  Escrypt, which gets about 50 percent of its revenue from
automotive work, hopes to profit as well, Weimerskirch said,
declining to disclose which automakers employ the company.  The one comfort for automakers rushing to address
cybersecurity concerns may be that it takes a great deal of
effort to hack a car, Savage said. He worked with a team on his
research for more than a year.  “The average person, they’re much more likely to get their
car stolen in the traditional way and the average person is not
concerned about somebody bugging their car,” he said. “That’s
a big advantage that the industry has and it gives them time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  