-- Taxpayers Channel Romney Using Donor-Advised Funds to Gift Stock
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/taxpayers-channel-inner-romney-by-using-donor-advised-funds-to-gift-stocks.html
Taxpayers looking to maximize their
charitable deductions and save on taxes can replicate a strategy
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  uses.  By donating stock directly to a foundation, Romney and his
wife Ann eliminated  taxes  on gains, received a deduction for the
securities’ full market value and can donate the money to
multiple charities over many years, said Steven Bankler, a
former investigative accountant for the  U.S. Senate .  Individuals can achieve similar results with a donor-
advised fund for a “whole lot cheaper,” said Bankler, a
certified public accountant in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  “Unsophisticated investors and taxpayers typically sell
assets and then donate the proceeds to charity so they pay tax
on the gain and then get a charitable deduction,” said Bankler.  The Romneys donated about $7 million to charity in the past
two years, documents the campaign released last week show. The
couple had deductions for more than $2 million in donations that
are listed as noncash charitable contributions. That includes
tens of thousands of shares of stock in  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ) ,
 Sensata Technologies Holding NV (ST) ,  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  and
Warner Chilcott Plc that went to their family’s Tyler Charitable
Foundation, based in  Boston .  A donor-advised fund is an alternative to giving directly
to a charity or setting up a foundation. It enables benefactors
to give assets, including appreciated stock, to a central source
and get an immediate tax deduction. Donors also retain advisory
rights over their accounts. They can choose investments and
direct distributions to public charities over many years.  Better Than Checks  Assets in donor-advised fund accounts reached almost $30
billion in 2010, an increase of about 12 percent from the prior
year, according to a December report by the  National
Philanthropic Trust , a public charity and national provider of
donor-advised funds based in Jenkintown,  Pennsylvania .  Giving appreciated stock directly is better than writing a
check because individuals generally receive a larger charitable
deduction and make the donation with pretax dollars, said John
O. McManus, principal of the law firm McManus & Associates in
New Providence,  New Jersey , and  Manhattan , whose clients include
those in the hedge-fund and private-equity industries.  If someone bought a share of stock for $1 and it’s now
valued at $100, they would have a $99 gain when selling, McManus
said. That means they may pay about $20 in state and federal
capital-gains levies and if they donated the after-tax proceeds,
that leaves them with an $80 charitable deduction. If they gave
the share worth $100 directly, it may generate a $100 deduction
and the foundation or donor-advised fund could liquidate the
position without paying tax, thus keeping more assets to spend
on its charitable endeavors, he said.  Record Contributions  Taxpayers contributing securities to donor-advised funds
should understand that the tax treatment may differ depending on
how long they’ve held the shares of stock, said Gaines Norton, a
certified public accountant in Snowmass Village,  Colorado . With
assets held less than a year, individuals may only receive a
charitable deduction for the original price of the securities,
not any gains, Norton said.  Firms that sponsor donor-advised fund programs include
Fidelity Charitable, Schwab Charitable and Vanguard Charitable.
All three are nonprofits affiliated with their namesake
financial services companies: Fidelity Investments in Boston,
San Francisco-based  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  and Vanguard Group
Inc., in  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania.  Both Fidelity Charitable and Vanguard Charitable reported
record contributions in 2011. At Fidelity they reached almost
$2.9 billion, while at Vanguard, they surpassed $859 million,
the companies said in statements last week.  Improved Conditions  Donations of appreciated securities were 71 percent of
contributions to Fidelity Charitable last year, compared with
about 51 percent in 2010, said Sarah Libbey, president of the
nonprofit. The increase was due in part to improved market
conditions, Libbey said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
returned  2.1 percent  with dividends reinvested last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re pleased to see that rebounding,” Ben Pierce,
president of Vanguard Charitable, said of people giving shares
of appreciated stock such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Google
returned about 40 percent from January 2007 through December
2011 and Apple gained about 377 percent in the same period.  When individuals give stock to donor-advised funds, the
shares generally are liquidated, said Libbey. Fidelity
Charitable clients may then invest the money in a variety of
funds or, if the account is managed by an  investment adviser , in
individual securities, she said.  Commissions Charged  Both Fidelity and Vanguard charge a brokerage commission to
liquidate shares when donors contribute them to their accounts.
That fee usually is $2 per stock trade for those using Vanguard
Charitable, said Pierce.  Sponsors of donor-advised funds usually provide the legal,
recordkeeping, and accounting services, which generally results
in lower startup costs and administrative burdens compared with
a private foundation, according to a December report by the U.S.
Treasury Department.  For a $10 million account, Vanguard Charitable charges as
low as 25 basis points in annual fees for administration and
investments, said Pierce. By comparison, the Romneys’ Tyler
Foundation, which had a fair market value of about $10 million
at the end of 2010, reported operating and administrative
expenses of about 53 basis points of assets, or about $53,000,
according to  tax documents .  Fidelity Charitable and Vanguard Charitable charge as much
as 60 basis points annually for accounts with smaller balances.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Pay Outs  Foundations are required to pay out 5 percent of their
assets to charity each year, said Mark Bosswick, co-managing
partner at  Berdon LLP (0006570D) , an accounting and advisory firm in  New
York . Donor-advised funds generally don’t have a mandatory
distribution requirement under current law, according to the
Treasury Department study.  Private foundations generally do have more investment
flexibility than donor-advised funds, Libbey said. Fidelity
Charitable offers seven actively managed funds and three  index
funds , all of them from  Fidelity Investments . Clients with more
than $250,000 may choose an investment adviser and pick a
customized portfolio. At Vanguard Charitable, 10 of the 11
investment choices are Vanguard-based, said Pierce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 