-- Banker Toasts Wine Award, Pours Money Into South African Farm
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-01-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/banker-turned-wine-farmer-hits-south-african-vintage-jackpot-interview.html
Banker Michael Jordaan is off duty
and about to enjoy the fruits of his second job: wine farming.  Jordaan, 43 -- head of  FirstRand Ltd.’s (FSR)  retail banking
unit,  First National Bank  -- arrives for dinner at La Cucina Di
Ciro, a popular Italian restaurant in Johannesburg’s leafy
Parktown North suburb. He’s carrying two bottles of his wines,
which he opens as soon as he’s whipped off his jacket and tie.  “I am logical, rational, cash-flow-and-return-on-equity-
maximized,” he says, raising a glass of white. “A wine farm is
exactly the opposite. Wine is irrational, the  cash flow  is bad,
there’s no return on equity.”  Jordaan is a banker who is using his wealth to indulge his
passions. Other FirstRand executives have wine farms in the
area. After two years in his current banking job, Jordaan got
the chance to buy back the family farm,  Bartinney , which had
been sold by his dad. The business has long-term potential: His
wine has already won an award. He hopes he has the timing right.  Lenders were making a profit in 2006 as consumers borrowed
money with  interest rates  at their lowest levels in more than a
decade. Jordaan’s organization, the second largest financial
group in  South Africa , suffered through the 2008 global
financial crisis which forced customers to slow debt repayments
as the country slid into its first recession in 17 years.  Memorable Vintage  At Bartinney the grapes kept growing and South Africa’s
2009 harvest, Jordaan’s first, produced “probably one of the
most memorable vintages ever,” according to a report from  South
African Wine Industry Information & Systems . “Thanks to
extremely healthy grapes, a cool growing season and lower
yields, truly excellent wines were made from all the noble
cultivars.”  Jordaan, who has short, curly brown hair, says that while
the farm isn’t making any money, this isn’t the whole story.  “I’ve tried to rationalize what’s good about it and what
I’ve found is, at the end of the day we bankers produce ethereal
things,” he says. “I can show you on Bloomberg that  earnings 
have gone up, but there’s nothing you can touch.  “With a wine farm, there’s a product and I know where the
grapes came from, what the weather was like during the year that
it was made, how it was harvested, what process it went through
and how much time it spent in the barrel,” he says. “And here
it is and you can taste it and you can feel it.”  Jordaan, who is permanently tanned with a lopsided smile,
has invested in vines, labor, infrastructure, French oak barrels
and a wine maker, Therese de Beer.  Terroir Best  Bartinney’s first  cabernet sauvignon , harvested by hand in
2009, went on sale in July last year and scooped the Terroir
Award for the best cabernet in the Banhoek and Jonkershoek wards
of  Stellenbosch , a region about 30 kilometers east of Cape Town
and renowned for its red wines.  The cabernet sauvignon is “beautifully balanced with good
tannins and sexy mocha chocolate overtones,” according to Karen
James, a South African wine merchant who tasted the Bartinney
red. “For a virgin  vintage  it’s a spectacular effort.”  Bartinney, which clings to the side of a mountain, belonged
to Jordaan’s family from 1952 until 1993. His grandfather, also
called Michael, was a physician in  Namibia  until he went to
Stellenbosch, traveled up Hellshoogte Pass, translated as
“hellishly high,” and bought Bartinney where he retired.  “A couple of years after my grandfather died my dad sold
the farm and it was sad and I never thought I’d have it back,
but I dreamt about it,” Jordaan said, adding that both of his
grandparents are buried on the farm. “And then about four years
ago it came up.”  Chardonnay, Sauvignon  Bartinney, which also grows and bottles chardonnay and
sauvignon blanc, is a small piece of land relative to other
South African wine farms with 27 hectares (about 67 acres), of
which only 12 are under vine. Apart from the grapes, which are
grown 550 meters (1,800 feet) and more above  sea level , Jordaan
and his wife have spent time and cash overseeing the planting of
more than 6,000 trees, giving Bartinney carbon neutral status.  After apartheid ended in 1994 the South African wine
industry grew, with farms that used to grow grapes for
cooperatives turning to producing their own wines.  Add to that the economic boom of the late 1990s and the
early part of the last decade, and a number of company
executives made enough money to buy their own farms despite the
capital-intensive nature of wine production.  Other FirstRand bankers have been bitten by the same bug.
Two of the company’s three co-founders, G.T Ferreira and  Paul
Harris , have farms in the Stellenbosch region called  Tokara  and
 Audacia  respectively. Jordaan, who commutes between Johannesburg
and  Cape Town  most weeks, also sold the farm next door to
Bartinney to FirstRand’s Chief Operating Officer Johan Burger.  “Wine can be very pretentious and complex but in the end,
it’s what you like,” Jordaan says. “It’s not what somebody
else says. If you like it, that’s what’s good.”  (Renee Bonorchis is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 