-- Banks Won’t Cheer More Capital, but They Need It: Dwight Jaffee
-- B y   D w i g h t   J a f f e e
-- 2012-01-30T00:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/banks-won-t-cheer-more-capital-but-it-s-needed-commentary-dwight-jaffee.html
Not long ago, Washington policy
makers, especially the Treasury and the  Federal Reserve , were
declaring the U.S. banking system safe from the throes of the
subprime-mortgage crash.  One good sign: Most large banks were paying back their
bailout loans from the government. The passing grades assigned
to most of the same banks as part of the Federal Reserve’s
stress test were another positive signal. Even those lenders
receiving less than top assessments could access additional
private capital to stabilize their balance sheets.  So it is striking that barely a day passes now without new
public concerns for the U.S. banking system, let alone for
European banks. Something is missing here.  An expanding group of academic financial economists worry
that the banks still aren’t holding sufficient capital relative
to their risks. They argue that the current  capital requirements 
are inadequate, and that the new, higher standards set by Basel
III, the international banking agreement, are also too lax.  The academics claim that the additional capital wouldn’t
impose significant new costs on bank depositors or borrowers.
The key to their position is that the enhanced bank safety that
comes from the extra capital creates a value that exactly
offsets the cost of this capital.  Dividend Yields  Two facts help clarify this proposition. First, banks are
allowed to invest their capital in earning assets, so the
resulting income can be paid back to the bank shareholders as
dividends. Second, as a bank becomes safer, its investors can be
more easily satisfied. Shareholders will accept lower  dividend
yields ; bank bondholders will settle for lower  interest rates .
In short, greater bank safety has direct tangible benefits for
the bank itself.  Bankers, however, firmly disagree, claiming that capital is
expensive and that higher capital requirements will force them
to charge higher loan interest rates. As one example, they note
that banks must pay corporate income taxes on the earnings from
additional capital, and that ultimately bank customers must pay
for these costs.
Banks also claim that higher loan rates will drag the
economy down even further. These arguments appear to have been
successful in deterring the government’s regulators from
imposing new and higher capital requirements.  So who is right here? While the bankers’ unease is
understandable, the academics’ big-picture perspective looks far
more compelling. The bankers are correct that earnings from the
additional capital will raise their corporate income taxes, and
if the banking system is competitive, these costs must be passed
through to customers.  The academic response is that these additional taxes will
have scant impact. Perhaps they would raise a loan rate to 6.04
percent from 6 percent. In any case, there is nothing wrong with
the banks and their customers paying the costs required to
enhance bank safety.  The primary claim of the academics, however, is that the
largest banks fight higher capital requirements primarily to
protect their benefits from being deemed “too big to fail.” With
TBTF status, a bank can maintain relative risky (and hopefully
lucrative) investments without creating a significant backlash
from bondholders and uninsured depositors.  The bondholders and uninsured depositors are unconcerned
because they expect, if worse comes to worst, that the bank will
receive a government bailout. For the academics, of course,
eliminating TBTF status and the embedded government bailouts is
the holy grail of successful banking reform.  While it is understandable why the academics and bankers
fundamentally disagree over TBTF status, it is less clear why
the regulators appear mainly to side with the banks on the
capital issue.  Regulators’ Role  One possibility, of course, is that the overseers have been
co-opted by the banks. While there may be some truth here,
regulators generally do support the parts of the Dodd-Frank Act
that create greatly expanded regulatory oversight of
systemically important, or TBTF, banks. In this dimension, the
issue is one of rules (capital requirements) versus discretion
(oversight).  It is worth recalling that  bank regulations  before and
during the subprime crisis had a firm rule titled Prompt
Corrective Action. Bank regulators were to require a failing
bank to promptly recapitalize or merge, or failing those, to
close the bank. Alas, in the crisis, too big to fail trumped
prompt corrective action.  The bottom line is that rules must be enforceable.
Academics would conclude that higher capital requirements
exactly meet this test.  (Dwight Jaffee, a professor of banking, finance and real
estate at the University of California’s Haas School of
Business, is a contributor to  Business Class . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Dwight Jaffee at  jaffee@haas.berkeley.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  