-- Belgian Strike Halts Trains, Buses, Paralyzes Port Services
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-01-30T12:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/belgium-hit-by-24-hour-strike-disrupting-rail-port-services.html
Belgium  is gripped by a 24-hour
strike, hitting rail and bus services and leading to the
cancellation of some flights from Brussels as the three main
unions protest against austerity measures.  The protest is having minimal impact on a summit of
European Union leaders today in the Belgian capital focusing on
finding ways to boost economic growth and create jobs.  No domestic or international rail services are running in
Belgium today because of the stoppage, leading  Thalys  to cancel
its services through the country and  Eurostar  to adopt a revised
service as far as Lille in  France , according to statements on
the two rail companies’ websites.  The strike, which began at 10 p.m. local time last night,
has shut down all tram, subway and bus services in Brussels.
Public workers protesting government reforms to pensions held a
similar one-day strike last month, paralyzing public transport
across the country.  Most terminals at the Port of Antwerp are closed, vessel
traffic is disrupted and dock workers stopped working at 6 a.m.,
Annik Dirkx, a spokeswoman for the port, said today by
telephone. This strike will cost the port 1 million euros ($1.3
million) every hour in “loss in added value,” she said.  The industrial action is also hitting Brussels airport with
some flights being canceled, the airport said in a statement.
The strike is affecting some prisons and schools and production
at  some companies  is at a standstill, Belga newswire reported.  Umicore SA (UMI) , the world’s largest precious-metals refiner,
reported some disruption from the strike. Production stopped at
two of its five industrial sites in Belgium, including Hoboken,
said Tim Weekes, a spokesman for the company. Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV, the world’s largest brewer, said its brewing
activities are “not substantially impacted.”  “Following the call of the national unions to take part in
the national strike as a protest against economic measures by
the new federal government in Belgium, we have taken into
account the possibility of a reduced activity in some sites
today,” AB InBev said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  