-- Belstaff Agrees to Pay a Record Rent for Large Store in London’s West End
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-01-30T12:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/belstaff-agrees-to-pay-a-record-rent-for-large-store-in-london-s-west-end.html
Belstaff , the British motorcycle-
jacket maker that’s repositioning itself as a fashion brand,
agreed to pay a record rent for a large store in London.  The company, owned by Caslano, Switzerland-based  Labelux
Group GmbH , will pay 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) in initial
rent for a property on 135/137 New  Bond Street , according to
 Savills Plc. (SVS)  The property broker advised the building’s owner, a
private individual. The lease is for 20 years.  The rent for the 25,000 square-foot (2,323 square-meter)
heritage-protected building equates to 840 pounds a square foot
zone A, an industry measure for rental costs calculated by the
most valuable storefront space. That exceeds the previous record
of 670 pounds a foot zone A rent that Missoni, an Italian
clothing company, agreed to pay for 138 New Bond Street in
February 2011, according to Savills.  “The deal demonstrates the continued expansion northwards
of the prime pitch on Bond Street,” said Anthony Selwyn, the
director at Savills who acted for the landlord.  Rents on Bond Street and  London ’s other main shopping
strips in the West End district are escalating as retailers
compete for the best locations. The district avoided the last
recession as the  weak pound  lifted tourism, while retailers
reported a 3.1 percent increase in sales for last year compared
with a 0.1 percent in U.K. retail sales.  Rental costs for large stores on the two shopping strips
collectively known as Bond Street are still cheaper than for
small units in the jewelry district. The highest zone A rent on
Bond Street is the 965 pounds that jeweler Piaget, a unit of
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, agreed to pay in December 2009 for
169 Old Bond Street, a 3,500 square-foot shop.  Labelux is owned by the German Reimann family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 