-- Boos, Cheers for ‘Gotterdammerung’ at Met: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/boos-cheers-for-gotterdammerung-at-met-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Soy la novia legal. Te maldigo
Hagen! Brunilda era su amor verdadero.  Por supuesto!  Wagner sounds lovely en Espanol, as I discovered when
matters got so dull onstage at the  Metropolitan Opera  Friday
night that I began pushing the translation buttons on the
surtitle screen (attached to the back of the seat in front of
me).  This was the premiere of “Gotterdammerung” (Twilight of
the Gods), the last opera in  Richard Wagner ’s four-part “Der
Ring des Nibelungen.”  In “Gotterdammerung,” justice returns to the world
through the sacrifice of Brunnhilde and the apocalyptic
destruction of the old order.  Canadian showman  Robert Lepage  masterminded the new staging
with a huge team of collaborators from his  Ex Machina  theater
company and his  Cirque du Soleil  shows, like “Ka” in  Las
Vegas .  This stilted “Twilight” was a surprising culmination of a
project that began promisingly with “ Das Rheingold .”  Who can forget the mesmerizing opening with suspended
Rhine maidens floating into view as a vision of the river filled
the entire stage?  The Machine  Since then, the most epic thing in these renderings of
Wagner’s sprawling cycle has been the creaky, cranky
“machine,” a computer-directed behemoth composed of 24 movable
slats that rise together or singly to create different playing
surfaces. The thing weighs 45 tons and remains center stage for
every show.  Lepage and set designer Carl Fillion offer lots of
projections and videos that can be beautiful in themselves, but
do little to suggest a world of mystery and myth.  A scene showing Siegfried atop the set floating along the
Rhine with Grane, Brunnhilde’s horse, was fresh and charming.
But an opera that goes on for nearly six hours with two
intermissions needs more insight and drama.  Maybe the surtitle screens could start offering games,
weather reports (lashing rains by the time you escape) or scenes
from the Met’s operatic past, when say, Hildegard Behrens
hollered thrillingly as Brunnhilde.  I wasn’t a great fan of Otto Schenk’s traditional
production of the “Ring,” but the sets offered a scenic sense
of place: Here are some crags for the leaping Valkyries, here’s
the majestic hall of the Gibichungs, and up there, gleaming, is
Valhalla, home of the gods.  Soprano Schnitzel  This time, the Gibichungs must make do with two chairs, one
table and a few statues. The slats rise up to create a wall with
a wood grain pattern in gleaming putrid colors that vaguely and
inappropriately reminded me of East Berlin’s Palace of the
Republic.  Even that excellent twosome, Iain Paterson as the effete
Gunther, and the gorgeous Wendy Bryn Harmer, as his puzzled
sister Gutrune, can’t compensate for such depressing ugliness.  When the place begins to burn, the heads pop off the
statues like deformed Champagne corks. Laughter all around.  But before we got to this final disaster, much had to be
endured.  Lepage’s machine really wants to be heard. There was hardly
a sublime passage when it (she? he?) didn’t have something to
squeak and grind on about. The thing would not be quiet.  The Monster  We are all familiar with stories, usually set in  Japan  or
the dark lair of Dr. Frankenstein, where the monster suddenly
gets a glint in his eye, twitches his limbs and develops
feelings as he clomps through town hoping to copulate with a
maiden.  Coddled for two seasons now by a team of doting
technicians, the Met machine is feeling its power and will never
be silenced. Jamas!  Soon it will be demanding human sacrifice, a soprano
schnitzel perhaps.  Understandably, when the dutiful artists climb onto it,
they do so gingerly and sometimes end up sliding down.  Wagner wrote these librettos out of sequence. They torture
us with the same story over and over again. Richard, really. We
know about Siegfried and the birds. We saw him and the birds in
“Siegfried”! Still the music is, of course, very nice.  Tenor Surprise  Fortunately Jay Hunter Morris, our happy-go-lucky, handsome
Siegfried, was at his best in this scene. How nice to see him!
And still something of a surprise all around.  Even Wagner’s mournful, fortunetelling Norns would have
been stumped by the arrival of a spot-lit Morris.  The tenor was skidding into oblivion -- in his program note
Met Manager  Peter Gelb  writes that Morris was selling roller
blades not so long ago -- when he lucked out understudying a sick
Siegfried. He went on in “Siegfried” during the fall and has ended
up accompanying his Brunnhilde into “Gotterdammerung.”  Morris can sound grainy, occluded -- and also heroic and
lyrical. He needs to warm up earlier, I get the sense. Facing
death, he recalled his “glorious bride” with sweet beauty of
tone. Like almost everyone else, he was dressed badly in cheap-
looking costumes.  Hagen and Dad  An exception was Waltraud Meier, who shone as Brunnhilde’s
sister Waltraute, flouncing prettily in a dress with a metallic
bodice and fetchingly gathered skirt.  The venerable German mezzo was in fine voice. Yet even so,
her scene eventually fizzled out, like so many encounters in
this staging.  That brooding scene between Hagen and his dad, Alberich,
exuded no atmosphere of menace despite the rich singing by Hans-
Peter Konig and Eric Owens.  For hours on end, artists come and go from stage left or
right; sometimes they enter through a small door or stand in a
trough which makes even a god look like a little Nibelung.  All the while, the fastidious Fabio Luisi conducted with
control and a sense for the architecture of this grand epic. I
wish he’d pick up the pace, but the surging orchestra almost
made up for the underwhelming conflagration that Lepage provided
at the end.  Aufwiedersehen, Brunnhilde  This is when the ancien regime of the corrupt gods goes up
in flames as Brunnhilde bids goodbye to a loveless world.  Deborah Voigt , singing her first “Gotterdammerung” very
late in her career, started the evening sounding weak and wan.
Along with many pounds, she has lost color and power these last
few years. Many of us thought she would expire along with
Brunnhilde.  But as midnight neared, the American soprano gathered
strength and delivered Brunnhilde’s farewell with much of her
old time radiance. Ever limber, she hoisted herself atop Grane,
a mechanical horse that evoked memories of “War Horse,” a
short canter across Lincoln Center Plaza.  The creature looked so lovingly at its mistress as they
clomped off into the flames that my heart went out to it.  When you feel sorry for a fake nag as Wagner’s “Ring”
cycle draws to a close, something isn’t quite right.  Finally, the curtain fell with the audience cheering the
cast and booing, loudly, Lepage and Co.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 