-- Brazil Real Drops Most in Three Weeks as Greek Talks Damp Growth Optimism
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   T e l m a   M a r o t t o
-- 2012-01-30T20:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/brazilian-real-declines-as-greek-debt-talks-damp-global-growth-optimism.html
Brazil ’s real dropped the most in
three weeks as a struggle to complete Greece’s bond negotiations
threatened to derail talks aimed at containing  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  The real fell 0.7 percent to 1.7488 per  U.S. dollar , from
1.7370 on Jan. 27, the biggest drop since Jan. 6. The currency
has risen 6.8 percent in January, poised for its first monthly
gain since October.  European policy makers are discussing plans to directly
intervene in Greek budget decisions as the country struggles to
cut its deficit, two euro-region government officials said Jan.
28. The real declined with most other emerging-market currencies
as concern Europe’s crisis will damp global growth pushed it to
give back some of this month’s gains, said Italo Abucater, head
of  currency trading  at Icap do Brasil CTVM.  “Greece’s situation is accentuating the European crisis,
that it’s not being resolved,” Abucater said by phone from  Sao
Paulo . The real “is accompanying the external environment.”  Concern that Greek debt talks may undermine efforts to
contain Europe’s debt crisis also helped pull down yields on
Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco West LB in Sao Paulo.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 9.51 percent.  Brazil’s broadest price index rose less than economists
forecast in January as raw material costs declined and prices
for clothing remained virtually unchanged.  “Aside from the fact that the IGP-M came a little below
market expectations, the question of the European crisis is
weighing on markets in general,” Rostagno said by phone. “The
size of a Greek haircut is still undefined.  Greece  could have a
disorderly default. That increases European borrowing costs and
brings more worries.”  The IGP-M index of wholesale, construction and consumer
prices rose 0.25 percent in January from December, the Getulio
Vargas Foundation said on its website today. The median estimate
of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.30
percent. The same index had fallen 0.12 percent in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
Telma Marotto at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  