-- Brazil Coffee Growers Hoard Supply to Boost Price, Tristao Says
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2012-01-30T15:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/brazil-coffee-growers-hoard-supply-to-boost-price-tristao-says.html
Brazil ’s share of the global coffee
market may fall as much as 5 percentage points to 35 percent as
suppliers withhold stocks and seek above-market prices, Ricardo
Tristao of brokerage Tristao Cia. de Comercio Exterior said.  Arabica coffee from Brazil is trading at about a 15-cent
premium relative to New York futures, compared with a usual
discount of 15 cents, Tristao said in a Jan. 27 telephone
interview from the  Isle of Man , where the Vitoria, Brazil-based
brokerage has a unit. Arabica for March delivery fell 0.7
percent to $2.1595 a pound at 10:05 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York.  “Brazilian coffee is a bit uncompetitive right now,”
Tristao said. “Producers are withholding some of the coffee,
thinking that towards June you’re going to have higher prices.”  Coffee has plunged 25 percent in the past five months in
 New York  partly because of expectation growers in Brazil, the
world’s largest producer, will reap a record crop. The price of
Brazilian coffee currently exceeds that of countries in Central
America, which are still selling at a discount, Tristao said.  Futures may rise to more than $3 a pound if there is a
medium to severe frost in Brazil during winter, which runs from
June to September in the Southern Hemisphere, Tristao said. If
the weather is less severe, the price is likely to remain
between $2 and $2.30 a pound this year, he said.  Exports  Coffee exports from Brazil fell to 2.56 million bags in
December from 3.13 million bags a year earlier, the country’s
Coffee Exporters Council, known as  Cecafe , said. Exports may
drop to 2.2 million bags in January from 2.79 million bags a
year earlier, according to estimates from Rio de Janeiro-based
brokerage Flavour Coffee. A bag weighs 60 kilograms, or 132
pounds.  Brazilian growers will harvest 49 million to 52.3 million
bags this year, exceeding a record of 48.5 million bags
harvested in 2002, crop-forecasting agency Conab said in a Jan.
10 report. Brazil currently supplies about 40 percent of the
world’s coffee, including consumption within Brazil, Tristao
said.  Coffee harvesting in Brazil runs mostly from April to
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  