-- Cadmium-Tainted Water Approaches Chinese City of 1.5 Million, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-30T00:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/cadmium-pollution-approaches-southern-chinese-city-xinhua-says.html
A section of cadmium-tainted water
in a river in southern  China ’s Guangxi province is approaching
the city of Liuzhou, home to 1.5 million permanent residents,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported late yesterday.  As of noon yesterday, tests on water 56 kilometers away
from the Hexi water plant in Liuzhou showed cadmium levels were
eight times higher than the official limit of 0.005 milligrams
per liter, Xinhua reported. Tests of water located 16 kilometers
from the Hexi water plant showed levels below the limit at
0.0041 milligrams per liter, according to the report. Water
within a 16 kilometer radius of the plant is considered
“vital” for water supply safety, Xinhua reported.  The tests show that the pollutants are approaching, Xinhua
reported, citing Gan Jinglin, Liuzhou’s environment chief. It’s
unknown when the concentration of cadmium in the water will peak
or how high it’ll be, Xinhua cited Gan as saying.  Cadmium is an  “extremely toxic”  metal found in industrial
workplaces, especially those where ore is being processed or
smelted, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.  The pollution in Guangxi’s Longjiang river, first detected
Jan. 15, has killed fish and prompted “panic buying” of
bottled water over the past week, Xinhua reported. Local
authorities put “hundreds of tons” of neutralizers made from
dissolved aluminum chloride into the river to dissolve the
cadmium, according to the report.  The section of polluted water has been flowing downstream
on the Longjiang river to the Liujiang river, Xinhua reported.
The Longjiang is a tributary of the Liujiang, it said.  All seven heavy metal production plants located upstream
have suspended operation in order to curb potential sources of
pollution. A plant owned by Guangxi Jinhe Mining Co. is one of
the suspected sources of the pollution because it’s dumping site
doesn’t meet national standards, Xinhua reported. Further
investigation is being conducted, according to the report.  Authorities said yesterday that no new leaks of cadmium
were found upstream, Xinhua reported.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  