-- California’s Harris Seeks Edge in U.S. Foreclosure Standoff
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-01-30T20:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/california-s-harris-seeks-to-improve-mortgage-deal-with-holdout.html
California  Attorney General Kamala Harris’s holdout position in a proposed agreement with banks
over foreclosure practices may reap financial and political
rewards at the cost of prolonging some constituents’ suffering.  Her strategy has created an obstacle in the negotiations
between state attorneys general and the five largest U.S.
mortgage servicers over a nationwide probe. By Harris’s own
reckoning, her reluctance to sign onto a deal and any
investigation she might pursue risk deepening the “blight and
despair” for many of the 2.2 million California homeowners whom
she has said are “holding on by their fingernails.”  Still, she is pushing a broader probe of banks’ mortgage
practices, including securitization of the loans. The gambit may
lead to more favorable terms in a proposed multistate agreement
said to be worth as much as $25 billion, and might carry Harris,
a rising star in the  Democratic Party , to higher office, both a
state political observer and law professor said.  “If she just goes along with other attorneys general, it’s
not her achievement” said  Bruce Cain , a professor of politics
and executive director of the Washington Center at the
 University of California , Berkeley. “It’s hard to claim credit
for something that was a group effort.”  By holding out, Harris stands to “put her own mark on
it,” Cain said. “It’s a risky strategy but if it works out
well for her then this is something she’ll be able to use in her
future campaign for governor.”  Lender Negotiations  State and federal officials have been negotiating a
settlement with  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co . and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . The
nationwide foreclosure probe, begun in October 2010, was
triggered by revelations that companies were using faulty
documents in seizing homes.  The proposed accord would set requirements for how lenders
conduct home foreclosures and mandate that the banks fund loan
principal writedowns for homeowners and provide refinancings,
said a person familiar with the matter who didn’t want to be
identified because the terms aren’t public.  After Harris rejected a proposed agreement in September,
negotiators crafted two deals: one including California for $25
billion and another without the state for $19 billion, the
person said.  ‘Inadequate’ Terms  As the talks progressed, Harris persisted in her objection
to releasing the banks from liability concerning how mortgages
were designed and constructed, or origination. This month, as
the  Justice Department  pushed for a deal, she again rejected the
proposed terms as “inadequate.”  When she took office a year ago, Harris identified mortgage
reform as a priority. Of the 20 U.S. metropolitan areas with the
highest foreclosure rates in 2011, 10 were in California,
according to RealtyTrac, which monitors foreclosure activity.  California had the third-highest foreclosure rate in the
U.S. last year, behind Nevada and Arizona, RealtyTrac reported.
One in every 31 homes, or 3.19 percent, was in some stage of
foreclosure. California had almost 2 1/2 times as many
foreclosure filings for housing units, 428,045, as the second-
ranking state,  Florida , which had 181,965.  Harris, 47, served as the elected district attorney for  San
Francisco  from 2004 to 2010 and was previously a deputy in the
Alameda County District Attorney’s office. Through a spokesman,
she declined to comment on the foreclosure probe.  At a housing conference in San Francisco in October, Harris
said she was taking plane flights as often as six times a week
to visit California cities hard hit by foreclosures. She named
inland and rural communities such as Fresno, Los Banos, El
Centro, Redding, Crescent City and Shasta.  ‘Blight and Despair’  “In many of those communities we are seeing struggling
families, and blight and despair,” Harris said.  At the conference, Harris described herself as a prosecutor
at her “core.” She spoke of having an investigator’s penchant
to leave no stone unturned in learning what banks told
homeowners when they entered into loans, and how documentation
of the transactions measured up to what mortgage holders
believed to be the terms of the agreement.  “It is my bias, at least as it relates to other cases I’ve
handled, that I’m reluctant to strike a deal where I haven’t
seen the evidence,” Harris said.  Decision Soon  That predilection may put her at odds with officials
pushing to close the multistate settlement.  While both federal officials and Harris’s counterparts in
other states want her on board in an agreement, they must decide
soon whether to move ahead without her, said the person familiar
with the negotiations.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto wrote in a
Jan. 27 letter to the Justice Department that there’s a “sign-
on deadline” of Feb. 3.  At the October conference, Harris conceded that dragging
out the standoff doesn’t help struggling homeowners.  “Every single day of conversation and delay -- every
single day -- we are talking about specific homeowners that will
lose their home,” Harris said. “And in that way, we have to
take seriously not only what must be punishment and consequences
and accountability and restitution, but also take into account
what must happen on a time frame that works to get the greatest
relief for the greatest number of people.”  The multistate agreement doesn’t address the securitization
of mortgages because negotiators didn’t want to pit homeowners
against investors seeking compensation, the person familiar with
the matter said.  Origination Claims  The proposed deal releases the banks from origination
claims because in many states, including California, the
statutory deadline for the claims has already passed, the person
said. Any such liability would have to be asserted no more than
four years from when the mortgages at issue were put together
during the housing boom ending in 2007, the person said.  New York  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , Delaware’s
 Beau Biden  and Nevada’s Masto are also conducting mortgage
investigations. Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley 
has sued the five banks involved in the talks.  Another person involved in California’s negotiations
confirmed the origination of mortgages is a sticking point in
the deal, along with other releases of liability for violations
of state “false claim” laws, and securitization, or the
packaging of mortgages into bonds sold to investors.  That person, who didn’t want to be identified because the
negotiations weren’t public, said resolving liability related to
mortgage origination is a more difficult piece of the
negotiations.  Victims Ignored  The most recently drafted terms of the deal offer the banks
such releases in exchange for a refinancing program for people
who are still in their homes and current on their mortgage
payments, the person said. It ignores victims of the most
egregious origination fraud who were the first to lose their
homes to foreclosure, the person said.  To counter the argument that the deadline for origination
claims has expired, lawyers may contend that the clock didn’t
start ticking on such claims, or was at least delayed, until the
fraud was uncovered, the person said.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a Democrat who is leading the multistate negotiations,
declined to comment on the talks or Harris’s role.  Getting Closer  Miller, after representatives of Democratic  attorneys
general  met in  Chicago  on Jan. 23, said an agreement with the
banks was getting closer.  “There are still issues to be worked out,” he said.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North, Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment on Harris’s role in the
settlement talks. Tom Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan,  Mark Rodgers  of New York-based Citigroup Inc., Vickee Adams of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Gina Proia of
Detroit-based Ally Financial also declined to comment.  The proposed multistate settlement won’t release banks from
criminal liability, said another person briefed on the talks who
declined to be identified because the negotiations are
continuing. Any final agreement will be narrowly focused to
release banks from claims related only to documentation errors
and the so-called robo-signing conduct, the person said this
month. Miller said in September that negotiators in the
multistate talks weren’t preparing to release the banks from any
criminal liability.  Federal Regulators  U.S. regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.,  Federal Reserve , Securities and Exchange Commission,
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Department of Housing
and Urban Development would be free to pursue cases related to
 securities fraud , loan origination and other practices, the
person said.  Claims by state pension funds, including those related to
their purchases of mortgage-backed securities, also wouldn’t be
affected by a final settlement, the person said.  President  Barack Obama , during his State of the Union
speech on Jan. 24., announced the formation of a joint mortgage
crisis unit with state officials to investigate wrongdoing by
banks.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Jan. 27 that the
group will investigate misconduct in the bundling of mortgage
loans into securities. The Justice Department had subpoenaed 11
financial institutions in the previous few days in related
investigations, he said.  New York’s Schneiderman will lead the unit along with
officials from the Justice Department, the SEC and the  Internal
Revenue Service . Schneiderman said the proposed releases in a
multistate agreement wouldn’t impede investigations by the new
federal and state unit.  ‘Pot of Gold’  Ken Scott, a professor at Stanford Law School, said in a
phone interview that Harris may be “maneuvering to get a bigger
cut of any pot of gold -- and that’s a game she’s playing
against the other attorneys general rather than the banks.”  “If the banks need her to be in the settling group then
the other AGs would be willing to pay a price to keep her in
it,” Scott said. “That could be a tactic to up the percentage
of the total take.”  Negotiators of the multistate settlement are “looking at
it like lawyers paying attention to the legal position of their
client, and whether there’s a prospect of liability,” Scott
said. “That may not be the way Kamala Harris is looking at it -
- she can get political mileage out of an investigation whether
or not it leads to successful litigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at
   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  