-- Canadian Currency Advances Against Most Major Counterparts Amid Haven Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-30T22:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/canadian-dollar-declines-for-first-time-in-four-days-on-european-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar fluctuated versus
its U.S. counterpart and climbed against most of its other major
peers as sparring over a second bailout for Greece spurred
demand for safety.  The currency was supported by speculation Canada’s exports
will benefit from accelerating growth in the U.S., the nation’s
biggest trade partner. It trimmed a drop against the greenback
as crude oil slowed a retreat. Stocks fell amid speculation the
negotiations between Greece and European officials will snarl
efforts to resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “It’s very much still Europe at the moment,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online-currency
trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone interview. “The
only thing that’s holding the Canadian dollar at the moment is
the cross-play,” he said, referring to trades against non- U.S.
dollar  currencies.  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0015 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It gained against all but
two of its 16 most-traded counterparts. The loonie, which
appreciated 1.1 percent last week, fell as much as 0.5 percent
earlier today. It was poised for a 2 percent gain versus the
greenback for January, its first monthly advance since October.
One Canadian dollar buys 99.85 U.S. cents.  Bonds Rise  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on the
 10-year note  down as much as seven basis points to 1.91 percent,
the lowest since Jan. 18, before trading at 1.94 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The yield on the 10-year
U.S. Treasury note decreased five basis points to 1.84 percent.  The greenback rose today against most major currencies as
 Greece , where the debt crisis began in 2009, faced criticism its
economic makeover is faltering. It fended off German and Dutch
calls for a European overseer to take command of its budget.  “The U.S. dollar is higher on the overall flight-to-
quality bid, predominantly on the news out of Europe,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The global
backdrop does not speak to improved sentiment; it continues to
speak to uncertainty.”  Greece’s aid won’t be finalized today because talks over
debt restructuring aren’t complete, German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said earlier, while French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
he expects an accord in the next few days.  European Summit  European Union leaders at a summit in Brussels agreed on a
deficit-reduction treaty that will speed sanctions on violators
and require balanced-budget provisions at a national level, two
EU spokesmen said. Officials also decided to bring the EU’s
permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, into
operation July 1, a year ahead of schedule.  The summit was the 16th in the two years since Greece’s
fiscal emergency provoked Europe-wide turmoil.  Crude oil for March delivery dropped as much as 1.3 percent
to $98.43 a barrel in  New York  before trading at $98.94, down
0.8 percent. Crude is Canada’s biggest export. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent in its third daily decline,
its longest losing stretch since December.  The Canadian dollar strengthened against the Australian
dollar by the most on an intraday basis in six weeks, on bets
the loonie will outperform fellow commodity-exporters as the
 U.S. economy  heats up while  China ’s output cools.  Reached Parity  Down 0.1 percent this year after having lost 1.8 percent in
2011 against nine developed-nation counterparts in Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, the loonie rose to parity
with the greenback last week for the first time since November.
Foreigners piled into Canadian money-market securities at more
than double the record pace set in 2008. Speculators have cut
bets that the currency will fall against resource-rich peers.  The outlook is improving as Canada grows in lockstep with
the U.S. and after it swung to a merchandise trade surplus in
November on higher exports of energy and automobiles. The
Australian dollar is the most overvalued in two decades versus
the loonie, while slower Chinese growth amid higher inflation
may lessen the attraction of countries that depend on selling
raw materials to  Asia ’s biggest economy.  U.S. employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice the
previous month’s pace, as the jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent
from 8.6 percent in November. Gross domestic product increased
at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, according to
a Commerce Department report Jan. 27. That compared with a 1.8
percent advance in the previous three-month period.  The Canadian currency gained 0.6 percent today to C$1.0615
per Australian dollar after climbing 0.8 percent earlier, the
biggest intraday jump since Dec. 19. The loonie appreciated 0.7
percent versus  New Zealand ’s dollar to 82.04 Canadian cents.  “Canada is a relative outperformer today if measured
against other risk-related currencies,” said National Bank’s
Spitz. “Month-end flows means there should be some U.S. dollar
selling at the fixes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  