-- Canadian Natural Gas Declines as Mild Weather Pares Furnace Use
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-01-30T18:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/canadian-natural-gas-declines-as-mild-weather-pares-furnace-use.html
Canadian natural gas fell as mild
weather across the U.S. pared demand for home-heating fuels.  Alberta  gas fell 0.6 percent. Demand for heat across the
U.S. will trail normal by 32 percent through Feb. 6, according
to Belton, Missouri-based forecaster Weather Derivatives.
Utilities and other big U.S. gas users have cut imports from
Canada as domestic producers tap shale gas reserves.  “Canadian imports have been well below year-ago levels
through mid-January and unusually mild weather since November
has been a major factor,” said  Stephen Smith , an energy analyst
and president of Stephen Smith Energy Associates in Natchez,
 Mississippi .  Alberta gas for March delivery fell 1.25 cents to C$2.25 a
gigajoule ($2.12 per million British thermal units) at 1 p.m.
New York time on  NGX , a Canadian Internet market. NGX gas has
tumbled 21 percent this month.  Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. and priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 0.3 cent to $2.759 per million Btu at 1:05 p.m.  Volume on TransCanada’s Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.3 billion cubic
feet, 523 million below target.  Gas Flows  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.76 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta. The fuel is transferred to TransCanada’s
main line at Empress.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.01 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 94 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.92 billion cubic feet today, or 95 percent of its
capacity of 2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.91
billion cubic feet at 11:50 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  