-- Canon President Will Step Down as Annual Profit Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-01-30T09:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/canon-president-steps-down-as-forecast-misses.html
Canon Inc. (7751)  said its president will
step down after the world’s largest camera maker forecast profit
will increase by less than 1 percent for a second straight year.  President and Chief Operating Officer Tsuneji Uchida, 70,
will leave both posts effective March 29 and be replaced by
Chairman Fujio Mitarai, 76, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement. Uchida, who will become an adviser, offered to resign,
Chief Financial Officer Toshizo Tanaka told reporters today.  Net income  this year probably will increase to 250 billion
yen ($3.3 billion) from 248.6 billion yen last year, the company
said in a statement today, lagging behind the 304 billion-yen
 average  of 20 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
maker of PowerShot digital cameras, copiers and chipmaking
equipment is boosting output overseas as gains in the yen make
it more expensive to manufacture in  Japan .  “The announcement was unexpected,” said Masayuki Ohtani,
a strategist at Securities Japan Inc. in Tokyo. “While Canon
suffered from external obstacles such as the earthquake, floods
and the yen’s gain, business results weren’t anything so
regrettable.”  The  company fell  1 percent to 3,435 yen in Tokyo trading
today, before the earnings announcement. The shares dropped 19
percent last year, compared with a 4 percent increase for  Nikon
Corp. (7731)   Currency Gains  Uchida joined Canon in 1965, becoming the head of camera
operations and head of the lens business before being named
president in 2006. He cut costs and led acquisitions of
companies including Oce NV, a Dutch printer maker.  Sales are expected to rise 5.4 percent to 3.75 trillion yen
this year, Canon said. Operating profit, or sales minus the cost
of goods sold and administrative expenses, will probably
increase 3.2 percent to 390 billion yen.  “The future remains increasingly uncertain amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis,” Tanaka said. “It’s not easy to bring someone new
as president right away, given the tough environment.”  Canon, which makes more than half of its sales  overseas ,
based this year’s estimate on the yen averaging 75 versus the
dollar and 100 against the euro, appreciations of 5 yen and 11
yen, respectively. The company is investing 15 billion yen in a
new office-systems venture in  Thailand .  Camera Shipments  The Japanese currency’s gain of 8.9 percent against the
euro and 5.5 percent versus the dollar last year reduced the
value of earnings repatriated from overseas.  The company wants to sell 22 million units of compact
cameras this year, a gain of 17 percent, according to the
statement. Sales of digital single-lens reflex cameras, with
interchangeable lenses, may rise 27 percent to 9.2 million units.  Global shipments of digital cameras fell 35 percent in unit
terms in November from a year earlier, according to the  Camera &
Imaging Products Association . The shipments declined 4.3 percent
for the 11 months to Nov. 30 from a year earlier.  Production setbacks because of last year’s floods in
Thailand may linger until February, Tanaka said.  Canon today reported fourth-quarter net income of 61.4
billion yen, compared with 54 billion yen a year earlier. Profit
in the year ended in December increased 0.8 percent to 248.6
billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  