-- Carlyle Says Middle East Chief Walid Musallam Stepping Down
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-01-30T17:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/carlyle-says-middle-east-chief-walid-musallam-stepping-down-1-.html
Carlyle Group , the Washington-based
buyout firm seeking to go public, said the head of its Middle
Eastern and North African operations is stepping down, as
political turmoil reduces investment in the region.  Walid Musallam will be succeeded by Can Deldag and Firas Nasir, Rosanna Konarzewski, a spokeswoman for Carlyle in London,
said by telephone. Carlyle, which is investing a $500 million
fund in the region, declined to elaborate on the reasons for his
departure.  “The fund is showing strong progress and the four recent
investments” are “performing very well,” Konarzewski said by
e-mail.  Musallam joined Carlyle in November 2006 from the Abu Dhabi
Investment Co., now known as Invest AD, where he was chief
executive officer. He is leaving following disagreements on how
to run the operations, Reuters reported earlier. Musallam, who
previously worked at the World Bank’s International Finance
Corp. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., helped Carlyle raise
its first fund for the region in 2009.  Turmoil brought by the Arab Spring uprisings in the past
year has prevented buyout firms from investing in some markets
in the region such as  Egypt . Firms have instead focused on less
turbulent markets such as  Turkey . Carlyle, this month, bought 48
percent of Bahcesehir Kolejleri, a Turkish school operator,
expanding its investment in that country.  The private-equity firm in December bought a 42 percent
stake in restaurant operator Alamar Foods, which operates 185
Domino’s Pizza and Wendy’s restaurants across 11 countries in
the  Middle East  and North Africa. Carlyle said it bought the
stake from Saudi Arabia’s Al Jammaz family, which will retain a
majority.  Carlyle’s so-called Mena Fund accepted $42.6 million from
the Libyan Investment Authority, Libya’s sovereign wealth fund,
according to a filing which  Global Witness , a London-based
advocacy group, said it obtained in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net 
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  