-- Carrefour’s New CEO May Be Drawn Into Price War to Lift Hypermarket Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-30T22:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/carrefour-s-new-ceo-may-be-drawn-into-price-war-to-revive-growth-retail.html
Georges Plassat,  Carrefour (CA)  SA’s
fourth chief executive officer in eight years, relishes a
challenge.  Carrefour has the second-lowest profit margin and return on
equity of 50 global competitors in food retailing, trailing only
 Sweden ’s Hakon Invest AB, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Carrefour shares have fallen 57 percent since 2008,
when LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA Chairman  Bernard
Arnault  and Colony Capital LLC invested about 4 billion euros
($5.3 billion) in the company.  “He clearly has the biggest task in retail this year,
considering Carrefour’s scale and the severity of the
situation,” said Natalie Berg, global research director at
researcher  Planet Retail  in  London . “They need a quick
turnaround because it’s a sinking retailer.”  The Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company has the
 lowest consensus analyst  recommendation of the food retailers.
Its rating of 2.13 on a scale of 1 to 5 is its lowest since at
least 1999 and compares with Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s 3.94.  Plassat, 62, joins from Paris-based Vivarte SA, where he
earned the nickname “The Cleaner” for turning an unprofitable
shoemaker in 2000 into an apparel and accessories business with
sales of more than 3 billion euros by 2010. He has a strong
reputation as a “cost killer” and is a good negotiator,
according to Bernard Delattre, president of Altimeo Asset
Management, which holds Carrefour shares.  Casino Career  Unlike his predecessor, Lars Olofsson, who came to
Carrefour from  Nestle SA (NESN)  in 2009, Plassat has a pedigree in food
retailing, having served as CEO of French supermarket operator
 Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  and run Carrefour’s Spanish
business between 1997 and 1999. Olofsson was replaced by the
board on Jan. 29 after three years in the job.  Plassat takes the helm as new executives at Europe’s
biggest retailers struggle to attract reticent consumers to out-
of-town superstores, or hypermarkets. “People are doing their
big shop online and they’re supporting that with top-up shops at
their local stores,” Berg said. “That kind of invalidates the
whole hypermarket model.”  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest retailer, fell 16 percent on
Jan. 12 after saying profit won’t increase this year. The
Internet is a better sales channel than hypermarkets, said CEO
 Philip Clarke , who took over last March. Metro AG,  Germany ’s
biggest retailer, also got a new CEO this month.  Pricing Pressure  Plassat will start at the company on April 2 as chief
operating officer and become chairman and CEO after the June 18
shareholder meeting, the retailer said yesterday in a statement.
As part of the shakeup, Pierre Bouchut, who was demoted from
finance chief to become head of growth markets in September,
will also leave the retailer, Carrefour said.  The CEO’s first and biggest challenge will be to address
Carrefour’s price image, Delattre said. Carrefour is perceived
to be less competitive than its rivals in  France .  Carrefour’s French superstores, which account for 24
percent of sales, suffer from an inconsistent strategy over the
past 12 years, according to Arnaud Joly, an analyst at CA
Cheuvreux in Paris. “Radical decisions” are needed to reverse
the trend, Joly wrote yesterday in a note. “An option could be
to implement a more aggressive policy, which means launching a
price war.”  Carrefour would need to increase sales by 1.4 billion
euros, or 8 percent, to offset a 2 percent price cut, estimates
Joly, who has an “underperform” rating on the shares. That
won’t be easy given the “strong aggressiveness” of competitors
like LeClerc SA, which has the best price image in the industry,
according to the analyst.  Market Share  LeClerc, which controls 17.7 percent of the grocery market
in France compared to Carrefour’s 21 percent, has said it plans
to overtake its larger rival in the next two years as it keeps
prices low and opens more so-called drive facilities where
consumers shop online and pick up goods at a store or warehouse.  Carrefour said Jan. 19 that profit was at the lower end of
its forecast range of a decline of between 15 and 20 percent as
same-store sales fell in most of  Europe  and in  Asia , including
 China . Carrefour has already signaled that Olofsson’s 1.5
billion-euro plan to remodel some European superstores, dubbed
Planet, won’t boost sales and profit through 2015 as forecast.  Plassat may abandon Planet altogether. Instead, Carrefour
could reduce the size of some of its larger stores, replacing
some non-food items with in-store kiosks, and introduce
exclusive or limited-edition merchandise, according to Planet
Retail’s Berg.  “There are a number of things they can do without the
grotesquely expensive Carrefour Planet, which a lot of shoppers
thought they were funding,” Berg said.  Plassat will have to contend also with powerful investors.
Groupe Arnault SAS and Colony Capital, which own a combined
16.02 percent of the shares and 22.14 percent of the  voting
rights , forced out Olofsson and Jose Luis Duran, his
predecessor, people familiar with the situation have said.  With financial independence, Plassat, who owned 10 percent
of Vivarte, may be more likely to stand up to Arnault and
Colony, fund manager Delattre said. “He doesn’t need Carrefour
for his own personal success,” Delattre said. “He can be more
pushy and punchy with these shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  