-- CBRE Group Declines on Transaction-Volume Scrutiny: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-01-30T20:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/cbre-drops-on-investors-transaction-volume-scrutiny-san-francisco-mover.html
CBRE Group Inc. , the world’s largest
commercial real estate services firm, fell the most in six weeks
as investors focus on fourth-quarter transaction volumes ahead
of earnings reports.  CBRE, which had about $94.8 billion in assets under
management as of Sept. 30, 2011, fell as much as 4.5 percent, to
$18.21, in New York trading.  CBRE rival  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , the second-largest
publicly traded real-estate broker, is scheduled to report
earnings tomorrow. Los Angeles-based CBRE will report Feb. 7.  “There could be some fears for CBRE going into Jones
earnings after being a robust performer last week as the stocks
correlate,” Anthony Paolone, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , said in an interview today. He has an “overweight” rating
on CBRE’s shares.  “In November, transaction volume was looking weak, but
December proved to be stronger perhaps because deals closed
then,” he said. “With a pretty strong December and good market
share, CBRE numbers should be OK.”  A “cautious outlook” for commercial real estate will
persist into 2012,  CBRE Global Research  said in a Jan. 20
report, and “demand for space will remain moderate.”  “As far as the U.S. is concerned, real estate markets are
moving forward across all property types,” Paolone said. “We
are seeing things stabilize but we are still early in the
recovery.”  U.S. office vacancies fell in the three months through
December, extending a yearlong recovery, as a dearth of new
supply helped counter sluggish economic growth,  Reis Inc.  said
in a report earlier this month.  The vacancy rate dropped to 17.3 percent from 17.6 percent
a year earlier and 17.4 percent in the third quarter, the New
York-based property research firm said in the Jan. 6 report. The
fourth-quarter rate was the lowest since the end of 2009,
according to Reis.  A strengthening job market and limited supply of new real
estate means “positive growth across the entire real estate
sector,” Paolone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  