-- Chalco Leads Index’s Drop From Four-Month High: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-01-30T23:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/chalco-leads-n-y-index-s-descent-from-four-month-high-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid from
a four-month high, led by  Aluminum Corp of China Ltd. , on
speculation policy makers are reluctant to undertake monetary
easing required to bolster the economy and company earnings.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S lost 1.5 percent to 102.61 in New York after
closing at the highest level since Sept. 15 on Jan. 27. U.S.
shares of Aluminum Corp., also known as Chalco, had their
biggest tumble in three months and traded at a 4.5 percent
 discount  versus those in Hong Kong, after the company reported
net income probably plunged more than 50 percent in 2011.  While Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists
predicted  China  would cut bank reserve requirements for the
second time in two months before the week-long Lunar New Year
holiday, the central bank didn’t move to alter monetary policy
as markets on the mainland opened yesterday. Adding to concern
that a global slowdown is looming,  Greece  signaled it may oppose
oversight of its budget in exchange for aid and a report showed
U.S. consumer spending stalled last month.  “Some people who were expecting some type of announcement
about a reduction in the reserve-requirement ratio out of China
may be disappointed,” Greg Lesko, who helps manage $700 million
as managing director at Deltec Asset Management in New York,
said by phone yesterday. “The market has been up quite a bit,
it’s not surprising to see it correct.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index of domestic shares lost 1.5
percent in its first day of trading after the holiday, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese
companies trading in Hong Kong, tumbled 2.6 percent in its
biggest drop since Dec. 9. Markets in Hong Kong opened on Jan.
26 after a three-day break.  Chalco Profit Drops  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent while
the  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2.9 percent, the most
since Dec. 12, to $38.47.  Chalco, China’s biggest aluminum producer, slumped 9.2
percent to $12.1, trimming its advance this year to 12 percent.
Net income probably fell last year as aluminum prices “dropped
sharply” and higher electricity bills increased costs, the
company said in a statement. Profit was 778 million  yuan  ($123
million) in 2010, or 0.06 yuan per share, Chalco said.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , which operates casinos in
Macau, lost 7.4 percent to $10.85, the biggest decline since
Nov. 10, on speculation casinos in the only Chinese city where
public gambling is allowed didn’t take in as much as some
analysts expected in January.  Renren Surges  Macau’s gambling revenue will probably increase 8 percent
in the first two months of this year from the same period in
2011, slowing from annual growth of 25 percent in December,
Cameron McKnight, an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. wrote in a
research note. Melco has 13 percent of Macau’s gaming market,
according to the report.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , the Beijing-based social networking site,
jumped 20 percent to $6.31, extending its gain since Jan. 27 to
52 percent, amid speculation that a reported initial public
offering of Facebook Inc. this week will boost the valuation of
companies in the same industry. The trading volume of 54 million
shares was the most since Renren’s IPO in May.  “Good headlines from Facebook may benefit Renren as people
buy comparable companies, even though the fundamentals of the
two companies are different,” said Echo He, an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC in New York. “People are betting on a market momentum
run-up. At a certain point, people will compare the fundamentals
and the higher the stocks go, the more downside it has.”  Net Loss  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service, is
aiming to file for its IPO as early as this week, raising $75
billion to $100 billion, two people with knowledge of the matter
said on Jan. 28, declining to be identified as the proposal
hasn’t been made public.  Renren, which raised $855 million in its IPO last year,
reported a net loss of $1.2 million for the third quarter. The
company probably posted $120 million in revenue last year,
compared with Facebook’s $4 billion, according to Maxim Group’s
He. Renren’s 135 million users are equal to one-sixth of
Facebook’s.  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since the first half of 2009 as
expansion in the housing market eases and export growth
decelerates. The International Monetary Fund pared its forecast
for China’s growth this year on Jan. 24 to 8.2 percent from a
previous estimate of 9 percent, warning that  Europe ’s crisis
could trigger another global recession.  Home Sales  Home transactions in China’s four biggest cities of
Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen declined 66 percent to
109 units during the week-long Chinese New Year, from the same
holiday period last year according to an e-mailed report from
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the nation’s biggest real-estate
broker.  Barclays Capital, JPMorgan and Industrial Bank Co.
predicted this month that policy makers will cut the amount
lenders must keep in reserve for a second time to stimulate the
economy. The central bank instead used reverse-repurchase
contracts to add money to the financial system. Policy makers
have left benchmark interest rates unchanged for the past six
months, while cutting reserve requirements by 50 basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, to 21 percent last month in the first
reduction since 2008.  ‘Modest Easing’  In Europe, Greek Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos  has
rejected reports of plans to appoint a commissioner to oversee
the nation’s budget, while German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday that the Greek rescue program won’t be finalized
because talks with banks over debt reduction aren’t completed.  “Clearly, the government is going to introduce some modest
easing on the monetary front,” said Fred Hu, founder and
chairman of Beijing-based financial advisory firm Primavera
Capital Group and a former chairman of Greater China for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “The
reserve requirement is way too high.”  The Bloomberg China index has risen 7.1 percent this month,
following a decline of 8.3 percent last year.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng China Enterprises Index trades at 8.3
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies,
compared with 9.9 times for  Brazil ’s Bovespa gauge and 15 for
the BSE India Sensitive Index. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
trades for 9.4 times estimated earnings.  The yuan gained 0.1 percent to close at 6.3310 per dollar
in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The currency has advanced 4 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  