-- Champagne Flattened by $22 Sparklers From Italy’s Franciacorta
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-01-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/champagne-flattened-by-italian-sparklers-from-franciacorta-john-mariani.html
Don’t dare call the wines of
Franciacorta “spumante,” the semi-sweet bubblies from Asti.
And don’t confuse them with Champagne, even though Franciacorta
sparklers are made with the same methode champenoise. Nor should
you try to trace their history back to the Renaissance, the way
those Tuscan wine aristocrats flaunt their pedigrees.  On the contrary, the wine makers of Franciacorta, in
eastern Lombardy, are proud that they are giovanni-come-latelies
to the Italian wine boom. For while wine has been made at local
monasteries for centuries, not until the 1960s did it occur to
anyone to make sparkling wines in the region.  Led by the experiments of the  Guido Berlucchi  estate and
fueled by explosive investment in the region at that time,
sparkling Franciacorta took on a cult interest that soon
developed into big business for estates like Ca’ del Bosco,
Bellavista, and Cavalleri.  While sparkling-wine technology was expensive, advances
were quick, and before long Franciacorta was being referred to
as the Silicon Valley of Italian wine. By 1995 the wines had
achieved a D.O.C.G. appellation, the highest “guaranteed”
grade under Italian wine law.  In the past decade the area under cultivation quadrupled,
producing 11 million bottles in 2011, with Berlucchi accounting
for half the total.  From the beginning Franciacorta adopted the exacting French
method of making Champagne, distancing itself from the large
bulk processes used to make Italian spumante and prosecco. The
same grapes used in making Champagne -- chardonnay and pinot
noir (pinot nero in Italian) -- were planted extensively and now
cover about 3,000 hectares (7,400 acres).  French Connection  The wineries are so intent on refining their image that
instead of using the Italian word “rosato,” they call their
pink wines “rose.” They use the same residual sugar levels as
the French for Brut, Extra Dry and Demi-Sec. The driest of all
receive no sugar water infusion, a style called in French “pas
dosage;” in Franciacorta it’s “pas dose.”  Like Champagnes, non-vintage Franciacorta wines spend a
minimum of 18 months aging in the bottle, 30 for vintages and 60
for the riservas.  Misguided hubris attempted to push up the prices of the
best Franciacortas in the 1990s, though none approach those of
most vintage or cuvee prestige Champagnes, which can sell for up
to $2,500 a bottle. Excellent quality Franciacortas can be found
easily in the U.S. and  Europe  for under $25.  Osso Buco  Foodwise, they go extremely well with the butter-rich
dishes of Lombardy, like saffron-scented risotto alla milanese
and well-fatted osso buco. As an accompaniment to the region’s
air-cured beef called bresaola and a morsel of Grana Padano or
robiola cheese, there is nothing better.  So how do Franciacorta sparklers compare to Champagnes?
That isn’t easy to answer, because individual taste in sparkling
wines is a huge factor. I, for one, think that the pas dosage
method in even the most expensive Champagnes and Franciacortas
robs the wines of their fruit, leaving a bone dry taste that the
producers would have you believe is “elegance.”  Some, especially the Brits, enjoy decades-old vintage
Champagne that begins to show oxidation, which I consider a
flaw. Others, including myself, like a little yeastiness in the
nose and on the palate, a quality not easily detected in
Franciacortas.  But overall, the Franciacortas I recently sampled certainly
bested most other Italian sparklers and compared more than
favorably with a wide range of Champagnes.  Brothers and Sisters  Fratelli Berlucchi  is owned by five siblings, whose
Selected Estates Brut Rose 2007 is lush with raspberry-like
fruit and just enough dryness to give it ideal balance. The
fruit struggles to stay on the palate yet does carry to the
finish.  Barone Pizzini  Brut non-vintage ($24) was highly
effervescent, with great vitality, though not much fruit or any
yeastiness. It’s refreshing but little more.  Monte Rossa  Prima Cuvee non-vintage ($24) was bone dry with
tiny bubbles. I found this the most lackluster of the sampling,
despite it being among the priciest.  Montenisa  Brut Rose non-vintage had plenty of bubbles and a
fine tangy flavor, a little like prosecco but drier and more
refined, its rose color and depth coming from pinot nero grapes.
The label notes that the wine is “bottled by” Tuscan wine
aristocrat Marchese Antinori. Its U.S. price ranges from $32 to
$45, making it the most expensive of those I sampled.  Golden Age  Quite golden in color, the 100 percent chardonnay Fratelli
Muratori Crespia Novalia Brut ($22) was deliciously dry, very
refreshing, with a slight hint of age on the back of the palate,
having been kept on the lees for 24 months. It compares very
favorably with a fine non-vintage Champagne.  I was most impressed by  Contadi Castaldi  Rose non-vintage
($22), whose minimalist label covers an impressive sparkler that
upon opening foams in the glass, retaining an effervescent head
of bubbles long after. There’s a light cherry flavor and bouquet
here that makes it very good with food and, with all those
bubbles, is sure to make you happy.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 