-- Chavez Threatens to Nationalize Banks Over Agriculture Loans to Farmers
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-01-30T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/chavez-threatens-to-seize-banks-to-guarantee-agricultural-loans.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
threatened to take over the country’s banks if they don’t hand
over 40 billion bolivars ($9.31 billion) for agriculture loans
this year.  Chavez, speaking on state television yesterday, cited
Banesco Banco Universal, BBVA Banco Provincial and Mercantil
Banco Universal for giving loans to industrial producers and not
to small farmers.  The government plans to create a fund called Ezequiel
Zamora to assign the loans directly, while borrowers pay the
banks, Chavez said. The president will use special legislative
powers granted to him by the congress to create the fund, he
said.  “If you don’t comply with this, I’m willing to nationalize
those private banks,” Chavez said during his weekly “Alo
Presidente” program.  Chavez’s government is financing housing and agriculture
programs ahead of a presidential election in October and
elections for governors in December. The country’s private banks
last year handed over money for a government-controlled fund to
finance housing construction.  Chavez asked Vice President Elias Jaua to meet with the
country’s bankers, including Banesco President Juan Carlos Escotet, this week.  “Escotet, let me know if you can,” Chavez said. “If not,
give me the bank.”  Chavez last year threatened to nationalize Provincial, the
local unit of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, for allegedly
not cooperating with the government on financing housing
projects.  Venezuela ’s central bank will give out 3 billion bolivars
in agricultural loans this year, Chavez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 