-- Korea Gas to Buy U.S. LNG as Gas Slump Attracts Asian Importers
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-31T06:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/cheniere-agrees-to-sabine-pass-export-deal-with-korea-gas-1-.html
Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  agreed to buy
liquefied natural gas from  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP) , the
second such deal by an Asian company in two months, seeking to
take advantage of the cheapest U.S. supplies in a decade.  The world’s largest LNG importer agreed to buy 3.5 million
metric tons annually from the proposed Sabine Pass terminal in
Louisiana for two decades starting 2017, Houston-based Cheniere
said yesterday. The price will be linked to monthly levels at
 Henry Hub , a U.S. benchmark, plus a fixed component.  Asia accounts for more than 60 percent of global LNG demand
and buyers are turning to  North America , where record production
from shale deposits has driven down U.S. prices.  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) 
last month became the first Asian buyer of U.S. LNG at Henry Hub
prices, weakening a 40-year-old oil-link currently used to price
long-term supplies in Asia.  “More and more Asian buyers will look to buy LNG from the
U.S., that will be their first choice because it’s cheaper,”
said Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist in  Tokyo .
“As more companies get U.S. LNG, Asia’s link to oil will start
weakening over the years.”  Bank of America Corp. has said LNG shipments to Asia from
the U.S. may slow the development of new projects in Australia,
a traditional supplier of LNG to the region. Ventures in
Australia and Qatar sell LNG to Asian buyers at prices linked to
the so-called Japan Crude Cocktail.  Korea Gas declined 1 percent to 44,400 won at the close of
trade in  Seoul . Cheniere Energy Partners rose 0.6 percent to
$21.43 at the close in  New York .  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , the owner
of 90.6 percent of Cheniere Energy Partners,  fell  1 cent to
$12.70.  South Korea, India  The contracts signed by the state-controlled companies from
South Korea and  India  are subject to Cheniere getting approvals
and financing to expand the proposed liquefaction facility at
its Sabine Pass terminal, according to the Houston-based
partnership.  Increased U.S. gas production from shale formations has
helped drive prices to a 10-year low and led owners of LNG
terminals to explore exports. U.S. gas production grew by a
record 4.5 billion cubic feet a day in 2011, the Energy
Department said in a Jan. 10 report, while demand growth lagged
behind at 920 million. About 482 trillion cubic feet can be
produced from U.S. shale basins, according to the department.  Gas in New York trading has declined 11 percent this month
after falling 32 percent last year, a fourth straight annual
decline. Prices were 2.3 percent lower at $2.65 per million Btu
at 1:38 p.m. Singapore time.  Foundation Customers  Korea Gas becomes the “fourth foundation customer” for
the project, which has sold 16 million of the 18 million metric
tons of annual export capacity being developed, Cheniere
Chairman Charif Souki said in the statement.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  in October agreed to import 3.5 million tons a
year of gas from Cheniere’s Sabine Pass terminal and raised the
purchase volume by 2 million tons this month. Spain’s  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS)  said in November it also agreed to buy 3.5
million tons of the fuel from the same facility for 20 years
beginning in 2017.  GAIL, based in New Delhi, agreed to buy 3.5 million tons a
year of LNG from the terminal starting 2017. GAIL is negotiating
its second U.S. LNG contract, seeking Henry Hub-linked supplies
from a Freeport LNG project scheduled to start in 2016, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said Jan. 16.  Construction is expected to begin on the liquefaction
facility this year and the first phase will begin operating in
2015 or 2016, potentially making Sabine Pass the first North
American LNG exporter since 1969.  LNG is gas chilled to liquid form by cooling it to minus
260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 Celsius) for shipment by
tanker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston  at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 