-- China Repo Rate Rises After Hopes for Reserve-Ratio Cut Scotched
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-01-30T09:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/china-repo-rate-rises-after-hopes-for-reserve-ratio-cut-scotched.html
China ’s money-market rate rose after
policy makers held off from cutting lenders’ reserve
requirements, defying economists’ predictions.  Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
this month that the People’s Bank of China would cut the
required-reserve ratio ahead of the Lunar New Year to boost the
availability of cash. Instead, the central bank injected 353
billion yuan ($55.9 billion) into the financial system using 14-
day reverse-repurchase contracts, the most since Bloomberg began
collecting such data in 2008. China’s financial markets resumed
trading today after a week-long holiday.  “The rates rebounded as the central bank didn’t cut the
required reserve ratio before the holiday,” said Pin Ru Tan, a
rates strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “Banks have
to repay the 14-day reverse repo agreements they conducted prior
to the Lunar New Year with the central bank.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 23 basis points to
4.36 percent as of 4:42 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate touched 8.18 percent on Jan. 18, the highest
level since June 24.  The People’s Bank of China may skip its usual sale of bills
this week because of maturing reverse repo agreements, newswire
Market News International reported today, citing unidentified
traders.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.07 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.41 percent government bonds due June
2020 was little changed at 3.42 percent, according to National
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  