-- China May Withhold Carbon Offsets After 2015 to Meet Own Goals, ADB Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-30T17:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/china-may-keep-emission-offsets-after-2015-adb-official-says.html
China  may decide to withhold
emission-reduction offsets to comply with its own climate
targets after 2015, limiting supply to the European Union, said
an official at the Asia Development Bank.  “The establishment of domestic emissions-trading systems
in China will provide a market for domestically issued emission
credits if China decides not to offer Certified Emission
Reductions to international buyers,” said Pradeep Perera,
senior energy specialist in ADB’s East Asia Department. “China
has already started a domestic process for issuing emission
credits for emission-reduction projects closely following the
Clean Development Mechanism procedures,” Perera said Jan. 27 in
a phone interview from  Manila .  Surging supply of offsets from the so-called CDM helped
drive prices in the European Union to four-year lows earlier
this month. That market, the world’s biggest, banned supply from
new projects in most emerging nations including China after
2012. Still, China has supplied 59 percent of all credits issued
since 2005, and based on projects already registered may
maintain that portion of the market through this year, according
to United Nations data and  forecasts .  Certified Emission Reduction credits for December have
plunged 66 percent in the past year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis curbed demand. They were down 5.3 percent yesterday at
3.78 euros ($4.96) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  as of 5 p.m. EU allowances for December fell
5.1 percent to 7.77 euros a ton.  Guangdong Market  At the UN climate talks in December 2010, China promised to
lower the amount of carbon pollution created per unit of output,
or its carbon intensity, 40 percent to 45 percent by 2020 from
2005 levels. A program to curb the increase of greenhouse gas
emissions in China’s Guangdong province will probably be the
largest of the nation’s seven test climate-protection systems,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Guangdong is seeking to cut the carbon intensity of its
economy by 19.5 percent in the five years through 2015, New
Energy Finance said Jan. 24 in a research note. Other regions
have looser targets.  “For the purpose of pilot provincial emissions trading
systems, it is likely that an absolute emission cap will be set
for the economic sectors in the geographical areas covered,”
Perera said. “Based on the experience and lessons learned from
these pilot ETS, a national ETS is likely to be established
after 2015.”  ‘Counting Twice’  That national level market will probably help determine
whether China achieves its voluntary pledge to cut emissions
intensity by 2020, the official said. “At this stage it is not
clear how the emission cap for this national level ETS will be
set and whether it would be an absolute cap.”  Perera declined to comment on whether China may use its own
offsets to meet its voluntary target.  Doing so might leave the nation open to accusations that it
is counting emissions reductions twice, said  Trevor Sikorski , an
analyst in London for the investment banking unit of Barclays
Plc. “That may lead to criticism,” Sikorski said Jan. 27 by
phone.  It’s unclear whether China’s floor price of about 8 euros a
ton is limiting supply from that nation, Sikorski said. It’s
only possible that China’s policies on offsets will help tighten
the EU’s carbon market, he said. “There’s a potential for that
to happen, but it probably won’t.”  Halt in Supply  Post-2012 letters of approval from China’s National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s regulator, are
specifying volume limits that might suggest a halt in supply
around 2015, Sikorski said Aug. 25. Those letters are needed in
order to receive UN approval for credits.  ADB is providing a $750,000 equivalent grant to lay the
groundwork for cap-and-trade in Tianjin municipal area which
could begin operation as early as 2013, Manila-based ADB said
Jan. 25 in a  statement on its website . That followed a request
from China, Perera said. ADB will help design the platform,
including the trading rules and regulatory framework, as well as
support the commissioning of the platform, the  development bank 
said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  