-- China Meat Appetite Means Massive U.S. Exports, AgriTrends Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-30T23:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/china-meat-appetite-means-massive-u-s-exports-agritrends-says.html
U.S. exporters will continue to see
“massive demand” for meat overseas, especially from  China , the
world’s biggest  pork  consumer, according to Brett Stuart, the
co-founder of farm-industry researcher Global AgriTrends.  U.S. pork exports may climb 2.7 percent this year, beef
exports may rise 10.8 percent, and broilers will increase 2.4
percent, Stuart said today during a conference call organized by
AgStar Financial Services Inc., a livestock industry lender in
Mankato,  Minnesota . In 2011, U.S. meat and poultry  exports  rose
$3.24 billion from a year earlier to $16 billion, he said.  “The incentive to import pork remains huge” in China,
Stuart said. “The bottom line is their fundamental structure is
keeping their prices significantly higher than the equivalent
U.S. prices here, which tells me they’re going to continue to be
significant buyers of all  imported  pork, and specifically U.S.
pork.”  Demand from  South Korea  also will be strong, Stuart said.
While the Asian nation will buy about 16 percent to 19 percent
less pork than 2011, the volumes will be as much as 35 percent
above the five-year average, Stuart projects. The country’s
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease last year led to a culling of
about 30 percent of its hog inventory, and some of those farms
won’t come back into production, he said.  Exports helped drive prices to records, and producers
shouldn’t be concerned about becoming too dependent on foreign
markets, Stuart said. Cattle futures touched $1.29675 a pound on
Jan. 25, the highest since the commodity started trading on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange in 1964. That marked the seventh
record this month. Hog prices reached $1.0435 a pound on April
1, the highest since at least 1986.  “In one sense, while it may feel like we’re increasing our
exposure overseas, what we’re really doing is decreasing our
exposure here at home,” Stuart said. “The fact that we have
markets overseas to ship to insulates us from a domestic
recession a little bit here at home. As we see more and more
markets buying, it’s probably less risky as we diversify into as
many countries as we can overseas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  