-- Christie Says Gay Supreme Court Nominee Won’t Rule on Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-30T20:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/christie-says-gay-supreme-court-nominee-won-t-rule-on-same-sex-marriage.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said his pick to be the first openly gay justice on the state
 Supreme Court  won’t rule on issues involving same-sex marriage.  Christie, a first-term Republican, also said critics,
including Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, one of two openly gay New
Jersey legislators, are “numbnuts” for comparing him to
segregationists for comments he made about civil rights.  The governor last week proposed a referendum on gay
marriage. Democratic lawmakers said the issue is a matter of
civil rights and shouldn’t be decided by voters. Christie drew
criticism from Democrats when he said that “people would have
been happy with a referendum on civil rights rather than
fighting and dying in the streets of the South.”  Christie expanded on that statement today, saying that in
the political climate of the 1960s, no referendum for civil
rights would have passed. He said those pushing for same-sex
marriage are touting popular support, a message he said
contradicts opposition to a referendum.  Christie’s nomination last week of Bruce Harris, 61, a
Republican and mayor of Chatham, came a day before the governor
pledged to veto a same-sex marriage bill that Democrats say they
have the votes to pass.  Gay Marriage  The governor, 49, said today that Harris told him that he
has advocated for gay marriage personally and as a politician.  “If confirmed to the court, he would recuse himself from
that matter because he did not want there to be the appearance
of bias on his part on that issue,” Christie told reporters.
“My perspective on that issue was to put it aside because he’s
not going to rule on that.”  The governor also said critics including Gusciora, a
Democratic sponsor of the gay-marriage bill, are “numbnuts” 
for comparing him in prepared statements to segregationists.  “C’mon guys -- you’ve got to be able to call B.S. on those
kinds of releases,” Christie said to reporters in Trenton.  Democrats, who control both the Senate and Assembly, have
made the gay-marriage issue a top priority in 2012. Two years
ago, Democrats failed to pass a gay-marriage bill, even as then-
Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat, promised to sign it.  Corzine enacted a measure in 2006 to allow civil unions,
after the state Supreme Court ordered lawmakers to extend
marital rights to gay couples. The law is being challenged in
state court by Lambda Legal, a national gay-rights advocacy
group, which argues that it doesn’t provide the same benefits
and protections as marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  