-- McKesson Buys Canadian Pharmacy Marketing Group Assets for $918 Million
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-30T23:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/mckesson-buys-canadian-pharmacy-marketing-group-assets-for-918-million.html
McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the biggest U.S.
drug distributor, said it agreed to spend about $918 million for
the marketing and franchising businesses of more than 1,000
Canadian independent pharmacies.  McKesson will buy Drug Trading Co. and Medicine Shoppe
 Canada  Inc. from Katz Group Canada Inc., a closely held
Edmonton, Alberta-based company. The deal is expected to close
in the first half of this year, subject to regulatory approval
in Canada, San Francisco-based McKesson said today in a
statement.  The deal gives McKesson the marketing and purchasing arms
for a network of 850 independent drugstores in Canada, and the
franchise business for 160 Medicine Shoppe pharmacies, the
company said in its statement. McKesson already is the main drug
distributor for the units and will integrate operations into its
existing Canadian business.  The purchase “reinforces McKesson’s ongoing commitment to
the independent” drugstore business, Chief Executive Officer
John H. Hammergren said in the statement.  The deal is expected to be neutral to McKesson’s adjusted
earnings in its current fiscal year, and add to earnings the
first year after closing, McKesson said. The drug distributor
will pay for the deal with cash.  McKesson also reported earnings excluding certain items for
the fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31 of $1.40 a share, topping
by 3 cents the average  estimate  of 18 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased 9 percent to $30.8 billion.  The company’s shares gained 3.4 percent to $81.35 at 5:57
p.m. New York time in extended trading after the acquisition and
earnings were announced. Earlier, McKesson declined less than 1
percent to $78.69 at the close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  