-- Clariden Sued in Singapore Over Minor’s Risky Trades in Futures Contracts
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-01-30T03:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/clariden-sued-in-singapore-over-minor-s-risky-trades-in-futures-contracts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s private
banking unit Clariden Leu induced a 19-year-old minor to make
risky trades in futures contracts and should be liable for the
losses incurred, according to a lawsuit filed in Singapore.  Ian Ow and his father Ow Weng Fye sought to recoup
S$896,871 ($715,607) from Clariden Leu and their former banker
Aaron Chwee in a lawsuit filed at the Singapore High Court. A
closed hearing is scheduled for next month.  “The trades were carried out through the instigation of
Chwee without any consultation with WF Ow,” the Ows said in
their lawsuit. “Clariden did not take reasonable care as any
prudent bank would have.”  Ian Ow, who was considered a minor under  Singapore  law when
he traded in Singapore MSCI futures contracts in 2007, was
convinced by Chwee that Clariden had the systems in place to
make trades which would be profitable and risk free, according
to court papers. The age of majority in Singapore for purposes
including voting is 21. It was lowered to 18 for entering most
contracts in 2009.  Adrian Tan, the Ows’ lawyer, declined to comment as did
Chwee. Clariden declined to comment.  Both father, who was a former  executive director  at
Millennium Securities in Singapore, and son were “sophisticated
and knowledgeable investors,” Clariden said in its defense. Ian
Ow’s trades are also binding as he was no longer considered a
minor under Swiss laws at the time of the trades in question,
the bank said.  Ian Ow was financially astute and had been trading in
foreign currencies through a leveraged margin account when he
and his father opened an account with Clariden in 2006, Chwee
said in his defense. His father had also instructed Chwee to
take instructions from the younger Ow, the banker said, adding
that he had highlighted the risks involved to Ian.  Credit Suisse is integrating its Clariden Leu unit,
resulting in 550 job cuts,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank
said in November.  The case is Ow Tuc Yun Ian and Ow Weng Fye v Clariden Leu
Ltd and Aaron Chwee S752/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  