-- Colombia Unexpectedly Raises Benchmark Rate to 5% Against Santos’s Urging
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-01-30T21:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/colombia-unexpectedly-raises-benchmark-rate-to-5-against-santos-s-urging.html
Colombia’s central bank unexpectedly
raised borrowing costs after the economy expanded at the fastest
pace since 2006, defying President  Juan Manuel Santos  who said
an increase wouldn’t be appropriate.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
raised the overnight interest rate by a quarter point to 5
percent today, as forecast by only one of 31 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Thirty analysts expected no change.  “The latest information suggests that in the fourth
quarter, the Colombian economy continued to show strong
momentum,” policy makers said in their  statement . “Bank
lending continued to show high rates of increases and consumer
credit behavior suggests that households are significantly
raising their level of leverage.”  Infrastructure projects and a wave of foreign investment in
oil, coal and gold exploration in areas that were once overrun
by guerrillas may keep economic growth near a five-year high,
said economist Andres Langebaek. Gross domestic product expanded
7.7 percent in the third quarter from a year ago, leading the
central bank to project growth of as much as 6 percent for 2011
overall.  “Third-quarter GDP growth was quite good and it appears
the fourth quarter also will be, with public works as the main
positive factor,” Langebaek, an analyst at Banco Davivienda SA
in Bogota. A “light but concerning increase in inflation
expectations” for 2012 would have also been a factor in any
rate increase, he said.  Inflation Expectations  Uribe today said the bank expects the economy expanded 5.5
percent to 6 percent and will grow 4 percent to 6 percent in
2012. He said that the rate increase seeks to stabilize economic
growth  The United Nations Economic Commission predicts the economy
will grow 4.5 percent this year, more than the region’s 3.7
percent estimated average.  At the same time, the bank today noted that inflation
expectations have increased.  Inflation (COCPIYOY)  ended 2011 at 3.73
percent, within the central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4
percent.  Prices will rise about 3.5 percent this year, according the
median estimate of 35 economists in a January central bank
survey, compared with 3.4 percent in December’s survey and 3.06
percent in May.  The central bank cited risks of a “disorderly adjustment”
in European debt markets and signs that the domestic economy is
slowing in its decision to leave  interest rates  unchanged last
month.  Santos said last month it wouldn’t be “appropriate” for
the bank to raise rates again at a time when other central banks
are cutting them.  Peso  Brazil ,  Chile ,  Russia , the  Philippines ,  Israel ,  Romania ,
Moldova, and Mauritius all reduced benchmark lending rates
within the past two months amid concerns  Europe ’s debt crisis
will derail global growth.  In a bid to ease gains in the currency, the central bank
said Oct. 28 it will sell $200 million in dollar options
whenever the peso’s 20-day moving average changes by more than 4
percent. No options have been auctioned since the announcement.  Speaking today at the central bank in Bogota, Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the government won’t bring
any dollars into the country for financing in 2012, and will
also keep at least $1 billion of Ecopetrol dividends offshore --
continuing a policy from last year -- in a bid to keep the
peso’s appreciation in check.  Additionally, the government will also keep $1.2 billion of
royalty funds offshore, Echeverry said, adding that today’s rate
increase was intended to keep the economy on “cruise speed.”  In the year to date,  Colombia ’s peso has rallied to trade
at a three-month high against the dollar. On Jan. 27, the
currency gained 0.2 percent to 1807.03 per dollar, its strongest
closing level since Sept. 9’s end-of-day 1798.00. In trading
today, it fell 0.5 percent to 1817.75.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 