-- Commercial-Mortgage Bond Rally May Have Run Out of Steam, Citigroup Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-01-30T19:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/commercial-mortgage-bond-rally-may-have-run-out-of-steam-citigroup-says.html
A rally in risky commercial-mortgage
bonds may have run its course after a surge in trading,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Values on so-called AM and AJ securities, some of which
have been cut to junk after being assigned top grades at
issuance, increased “remarkably” during the first half of
January, Citigroup analysts led by Jeffrey Berenbaum said in a
Jan. 27 report. A junior AAA, or AJ bond, from a deal sold by
Citigroup and Deutsche Bank in 2005 was yielding 535 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate last week, compared
with 1,150 basis points or 11.5 percentage points in mid-
September, according to Citigroup.  Gains decelerated during the past two weeks as more
investors sold, Citigroup said. Spreads probably won’t narrow
further unless the gyrations that characterized markets in 2011
subside, said the analysts, who are predicting that fluctuations
in values similar to those seen last year will persist in 2012.  “Volatility is unlikely to fully return to pre-crisis
levels until more definitive progress is made on the European
front and the domestic recovery gains momentum,” the analysts
said.  Prices on some junior AAA commercial-mortgage bonds have
increased by between 8 and 13 cents on the dollar over the past
six weeks, compared with a gain of 6.5 cents on high-yield
corporate bonds, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The AJ market has been on fire,” the analysts led
by Harris Trifon said in a report on Jan. 27. “We expect the
rally to continue for a little while,” Trifon said in a
telephone interview today. “The Fed’s more accommodative policy
will continue to support demand for risk assets in general, and
AJs are one of the prime beneficiaries of that.”  Trading Volumes Soar  Trading volumes in lower-ranking securities tied to
skyscrapers, hotels and shopping malls soared in January. About
$382 million in junior AAA commercial-mortgage bonds were
offered weekly this month, compared with about $182 million
during a typical week in 2011, according to Citigroup.  The increase in trading was probably driven in part by
holders looking to unload bonds that were purchased at issuance,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co . There is a risk that the debt
has moved from “safe hands,” meaning insurance companies and
money managers that typically hold investments over the long
term, to “faster money,” according to the analysts led by Ed Reardon. Investors should sell weaker bonds at current prices,
the analysts said.  “The magnitude and speed of the recent rally has surprised
us,” the analysts said. “In a risk-off event, we expect better
quality paper will be more likely to hold on to recent gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  