-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Rise on Greek Debt Crisis Concern
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-30T22:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/company-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-climb-on-greece-debt-crisis-concerns.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose by the most in more than six weeks as  Greece  signaled
opposition to economic oversight in exchange for aid, stoking
concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis may worsen.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of
102.7 basis points at 4:50 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd. Contracts tied to Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. jumped.  The index climbed the most since Dec. 14 after Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos yesterday rejected reports
of plans to appoint a European commissioner to intervene in the
country’s budget decisions. Greece’s aid won’t be completed
today because talks over debt restructuring aren’t complete,
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  “Global markets are on the defensive due in part to
heightened euro zone anxiety,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income
strategist at GMP Securities LLC, wrote in a note to clients
today.  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, declined to
less than 100 basis points in intraday trading last week for the
first time since August, after the  Federal Reserve  said it would
keep  interest rates  low through 2014, easing concern the
economic recovery is faltering. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Hovnanian Swaps Climb  Credit-default swaps on homebuilder Hovnanian climbed 1.5
percentage points to 50.8 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost
$5.08 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of Hovnanian’s debt.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, increased 0.49 basis point to 32.94
basis points. The measure rises when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and falls when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  