-- Congress Would Replace Obama as Keystone Decider Under Bill
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-31T00:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/congress-would-replace-obama-as-keystone-decision-maker-in-republican-bill.html
Three Senate Republicans plan to
introduce legislation that would give Congress the authority to
approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, which has been
denied a permit by President  Barack Obama .  The bill has 44 co-sponsors, Senator  David Vitter  of
 Louisiana  said today in a statement. It would allow the Calgary-
based company to begin construction on its 1,661-mile (2,673-
kilometer) project to carry crude produced from  Canada ’s oil
sands to refineries on the  Gulf of Mexico .  Congressional Republicans say the $7 billion pipeline will
create thousands of jobs and should be approved. The
administration has said it needs more time to study alternative
routes after Nebraska residents and officials said the original
pathway threatened the environmentally sensitive Sand Hills
region.  The State Department has authority over the project because
it crosses an international border and last year conducted a
review of the environmental impacts along the route.  Research Service Report  The  Congressional Research Service , which provides policy
and legal analysis to Congress, said in a Jan. 20 report that
lawmakers also can act because the Constitution gives them power
“to regulate commerce with foreign nations.”  Pat Parenteau, a professor at Vermont Law School, said
Obama may win a court fight. “The president gets an edge in
these kinds of foreign relations issues,” he said.  The bill faces long odds in the Democratic-led Senate.
Backers would need the support of 16 more senators to get the 60
votes needed to advance the bill, assuming it faces a
filibuster.  Only one member of that party, West Virginia Senator  Joe
Manchin , is supporting the legislation, according to the Vitter
statement.  “Everyone in Washington talks about saving the economy and
creating jobs -- the Keystone XL project will actually do
something about that,” said Vitter, who plans to introduce the
legislation with fellow Republican Senators  Richard Lugar  of
 Indiana  and John Hoeven of North Dakota. The legislation will be
introduced as early as today, said Luke Bolar, a spokesman for
Vitter.  Accelerated Decision Sought  Last year, Republicans sought to accelerate a decision on
Keystone after the U.S. State Department announced in November
it couldn’t decide on a new route until 2013.  That pushed until after the 2012 presidential election a
decision on a project that’s supported by labor groups and
opposed by environmentalists.  Republicans attached a 60-day deadline for a Keystone
decision in the payroll-tax cut extension the parties agreed to
late last month. On Jan. 18, Obama rejected the Keystone permit,
saying he didn’t have enough time to weigh the risks. He invited
TransCanada to reapply after it established a new route.  “The irony is that congressional Republicans stopped this
project from going forward by inserting it into the December
payroll tax cut legislation and trying to score political
points, despite knowing that it could not be approved before
their arbitrary deadline,” said  Clark Stevens , a White House
spokesman, in an e-mail.  The Republican-backed bill requires the State Department to
help  Nebraska  develop a new route through the state. It doesn’t
set a time line for the state to act and gives Nebraska’s
governor the authority to approve the new pathway.  “President Obama made the right decision when he rejected
the Keystone XL pipeline,” said Noah Greenwald, endangered-
species director with the Tucson, Arizona-based Center for
Biological Diversity, in an e-mailed statement. “Republicans in
Congress need to stop wasting precious time doing the bidding of
Big Oil and instead, address the climate crisis and create long-
term jobs in a new, clean-energy economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  