-- Construction Rises as Architects Show U.S. Nonresidential Bounce
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/construction-rises-as-architects-signal-nonresidential-rebound.html
Private nonresidential construction
may pick up this year, as demand grows for new U.S. projects.  The Architecture Billings Index held at 52 last month, a
sign of expansion, according to the  American Institute of
Architects . The commercial and industrial component -- a proxy
for private building activity -- climbed to 54.1 in December,
the highest in 10 months, the Washington-based association said
Jan. 18.  The monthly survey of U.S.-based architecture firms is a
leading indicator of nonresidential construction, said Kermit Baker, chief economist for the association. “Pretty solid
readings in November and December suggest some modest
improvement” may be afoot, he said.  The  Federal Reserve  echoed that outlook in its Jan. 11
Beige Book report, where it noted that demand for nonresidential
real estate has “improved in a number of districts.”  Spending on lodging, office, commercial and manufacturing
buildings grew 8.2 percent in November to $9.2 billion from a
year ago on a nonseasonally-adjusted basis, data from the Census
Bureau show. These types of commercial and industrial projects
are historically the first part of the nonresidential industry
to improve during economic expansion, Baker said.  Other indicators -- including vacancy rates -- “are
pointing toward a modest recovery,” said Rob McCarthy, a
Chicago-based analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co., who forecasts
“mid-single-digit growth” for nonresidential spending this
year.  Falling Office Vacancies  U.S. office vacancies fell in the fourth quarter to 17.3
percent, the lowest since 2009, from 17.4 percent in the prior
period and 17.6 percent a year earlier, according to Reis Inc.,
a New York property-research company.  Inquiries for commercial building projects -- another
component of the Architecture Billings Index -- also suggest
“we are likely past trough,” as a multi-year recovery “could
begin to gain some traction in 2012,”  Ann Duignan , a New York-
based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a Jan. 18
report. The index of inquiries for new work was 64 in December,
after reaching an almost five-year high of 65 the previous
month, the association said.  This makes stocks of companies that design privately-funded
projects in industries such as manufacturing and utilities
particularly attractive, said Burt White, chief investment
officer at LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston .  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
world’s largest manufacturer of construction and mining
equipment, is the “poster child” for this industry, he said.  Beating Estimates  Caterpillar reported fourth-quarter earnings Jan. 26 that
beat analysts’ estimates, as revenue in its construction
industries grew 31 percent, to $5.355 billion, from a year
earlier. The Peoria, Illinois-based company is forecasting total
U.S. construction spending “to finally begin to recover” this
year after declining since 2004, with nonresidential-building
construction up 5 percent, it said in a statement.  CNH Global NV (CNH) , which manufactures agricultural and
construction equipment, and  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  are scheduled to
report earnings for the quarter ended Dec. 31 tomorrow.  “It’s hard to go wrong with these companies,” said White,
who helps oversee about $315 billion. “We have a big
infrastructure and industrial theme in our portfolio right
now.”  For Caterpillar, “demand for construction equipment is
improving,” as customers continue to rebuild their fleets, it
said Jan. 26. McCarthy has an “outperform” recommendation on
the company, which is forecasting that total revenue will be in
the range of $68 billion to $72 billion this year.  Earnings ‘Upside’  Westport, Connecticut-based  Terex Corp. (TEX)  and Oshkosh, in
Oshkosh,  Wisconsin , also provide “upside to earnings estimates
in the mid-term” because of their exposure to the U.S.
construction industry, Duignan said. She raised these stocks to
“overweight” from “neutral” earlier this month; McCarthy
also recently upgraded Terex to “outperform” from “neutral.”  Shares of Terex, which makes aerial work platforms and
cranes, and Oshkosh, a commercial-truck manufacturer, have
outperformed the market by 98 percent and 55 percent since Oct.
3, 2011, when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to a one-year
low. This followed almost 7 months of underperformance, when
Terex and Oshkosh shares lagged behind the  S&P 500  by 59 percent
and 43 percent.  Manitowoc Co. (MTW) ,  Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  and  Illinois Tool Works
Inc. (ITW)  also have large end-market exposure to this industry, said
McCarthy, who maintains “outperform” recommendations on these
companies. Manitowoc makes cranes used in construction;
Ingersoll-Rand’s products include air-conditioning systems.  ‘Mood is Changing’  The “mood is changing now” for nonresidential
construction, according to  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , and the electrical-
products maker is forecasting “continued recovery into 2012,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alexander Cutler said on a
Jan. 26 conference call.  Even so, the Cleveland-based company reported operating
earnings of $1.08 a share for the period ended Dec. 31, missing
the average analyst estimate of $1.11, in part because customers
in its U.S. electrical business delayed shipments, Cutler said
in a statement. The revenue shortfall probably was driven by
temporary factors and shouldn’t have “a significant impact” on
sales this year, he said. McCarthy has an “outperform”
recommendation on the company.  Nonresidential construction exhibits “late-cycle” growth
because the design and building process may take several years
from inception to completion, said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . As a result,
companies planning projects must have confidence in the economic
outlook, he said.  “Developers have to see not only that demand has improved,
but that the improvements are sustainable,” Price said.  Expanding U.S. Economy  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
three months ended Dec. 31 after rising 1.8 percent in the
previous quarter, which was less than the median forecast of 3
percent in a Bloomberg News survey. Meanwhile, payrolls expanded
by 200,000 in December, following a revised 100,000 gain in
November, Labor Department data show.  “The tone in nonresidential construction is changing”
after years of pessimism, Price said. “We’re finally starting
to see this sector perk up.”  Even so, the jobless rate remains elevated by historic
standards -- at  8.5 percent  in December compared with less than
5 percent before the 18-month recession began in late 2007 --and
private nonresidential spending is about 33 percent below its
January 2008 peak, so “there’s still a ways to go,” Price
said.  Later Rebound  Lackluster construction spending is a result of the
economy’s sluggishness, Baker said. The architecture
association’s billing index historically has led improvements in
building activity by about nine to 12 months; because this
recovery has been so weak, a construction rebound is coming
later in the economic cycle as “companies don’t need to add new
facilities until they’re seeing growth,” he said.  Illinois Tool Works, which makes fasteners, is forecasting
a “modest recovery” this year, with global growth in its
construction-products segment between 3 percent and 5 percent,
Vice Chairman David Parry predicted at the Glenview-based
company’s Dec. 2 investor meeting. “I think we’ve hit bottom,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  