-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Stalls
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-30T21:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-stalled-in-december-as-americans-boosted-savings.html
Consumer spending  stalled in
December as Americans took advantage of a jump in incomes to
restore depleted savings, indicating households remain focused
on repairing finances.  Purchases were little changed after rising 0.1 percent the
prior month, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent increase in sales.
Incomes climbed by the most in almost a year, pushing the
savings rate to a four-month high.  The data illustrate the importance of sustained gains in
jobs and wages to ensuring the growth of household purchases,
the biggest part of the economy. The weak end to the quarter
makes it more likely that consumer spending will cool early this
year, underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to leave
interest rates low until 2014.  “A pause in spending is not a bad thing if it has the
income behind it,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit
Suisse in New York, who correctly projected spending would be
unchanged. “Household saving is really the main source of
future spending.”  Stocks dropped amid concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis as
European leaders sparred with  Greece  over a second rescue
program. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,313.01 at the close in New York.  Treasury securities  rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.85
percent from 1.89 percent late on Jan. 27.  Euro-Area Confidence  Elsewhere today, Euro-area confidence in the economic
outlook rose less than projected in January as the region’s
leaders struggled to fix the financial crisis. An index of
executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
advanced to 93.4 from a revised 92.8 in December, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. It marked the first gain
since February 2011.  In  Asia , Chinese officials held off on a reduction in bank
reserve requirements that some economists had predicted would
come before a week-long holiday ending Jan. 28, suggesting they
are cautious on more monetary easing.  Economists’ projections for U.S. consumer spending in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from decreases of 0.3 percent to
increases of 0.6 percent.  Incomes (PITLCHNG)  climbed 0.5 percent in December, the most since
March. Economists forecast incomes would climb 0.4 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey. Wages and salaries increased
0.4 percent after little change a month earlier.  More Savings  The gain in income helped push the  savings rate  up to 4
percent in December from 3.5 percent the prior month, a sign
consumers may be working to restore depleted accounts. It was
the biggest increase in the rate since April 2010, taking it to
the highest level since August.  Adjusted for inflation, which are the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product, consumer spending dropped 0.1
percent, the worst performance since August.  Restrained consumer spending last quarter prevented growth
from meeting economists’ forecast. The world’s largest economy
expanded 2.8 percent in the final three months of 2011, compared
with a 3 percent estimate. Household purchases rose 2 percent.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in  New York  lowered their
tracking estimate for spending this quarter to 1.4 percent after
today’s report from a prior forecast of 1.9 percent because of
the loss of momentum heading into 2012.  Weak Recovery  For all of last year, consumer spending rose 2.2 percent
after advancing 2 percent in 2010, marking the weakest two-year
performance of any expansion since World War II.  Retail sales, an earlier gauge of demand,  showed  spending
lost momentum each month in the fourth quarter. Sales slowed
from a 0.7 percent gain in October to a 0.1 percent increase in
December. Merchants including Macy’s Inc., Gap Inc. and Target
Corp. cut prices to attract more business during the  holiday
shopping season .  “Unemployment has remained stubbornly high,” Sandra
Cochran, chief executive officer of  Cracker Barrel Old Country
Store Inc. (CBRL) , said during a Jan. 11 conference. “This has focused
the industry on price and prompted many of our competitors to
remain very focused on discounting.”  Bigger gains in hiring may give households the confidence
to boost spending. The jobless rate dropped to 8.5 percent in
December, the lowest level in almost three years, and employers
added 200,000 new workers to payrolls, according to Labor
Department data.  Less Pessimistic  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment rose in December to the highest level in 11
months, and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort index has  climbed 
from its 2011 low in November.  More confidence will help overcome declining real-estate
values. A report tomorrow from S&P/Case-Shiller is projected to
show  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped 3.3 percent in the 12
months to November, according to economists surveyed.  A measure of prices tied to consumer spending advanced 2.4
percent in December from a year earlier, the smallest 12-month
gain since April. The Fed’s long-term goal is 2 percent, policy
makers’ said last week.  Excluding food and energy costs, the price gauge increased
0.2 percent in December, and was up 1.8 percent over the past 12
months, the biggest gain since March 2010.  Fed officials said last week their benchmark  interest rate 
will stay low until at least late 2014 and they forecast
unemployment will “decline only gradually.” They previously
had vowed to keep rates low until at least the middle of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  