-- Corn, Soybean Futures Decline as Rain May Boost Crops in Argentina, Brazil
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-01-30T20:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/corn-soybean-futures-decline-as-rain-may-boost-crops-in-argentina-brazil.html
Corn fell for the first time in
eight sessions and soybeans dropped the most in four months on
speculation that rain in  South America  will boost crop
potential, reducing demand for supplies from the U.S., the
world’s biggest exporter.  About 90 percent of the fields in Argentina and  Brazil  will
get as much as 3 inches (7.6 centimeters) of rain during the
next 10 days, helping corn to pollinate and boosting flowering
in soybeans, Global Weather Monitoring said today in a report.
The countries are the biggest soybean growers after the U.S.  “Rainfall will be beneficial for boosting yields,” Chad Henderson, a market analyst for Prime Agricultural Consultants
Inc. in Brookfield,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone interview.
“The rains should halt any further deterioration in yields and
slow buying of U.S. grains.”  Corn futures for March delivery fell 1.6 percent to close
at $6.3175 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
The price gained 8.1 percent in the previous seven sessions on
speculation that dry weather would reduce South American yields
and boost demand for U.S. supplies.  Soybean futures for March delivery declined 2.8 percent to
$11.8525 a bushel in Chicago, the biggest drop since Sept. 30.
The commodity jumped 5.2 percent the past two weeks.  Prices also fell on speculation that demand will slow as
the dollar gains and concern mounts that European leaders will
fail to stem the region’s debt crisis, Henderson said. The
dollar rose the most in two weeks against a basket of six major
currencies, while the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  Spot Index of 24
commodities declined the most since Jan. 20.  The U.S. was the world’s largest exporter of both
commodities in the year that ended Sept. 30, according to
government estimates. Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at
$66.7 billion in 2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  