-- Costa Concordia Wreck May Take as Long as 10 Months to Remove
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-30T11:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/costa-concordia-wreck-may-take-as-long-as-10-months-to-remove.html
The wreck of the cruise liner Costa
Concordia will take as long as 10 months to remove as bad
weather halted an operation to unload fuel from the vessel, said
the civil protection agency.  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Costa Concordia, which hit rocks and
capsized on Jan. 13 just hours after leaving port near  Rome  with
4,200 passengers, is carrying 500,000 gallons of fuel. Oil
removal operations may take at least 28 days, Coast Guard
Admiral Ilarione Dell’Anna said on Jan. 23.  Rescue operations to find 16 missing people resumed today
in the submerged part of the vessel. Divers had to suspend
operations yesterday because the ship shifted by 4 centimeters.
Italian search teams found a body on Jan. 28, raising the death
toll to 17.  “It will be a long operation but we need to make sure the
holiday season won’t be ruined,” Mayor of Giglio Sergio Ortelli
said on SkyTG24.  Miami-based Carnival’s Italian unit reached a damage-
settlement agreement with consumer groups last week as the
company was sued in Miami and  Chicago . Insurance costs for the
accident may reach $1 billion once environmental damage and
injuries are tallied, Moody’s Investors Service said Jan. 23.
Most of the losses will be incurred by reinsurers, Moody’s said.  Genoa-based Costa Crociere agreed to pay 11,000 euros
($14,500) to every passenger of the cruise, plus reimburse
expenses including the cost of the cruise. Concordia’s Captain
Francesco Schettino was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for
allegedly causing the wreck and abandoning the ship. Bruno
Leporatti, Schettino’s lawyer, has said the captain didn’t
abandon the ship and wrote in a Jan. 16 statement that his
actions saved many lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  