-- Costs of Stricter CO2 Goal for EU Nations Drop, Study Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-30T14:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/costs-of-stricter-co2-goal-for-eu-nations-drop-analysis-shows.html
The costs of tightening the European
Union’s carbon-reduction targets are smaller than previously
estimated, an analysis by the EU regulatory arm showed.  The bill for moving to a 30 percent emissions-reduction
target in 2020 from the current goal of cutting  greenhouse gases 
by 20 percent would range from 10 euros ($13.10) per capita in
the  Czech Republic  to 136 euros in Luxembourg, according to the
EU document published today. Four out of 27 nations in the bloc
--  Estonia ,  Latvia , Bulgaria and  Romania  -- would observe a
profit from 7 euros to 54 euros per capita, it showed.  “The analysis shows that the 20 percent emissions
reductions target will be less costly, for the EU as a whole as
well as for each member state individually, than was assumed in
2008 when the legislation was negotiated,” the commission said
on its website. “This means that the 30 percent reduction
scenario has become also considerably less costly too.”  Environmental lobbies and companies including  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  have been urging the EU to adopt a more ambitious
climate goal and curb supply of allowances in the bloc’s
emissions-trading system, the world’s largest, after carbon
price slumped to a four-year low last year. EU governments,
which demanded the cost analysis at national level before any
decisions on future greenhouse-gas targets, are set to discuss
the document at a meeting of environment ministers on March 9.  70 Billion Euros  Member states remain divided on whether to raise the
stringency of the EU’s climate policies, a step that would cost
the bloc a total of 70 billion euros, according to the analysis.
While western European countries have voiced support for tighter
pollution caps on companies, eastern nations have in previous
years tended to favor a more cautious approach and said a more
ambitious approach could hurt their economic competitiveness.  “Last year saw massive flooding and wildfires, punishing
lives and costing hundreds of billions of euros,” Joris den
Blanken, climate policy adviser at Greenpeace in Brussels, said
by e-mail. “Europe cannot continue coasting towards a cushy
climate target. This is also an opportunity to cut out ruinous
fuel costs that are sapping our economic strength.”  To encourage low-income countries to tighten the goal to 30
percent, a target that would involve a 25 percent reduction in
domestic emissions and the use of imported credits to account
for the remaining 5 percent, the EU may withhold some carbon
permits from high-income member nations after 2012, the
commission said.  Price Increase  “In the extreme case where only higher income member
states contribute to a set aside, revenues for lower income
member states may rise by as much as 80 percent in 2020,”
according to the analysis.  Higher-income countries including  Austria ,  Belgium ,  France ,
 Germany ,  Italy , Luxembourg, the Netherlands and the U.K.,
wouldn’t lose out under such a scenario thanks to a price
increase that a set-aside would cause, the commission said.  The EU emissions trading system, or ETS, is the bloc’s key
tool to achieve its climate policy goals. It imposes pollution
curbs on more than 11,000 companies, which will have to buy an
increasing share of their allowances at auctions in the next
phase of the program that begins in 2013.  The 30 percent emission-reduction scenario analyzed by the
commission assumes a reduction in the number of allowances to be
auctioned in 2020 to 944 million from 1.285 billion under the
existing target, or a cut of 341 million, the analysis showed.  Stricter Target  “If the 30 percent target in the ETS would be implemented
by a reduction in auctioned allowances, it is estimated that
overall auctioning revenues for member states in the year 2020
would be up to 7 billion euros or around one-third higher than
with the current 20 percent target, increasing auction revenues
to around 28.5 billion,” according to the document.  A shift to a stricter emissions-reduction target would
require additional investment that would be “proportionally
higher” in the group of lower-income EU nations, including
 Bulgaria , Romania, Latvia, Lithuania,  Poland ,  Slovakia , Estonia,
 Hungary , Czech Republic, Malta, Slovenia and  Portugal , the
commission said in the analysis today.  In addition to the partial set-aside of permits, the EU has
at least two other mechanisms that would “balance out”
differences between member states: funds from the bloc’s 2014-
2020 budget and transfer of emission allocations in non-ETS
sectors, the commission said in the analysis.  Long-Term Goals  Carbon permits for delivery in December pared early losses
and traded 1.6 percent down at 8.10 euros a metric ton as of
1:05 p.m. on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The commission analysis is a strategy paper to be presented
to member states for consideration and does not constitute a
legislative proposal.  Denmark , which holds the bloc’s rotating
presidency, vowed to stimulate a debate on the EU long-term
carbon goals at the March meeting of environment ministers.  In a policy paper presented last year the commission said
the EU may cut  greenhouse gases  25 percent by 2020 compared with
1990, as long as it steps up energy-saving measures. The most
cost-effective way to achieve the 2050 goal of reducing carbon
by at least 80 percent would be to lower discharges by 40
percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040, according to the paper,
known as the Low-Carbon Roadmap.  Denmark, which will chair the March meeting of ministers,
proposed that member states “recognize” the commission’s
findings and “invite” the EU regulator to “present timely
options for delivering the reductions in the Low Carbon Economy
Roadmap to 2050 for the period to 2030,” according to a draft
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The draft conclusions are subject to talks by diplomats
from member states and may be changed before the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 