-- Czechs Reduce 2012 Growth Outlook as Cabinet to Seek Budget-Spending Cuts
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-31T13:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/czechs-may-cut-2012-growth-outlook-as-cabinet-seeks-budget-cuts.html
The Czech  Finance Ministry  cut its
economic forecast for this year because of the effects of the
euro area’s debt crisis and said the government will have to
take measures to meet its budget-deficit target.  The Prague-based ministry lowered its 2012  gross domestic
product  growth forecast to 0.2 percent, compared with a previous
estimate in November of 1 percent, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. The outlook for 2013 growth was cut to 1.6
percent from 2 percent.  The ministry expects the public-finance deficit, the fiscal
yardstick for assessing a European Union member’s readiness to
adopt the euro, would account for as much as 3.8 percent of GDP
this year if “measures” are not taken, compared with the
target of 3.5 percent of GDP as set in the budget law.  “The new predictions are clouded by the marked downward
risks because of the great uncertainty over the next
developments in the eurozone,” according to the ministry
statement. “Future developments in the Czech economy will
depend in large part on how and how quickly the current
situation in eurozone country’s with problems are solved.”  Prime Minister Petr Necas’s plan to trim the budget gap to
less than the European Union limit of 3 percent of economic
output by 2013 has helped shield Czech bonds from the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis. Czech funding costs are the lowest
in emerging  Europe  and the koruna outperformed  Poland  and
 Hungary  last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spending Cuts  The government may need to spending cuts of between 20
billion koruna ($1 billion) and 26 billion koruna, Finance
Minister Miroslav Kalousek said in an interview after the
forecasts were released.  The priority is to meet the deficit target even if the
economy performs worse than currently expected, Kalousek said,
adding the government won’t need to amend this year’s budget law
and is able to cut its operational spending to meet the target
if the economy develops in line with the latest forecast.  The premium investors demand for holding the Czech 10-year
government bond over a similar German security was 129 basis
points, or 1.29 percentage points as of 2:32 p.m. in  Prague ,
compared with 375 points for Poland, the largest post-communist
economy in the EU, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread
for Slovakia, a euro-area member, was 271 basis points.  The cost of insuring against a Czech default is the second
lowest in emerging Europe after euro-region member Estonia at
143 basis points, compared with 240 points for Poland, CMA’s
data on credit-default swaps show.  ‘Prudently Managed’  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 24 raised the  Czech Republic ’s
long-term foreign-currency debt two steps to AA-, the fourth-
highest grade and on a par with  Japan . The upgrade reflected a
change in rating criteria that highlighted the Czech
government’s low indebtedness and the “prudently managed and
balanced economy,” S&P said.  The ministry said it sees average inflation at 3.2 percent
this year and 1.5 percent in 2013. Government-sector debt in
2012 will probably rise to 43.1 percent of GDP from an estimated
40.7 percent last year.  “It’s not a result we should rejoice, but it doesn’t
represent any disaster either,”  Pavel Sobisek , a Prague-based
analyst at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a report today. “Overall we
regard the Finance Ministry’s forecast as realistic and
adequately conservative.”  The economy will expand 2.7 percent and 3.6 percent in 2014
and 2015, respectively, according to the forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  