-- Dana Sukuk Yield Soars to 2-Week High on Payment Concern: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-01-30T13:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/dana-sukuk-yield-soars-to-2-week-high-on-payment-concern-abu-dhabi-mover.html
The yield on  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) ’s $1
billion Islamic bonds jumped to the highest level in two weeks
as the United Arab Emirates energy company reported full-year
results without providing an update on the sukuk repayment.  The rate on the 7.5 percent sukuk due in October climbed 79
basis points to 64.69 percent, the highest since Jan. 16, at
5:35 p.m. in Dubai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price dropped to 68.17 cents on the dollar.  The company “continues to balance operating and necessary
capital expenditure within the available finance resources,” it
said today, without providing further information on the sukuk.
Dana Gas said Jan. 17 it would meet debt obligations and has
appointed a financial adviser. Dana Gas may restructure the
debt, Bank of America Corp. said in a report on Jan. 24, cutting
the shares to “underperform.”  “No one cares about the past,”  Akos Kuti , Budapest-based
head of research at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said in a phone
interview. “Investors are focusing on the future and whether
the company will have enough financial resources to cover the $1
billion payment. The figures for 2011 are not enough.”  The producer of oil and gas mostly from Egypt and Iraq said
 net income  advanced to 506 million dirhams ($138 million) from
158 million dirhams a year earlier. The average estimate of
seven analysts was for a profit of 524 million dirhams,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company had cash
and bank balances of 411 million dirhams at the end of last year
compared with 583 million a year earlier.  Dana Gas  shares rose  2.7 percent to 38 fils at the 2 p.m.
close in Dubai, trimming their 12-month slump to 41 percent.  The external public relations company for Dana Gas didn’t
immediately respond to questions from Bloomberg today.  “Investors want to see details, they want to see how Dana
Gas can survive in the current financial situation,” Kuti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  