-- Dana Gas Sukuk Yields Near Record on Payment Risk: Arab Credit
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-31T08:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/dana-gas-sukuk-yields-near-record-on-lack-of-payment-strategy-arab-credit.html
Dana Gas PJSC’s (DANA)  Islamic bonds
plunged, lifting yields close to a record, after the United Arab
Emirates fuel producer failed to disclose a plan for repaying
the debt when it reported full-year earnings.  The $1 billion of 7.5 percent Shariah-compliant notes
maturing in October fell to 68.14 on the dollar yesterday,
pushing up the yield 86 basis points to 64.8 percent, the
highest since Jan. 16. That day, the rate reached an all-time
high of 71.8 percent. The yield was at 63.1 percent at 12:42
p.m. in Dubai. Dana Gas, which said yesterday 2011 profit more
than tripled, didn’t give investors details of how it plans to
pay the sukuk.  “They are running out of time,” Ahmad Alanani, the Dubai-
based director for the  Middle East  at investment bank Exotix
Ltd., which trades debt, said by phone yesterday. “The
liquidity situation is very, very poor. There may be the
willingness to pay, but there may not be the means.”  Dana Gas produces and explores for oil and gas in Egypt and
the Kurdistan region of Iraq. In both areas, it’s seeking to
boost output at the same time as it faces difficulty in getting
paid. The company had  cash and bank  balances of 411 million
dirhams ($112 million) at the end of last year, compared with
583 million dirhams a year earlier. It “continues to balance
operating and necessary capital expenditure within the available
finance resources,” it said yesterday. Dana Gas said Jan. 17 it
would meet debt obligations and appointed a financial adviser.  The external public relations company for Dana Gas didn’t
immediately respond to questions from Bloomberg News yesterday.  Restructuring Debt  Dana Gas, based in the U.A.E.’s sheikhdom of Sharjah, may
restructure the bonds, Bank of America Corp. said in a Jan. 24
report, while cutting the shares to underperform. “A hybrid
solution of rolling over the debt, partial cash repayment could
be negotiated,” the bank said.  The company may seek to extend  payments  by five years,
Exotix’s Alanani said. Holders would receive about 61.5 cents on
the dollar for their initial investment, he said.  The sukuk lost 7.5 percent in 2011, compared with an 8
percent gain for Islamic bonds in the GCC, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai
GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index shows. Non-Islamic debt in developed
markets returned 8.5 percent in the same period, JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Composite Index shows.  Has Options  Dana Gas has options that would allow it to repay the debt,
including selling some assets or seeking additional credit from
lenders, Atul Gharde, a credit analyst with SJS Markets Limited
in  Hong Kong , said in a telephone interview on Jan. 30.  “I’m not concerned about whether they have options, I’m
concerned that they haven’t announced any plans and time is
running out,” Gharde said. The company risked being forced to
refinance the debt on unfavorable terms if it approached the
debt maturity deadline without the means to repay, he said.  Dana Gas said on Jan. 17 it “consistently paid on or
before the due date the sukuk profit amount and will continue to
do so pursuant with its obligations.”  Egypt’s government owes the company about $200 million
related to natural-gas sales, Chief Executive Officer Ahmed al-
Arbeed said in October. In Kurdistan in northern  Iraq , oil and
gas producers have been forced to wait for payments as a dispute
over revenue from the natural resources continues between the
regional administration and the central government.  Dana Gas collected $177 million in cash due from Egypt and
Kurdistan last year, it said in the Jan. 17 statement.  41 Percent Drop  Net income  advanced to 506 million dirhams from 158 million
dirhams a year earlier. The average estimate of seven analysts
on Bloomberg was for a profit of 524 million dirhams. The shares
rose for a second day, climbing 7.9 percent to 41 fils, trimming
their 12-month slump to 36 percent.  The company has struggled to find a clear financial
strategy over the last two years. James Dewar left his role as
chief financial officer at the end of 2010 and the company has
not yet named a replacement. Dana Gas said in November it was in
talks with banks for advice on its financial strategy and plans
to list the company’s exploration and production business on the
London Stock Exchange.  The company said last year it would keep all of its gas
businesses in  Egypt , reversing a earlier plan to sell stakes in
the operations there.  “They need to put something on the table by April” if
they are going to seek to restructure the debt, Alanani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  