-- Dana Gas Full-Year Profit Jumps Three-Fold on Higher Production, Oil Price
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-01-30T05:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/dana-gas-full-year-profit-jumps-three-fold-on-higher-production-oil-price.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , a producer of oil and
gas mostly from  Egypt  and Iraq, said full-year profit grew more
than three-fold helped by higher production and prices.  Net income  advanced to 506 million dirhams ($138 million)
from 158 million dirhams a year ago, the Sharjah, United Arab
Emirates-based company said in a  statement  to the Abu Dhabi
bourse today. The  mean estimate  of seven analysts was for a
profit of 524 million dirhams.  Dana Gas shares have dropped 42 percent in the past year on
concern it won’t have enough money to repay a $1 billion Islamic
bond due in October. The shares erased some of the losses after
the company said Jan. 17 it would meet debt  obligations  and
appointed a financial adviser. Dana Gas may restructure the
debt, Bank of America Corp. said in a report on Jan. 24, cutting
the shares to “underperform.”  The company “continues to balance operating and necessary
capital expenditure within the available finance resources,”
Dana Gas said in the statement, without providing further
information on the sukuk. It had cash and bank balances of 411
million dirhams at the end of last year compared with 583
million a year earlier, it said.  Revenue  Gross revenue increased 42 percent to 2.53 billion dirhams,
while net cash generated from operations was 357 million
dirhams. The company received 649 million dirhams in payments
from Egypt and the Kurdistan region of  Iraq  last year.  The average production grew 19 percent to 66,200 barrels of
oil equivalent a day last year, according to the statement. The
increase was mainly due to a rise in output from Kurdistan as
the company began production from two liquefied petroleum gas
facilities there. The group’s gross proven reserves were 88
million barrels of oil equivalent at the end of 2011.  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half the world’s
oil, gained 25 percent to an average of $109.02 a barrel last
quarter from a year earlier.  “We are now very focused on receivables collections while
preserving our assets for benefit of all stakeholders,” Chief
Executive Officer Ahmed Al-Arbeed said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  