-- Davos Tells EU to Fix Crisis for Good After Two Years of Failure
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/davos-tells-euro-leaders-to-fix-crisis-for-good-after-two-years-of-failure.html
European leaders were told by policy
makers, bankers and academics from around the world that it’s
time to end the region’s debt crisis and measures aimed at
simply containing it are no longer enough.  Five days of debating and partying at the  World Economic
Forum ’s annual meeting ended yesterday, with the euro area under
pressure to swiftly deliver a bigger bailout fund that could
help build a firewall worth more than $1 trillion. Leaders were
also told they need to finish crafting tougher budget rules, and
finally make Greece’s debt burden manageable.  Failure to comply would threaten economic growth and
financial markets, as well as deprive the region of more outside
support, said delegates including billionaire investor  George Soros  and U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . How far
Europe’s officials are willing to go in response may be revealed
at a Brussels summit today.  “There’s a very strong view of get on with it, get this
thing done,” Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told Bloomberg
Television in Davos,  Switzerland .  The caution against complacency came toward the end of a
month in which signs of stabilization emerged in Europe as
market lending rates eased, economic indicators showed some
resilience and bond yields fell from  Spain (GDBR10)  to  Italy (GDBR10) . At the same
time, banks are still cutting lending, Portuguese borrowing
costs are surging and Greece faces a 14.5 billion ($19 billion)
euro bond repayment in March.  Spillover  Carney estimated Europe’s woes will subtract 1 percentage
point from global growth by the end of 2012 “and that’s in a
world where this crisis is contained.”  “It’s not just a euro-zone crisis, it’s a crisis that
could have spillover effects around the world,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said. She came
to Davos promoting her push for $500 billion in new crisis-
fighting money for the Washington-based lender.  The main solution proposed was increasing the euro region’s
own funds from the planned limit of 500 billion euros that will
take effect in July. EU officials already plan to reassess that
amount in March and have the option to push it even higher
through leverage. That could swell it to a level triggering
donations to the IMF from around the world and result in an
overall warchest worth at least $1.1 trillion  Stronger Firewall  Both the French and Spanish finance ministers told Davos
delegates they’d support increasing the rescue fund even in the
face of German opposition.  “The only way Europe’s going to be successful in holding
this together, making monetary union work, is to build a
stronger firewall,” Geithner said. Soros said in an interview
“not enough has been done to ringfence” the region from the
risk of a Greek default.  Strengthening the defences was regarded as a pre-requisite
by officials from the U.K. to  Japan  if they are to stump up
emergency cash for the region and channel it through the IMF.
European governments must show the “colour of their money,”
said U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  There was unanimity that  Greece (GRBD10)  remains Europe’s weakest
link as talks between the government and bond holders on a debt
restructuring dragged on through the weekend. Failure to strike
a deal could deprive the country of a second bailout package
required to keep its finances afloat.  Greek Fallout  “The fact we’re still at the beginning of 2012 talking
about Greece is a sign this problem hasn’t been dealt with,”
Osborne said.  Bank chief executives in Davos disagreed over the fallout
if  Greece  reneged on its debt. Deutsche Bank AG’s  Josef Ackermann  said in an interview that a default would be “playing
with fire,” while JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Jamie Dimon  told CNBC
it would not be a “disaster.”  For all the angst, conference-goers expressed optimism that
European leaders may now be more aware of the risks of failure
so more willing to act.  “There is evidence Europe is starting to turn a bit of a
corner,” John Phizackerley, Nomura’s chief executive officer
for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said in an interview.  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  used her keynote
speech to rebuff calls for bigger bailout reserves, she is
“absolutely convinced that we will be able to master this
crisis.” Merkel meets other euro leaders in Brussels today to
continue work on fortifying the region’s budget rules.  ECB Praise  If there was a hero of the week it was ECB President  Mario Draghi , who won widespread praise for his decision last month to
loan banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros for the next three
years. Still, even his fans warned it only gave governments and
banks breathing space to remedy their problems.  “I’m really glad the ECB took these actions, but let’s not
be complacent,” World Bank President Robert Zoellick said.
“This buys time, you still have to act.”  The mood was bleakest among economists and historians.
 Nouriel Roubini , co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC,
described  Europe  as a “slow motion train wreck” and said
Greece may be forced out of the euro within a year.  Harvard University professor Niall Ferguson said the crisis
remained one of solvency. Only an agreement by  Germany  to
transfer cash to indebted nations and issue joint debt would end
it.  “Optimism is ill-advised,” said Ferguson, a Bloomberg
News contributor. “As often happens, there is temporary respite
and then markets wake up and everyone realises the crisis isn’t
over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Jana Randow in Davos at  jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  