-- Denmark Loses Yield Advantage Over Germany
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-30T10:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/denmark-loses-borrowing-advantage-over-germany-copenhagen-mover.html
The advantage on 10-year borrowing
that  Denmark ’s government has enjoyed relative to  Germany  since
November has evaporated as yields on bonds from the largest euro
member decline.  The Danish government 10-year  yield converged  with
borrowing costs on similar-maturity German bunds as of 11:48
a.m. in Copenhagen. The spread had been negative, meaning
Denmark has paid less than Germany to borrow, since Nov. 23,
peaking at 27 basis points on Dec. 1. The spread was negative in
January 2011 for four days, for the first time since 2007.  European leaders meet in Brussels today to complete a
deficit-control treaty and endorse the statutes of a 500
billion-euro ($661 billion) rescue fund set to start this year.
The  European Central Bank  last month offered banks unlimited
three-year loans, easing concern over the debt crisis and
sapping a capital flight to non-euro countries such as Denmark.  “We have a lot of plumbing in place now, including the ECB
long tenders and an underlying economy that looks less bad than
thought in Europe,” said Thomas Groenkjaer, chief analyst at
Danske Markets in Copenhagen, by phone today.  Waning demand for Danish bonds may ease pressure on the
central bank, which has cut  interest rates  and sold kroner to
defend its peg to the euro. The bank reduced rates to a record-
low of 0.7 percent last month. On Jan. 3, the central bank said
it purchased a net 17.8 billion kroner ($3.06 billion) in
foreign currency, the biggest monthly amount since May 2010.  Nordic Moves  The Nordic country had seen an influx of capital as
investors rewarded governments with low debt burdens. Denmark’s
public debt load will reach 44.6 percent of the economy this
year, compared with an average of 90.4 percent in the 17-member
euro region, the European Commission estimated on Nov. 10.  Similar spread moves have also occurred in Norway and
 Sweden  this year, which are also outside the common currency.
Norway’s 10-year note today yields 55 basis points more than
German debt, after that difference narrowed to as little as 5
basis points on Jan. 16. Sweden’s 10-year note yields 8 basis
points less than the German equivalent, down from an advantage
of 64 basis points at the end of November.  Greece  and its private creditors said Jan. 28 they expect
to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders signalled
they would accept European government demands for a bigger cut
in their debt holdings.  Denmark’s twin housing and banking crises combined with
limited liquidity in its government debt market are showing
signs of giving investors pause as the Nordic country teeters on
the brink of recession. Denmark’s economic growth rate will
slump to 0.6 percent this year from 1 percent in 2011 as the
country loses competitiveness, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said Jan. 26.  Exports Depressed  “The renewed global slowdown will depress exports and
delay the hoped-for pick-up in investment and private
consumption,” the OECD said in the 26 report. “Competitiveness
has deteriorated markedly since 2000 and the recent improvements
were not sufficient to fully reverse previous losses.”  At the same time, German business confidence is showing
signs of improving, signaling the economy is weathering the
worst of  Europe ’s debt woes. Germany’s 10-year government bonds
rose today for a fourth day as European Union leaders prepared
to gather for their latest summit to rescue the region from its
fiscal crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  