-- Glaeser: Desegregation Is Unsung U.S. Success Story
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-01-30T23:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/desegregation-is-an-unsung-u-s-success-story-edward-glaeser.html
Even as  two-thirds of Americans  now
say that there are strong conflicts between rich and poor,
another great American division is slowly healing.  As  National African-American History Month  begins tomorrow,
we should celebrate the decline of racial segregation in America
for the fourth consecutive decade. While there are far too many
children -- of all races -- who are raised in the midst of
poverty and desperation, the lessening of segregation reminds us
that our nation continues to have a great ability to fight even
its worst problems.  The attached chart, from a new  Manhattan Institute  report I
co-wrote with  Jacob Vigdor  of  Duke University , shows the long
history of segregation across U.S. metropolitan areas from 1890
to 2010.  The figure displays two standard measures of segregation
that are typically called dissimilarity and isolation. The
dissimilarity index measures how uneven the black population is
within a metropolitan area. It asks what share of either blacks
(or non-blacks) would have to change neighborhoods to ensure
that each neighborhood had exactly the same racial composition.
The isolation index measures the share of the average African-
American’s neighborhood that is also African-American.  Rural Exodus  From 1890 to 1960, as blacks fled southern farms, seeking a
freer and more prosperous life in urban areas, our cities became
increasingly segregated. Across cities and metropolitan areas
from 1910 to 1970, the  growth in segregation  was larger where
there was a more rapidly growing black population.  Whites often bitterly opposed the influx of blacks into
their communities, sometimes violently, as with the  Chicago Race
Riot of 1919 , which started with “the drowning of an African-
American teenager who had crossed an invisible line at 29th
Street separating customarily segregated ‘white’ and ‘black’
beaches.” For many blacks, segregation was the only way to find
safety from white gangs and violence.  During the first half of the 20th century, segregation was
also enforced with legal tools. Some cities, such as Baltimore
and Louisville,  Kentucky , passed explicit racial zoning
ordinances, formally restricting the areas where  blacks could
live .  In my book, “Triumph of the City,” I relate the battle
against racial zoning in Baltimore, led by two pioneering black
lawyers,  W. Ashbie Hawkins  and  George W.F. McMechen , which
resulted in the 1917 Supreme Court ruling against explicit
racial zoning, Buchanan v. Warley.  Cities couldn’t zone by race, but developers could still
insert restrictive covenants into new subdivisions that
prevented units from being sold to minorities. Helen C.
Monchow’s 1928  study  of deed restrictions found that these
racial caveats were widespread in subdivision units built after
World War I. Only after World War II did Supreme Court Justice
Thurgood Marshall and the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People knock the teeth out of restrictive
covenants in the landmark case -- Shelley v. Kraemer -- which is
a wonderful fusion of civil rights and libertarianism.  The  case  didn’t ban restrictive covenants as such --
private persons could still write whatever they wanted -- but it
banned the use of governmental resources, such as police and
courts, to enforce racial restrictions on resale. Without public
enforcement, the covenants became irrelevant.  In 1957, a New York coalition of blacks, Jewish groups and
labor unions helped create the nation’s first  fair housing
ordinance , which made it illegal to refuse to sell or rent on
the basis of “race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry.” A decade of civil-rights activism led to the  federal
Fair Housing Act of 1968 , which made racial discrimination in
housing illegal nationwide.  Legal Groundwork  These political and legal victories didn’t magically erase
racism or change America overnight. They didn’t automatically
integrate neighborhoods, but they set America on the road toward
a more integrated society.  My past work with David Cutler and Vigdor  found  that in
1960, blacks made up less than 1 percent of the population in 56
percent of city  census tracts  (tracts are census-defined units
with about 5,000 inhabitants). Almost one in five tracts had no
black Americans. By 1990, only about 7 percent of city tracts
were 100 percent white.  As the figure shows, as of 1970, almost 80 percent of
either whites or blacks would have had to move neighborhoods in
order to achieve an even distribution of  whites  and blacks
within the average metropolitan area. By 1990, that
dissimilarity measure had dropped to 66 percent; it is 54
percent today. We are very far from living in a perfectly
integrated society, but our nation is far more integrated than
it was 40 years ago.  The progress over the last decade has been  particularly
dramatic . Every one of the 10 largest metropolitan areas
experienced drops in both dissimilarity and isolation of 3.6
points or more. The isolation index is below 45 percent in every
one of those 10 largest areas, except for  Chicago . Long among
the most segregated places in America, the Windy City has
experienced a particularly dramatic decline in segregation since
2000.  The general decline in segregation has also been
accompanied by a change in its nature. Before 1968, segregation
is best understood as the result of hard, if often informal,
barriers against  black mobility . There were neighborhoods that
were simply off-limits. The effect was that blacks paid more for
housing, especially in more segregated cities.  Limited Choices  A core economic idea is that people pay higher prices when
their choices are limited, whether those limits come from tariff
barriers or racial restrictions. Thirty-five years ago, the
economists John Kain (one of my mentors) and John Quigley found
that blacks  paid more than whites  for comparable housing. My
work with Cutler and Vigdor found that before 1970, the price
and  rent premium  paid by blacks increased in more segregated
areas, as you would expect of a group that had a more limited
set of housing choices.  After 1970, however, that pricing pattern switched. By
1990, blacks were paying less for housing than whites,
especially in more segregated metropolitan areas. This switch
can be explained if segregation, post-1970, reflects white
preferences rather than barriers preventing black mobility. If
the segregation that remains is the result of whites liking to
live in primarily white neighborhoods, then we should expect
whites to pay a price for limiting their own choices, and that
is exactly what the data show.  The decline in segregation hasn’t been uniform across the
black population. Much of the decline reflects relatively well-
educated black Americans moving into  white districts . While that
freedom is something to celebrate, the exodus of the more
skilled left many urban neighborhoods behind, and the effect of
growing up in a segregated community appears to have gotten
 worse over time .  During the 20th century, blacks moved from being an
overwhelmingly rural community to having a large presence in
cities. They moved for economic opportunity and for freedom from
the Jim Crow laws of the South. Unfortunately, black migrants
were too often prevented from enjoying the full benefits of
freedom that city air can bring. Gradually, those barriers have
fallen and American cities are more integrated than they have
been since 1910. That is a triumph for blacks and whites alike.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 