-- Drugmakers Join Gates Foundation in Tropical-Disease Fight
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-30T13:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/drugmakers-join-gates-foundation-in-fighting-tropical-diseases.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , Sanofi and
other health-care companies are joining forces with the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation , governments and institutions to fight
so-called neglected tropical diseases such as leprosy.  Partners in the initiative, including 13 drugmakers,
pledged to come up with new products and infrastructure to
improve the lives of the 1.4 billion people affected by 10
illnesses such as  visceral leishmaniasis , river blindness and
lymphatic filariasis, the manufacturers said at a joint press
conference in London today.  The group will include the  World Bank , the U.S., U.K. and
United Arab Emirates governments and global health organizations
working to accelerate progress in treating debilitating and
fatal illnesses that thrive in hot and humid conditions.
Commitments total $785 million for research, development and
distribution, including $363 million from the foundation over
five years for research, the partners said.  “It used to be that people would commit to a donation but
nobody would order the drug because there wasn’t money to do the
delivery,”  Bill Gates , the co-founder of Microsoft Corp. who is
co-chairman of the foundation, said in an interview. “Here,
because you’ve got delivery money being committed and
manufacturing money being committed, every year the amount of
people who get this mass drug administration is going to be 10
times what it’s been.”  Diseases’ Toll  Visceral leishmaniasis, caused by a parasite attacking the
spleen and liver, can lead to death within two years if left
untreated, according to the  World Health Organization .  Leprosy ,
transmitted via droplets from the nose and mouth of untreated
patients, can cause nerve damage, leading to muscle weakness and
atrophy as well as permanent disabilities.  Participants in the neglected tropical diseases project
promised to sustain or expand existing drug donations to meet
demand through 2020, the group said today. They also committed
to sharing expertise and compounds to speed up the search for
new treatments. The program is intended to follow goals set out
in the WHO’s 2020 Roadmap on Neglected Tropical Diseases.  “Before, there were some initiatives here or there” to
halt or cure the illnesses,  Sanofi (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said at a press briefing. The joint initiative
“launches a real war against these 10 diseases. We are seeing
unprecedented collaboration, especially in R&D.”  The WHO’s goals are “completely unachievable” without the
joint effort, Gates said.  Foundation’s Pledge  The project is part of the Seattle-based Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation’s work on treating neglected tropical diseases
in the past decade. The foundation pledged on Jan. 26 to provide
$750 million in grants over six years to the Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to make up for cutbacks in
government donations.  In addition to Glaxo and Sanofi, drugmakers participating
in the project announced today include  Novartis AG (NOVN) ; Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co.; Pfizer Inc.;  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ; Gilead
Sciences Inc.; Merck & Co.;  Bayer AG (BAYN) ;  Merck KGaA (MRK) ; Eisai Co.;
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   “If you want to travel fast, travel alone; if you want to
travel far, travel in a group,” Glaxo CEO  Andrew Witty  said at
the main press conference, citing an African proverb.  Gates also said the public-private collaboration model
could be extended to other initiatives his foundation supports,
such as agriculture and education.  “The execution, excellence and depth of understanding the
problem is very strong in private-sector companies,” Gates said
in the interview. “If you can find a way to draw them in, it’s
absolutely the right way to do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in  London  via 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  