-- EBRD, Kremlin Investment Fund Buy Stakes in Micex-RTS Bourse
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-01-30T12:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ebrd-kremlin-investment-fund-buy-stakes-in-micex-rts-bourse-1-.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment
Fund agreed to buy 6.29 percent and 1.25 percent stakes in the
Micex-RTS exchange, respectively, according to a joint statement
e-mailed by the EBRD.  The EBRD was frustrated in its bid two years ago to buy a
10 percent stake in RTS for $75 million. The  Federal Financial
Markets Service  and the FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-
era KGB, wrote to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin requesting
legislation that would oblige foreign companies to seek approval
for stakes above 5 percent in key financial assets, Vedomosti
reported Sept. 30.  “The turmoil in the world economy gives added urgency to
the need to strengthen and deepen Russia’s capital markets so
that they can provide the liquidity which the domestic economy
needs,” Varel Freeman, a first vice-president at EBRD, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The government is courting Western investors to help
transform Moscow into a global financial center. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. are two of 23 banks helping  Russia 
manage its $34 billion privatization program over three years
and Goldman Sachs’s CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  and Citigroup’s CEO
Vikram Pandit are among 27 executives named to a board advising
the Kremlin on how to turn Moscow into a financial center to
rival  London  and  New York .  Terms of today’s deal were not disclosed. Russia’s Direct
Investment fund was set up in June to invest in modernizing
industries and help wean the economy off its dependence on
energy exports, which account for 17 percent of gross domestic
product. The investment in the exchange is its first ever
investment, the statement added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  