-- ECB Just Buying Time for Europe, Societe Generale’s Juckes Says
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-30T21:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ecb-just-buying-time-for-europe-societe-generale-s-juckes-says.html
Kit Juckes, head of currency
strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , comments on the euro,
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and the outlook for European
Central Bank policy.  Juckes spoke from London in a radio interview with Sara Eisen and  Michael McKee  on “Bloomberg on the Economy,” and in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Ken Prewitt.  On attitudes toward Europe’s debt crisis:  “You divide the world into two camps. There are those who
are just pessimistic, and those who are hopeful that the scale
of the monetary action by the ECB will lead to, if not the end,
then buying of time for politicians to get their act together
and prevent contagion of the Greek crisis into a European-wide
financial crisis.”  “Ultimately, the politicians either get  Europe  closer to
being a single country or they don’t. They’re just being bought
time by the central bank.”  On Portugal’s fiscal status:  “Portugal is next in line in terms of vulnerability, in
terms of an economy that is not getting out of crisis.”  “It is important if we want to stop contagion from  Greece ,
to Italy, Spain, to the rest of Europe, that we turn around
focus on getting Greece solved and putting up a firewall.”  On the ECB:  “They can have another long-term refinancing option. We
have massive growth in the ECB balance sheet; they may have
added 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of three-year liquidation
to the banking system. None of this money so far is turning up
in private-sector lending. We are going to have to have this
kind of liquidity for a long time before you see it have an
impact on the recession in Europe.”  On a potential ECB  interest-rate  cut:  “I’m sure we will get another, maybe not at the next
meeting, but they could take another 25 basis points off their
policy rate.”  On currency value:  “The euro and  U.S. dollar  is a losers’ race, and a pretty
close one. The Europeans have a bit further to cut rates and the
euro will probably be the weaker of the two over the next few
months.”  On investment options:  “Whether you look at an index based on the price of a Big
Mac or an iPad, you don’t want to go to the places that are
screamingly expensive.”  “Korea is cheaper, Mexico is relatively cheap, Canada is
cheaper than  Australia  at the moment. I want a high yield, but
without excessive valuation.”  On the  Federal Reserve :  “This Federal Reserve will be as easy as possible for as
long as possible. They will not declare victory until it is
absolutely guaranteed, and that’ll take years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  