-- Edwards Valve Inserted Straight Into Heart Has Improved Results in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-30T23:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/edwards-valve-inserted-straight-into-heart-has-improved-results-in-study.html
Elderly patients getting  Edwards
Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s Sapien heart valve implanted through the
ribs as part of an expanded access program reaped more benefit
than those observed in the initial trials, a study found.  After the original research, 822 more patients received the
device that replaces a leaky aortic valve. Thirty days later,
8.2 percent of those patients died, compared with 8.7 percent in
the initial trial. A year later, 23.6 percent of patients in the
expanded program died, fewer than those who participated in the
first study or who underwent standard open-heart surgery,
 Irvine , California-based Edwards said today in a statement.  Strokes were also lowest among patients who received the
device after the original study, a result that should ease
physician and investor concerns, said Jason Mills, an analyst
with Canaccord Adams Inc. in  San Francisco . The research shows
doctors are doing a better job selecting patients with damaged
aortic valves who will benefit from Sapien and have improved
their ability to implant them, he said in a telephone interview.  “The results exceeded our expectations by a considerable
margin, in every category,” Mills said. “The stroke rate was
the adverse event that everyone was focused on, with many
investors worried it could provide a hurdle to approval. The
stroke rate has declined markedly and directionally looks even
better than surgical valve replacement.”  Stroke Data  The research, funded by the company and presented at The
Society of Thoracic Surgeons’ annual meeting, found 2 percent of
patients in the later group getting Sapien suffered a stroke
within a month, compared with 7 percent in the initial study and
5.5 percent of those getting traditional surgery.  About 300,000 people in the U.S. suffer from  severe aortic
stenosis , which is a narrowing of the valve that typically
develops with age. While surgery to replace the valve can ease
the symptoms of breathlessness and weakness, many patients can’t
withstand the procedure that requires cracking open the ribs.  While almost all of the patients had serious heart failure
at the start of the expanded access program, most improved after
treatment. Seventy-seven percent of the survivors had the
mildest form of the condition, called class I or class II, a
month after treatment with the surgery known as transapical
valve replacement, up from 5 percent at the start of the study.  “We believe this more recent experience adds strong new
support to the transapical procedure as an important option for
patients who are at high-risk for surgery,” said Edwards Chief
Executive Officer Michael Mussallem, in a statement.  Edwards won U.S. approval last year for the Sapien valve
when inserted through the femoral artery for patients who aren’t
candidates for open heart surgery. The company is waiting for
 Food and Drug Administration  approval of the device for those at
high-risk from standard surgery, which includes a transapical
approach where the surgeon pierces the ribs and heart and puts
it directly in place.  Edwards fell 1.2 percent to $78.27 at the close in  New
York . The company declined 5.9 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  