-- Megaupload Arrests May Deter Technology Entrepreneurs
-- B y   R o b e r t   L e v i n e
-- 2012-01-30T17:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/megaupload-arrests-may-deter-technology-entrepreneurs-correct-.html
(Corrects writer’s name in Jan. 27 story.)  If Hollywood needed to cast a
villain for a movie about the fight against online piracy, it
couldn’t have done a whole lot better than Kim Dotcom.  The German computer programmer and founder of the online
file-storage service Megaupload lived larger than a James Bond
foe. Dotcom, who legally changed his name from Kim Schmitz,
lived in a $24 million mansion outside Auckland and drove luxury
cars with license plates that read “Mafia” and “Guilty.”  The former hacker, convicted in the early 2000s in
connection with one of the largest insider-trading scandals in
 Germany , is in legal trouble again. New Zealand police arrested
Dotcom with three co-workers on Jan. 20 as part of what could be
the biggest criminal copyright infringement case ever.  U.S. authorities have accused the four of willfully and
repeatedly violating copyright law, alleging that executives
knew of the illicit content on their servers and paid users who
uploaded it. The music and recording industries want U.S.
authorities to make an example of Dotcom, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Jan. 30 issue.  That’s what concerns the technology world, especially the
online locker services that, like Megaupload, allow users to
store data, pirated or otherwise, remotely and gain access to it
anywhere. Many in Silicon Valley say the government’s case
against Megaupload will scare away investors and entrepreneurs
that would otherwise create the next Dropbox Inc., a darling of
the cloud-storage industry founded in 2007 and valued at about
$4 billion.  ‘Burning Question’  “There’s a burning question about the collateral
effects,” said Andrew P. Bridges, a partner at law firm Fenwick
& West LLP, which worked for Megaupload on an unrelated case.
“I think the copyright industries are hoping to put
cyberlockers out of business through intimidation.”  New Zealand police say they found Dotcom in the mansion’s
panic room with a shotgun at his side. Dotcom was denied bail on
Jan. 25, although his lawyers are appealing, and faces
extradition to the U.S. He couldn’t be reached for comment.  Megaupload’s U.S. lawyer, Ira Rothken, has compared
Megaupload to YouTube and says the government is overreaching.  “You have to balance the harm to copyright holders against
the harm to society that comes from this terrible impact on the
Internet infrastructure,” he said.  Other companies that specialize in cloud storage are
distancing themselves from Megaupload’s lucrative business
model.  “This has nothing to do with what we do,” said Daniel
Raimer, a lawyer and spokesman for the Swiss-based RapidShare
service.  Amendments Made  Others have made changes to their service in the wake of
the arrests. Filesonic.net told users they could gain access
only to files they uploaded themselves. Uploaded.to blocked U.S.
consumers from its service entirely.  To some extent, this is what Hollywood wants.  “I think this changes the calculus,” says Kevin Suh, a
content protection executive at the  Motion Picture Association
of America . “Maybe copyright infringement isn’t as attractive
anymore.”  Recording Industry Association of America Chief Executive
Officer Cary Sherman says some services, like Dropbox, are
clearly legitimate.  In between Dropbox and Megaupload is a gray area.  In the U.S., the law that balances the interests of content
owners and technology companies is the  Digital Millennium
Copyright Act . According to the law, Internet companies get
“safe harbor” and aren’t liable for any copyright infringement
that takes place on their sites, as long as they don’t know
about it and quickly take down copyrighted material once rights
holders ask them to.  Wide Latitude  So far, courts have given technology companies wide
latitude under the act. Eric Goldman, a professor at Santa Clara
University Law School who specializes in issues raised by new
technologies such as cloud computing, says criminal prosecutions
may be one way around the limitations of the act, because the
“safe harbor” protection doesn’t apply.  “Cloud services have been increasingly confident that
they’re protected by DMCA,” Goldman said.  A related worry is that a crackdown on file storage
services could scare away users. Megaupload may have hosted
pirated content, but it also stored school reports and home
videos that are now inaccessible.  “Leaving aside whatever other consequences there may be,
there’s a huge problem for customers of the online lockers,”
Fenwick & West lawyer Bridges said.  Studio executives say they’re interested only in businesses
based on piracy, not legitimate players. “Our goal is to go
after the worst of the worst,”  Viacom Inc. (VIA)  General Counsel
Michael D. Fricklas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Levine through Barrett Sheridan at 
 rlevinson5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  