-- Egypt Islamists Says Consensus Unlikely on Early Power Transfer
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-01-30T13:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/egypt-islamists-says-consensus-unlikely-on-early-power-transfer.html
The head of  Egypt ’s Islamist Nour
party, whose bloc came second in parliamentary elections, said
he doubts political groups will united behind calls for the
ruling generals to cede power earlier than a June deadline.  “The idea that the date be moved forward has been proposed
but I don’t think there will be a national consensus on this,”
Emad Abdel Ghafour, who is also a member of a civilian body
advising the military council on the transition, said by
telephone. “Moving the date forward by five weeks or so isn’t
worth having political struggles over.”  The council that took over interim rule from  Hosni Mubarak 
last February has come under renewed pressure from protesters to
immediately cede power to civilians. Seven weeks of elections
failed to placate activists who say the military council has
mismanaged the transition, cracked down on demonstrations and
used Mubarak-style tactics to stifle dissent.  The civilian advisory council will hold a meeting tonight
to discuss proposals to shorten the transitional period “to
ensure a safe and quick transfer of power to the hands of an
elected civilian president,” the state-run Middle East  News
Agency  reported yesterday. The discussions will last for two
days, MENA said.  The ruling generals said they would only cede power when a
president is elected by the end of June. Registration of
candidates in Egypt’s first presidential election since the
ouster of Mubarak will start on April 15, state media reported
earlier this month. That date “is very acceptable,” Abdel
Ghaffour said.  Military Rule  The Muslim Brotherhood, which controls the most seats in
parliament, hasn’t lent its support to demands that the generals
immediately leave.  Activists marked the Jan. 25 anniversary of the start of
the protests that ended Mubarak’s three-decade reign with
rallies against military rule. Protesters are divided on who
should take over, with some arguing that parliament should
inherit the army council’s powers until a president is elected.  Democracy advocate and Egyptian Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei proposed a different plan for the transition on his
Twitter account. He called for an interim president to be
elected by parliament, then a constituent assembly to draft a
new constitution before a vote for a president under the new
charter.  The wrangling comes as Egyptians vote for the second day
today in elections for the upper house of parliament, known as
the Shura council, a consultative body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  