-- BofA’s Montag Names Christian Meissner Sole Leader of Investment Banking
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-30T14:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/meissner-named-chief-of-bofa-investment-banking.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, named Christian Meissner sole
leader of global  investment banking  less than a year after his
promotion to co-head that unit with two other executives.  Meissner, 42, will oversee  capital markets , corporate and
investment banking and mergers and acquisitions while former co-
heads Paul Donofrio and  Michael Rubinoff  take new roles in the
division, co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag wrote in a
memo to employees yesterday and obtained by Bloomberg News. John Yiannacopoulos, a bank spokesman, declined to comment beyond
confirming the memo’s contents.  “The new structure is a natural evolution of our corporate
and investment-banking model as we continue to adapt to a
changing market environment,” Montag wrote.  Montag, 55, is shaking up the division after it posted an
annual profit that plunged by half to $2.97 billion in 2011 as
the European sovereign-debt crisis roiled markets. Fees from
investment banking, which includes advising clients on mergers
and acquisitions as well as managing sales of shares and bonds,
declined 35 percent in the fourth quarter to $1.1 billion, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank reported.  Donofrio, 51, will head credit and transaction banking,
which includes oversight of global treasury solutions, loan
products, leasing, trade and supply-chain finance, and custody
and agency services, according to the memo. Rubinoff, 49, will
hold the title of chairman of the investment bank along with
Purna Saggurti, and is responsible for deepening relationships
with CEOs and directors of large corporations. All of the
executives report to Montag.  The moves were reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Cost Cutting  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is pushing to
pare costs by as much as $8 billion annually through an effort
dubbed Project New BAC. The first phase resulted in 30,000 job
cuts after scrutinizing the retail operations. The investment
bank is next, with results -- and possibly more cuts -- set for
April. Compensation for the unit’s dealmakers was reduced by an
average of 25 percent, people briefed on the matter have said.  “What is the right fixed-cost structure given what we see
in the market conditions and opportunities?” Moynihan, 52, said
earlier this month during a conference call with analysts. “We
need that business to come back or we’ve got to do more in
expenses.”  Montag Sees Rebound  Montag said the investment bank was rebounding from a
“difficult time” after the lender’s credit-rating downgrades
last year ignited concern among clients. Perceptions of the bank
were improving as the company bolstered its balance sheet, he
told employees on Jan. 19.  Meissner led investment banking in  Europe , the  Middle East 
and Africa until his promotion in April to help run the division
and was based in  London . He will relocate to  New York  in the
middle of this year, according to the memo.  He previously oversaw European investment banking for
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and was named its co-CEO for
Europe the same month the firm filed for bankruptcy. He had
joined Lehman in 2003 from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , where he
had been co-chief of European  equity capital markets . Montag was
a former head of trading at New York-based Goldman Sachs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 