-- England Rugby Suspends Delon Armitage From Saxons’ Squad After His Arrest
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-30T12:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/england-rugby-suspends-delon-armitage-from-saxon-s-squad-after-his-arrest.html
London Irish full back Delon
Armitage was suspended from English rugby’s Saxons second-string
squad after being arrested after an altercation in a nightclub.  The 28-year-old played for the Saxons team on Jan. 28, and
then was arrested last night and released on bail,  England  Rugby
said today in an e-mailed statement. He was suspended from the
Elite Playing Squad pending the outcome of the police
investigation, England Rugby said.  “We take issues surrounding the behavior of England
players very seriously and as such have decided to suspend Delon
from the Saxons EPS pending the result of the police inquiry,”
England Head Coach Stuart Lancaster said in the statement. “We
will then consider if further action is appropriate. High
standards of behaviour are required from England players on and
off the field, and they also need to understand that they should
not put themselves in a potentially vulnerable position or
environment.”  Lancaster took over from  Martin Johnson , who quit last year
after his team had a disappointing  World Cup  on and off the
field. The squad reached the quarterfinals in  New Zealand , one
step short of its goal, and made headlines during the tournament
with a series of events involving players and staff.  Former captain  Mike Tindall  was dropped from the squad and
fined by the RFU after being videoed in a Queenstown bar with an
ex-girlfriend and misleading team officials. Tindall was later
reinstated and had the fine reduced, but was left out of the
squad for the Six Nations tournament.  At the time of the incident, Johnson defended his former
teammate, who is married to the Queen’s granddaughter  Zara
Phillips , and the other players for their night out.  Players Chris Ashton and  James Haskell  were also fined over
an incident with a member of staff at their hotel, while Manu
Tuilagi was fined by the RFU and detained by police after
jumping off a ferry. Johnson defended the squad after team
members went on a bungee-jumping trip in New Zealand.  Armitage has played 26 times for England, starting all 11
of the team’s international matches in the 2008-2009 season.
He’s scored 44 points for his country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  