-- Merck Increases Worm-Disease Treatment Donation 10-Fold
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-30T15:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/merck-increases-schistosomiasis-treatment-donation-10-fold.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  said it will increase its
annual donation of a worm-disease treatment 10-fold to boost
efforts to eliminate the tropical illness in  Africa .  Merck will provide 250 million tablets a year of
praziquantel, the most effective treatment for the parasitic
worm disease schistosomiasis, the Darmstadt, Germany-based
drugmaker said in a  statement  today.  Merck’s expanded attack against schistosomiasis, which
affects more than 200 million people in tropical and subtropical
regions, is part of a public-private initiative announced today
in London to fight 10 neglected tropical diseases. The project,
which includes the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , 13
drugmakers, governments and global health organizations, is
designed to help meet goals set out in the  World Health
Organization ’s 2020 Roadmap on Neglected Tropical Diseases.  “Schistosomiasis is a very serious problem that affects
many millions of children,” Stefan Oschmann, board member at
Merck KgaA, said in an interview. Through talks with the WHO
“we found that there’s a chance to really eliminate the
disease.”  Schistosomiasis is widespread in areas where access to
clean water is lacking. People become infected with the disease
by worm larvae, mainly in freshwater, while working, swimming,
fishing or washing clothes. The infection rate is particularly
high among children of school age.  The Merck Praziquantel Donation Program began in 2007 in
partnership with the WHO. Since then, about 19 million children
have been treated. The expanded program announced today will
allow treatment of about 100 million children a year, at an
annual cost of $23 million, the company said.  Merck is developing a new formulation of praziquantel to
treat the tropical worm disease in pre-school children, Oschmann
said. The drug, which has no commercial potential, currently
targets children aged five years and older, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  