-- Hesse Regulator Questions Deutsche Boerse Pledge on European Hub
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/hesse-regulator-questions-deutsche-boerse-pledge-on-european-hub.html
     Jan. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s local regulator
questioned whether it’s “viable” for the  Frankfurt  bourse to
keep Germany as its European hub if it acquires NYSE Euronext,
operator of the New York Stock Exchange.  “The question from the very outset with this merger plan
is whether the concept of two equal administrative bases is
viable in the longer term,” Dieter Posch, economy minister of
the German state of Hesse, said in an e-mailed response to
questions last week. “It must also be considered how in
practice such a company would distribute the economic resources
and the market opportunities to the myriad of units it
operates.”  Deutsche Boerse  has promised to keep its derivatives,
market data, custody and settlement businesses in  Germany  amid
local concern the NYSE takeover will undermine Frankfurt’s role
as a financial center over time. The exchange operator has also
pledged to invest 300 million euros ($397 million) over three
years and said it won’t fire any German employees for a minimum
of two years.  “The opportunities and risks of such a mega-merger are
difficult to measure,” Posch said. “They depend, as we have
seen in the past, very strongly on cultures and personalities.”  European Union regulators meeting in Brussels this week are
expected to block the deal to create the world’s largest
exchange. Hesse must decide whether to approve the takeover,
which was announced almost a year ago, if the EU’s executive arm
gives it the go ahead.  Eurex, Liffe  The merger would put more than 90 percent of  Europe ’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of  stock
trading  in the hands of one organization. Deutsche Boerse’s
Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives exchange, while  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  owns Liffe, the second-largest.  “The Frankfurt Stock Exchange and Eurex are public-service
institutions for which Deutsche Boerse obtains a license from
the state of Hesse,” Posch said. “The issue here is whether
the operator will still be in a position, after an integration
process, to fulfill its obligations as a licensee and whether
the exchange is equipped with sufficient resources.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  