-- EU Nears Greek Confrontation Amid Fiscal Pact
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-31T08:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/eu-nears-confrontation-over-greek-rescue-as-portugal-poses-looming-threat.html
European governments moved toward a
confrontation over a second rescue package for  Greece , just as a
dimming fiscal outlook in  Portugal  opened a new front in the
 debt crisis .  Bargaining with Greece over a debt writedown and its
economic management came as European Union leaders signed off on
key planks of the strategy to end the financial crisis. They
agreed to accelerate the setup of a full-time 500 billion-euro
($659 billion) rescue fund and endorsed a German-inspired
deficit-control treaty. Stocks and the euro rose.  Euro leaders left a Brussels summit late yesterday with no
accord over how to plug Greece’s widening budget hole and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  voicing frustration with the Athens
government’s failure to carry out an economic makeover.  “Greece’s debt sustainability is especially bad,” Merkel
told reporters. “You have to find a way through more action by
the Greek government, more contributions by private creditors,
for example, in order to close this gap.”  The summit was the 16th in the two years since the Greek
debt emergency provoked a Europe-wide drama, leading to
unprecedented aid packages for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and
shattering European faith that the common currency was
indestructible.  After the gathering of leaders, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  convened a smaller group, including Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  and European Central Bank Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen, to weigh the next steps on Greece.  ‘On Track’  Van Rompuy  spoke of the need “to put the current program
back on track” and said finance ministers will try to hammer
out the follow-up plan -- in the works since July -- in coming
days. Greece is counting on aid to meet a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 to escape default.  “The timeline is tight, but we are absolutely focused on
the target of bringing the negotiations to a successful
conclusion by the end of the week,” Papademos told reporters at
1:30 a.m. today.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index advanced as much as 0.9 percent
today and the euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3180 at 9:35
a.m. in Brussels, its sixth gain in seven days.  Yet, Papademos said “some difficulties” beset the debt-
swap talks and hinted that donor governments may have to put up
more money.  Merkel’s comments indicated that governments are loath to
boost an October offer of 130 billion euros of loans in a second
package, forcing investors to absorb net-present-value losses on
Greek bonds that go beyond the 69 percent now on the table.  Greek Feuds  In turn, Greece’s feuding political parties face pressure
to deliver more savings and to verify in writing that the
austerity program will be carried out, no matter who wins
elections to replace Papademos’s interim Cabinet.  Germany’s proposal for an EU-appointed overseer of the
Greek budget prompted consternation in  Athens  and led to a
rejection by other European governments that warned against
stigmatizing Greece.  “Greece is a sovereign nation and must enact the promises
it’s made,” said French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .
“Surveillance of Greece’s progress is normal, but there was
never any question of putting Greece under guardianship.”  Investors were seized by fresh doubts about the economic
health of Portugal. Concern that the EU would break a promise
not to restructure Portugal’s debt pushed 10-year yields up by
2.17 percentage points to 17.39 percent yesterday, a euro-era
record. The bonds rebounded today, sending the yield down to
16.89 percent.  ‘Sustainable’ Portugal  Portugal’s debt has been judged “perfectly sustainable”
by the EU and International Monetary Fund, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said. Asked if there is a risk of writedowns on
Portuguese bonds, he said: “No, there is not.”  The Greek standoff and Portugal’s tottering market
punctured the start-of-year crisis respite that had been
nourished by 489 billion euros in three-year loans infused by
the ECB into the banking system.  ECB loans enabled most bond markets to withstand the impact
of credit rating downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s . Ten-year
yields in  Italy , with debt estimated at 120.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, last week dipped below 6 percent for
the first time since Dec. 6.  Italian Cash  While Italian yields went back up to 6.09 percent
yesterday, the government stockpiled cash for the year’s biggest
bond redemption by selling 7.5 billion euros of debt, close to
its maximum target. The yield was 6.02 percent today.  Leaders completed the fiscal-discipline treaty, which
speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and requires euro
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law. Eight
countries outside the euro backed the pact, which was shunned by
Britain and the  Czech Republic .  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the fiscal compact
“certainly will strengthen confidence in the euro area,”
calling it “the first step toward the fiscal union.”  One potential hiccup emerged when Sarkozy said that
ratification of the fiscal treaty in  France  will likely be
delayed until after elections in April and May that polls show
he will lose. The front-runner, Socialist Francois Hollande, has
vowed to renegotiate the treaty, saying it is biased toward
austerity and would put an additional squeeze on the economy.  With an eye toward Ireland,  Germany  pushed through
provisions that only countries ratifying the fiscal compact will
be eligible for aid from the permanent bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, now set to go into operation on
July 1, a year ahead of schedule.  Bond Clauses  The permanent fund requires governments to put collective
action clauses into new bond issues as of January 2013, five
months later than previously planned. The clauses are common in
U.S. and U.K. law, enabling a debt restructuring to go ahead by
a vote of a supermajority of bondholders, denying a veto right
to solitary investors.  “Collective action clauses shall be included, as of 1
January 2013, in all new euro area government securities, with
maturity above one year, in a way which ensures that their legal
impact is identical,” according to the text.  While the clauses leave the door open for restructurings,
the fund’s statutes deem write-offs “exceptional” and subject
to IMF standards, the text says. It tones down language on
“private sector involvement” -- code for forcing bondholders
to take losses on governments that fall too deeply into debt.  Leaders sidestepped mounting pressure to raise the ceiling
on rescue lending from 500 billion euros once the permanent fund
goes on line, sticking with plans to handle that question at the
next summit on March 1-2.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,  Europe ’s
longest-serving leader and the head of the panel of euro finance
ministers, summed up two years of crisis-fighting: “If I wasn’t
optimistic you could have reported about my suicide months
ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  