-- EU Partially Activates Single Carbon Registry for Airlines
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-30T12:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/eu-partially-activates-single-carbon-registry-for-airlines.html
The European Union’s executive arm
said it partially activated a single regional database for
carbon transactions to enable the transfer of free allowances to
airlines, which joined the bloc’s emissions market this year.  “From today onwards, aircraft operators can open accounts
in the Union registry,” the European Commission said in a
statement in Brussels today.  The single carbon registry will replace a system of
national databases that track transactions in the EU cap-and-
trade system, the world’s largest. No transfers will be possible
within the registry until it’s fully operational, a step that
won’t take place before June, according to the commission.  The EU emissions trading system, or the EU ETS, was started
in 2005 and imposes pollution quotas on more than 11,000
manufacturers and power producers. As of this year it was
expanded to cover flights from and to  Europe , with airlines
becoming the second-largest industry in the program after
utilities.  One EU general permit, also known as an EUA, is equivalent
to one metric ton of carbon dioxide. While aircraft operators
can buy EUAs issued to manufacturers and power producers to
cover their discharges, EU aviation allowances, or EUAAs, can
only be used for compliance by airlines.  Aircraft operators won’t be able to transfer their aviation
allowances or receive general allowances in the single registry
before its full activation. Meanwhile, those that want to trade
EUAs and imported carbon credits can open an account in a
national registry, the commission said.  Futures Contracts  “Aircraft operators can enter into futures contracts for
the delivery of allowances and units at a future date,” it
said. “After the full activation of the Union registry,
aircraft operators will be able to transfer allowances and
international credits with other participants in the EU ETS.”  The inclusion of airlines in the ETS has sparked opposition
from the U.S.,  China  and  Russia , which said Europe should let
the  United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization 
decide on greenhouse-gas limits for the industry. The ICAO in
November called on the EU to exempt international aircraft
operators from the cap-and-trade plan.  In their first year in the ETS, international carriers will
be given emission permits making up 85 percent of the industry
cap and will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at auction.
The European plan rewards efficient carriers, which will receive
a larger share of cost-free allowances based on published
benchmarks.  “Aircraft operators will receive the first annual batch of
free allowances credited on their registry account by 28
February 2012 or as soon as their account is opened,” the
commission said today. A total of about 181 million aviation
allowances will be handed out to airlines for free in 2012.  Companies covered by the EU carbon market have until March
31 to register their verified emissions from the previous year
and until April 30 to submit permits to cover their discharges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  