-- EU Targets Bank Bonuses That Fly in the Face of ‘Morality’
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-30T17:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/eu-s-barnier-working-on-ideas-for-tougher-bank-bonus-rules-1-.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial-services commissioner, said he may propose tougher
rules on banker bonuses that go against “all reason, common
sense and morality.”  Barnier, who’s responsible for proposing laws that govern
banks across the 27-nation EU, warned that he’ll seek extra
legislation by the end of this year if lenders “carry on paying
excessive bonuses.” Ideas being “worked on” include limiting
the gap between minimum and maximum pay in a bank and also
setting a ratio between fixed and variable pay, he said at a
European Parliament hearing in Brussels today.  Labor leaders and politicians have criticized some bank
bonus awards as out of touch with economic reality.  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester 
waived his 963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after the U.K.’s
opposition  Labour Party  said it would ask the national
Parliament to vote on the award.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, will be
“extremely vigilant” in monitoring this year’s bonus round,
Barnier said.  Pay Rules  The EU adopted pay rules for banks in 2010 that included
limiting immediate cash payouts as a proportion of total bonus
awards, in an effort to prevent payouts that could encourage
irresponsible risk taking.  “The commission won’t hesitate to reinforce the existing
legislative framework if banks continue to pay excessive bonuses
or if major problems are identified in the application of the
rules,” he said.  The EU may seek to increase the role a bank’s shareholders
play in setting pay awards, he said.  Barnier today urged other regions to follow the EU’s
efforts to rein in excessive pay.  “I hope we won’t remain alone in the vanguard,” Barnier
said. He said he was also prepared to take legal action against
any EU nations that fail to implement the bloc’s rules.  Banks in  Europe  haven’t done enough to adapt their pay
structures to discourage excessive risk taking, Isabelle
Vaillant, a director at the European Banking Authority, said at
the Brussels hearing.  ‘Too Little’  “Too little has been done,” she said. Some banks may
still be applying pay policies that “incentivize their staff”
to take “big risks,” she said. The London-based EBA will
publish guidelines in the next two weeks on the collection of
data relating to bank pay, Vaillant said.  Global regulators in the Financial Stability Board said
last month they will be vigilant in policing the board’s
international guidelines on bank bonuses that were published in
2009.  The FSB will report to the Group of 20 nations in June on
how well nations are applying the guidelines, Simonetta Iannotti, an official at the board, told today’s hearing.  The CEO of Britain’s second-biggest government-aided bank,
Antonio Horta-Osorio of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said on Jan.
13 he won’t take a 2011 bonus following his nine-week absence
for exhaustion. The payment could have been as much as 2.39
million pounds, according to company filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  