-- Merkel Signals Greece Debt Deal Delay
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-01-30T16:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/eu-stumbles-over-greek-aid-package-as-merkel-signals-debt-agreement-delay.html
European leaders sparred with  Greece 
over a second rescue program, clouding progress toward a
permanent aid fund and tougher budget rules designed to
stabilize the euro.  Greece faced criticism that its economic makeover is
faltering, and it fended off German-led calls for a European
overseer to take command of its budget after its deficits
surpassed targets for two years.  “What the Greeks have to do is show they are ready to
implement the package,” Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told
reporters as he arrived for a European Union summit in Brussels
today. “We can help Greece through this difficult phase, but
then Greece has to execute all agreements they made with us.”  Bargaining with Greece over a debt writedown and its
economic management threatened to overshadow a summit meant to
point the way out of the financial crisis by speeding the setup
of a full-time 500 billion-euro ($654 billion) rescue fund and
signing off on a German-inspired deficit-control treaty.  A start-of-year respite from market pressures continued
today when  Italy  raised 7.5 billion euros, close to its maximum
target, in preparation for its biggest redemption of 2012. At
least five more countries plan bond sales this week. The euro
slipped 0.9 percent to $1.3160 at 5:30 p.m. in Brussels,
snapping a five-day rally.  Cautious Outlook  “We can say -- with caution -- that we see elements of
financial stability in  France , in Europe and in the world,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday. “Europe is no
longer at the edge of the cliff.”  Greece is making progress on one component of the package,
nearing an agreement for bondholders to accept deeper losses on
a 50 percent cut in the face value of more than 200 billion
euros of debt.  Creditors are willing to take an average coupon of as low
as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds, said a person familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because a final deal
hasn’t been struck yet. As recently as Jan. 23, creditors wanted
an average coupon of about 4.25 percent, two people familiar
with the talks said then. That offer equated to a loss of about
69 percent on the net present value of Greek debt.  European concerns that Greece can deliver budget cuts and
economic reforms are holding up other parts of the package,
which Greece needs to meet a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment due
on March 20.  Deal Delay  “We won’t have a thorough discussion of Greece because the
troika is in Greece and we don’t have a result of the talks with
the banks,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  The troika -- the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  -- oversees the 110
billion-euro program awarded to Greece in 2010 and conducts
talks on an additional 130 billion euros pledged in October.  Germany ’s call for an EU-appointed overseer of Greece’s
budget prompted consternation in  Athens  and led other European
governments to warn against treating Greece differently than
other countries.  “It is right that one controls strictly but using one
commissioner especially for one country, I don’t think is a good
idea,” Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said.  The German view was captured by  Michael Fuchs , the head
economic spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  in
parliament. In an interview in Berlin, Fuchs said: “The free
lunch is over: no external controls, no money. I can’t look my
constituents in the eye and say anything different.”  Countering Contraction  With the euro economy set to contract by 0.5 percent this
year, according to the median of 19 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg, the leaders will seek to send a pro-growth message by
breaking down barriers to cross-border commerce.  Leaders will pledge to channel unspent subsidies and
consider boosting the lending of the bloc’s project-financing
arm, though without providing any figures, according to a draft
summit statement obtained by Bloomberg News.  “We must do more to get  Europe  out of the crisis,” the
draft statement said.  Leaders also plan to complete the fiscal-discipline pact,
which has gone through five drafts since nine countries outside
the euro teamed with the 17 on the inside to work up the new
rules in December. Britain was alone in boycotting the process.  A call by Poland, the biggest country with aspirations to
adopt the common currency, to take part in euro-area decision-
making looms as the main obstacle to a deal on the fiscal
compact.  Poland’s Position  Poland’s plea to take part in euro summits is running into
opposition from a group led by France, which has long aimed to
turn the euro area into an exclusive policymaking club.  Poland  will join the fiscal pact “under one condition --
that these countries that take this co-responsibility are also
participating in the decision-making process in terms of how
this fiscal compact is executed,” Prime Minister Donald Tusk
said today in Brussels.  Only countries that ratify the fiscal compact will be
eligible for aid from the permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism. Leaders today will pledge to bring the ESM
into operation on July 1, a year ahead of schedule.  Leaders are unlikely to address mounting pressure to raise
the ceiling on rescue lending from 500 billion euros once the
permanent fund goes on line, two EU officials said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Brussels at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  