-- European Union to Decide in July on Free Post-2012 CO2 Permits for Power
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-30T08:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/eu-to-decide-in-july-on-free-post-2012-co2-permits-for-power.html
The European Union’s executive said
it will decide on free carbon-dioxide permits for utilities in
eight member states in July, or about four months later than
originally planned.  The European Commission asked all eight countries that
applied by the end of September for free allowances for their
power producers from 2013 to 2019 to provide additional
information until Jan. 16, Isaac Valero-Ladron, EU climate
spokesman, said by e-mail in response to Bloomberg questions.  “All the member states got back to us,” he said. “We are
now analyzing the information provided. We expect to adopt or
(partially) reject the member-states’ proposals by mid-July.”  The 27-nation EU is moving to a wider sale of permits, now
largely granted for free, to meet its climate-protection goals.
Ten eastern and central European nations, including the  Czech
Republic , Poland and  Romania , qualify for an exemption won in
2008 from the bloc’s requirement that power plants purchase all
their CO2 permits from 2013.  The commission has six months to assess the applications.
The opt-out from auctioning gives electricity producers the
possibility to invest in modernizing power generation in poorer
EU countries. The value of these investments must at least equal
the value of the free allowances.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December 2013 traded 1.2
percent down at 8.77 euros a metric ton as of 7:34 a.m. on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London . The contract lost 47
percent from a year ago on concern the region’s debt crisis will
worsen and economic growth will slow, boosting the excess of
permits in the EU emissions trading program.  Free Allocation  The EU opt-out allows utilities to get for free in 2013
allowances corresponding to 70 percent of their average annual
emissions for the period 2005 to 2007, with relation to national
electricity production and consumption data. That number will
decrease gradually each year and in 2020  power plants  will have
to buy all their permits at auction or in the market.  The countries that applied for the exemption are  Bulgaria ,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia,  Hungary ,  Lithuania , Poland and
Romania, the commission said last year. Latvia and Malta, also
eligible, did not seek a so-called derogation from auctioning.  Poland said last year it was planning to allocate 405.5
million free CO2 permits to power plants, while Romania was
eyeing about 75 million free allowances in the seven years
starting in 2013 and the Czech Republic wanted to give its
electricity producers 108.2 million permits.  The European emissions trading system, known as the EU ETS,
is the cornerstone of the bloc’s policy to cut  greenhouse gases 
blamed for  climate change . It imposes pollution limits on more
than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers, including Electricite
de France SA, Europe’s biggest power generator, and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, the continent’s largest oil company, leading to a cap
in 2020 that will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges.  Emitters that produce less carbon than their quota can sell
surplus permits, and those exceeding their limits must buy
additional allowances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  