-- EU Wrestles Over Greek Aid
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-30T21:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/eu-wrestles-over-greek-aid-as-progress-on-rescue-fund-debt-accord-stalls.html
European leaders battled with  Greece 
over a second aid program, clouding an accord on a  permanent
aid fund and stiffer budget rules designed to stabilize the
euro.  Greece faced criticism that its economic makeover is
faltering, and it fended off German-led calls for a European
overseer to take command of its budget after its deficits
outstripped targets for two years.  “Negotiations are going in the right direction, and we
have a good hope that we will have a definitive accord in the
coming days,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters
after a European Union summit in Brussels today.  Bargaining with Greece over a debt writedown and its
economic management overshadowed efforts to point the way out of
the financial crisis by speeding the setup of a full-time 500
billion-euro ($654 billion) rescue fund and signing off on a
German-inspired deficit-control treaty.  Leaders completed the fiscal-discipline treaty, which
speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and requires euro
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law. Eight
countries outside the euro backed the pact, leaving Britain and
the  Czech Republic  to boycott it.  The summit was the 16th in the two years since Greece’s
fiscal emergency provoked a Europe-wide drama, leading to
unprecedented aid packages for three countries -- Greece, plus
Ireland and  Portugal  -- and shattering European faith that the
common currency was unbreakable.  ECB Loans  Bond markets, buoyed at the start of the year by 489
billion euros funneled by the  European Central Bank  into the
banking system, gave mixed signals about the outlook today.  While Italy prepared for its biggest redemption of 2012 by
raising 7.5 billion euros, close to its maximum target,
Portuguese bonds fell on concern that Portugal won’t generate
enough growth to pay down its debt. The euro slipped 0.7 percent
to $1.3127 at 10:10 p.m. in Brussels, snapping a five-day rally.  A call by  Poland , the biggest country with aspirations to
adopt the common currency, to take part in euro-area decision-
making was the final obstacle to a deal on the fiscal compact.
Poland’s plea ran into opposition from a group led by  France ,
which has long aimed to turn the euro area into an exclusive
policymaking club.  Only countries that ratify the fiscal compact will be
eligible for aid from the permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism. Leaders today decided to bring the ESM into
operation on July 1, a year ahead of schedule.  Collective-Action Clauses  The permanent fund requires governments to put collective
action clauses into new bond issues as of January 2013, five
months later than previously planned. The clauses are common in
U.S. and U.K. law, enabling a restructuring to go ahead by a
vote of a super-majority of bondholders, denying a veto right to
solitary investors.  “Collective action clauses shall be included, as of 1
January 2013, in all new euro area government securities, with
maturity above one year, in a way which ensures that their legal
impact is identical,” according to a final text of the
statutes.  While the clauses would leave the door open for future debt
restructurings, the fund’s statutes deem writeoffs
“exceptional” and subject to International Monetary Fund
standards, the text says. It tones down language on “private
sector involvement” -- code for forcing bondholders to take
losses on governments that fall too deeply into debt.  Leaders sidestepped mounting pressure to raise the ceiling
on rescue lending from 500 billion euros once the permanent fund
goes on line.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  