-- Euro Weakens Before EU Leaders Meet on Debt Crisis; Aussie, Kiwi Decline
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-01-30T12:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/euro-falls-snaps-weekly-gain-before-eu-leaders-meet-on-crisis-yen-rises.html
The euro fell for the first time in
six days against the dollar as European Union leaders prepared
to meet in Brussels amid concern Greek bailout negotiations will
hinder efforts to resolve the financial crisis.  The 17-nation currency slid for a third day versus the yen
as  Italy  raised less than its maximum target at a bond sale
after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the nation last week. Measures of
implied volatility climbed as Der Spiegel said  Greece  may need a
bigger rescue package and two euro-area government officials
said policy makers are discussing direct interventions in Greek
budget decisions.  South Africa ’s rand and Australia’s dollar
slid as stocks fell, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  “We seem to limp from one summit to save the euro to
another,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. in London. “It is prudent in the face
of this uncertainty to take a more defensive stance toward the
euro. There is a pretty decent chance that in the first half of
this year we’ll have a low of $1.20.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.3117 at 7:27 a.m. in  New
York , after rising 2.2 percent last week. The common currency
dropped 0.8 percent to 100.59 yen. The euro declined 0.1 percent
to 1.20535 Swiss francs after sliding to 1.20502, the weakest
since Sept. 19. The dollar was little changed at 76.68 yen.  EU Summit  EU leaders will meet in Brussels today to put the finishing
touches on a German-led deficit-control treaty and endorse the
statutes of a 500 billion-euro rescue fund to be set up this
year. While Greece and its private creditors said Jan. 28 they
expect to complete a debt-swap deal to reduce the nation’s
obligations in coming days, it now requires 145 billion euros
for the second bailout, 15 billion euros more than was agreed in
October,  Der Spiegel  reported Jan. 28.  Euro-area leaders are mulling policy responses to states
that are “off-track” in fulfilling budget pledges, including
supplying external advisers with decision powers to states in
difficulty, German Finance Minister spokesman Martin Kotthaus
said at a press conference in Berlin.  Italy sold 7.5 billion euros of debt due between 2016 and
2022 today, less than its maximum target of 8 billion euros.
Fitch cut the ratings of Italy,  Spain ,  Belgium , Slovenia and
Cyprus on Jan. 27, saying they lack financing flexibility in the
face of the regional debt crisis. Italy was reduced two levels
to A- from A+, and Spain was lowered two grades to A from AA-.  ‘Something Bad’  “The market was expecting something bad” from today’s
sale, said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Societe Generale SA in  London . “It puts a bit of a damper on
the risk-on and gives some courage to bears,” he said,
referring to traders betting the euro will decline.  Higher-yielding currency fell the most against the dollar
as stocks declined around the world, spurring demand for the
relative safety of the greenback.  The South African rand tumbled 1.2 percent to 7.8489 per
dollar, and Indian rupee slid 1 percent to 49.8 per dollar,
Australia’s currency declined 1 percent to $1.0557, and the
Norwegian krone fell 0.9 percent to 5.8541 per dollar.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  of shares dropped 0.7 percent,
and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SXXP)  slid 0.5 percent.  Fitch said today it may downgrade  Australia ’s four largest
banks by one level because current ratings don’t reflect their
“weaker funding profile.”  The euro has weakened 0.6 percent this month according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar has weakened 2 percent,
and the yen declined 1.6 percent.  Futures Traders  Futures traders increased bets the euro will fall versus
the dollar, boosting so-called net shorts to a record for a
fifth week. The difference between wagers that the shared
currency will weaken versus those that it will rise widened to
171,347 on Jan. 24, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  showed  on Jan. 27.  The euro also fell after its rally last week “ran out of
puff” after reaching the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement
level of the drop from Oct. 27 to Jan. 13,  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong , wrote
in a note to clients.  Implied volatility of three-month options on the euro-
dollar currency pair advanced for a second day to 12.48 percent.
The implied volatility of Group of Seven currencies rose to
10.54 percent from 10.22 percent on Jan. 30, after falling 10.06
on Jan. 23, the lowest since March 2011, according to the
JPMorgan G7 Volatility  Index (JPMVXYG7) .  An increase in the index makes investments in currencies
with higher benchmark lending rates less attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  