-- Confidence in Euro Area Increases at Slower Pace Than Estimated: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-30T11:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/euro-region-economic-confidence-increased-less-than-estimated-in-january.html
Euro-area confidence  in the economic
outlook improved less than forecast in January as the region’s
leaders struggled to stamp out a two-year-old financial crisis
and revive growth.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area rose to 93.4 from a revised 92.8 in December,
the European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the first
increase since February 2011, though it’s less than the  median
prediction  of 93.8 in a Bloomberg survey of 30 economists.  European Union leaders convene for their first summit of
2012 in Brussels today as a deteriorating economy and the
struggle to complete a Greek debt swap risk undermining their
crisis-fighting efforts.  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  President  Mario Draghi  said on Jan. 19 that 2012 will be a “much better” year
for the single-currency area, though the  International Monetary
Fund  forecast a recession.  “Today’s figures seem to indicate that the euro zone
recession is bottoming out, although it would definitely be too
soon to declare the recession over,” Peter Vanden Houte, an
economist at ING Group in Brussels, wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients. “The level of uncertainty remains too high. In the
discussion on the resolution of the debt crisis European policy
makers will have to walk a tight rope to preserve the current
uptick in sentiment.”  Spanish Contraction  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3131 at 10:44 a.m. in London, down 0.7 percent.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 index was down 0.8 percent to 253.36.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers held at
minus 7.2 in January, today’s report showed. An indicator of
services confidence rose to minus 0.6 from minus 2.6, while a
measure of  consumer confidence  increased to minus 20.7 from
minus 21.3, the commission said.  Uncertainty about the European economic outlook was
compounded by  Spain , whose economy shrank in the fourth quarter,
pushing the country toward its second recession since 2009, the
National Statistics Institute said today. The IMF forecast a
recession for the single-currency region, with growth
contracting 0.5 percent this year. The ECB last month cut its
2012 growth forecast for the  euro region  to 0.3 percent from 1.3
percent.  German Inflation  In  Germany , data today showed inflation accelerated in four
of the nation’s states as fuel and food costs increased. The
inflation rate rose to 1.8 percent from 1.7 percent in North
Rhine-Westphalia, to 2.2 percent from 2.1 percent in Brandenburg
and to 2.3 percent from 2.2 percent in Saxony, the states’
statistics offices said today. Hesse on Jan. 27 reported its
inflation rate climbed to 1.9 percent from 1.7 percent in
December.  EU chiefs will aim to put the finishing touches on a
German-led deficit-control treaty and endorse the statutes of a
500 billion-euro ($661 billion) rescue fund to be set up this
year.  Greece  and its private creditors said Jan. 28 they expect
to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders signaled
they would accept European government demands for a bigger cut
in their debt holdings.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, on Jan.
24 reported earnings that  missed estimates  as profitability
dropped at its four main units. The company predicted that
Europe will slip into recession in the coming months.  ‘Credit Explosion’  In  Asia , Chinese officials held off on a reduction in bank
reserve requirements that some economists had predicted would
come before a week-long holiday ending Jan. 28, suggesting they
are cautious on more monetary easing.  Barclays Capital Asia Ltd., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Industrial Bank Co. said this month that ratios were likely to
fall ahead of the Lunar New Year festival, which boosts demand
for cash. The central bank instead used reverse-repurchase
contracts to add money to the financial system.  “The central bank aims to ease policies prudently and pace
loan growth at the beginning of the year so as to avoid a replay
of the credit explosion in 2009 and 2010 and prevent inflation
from rebounding,” said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist
at Industrial Bank. Lu now sees a reserve-ratio cut in February
to add liquidity and spur growth after the reverse-repurchase
contracts expire.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s central
bank said that Governor Alan Bollard will quit in September. The
 Philippines  reported that economic growth accelerated, with
gross domestic product rising 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter,
after a 3.6 percent gain in the third.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington  may show personal spending rose 0.1 percent in
December, matching November’s gain, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  