-- European Stocks Fall Most in Six Weeks; BNP Drops on French Tax
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-30T17:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-summit-asian-shares-slide.html
European stocks  dropped the most in
six weeks as Portuguese bonds sank amid concern a meeting of the
region’s leaders will fail to draw a line under the sovereign-
debt crisis.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  tumbled 7.1 percent, leading French banks
lower, as President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he will unilaterally
impose a financial-transaction tax.  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) 
fell 2.2 percent after reporting a larger-than-estimated loss.
 Hochtief AG (HOT)  slid 5.8 percent after saying it will post a wider
annual loss than previously anticipated.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  retreated 1.1 percent to 252.52
at the close of trading, the largest slide since Dec. 14. The
benchmark gauge has still rallied 18 percent from its Sept. 22
low as the  U.S. economy  maintained its recovery and speculation
grew that the euro area will contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  “The outlook for economic growth in  Europe  in 2012 is not
a healthy one and consensus forecasts for earnings-per-share
growth likely do need to be adjusted downwards,” said  Ian Scott , the chief global strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 London . “Nevertheless, even a recession in the euro area, and
very slow growth elsewhere, is unlikely to be sufficient to
undermine the market if governments and central banks are able
to stabilize sovereign spreads and lessen the immediate tail
risk of a messy sovereign default.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in every western European
market today, except Greece and Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 
lost 1.1 percent,  Germany ’s DAX slid 1 percent and  France ’s CAC
40 retreated 1.6 percent.  European Union leaders gathered in Brussels for their first
summit of 2012 as a deteriorating economy and the struggle to
complete a Greek debt write off risk sidetracking efforts to
stamp out the financial crisis. EU chiefs are discussing a
German-led deficit-control treaty and the statutes of a 500
billion-euro ($661 billion) rescue fund to be set up this year.  The yield on  Portugal ’s 10-year bonds surged 217 basis
points to a euro-era record of 17.39 percent today. Portuguese
credit-default swaps also rose to a record, implying a 71
percent chance the government will default.  Greece  and its private bondholders said Jan. 28 they expect
to complete a deal in coming days after creditors signaled they
would accept European government demands for a bigger cut in
their debt holdings. European policy makers are discussing plans
to directly intervene in Greek budget decisions as the country
struggles to cut its deficit, two euro-region government
officials said.  European Confidence  Euro-area confidence in the economic outlook improved less
than forecast in January. An  index  of executive and consumer
sentiment in the 17-nation euro area rose to 93.4 from a revised
92.8 in December, the European Commission said today. That was
less than the median prediction of 93.8 in a Bloomberg survey of
30 economists.  BNP Paribas tumbled 7.1 percent to 32.18 euros and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA plunged 6.5 percent to 19.71 euros. The proposed 0.1
percent French transaction tax will apply to share purchases,
including high-frequency trading, and CDS transactions, from
August. Sarkozy said he expects revenue of 1 billion euros from
the tax.  ‘Heavy Handicap’  “A tax that’s limited to France would weigh on growth,
lead to a loss of competitiveness, and create a heavy handicap
for the financing of the French economy,” the French Banking
Federation said in a statement on Jan. 9.  Bank of America Corp. reduced its  recommendation  on BNP to
“underperform” from “neutral.”   Philips lost 2.2 percent to 15.24 euros as the world’s
biggest lightbulb maker reported a 162 million-euro net loss in
the fourth quarter. That was wider than analysts’ estimates for
a loss of 25.8 million euros.  Hochtief sank 5.8 percent to 48.07 euros after saying it
will report a wider loss for 2011 than it had previously
anticipated because of additional charges in the fourth quarter
at its Australian subsidiary and costs related to the departure
of executives. The German builder said the net loss for 2011
will be about 160 million euros, compared with a previous
estimate for a loss of about 100 million euros.  Kloeckner & Co. SE , Europe’s largest independent steel
trader, plunged 7.3 percent to 10.85 euros after Chief Executive
Officer Gisbert Ruehl forecast sliding demand for the metal in
Europe this year. Steel demand in Europe may decrease 5 percent
or more in 2012, Ruehl predicted in an interview with Financial
Times Deutschland.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s biggest
steelmakers, fell 3.6 percent to 21.11 euros and 5.1 percent to
45.47 euros, respectively.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  slid 2 percent to 19.04 Swiss francs as the
world’s largest maker of power-distribution equipment agreed to
buy Thomas & Betts Corp. for $3.9 billion to expand its North
American distribution network and add low-voltage equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  