-- Euro-Area Debt Sales Top $43 Billion This Week as Fitch Cuts
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-01-30T18:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/euro-region-debt-sales-top-29-billion-this-week-amid-fitch-cuts.html
European nations including  Italy ,
Belgium and Spain may sell more than 33 billion euros ($43.3
billion) of securities this week as credit-rating cuts risk
upending optimism the region’s debt crisis is being contained.  Italy sold 5.574 billion euros out of a target of 6 billion
euros of five- and 10-year debt today, and issued 1.9 billion
euros out of a maximum goal of 2 billion euros of securities due
in April 2016 and March 2021. Belgium sells as much as 3 billion
euros of bills tomorrow, with Spain, Portugal, Germany and
France issuing 13 different maturities in the five days.  While Italian and Spanish 10-year yields have fallen more
than 1 percentage point from November highs as the  European
Central Bank  offered banks unlimited three-year loans and Greek
debt-swap talks pressed on,  Fitch Ratings  joined Standard &
Poor’s this month in downgrading the nations’ credit. European
Union leaders are meeting today in Brussels in a bid to wrap up
a deficit-control treaty aimed at stemming the crisis, now in
its third year.  “It wasn’t an easy-going exercise for Italy,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London .
“That’s obviously not a comforting sign going forward. Having
the Italian experience rather fresh in people’s minds, it will
be interesting to see how the market will be able to make room
for the upcoming supply.”  Spanish Auction  Italy sold 8 billion euros of 182-day bills on Jan. 27 at
1.969 percent, the least since May and down from 3.251 percent
at an auction of similar securities on Dec. 28. Borrowing costs
fell to the lowest since March at a Spanish sale of three-month
debt on Jan. 24. The week before, it sold 6.61 billion euros of
bonds, versus a maximum target of 4.5 billion euros.  Spain  sells notes due in July 2015, October 2016 and
January 2017 on Feb. 2. The nation’s bonds have returned 2.5
percent this month, including reinvested interest, extending a
6.9 percent increase in December, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the  European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies . Italian debt earned 5.8 percent in 2012, the second
most among 26 bond market indexes.  “The next test will certainly be Spain,” said Schnautz.
“To their advantage, they will only have short-end paper, up to
five years.”  The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond fell 24 basis points
to 4.97 percent on Jan. 27, with the two-year note yield
dropping for the sixth consecutive day. The  10-year Italian
yield  was 15 basis points lower at 5.90 percent, with the short-
dated yield tumbling for the fourth successive week.  Fitch Downgrades  The Italian 10-year yield jumped 20 basis points to 6.09
percent at the close in London today, with the equivalent
Spanish yield 8 basis points higher at 5.04 percent.  The ECB reduced its main interest rate twice last quarter,
to 1 percent from 1.5 percent. It followed those by allotting
489 billion euros of three-year loans to euro-area lenders in
December to ward off a funding squeeze. The central bank will
offer funds at that maturity again on Feb. 28.  Fitch said on Jan. 27 that the five nations it downgraded
lack financing flexibility in the face of the debt crisis.
Italy, the euro area’s third-largest economy, was cut two levels
to A- from A+. The rating on Spain was also lowered two grades,
to A from AA-. Ratings on  Belgium , Slovenia and Cyprus were also
reduced, while Ireland’s rating was maintained.  ‘Greater Vulnerability’  “The divergence in monetary and credit conditions across
the euro zone and near-term economic outlook highlight the
greater vulnerability” these nations face in the event of
financing shocks, Fitch said. “These sovereigns do not, in
Fitch’s view, accrue the full benefits of the euro’s reserve-
currency status.”  Italy’s credit rating was cut two levels to BBB+ on Jan. 13
by S&P, which also downgraded eight other euro-region nations
including France and Austria, citing European leaders’ inability
to end the debt crisis.  “We have seen some improvement in market sentiment and
then this happened,” said  David Keeble , head of fixed-income
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  New
York . “But I don’t think these moves will drive the market to a
new level given Fitch is catching up with other agencies.”  The fallout in financial markets to S&P’s action was muted.
Spain on Jan. 17 paid an average 2.049 percent to sell 12-month
debt, compared with 4.05 percent on Dec. 13. The previous day,
 France  auctioned 1.895 billion euros of one-year notes at a
yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent on Jan. 9.  Belgian Sale  Belgium, which was cut to AA from AA+ by Fitch, auctions
1.8 billion euros of 105-day and 1.2 billion euros of 168-day
debt. The nation’s borrowing costs for one-year securities slid
to a five-month low on Jan. 17, when it sold 2.96 billion euros
of 91- and 364-day bills.  Governments of the world’s leading economies have more than
$7.6 trillion of debt maturing this year, with most facing a
rise in borrowing costs. Led by  Japan ’s $3 trillion and the
U.S.’s $2.8 trillion, the amount coming due for the Group of
Seven nations and  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  is up from
$7.4 trillion last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
as of December. At about $428 billion, Italy has the most coming
due this year in the euro region, followed by France at $367
billion and  Germany  at $285 billion, year-end data show.  Greece  and its private creditors said they’re making
progress on a debt-swap accord after bondholders signaled they
would accept European government demands for lower  interest
rates . Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds, said a person familiar
with the talks, who declined to be identified because a final
deal hasn’t been struck yet.  March Redemption  The sides are “close” to completing a voluntary exchange
within a framework outlined by Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, the Institute of International Finance,
negotiating on behalf of private creditors, said in an e-mailed
statement in  Athens  on Jan. 28.  The nation must repay 14.5 billion euros of bonds in March
and an agreement that triggers as much as $3.2 billion of
default insurance may be necessary unless all bondholders
approve, according to Marco Buti, head of the European
Commission’s economics division.  Germany sells as much as 5 billion euros of 10-year bunds
on Feb. 1, with France auctioning debt maturing in October 2018,
October 2020 and April 2022 a day later. France also issued 8.31
billion euros of bills today.  This week’s supply may attract demand as liquidity will be
abundant,  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income strategist at
UniCredit SpA in London, wrote in an e-mailed report dated Jan.
27. Italy will pay back 26 billion euros of a 5 percent security
on Feb. 1, while coupon payments from Italy and Spain totaling
16 billion euros will lend additional support, she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  