-- HP Says Larry Babbio Won’t Stand for Re-Election to Board
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-01-30T22:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/hewlett-packard-says-babbio-won-t-stand-for-re-election-to-board.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  director Larry Babbio, who drew criticism from corporate-governance advisers
last year, won’t stand for re-election to the company’s board.  Babbio, a former president at Verizon Communications Inc.
who has served on Hewlett-Packard’s board  since 2002 , will stay
through the company’s next annual meeting, scheduled for March
21, according to a regulatory filing dated Jan. 24.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and  Glass Lewis  &
Co., which offer advice on corporate-governance matters,
recommended last year that Hewlett-Packard shareholders vote
against Babbio’s re-election to the board. ISS said Babbio,
along with two other directors, shouldn’t have let then-Chief
Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  play a role in the nomination of
new board members. Even so, Babbio was re-elected last March.  Babbio’s planned departure is the third change to Hewlett-
Packard’s board since  Meg Whitman  took the reins from Apotheker
on Sept. 22. Sari Baldauf said this month that she also wouldn’t
seek re-election in March. Activist shareholder Ralph Whitworth
joined the board in November after his firm, Relational
Investors LLC, accumulated an almost 1 percent stake in the
computer maker.  Glass Lewis had also criticized Babbio for his role in
approving the severance package for former CEO  Mark Hurd . The
executive departed in August 2010 after the company said
inaccurate expense reports filed by Hurd or on his behalf
concealed a personal relationship with a contractor, in
violation of Hewlett-Packard’s standards of business conduct.  Glass Lewis also faulted Babbio for failing to create a
succession plan that “may have avoided” what it said was a
“high-profile and ultimately expensive CEO hunt.”  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, was unchanged today in New York trading at $27.88. Shares
of the Palo Alto, California-based company have tumbled 39
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  