-- Former UBS Trader Kweku Adoboli Pleads Not Guilty Over Unauthorized Trades
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-01-30T16:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ex-ubs-trader-adoboli-pleads-not-guilty-to-fraud-false-accounting-charges.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader who is accused of causing the largest loss from
unauthorized trading in British history, pleaded not guilty to
fraud and false accounting.  Adoboli, dressed in a grey suit and blue tie, pleaded not
guilty to all charges at a hearing in London today. A trial that
may last as long as eight weeks was scheduled to start in early
September.  Adoboli, 31, has been in custody since Sept. 15 when UBS
asked London police to arrest him for causing a $2.3 billion
loss. The case led to the departures of Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of the Swiss bank’s global
equities business. The trial could be “really awful” for UBS,
said Steven Francis, a regulatory lawyer in  London .  “There’ll be an assessment of what training he was given”
and of “the bank’s compliance procedures,” said Francis, a
lawyer at Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, who isn’t involved in the
case.  UBS isn’t able to comment on the case because “English
criminal law limits what we can say about this incident,”
Oliver Gadney, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Adoboli, who was remanded into custody, is being held at
Wandsworth prison in southwest London. One of his lawyers, Paul
Garlick, told Judge Alistair McCreath he may request bail for
Adoboli soon.  Time Extensions  Adoboli, who worked for UBS’s investment bank, had been
given two time extensions to enter a plea. In December, he
received an extra month after hiring new lawyers at Bark & Co.
and Furnival Chambers in London. Garlick told the court Dec. 20
that Adoboli hadn’t received “satisfactory legal advice”
before he was hired. The former trader was also granted legal
aid, or government assistance, to pay his lawyer fees.  British and Swiss finance regulators are investigating the
system and control failures at UBS that allowed the unauthorized
trades to go undetected. UBS has said it suspended some front
office staff pending further discipline.  The loss allegedly came from trading in Standard & Poor’s
500,  DAX (DAX)  and EuroStoxx index futures, according to the Zurich-
based bank. He was charged with fraud and false accounting
dating back to 2008.  Adoboli worked for the investment bank’s Delta One desk,
which handles trades for clients -- or risks the bank’s own
money -- typically speculating on, or hedging the performance
of, a basket of securities.  Under CEO  Sergio Ermotti , who took over from Gruebel, the
bank set a target for profitability, announced its first cash
dividend in five years and said it will shrink its investment
bank to concentrate on  wealth management .  UBS fell 39 centimes, or 3 percent, to 12.48 francs in
Swiss trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  