-- Mexico to Push High-Speed Internet With Fiber-Line Auctions
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-01-30T21:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/mexico-to-push-high-speed-internet-with-fiber-line-auctions-1-.html
Mexico  will promote high-speed
Internet adoption by auctioning licenses to use state-owned
fiber-optic lines and to build networks in communities that
don’t have the service, President Felipe Calderon said.  The government’s auctions will include contracts to use two
fiber-optic lines from state utility Comision Federal de
Electricidad, Calderon said today at an event in Guadalajara.
The government also will take bids on the use of fiber lines on
the federal highway network, he said.  Calderon is pushing to put the technology in the hands of
telecommunications providers as Mexico lags in the adoption of
high-speed Internet. The nation had 10.5 high-speed broadband
subscriptions per 100 residents at the end of 2010, placing it
32nd out of the 34 countries in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, that group said today in a report.  “We’re promoting social connectivity with broadband,”
Calderon said. The plan includes contracts to connect schools
and public spaces with high-speed Internet, he said.  The government also plans to hire companies to install
fiber-optic lines to homes in places where they’re not yet
available, Calderon said. Like the highway contracts, the fiber-
to-the-home auctions would go to the bidder charging the lowest
price to the state, he said.  Companies will be able to use public buildings to place
antennas for mobile-phone networks, the president said.  A group including Grupo Televisa SAB,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and
Megacable Holdings SAB won a 2010 auction to operate two fiber
lines owned by Comision Federal de Electricidad, the state power
company. The group bid about $70 million for the contract.  That auction “went very well” and provided Mexico with a
national Internet backbone to compete with  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ’s
Telefonos de Mexico unit, Calderon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  