-- MF Global Told S&P It Had ‘Never Been Stronger’ One Week Before Collapse
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-01-30T18:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/mf-global-told-s-p-it-had-never-been-stronger-one-week-before-collapse.html
A week before MF Global Holdings
Ltd. collapsed, its chief financial officer told Standard &
Poor’s in an e-mail that the futures broker had “never been
stronger.”  S&P provided the House Financial Services Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations with an excerpt of the e-mail from
MF Global CFO Henri Steenkamp. S&P also informed the panel that
 Jon Corzine , then MF Global’s chief executive officer, met with
its analysts on Oct. 20 to reassure them that his $6.3 billion
bet on European sovereign debt was no threat to the firm,
according to a Jan. 17 letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  U.S. lawmakers will turn their attention to the role of the
ratings companies in the failure of MF Global at a Feb. 2
hearing after summoning Corzine, the former governor of  New
Jersey  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman, to two hearings
in December. S&P ranked MF Global as investment grade until its
failure, while Moody’s downgraded it to junk status four days
earlier.  “MF Global is in its strongest position ever,” Steenkamp
told S&P on Oct. 24, according to the letter to Representative
 Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican, from Craig Parmelee, a
managing director at S&P in New York.  No ‘Police’ Role  MF Global filed for the eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Oct. 31 after receiving margin calls and other
demands for money amid escalating concern that the brokerage
wouldn’t have enough capital to cover its European bets. S&P
said in the letter that it relied on MF Global’s public filings
for information on the positions.  “S&P does not purport to audit the issuers it rates and
does not undertake to police issuers for fraudulent activity or
misconduct,” Parmelee wrote.  Moody’s analysts believed that MF Global was increasing its
trading activity “for the primary purpose of facilitating
customer transactions,” Steven Ross, a partner at Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP who represents the firm, wrote to
Neugebauer in a separate letter dated Jan. 17. The brokerage’s
presentations before Oct. 21 “did not describe or reflect” the
European positions, Ross wrote.  Diana DeSocio, a spokeswoman for MF Global, declined to
comment.  Chief Risk Officers  Michael Roseman, former chief risk officer at MF Global,
and his replacement Michael Stockman are also scheduled to
testify at the hearing, along with James Gellert, chief
executive officer of Rapid Ratings, a smaller competitor,
according to the committee’s  website .  “This hearing will give us visibility into the risk
management practices at MF Global in the lead-up to its
bankruptcy as well as give us an opportunity to analyze how the
financial markets and credit-rating agencies understood and
interpreted MF Global’s risk appetite,” Neugebauer said today
in a  statement .  Executives from S&P and Moody’s were called before Congress
in July after they threatened to strip the U.S. of its AAA
rating. S&P downgraded the country to AA+ the following month.
In April, a Senate panel released a report blaming the ratings
companies for helping cause the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression by providing inflated grades to mortgage-backed
securities at the request of Wall Street banks.  “These guys have been through the wringer and they’ll go
through the wringer again,”  Ed Atorino , who tracks the
companies for Benchmark Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview earlier this month.  ‘Nothing Stood Out’  Regulators are considering how to implement portions of the
Dodd-Frank financial regulation overhaul that instruct them to
remove credit ratings from rules. Lawmakers may push for a
stricter interpretation of the law after the MF Global hearing,
Atorino said.  MF Global, which had been building its European positions
since June 2010, first disclosed them in regulatory filings last
May, according to a  memo  by the subcommittee’s staff dated Jan.
27. Ross, the lawyer for Moody’s, said in the letter that
“nothing stood out” in those filings for its analysts.
Parmelee didn’t say how S&P’s analysts reacted to the disclosure
in his letter.  S&P warned investors on Oct. 26 that it might downgrade MF
Global from BBB-, the lowest investment grade, citing the “poor
quarterly results” that the brokerage reported a day earlier.
Moody’s, which cut MF Global to an equivalent Baa3 on Oct. 24,
lowered its rating to Ba2, the second-highest junk rating, on
Oct. 27.  Italy Bonds Surge  “The abruptness of the downgrades and the suddenness of MF
Global’s collapse raise questions about why the  credit rating
agencies  did not consider MF Global’s exposure to European
sovereign debt until late October,” the subcommittee staff
wrote in the memo.  MF Global’s bets may have paid off had the firm’s customers
and counterparties allowed it to continue to hold their money.
No European countries have defaulted and Italian bonds surged
this month after the  European Central Bank  began offering the
region’s lenders record amounts of emergency funding.  MF Global gave Moody’s a presentation on May 18 that said
that its “value at risk,” a measure of potential losses on its
trading, was unchanged from a year earlier, Ross wrote. It
didn’t “refer in any way” to the sovereign debt, he said.  Roseman, the chief risk officer who was replaced in early
2011, told the subcommittee he was “very concerned” about
Corzine’s bets by September 2010 as they approached $4 billion,
according to the memo. He met with Corzine and MF Global’s board
of directors, which approved position limits of about $4.5
billion. At the end of January, Roseman was told he would be
replaced by Stockman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  