-- Fat Boys on Great Wall Help Harley Cut Yields: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-01-30T17:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/fat-boys-on-great-wall-help-harley-cut-borrowing-costs-corporate-finance.html
Rising profits at  Harley-Davidson
Inc. (HOG)  are encouraging bond investors to lend to the biggest U.S.
motorcycle maker at the lowest  interest rates  on record, further
expanding the Milwaukee-based company’s margins.  The 105-year-old company, whose Chief Executive Officer
Keith Wandell rode a motorcycle on the Great Wall of China as
part of an enthusiasts’ rally in April, is paying a 2.7 percent
rate on $400 million of five-year notes sold last week. The
issue follows an  upgrade  by  Standard & Poor’s  to BBB+ from BBB
on Jan. 25, the first increase since 2004, as the maker of Fat
Boy bikes reversed a four-year decline in sales.  Investors approve of Wandell’s plans to improve profits by
lowering labor costs, pruning dealerships, expanding
 international sales  and restoring the brand’s high-end cachet.
The extra yield investors demand to hold Harley-Davidson bonds
instead of Treasuries has been little changed over the past year
at about 278 basis points, while spreads on all U.S. automotive
industry bonds widened 67 basis points over the period.  “Harley is a great turnaround story from a credit
perspective,” said Hitin Anand, an analyst at bond researcher
CreditSights Inc. “They took the downtime in their volume to
restructure the operations and that’s paying off,” Anand said
in a telephone interview from  New York .  Previous Low  The motorcycle maker previously sold debt in March, when it
issued $450 million of 3.875 percent, five-year notes, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lowest prior coupon was 3.625
percent on five-year debt sold in November 2003.  Demand for the latest issue was so strong that the company
was able to narrow the spread to 195 basis points from initial
guidance of about 210, while boosting the size of the offering
from $300 million, Bloomberg data show. Bob Klein, a Harley
spokesman, said he couldn’t comment on the bond sale.  Harley had $2.8 billion of long-term debt on Sept. 25,
according to its latest quarterly filing. Three bond issues
totaling $1.65 billion will mature by 2017 and the lowest coupon
is 3.875 percent, Bloomberg  data  show.  The highest coupon is 15 percent, on $303 million of bonds
that remain from a $600 million issue sold in February 2009 amid
the height of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression to Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
Harley’s then-largest shareholder, Davis Selected Advisers Inc.  Harley said in a statement at the time it would use the
money to give customers loans to buy its motorcycles. The
company bought back $297 million of the notes in 2010, paying
about 128 cents on the dollar, it said in the latest quarterly
filing.  ‘It Was Armageddon’  “It was Armageddon out there,” said Christopher Brown,
who helps manage $2.5 billion as chief investment officer at Pax
World Management Corp. Harley had to pay more to borrow money
than it could earn on the loans, he said in a telephone
interview from Portsmouth,  New Hampshire .  Brown said he bought $2 million of Harley’s $400 million of
5.25 percent bonds due December 2012 for about 78 cents on the
dollar in January 2009. The debt now trades for about 103 cents,
according to Bloomberg Valuation data.  If Harley uses the new bonds to refinance debt due in
December, it will save about $10 million a year in interest,
Brown said. “They should be able to put that money back out
there and earn a pretty decent spread,” he said.  Labor Contracts  Wandell, who joined Harley two months after it sold the 15
percent bonds, has “definitely done a good job of turning
things around,” Brown said. The CEO, who previously worked for
auto-parts maker Johnson Controls Inc., is altering labor
contracts, allowing the company to hire at lower wages and get
greater operational flexibility.  The process started with agreements with unionized
employees in Harley’s York,  Pennsylvania , facility followed by
similar deals in Wisconsin and  Missouri . “All the credit goes
to Wandell because he was completely involved in the
negotiations,” said Anand at CreditSights.  The company has surpassed analysts’ earnings estimates for
seven of the past eight quarters, Bloomberg  data  show. Worldwide
sales increased 11 percent in the fourth quarter, according to a
Jan. 24 statement. The company had raised prices on its bikes
for the first time in four years in July, while introducing
models to attract women and other new riders.  “We have been devoting considerable attention and
resources to markets like  India  and China,” Klein, the Harley
spokesman said in a telephone interview. “We see those as
having strong long-term potential even if volumes are not high
in the short term.”  ‘Big Driver’  The company added 35 new dealers internationally in 2011
including places like  China  and India, part of a plan to
increase the number by as much as 150 from the 2009 level.  “The opportunity is tremendous for them overseas,” said
Pax World Management’s Brown. “It’s going to be a big driver of
their growth going forward. People that want the American
experience would certainly look at these motorcycles.”  Harley-Davidson shares have  gained  12 percent over the past
year, compared with a 2.4 percent rise in the  S&P 500 index ,
Bloomberg data show.  William Harley and Arthur Davidson sold their first bike in
1903, and the company was incorporated four years later,
according to its  website .  To fuel its international expansion the company also
supports riding groups to promote the brand. The CEO’s rally to
the Great Wall last year was one such effort as Harley plans to
drive international motorcycle unit sales to more than 40
percent of its total.  Harley has also reduced its dealerships by 10 percent,
dropping underperforming outlets, mostly in urban areas. Wandell
is encouraging dealers to improve stores and customer service to
a level befitting premium bikes that can sell for more than
$35,000.  “They have realized they are not going to have the same
demand they once had,” said Michael Millman at Millman Research
Associates. “It is the brand that matters and they will get
benefits from the high-end placement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  