-- FDA Is Accused of Spying on Its Employees Over Complaints Made to Congress
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-30T20:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/fda-accused-of-snooping-on-e-mail-of-employees-who-complained-to-congress.html
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
employees accused the agency spying on staff members who told
lawmakers it was improperly approving medical devices used to
screen for cancer.  The allegations include the interception of e-mail from
personal accounts sent across agency networks. The claims were
added last week to a civil rights lawsuit filed by current and
former agency employees in September in federal court in
 Washington  against FDA officials and the Health and Human
Services Department.  The employees said the agency monitored their
communications using spyware to capture screen shots and learn
the workers’ identities, as well as “the tactics and
strategy,” they were planning to use in “blowing the whistle
to Congress, the inspector general, among other proper
authorities,” according to the filing.  The monitoring began three years ago, after nine FDA
employees signed a letter to President  Barack Obama ’s transition
team alleging government misconduct in the approval of medical
devices, including an imaging device used to diagnose  breast
cancer , according to the filing. It was expanded in 2010 after
the New York Times published an article in which FDA scientists
criticized the device-approval process.  ‘For Congress’  “The information secretly obtained by defendants included
plaintiffs’ legally protected documents and information that was
stored by plaintiffs in folders labeled ‘For Congress’ and other
folders that clearly indicated the intent of plaintiffs to raise
issues of public concern with appropriate authorities,”
according to the Jan. 25 court filing.  Details of the Jan. 25 filing were reported earlier by the
Washington Post.  The lead plaintiff in the case is Paul Hardy, a former
officer of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.
The other plaintiffs are three former FDA scientists -- Ewa
Czerska,  Robert Smith  and Julian Nicholas -- and two current FDA
employees -- R. Lakshmi Vishnuvajjala and Nancy Wersto.  Erica Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency
doesn’t comment on litigation.  Bolster Scrutiny  A government report found the FDA required extensive
testing for less than one-10th of about 13,500 devices it
cleared from 2003 to 2007. The 2009 Government Accountability
Office examination of the device-review process called on the
agency to bolster scrutiny of products that pose the greatest
risk.  The FDA lets most devices reach the market through a less
stringent approval process that doesn’t require human testing.
After the 2009 report, the agency granted expedited reviews to
at least 67 “high-risk” devices, including pacemakers and
artificial hips, according to testimony to Congress in April by
the GAO.  The  Institute of Medicine , the scientific advisers to the
nation, suggested in July that the FDA scrap expedited review
for devices that pose greater risk. The agency disagreed.  The case is Hardy v. Shuren, 11-01739, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 