-- Fed Says Business-Loan Demand Climbed Last Quarter as Economy Accelerated
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-30T20:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/fed-says-business-loan-demand-climbed-last-quarter-as-economy-accelerated.html
Demand for business loans increased
in the fourth quarter as economic growth accelerated, according
to a Federal Reserve survey of senior loan officers at banks.  Seventeen of 56 banks reported stronger demand among
companies with $50 million in annual sales or more, according to
the survey released today in  Washington , while six reported
weaker demand. Demand among small businesses for loans increased
by the most in any quarter since 2005.  Economic growth accelerated last quarter to a 2.8 percent
annual rate, the fastest pace since the second quarter of 2010.
The expansion still isn’t strong enough to push down an
 unemployment rate  that has been at 8.5 percent or higher for 34
consecutive months, prompting the Fed last week to say its
benchmark  interest rate  will be kept near zero until at least
the end of 2014.  While business demand for borrowing increased, banks
reported “little change in standards on commercial and
industrial loans but a continued easing of pricing terms,” the
survey said. The pickup in business lending was a reversal of
the previous survey, released in November, in which more banks
reported a drop than an increase in demand.  Banks and businesses may be “moving away from the ‘buckle
down’ approach,” said  Drew Matus , senior economist at UBS
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “If a firm wants to expand they typically need to borrow
money to do it,” Matus said. “So at a minimum this suggests we
should still be looking for decent job growth over the next
three to six months.”  More Jobs  The economy will add 145,000 jobs in January, according to
the median estimate of a Bloomberg News survey of economists
ahead of a Feb. 3 Labor Department report, down from a gain of
200,000 the previous month. The  unemployment rate  will probably
remain unchanged at 8.5 percent, according to the survey.  The survey pointed to “important factors” driving the
increase in business lending such as “funding needs related to
inventories, accounts receivable, and mergers and
acquisitions.” Most banks that reported weaker demand pointed
to reduced funding needs for  capital investment , the Fed said.  “Recent economic data suggests that growth improved in the
fourth quarter of 2011, which we believe reflects the positive
impact of the Fed’s easing that was initiated in late 2010,”
 Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at Caterpillar Inc.,
said on a conference call with analysts last week. “It’s our
view that the full impact of those actions hasn’t materialized
yet and that it will contribute to continued growth in 2012.”  Identify Respondents  The survey of loan officers at 56 domestic banks and 23
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks was conducted from
Dec. 21 to Jan. 10, the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify
respondents.  “Lending standards and demand for loans to purchase
residential real estate were reportedly little changed,” the
report said.  Mortgage rates  near record lows have failed to revive the
housing market after five years of price declines. The average
30-year fixed rate mortgage was 3.98 percent as of Jan. 26,
according to a Freddie Mac index. The index reached the lowest
level in 40 years on Jan. 19, when rates fell to 3.88 percent.  The yield on benchmark 10-year notes fell to 1.83 percent
as of 2:49 p.m. The yield on the five-year Treasury reached a
record low today of 0.72 percent.  Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are among lenders
that may find it more difficult to boost profits and capital
after the central bank extended its pledge to keep rates low
from a previous date of at least the middle of 2013.  Bank Profitability  The average net interest margin at the four largest U.S.
banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America, Citigroup and
 Wells Fargo & Co . -- dropped to 2.99 percent in the fourth
quarter from 3.17 percent a year earlier. Net interest margin is
a gauge of bank profitability that measures the difference
between the cost of funds and what they earn on assets.  The margin at U.S. banks with more than $15 billion in
assets fell to 3.44 percent in the third quarter of 2011 from
3.85 percent in the first quarter of 2010, according to Fed
data.  In a special set of questions on lending to banks in
Europe, 15 of 26 banks reported tightening their standards on
loans to Europe, with 10 reporting “somewhat” stricter and
five “considerably” stricter conditions.  About half of banks that compete for customers with banks
in  Europe  said they had experienced an increase in business over
the past six months as “a result of decreased competition from
European banks.”  Easing Standards  More banks reported easing standards and increased demand
for credit-card and auto loans.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment climbed for the fifth straight month to the
highest level since February 2011. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index rose to minus 46.4 in the period ended Jan. 22
after minus 47.4 the prior week.  Consumer spending  stalled in December as Americans
increased their savings. Purchases were little changed last
month, even as incomes climbed by 0.5 percent, the most since
March. The personal savings rate climbed to 4 percent from 3.5
percent in November.  Asked about the outlook for 2012, 33 of 55 firms expect
loan quality to medium- and large-sized firms to improve, while
29 of 53 banks expect better quality from small businesses. For
commercial real estate, 32 of 55 banks expect the quality of
lending to improve in the year ahead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  