-- Federated Investors Rule Fight, Davos Roundup, SEC Watchdog: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/federated-investors-rule-fight-davos-roundup-sec-watchdog-compliance.html
Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-
largest manager of U.S. money-market mutual funds, is planning
legal action to block rule changes being contemplated by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that the company said
could destroy the $2.7 trillion cash-management industry.  Federated will the proposed rule change by both a
regulatory and legal means, Christopher Donahue, chief executive
officer of Pittsburgh-based Federated, said Jan. 27 in a
conference call with analysts.  Money-fund providers and regulators have been wrestling for
three years over how to make the funds safer without destroying
the appeal of the investment product, which is used by
corporations and millions of households. The SEC is expected to
make two proposals before the end of March.  The first plan, which the industry has long warned would
lead investors to abandon money funds, would eliminate their
stable $1 share price. The second would combine capital buffers
and a 30-day holdback of a portion of all redemptions. Donahue
said Jan. 27 that Federated would fight either of the two rules.  Donahue said he would take legal action under the
Administrative Procedures Act, claiming the SEC had not done
sufficient analysis of the rules’ impact.  John Nester , a
spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.  Donahue added that legal action could also delay the
implementation of any new rule.  The redemption restriction being planned by the SEC,
according to Donahue, would require funds to hold back 3 percent
of any client withdrawal for 30 days.  Special Section: World Economic Forum  Incredible Shrinking Bankers at Davos Humbler Amid Austerity  Leaders of the world’s biggest banks touted the virtues of
austerity at the World Economic Forum in Davos -- for
themselves, not just for over-indebted governments.  Many arrived in the Swiss Alps following a year marked by
weak revenue, declining stock prices and cuts in jobs and
compensation. The finance and banking industries remain the
“least trusted” for the second consecutive year, according to
a 20-country survey released earlier this week by public
relations firm  Edelman .  Financial companies, mainly in Western Europe and the U.S.,
have announced more than 238,000 job cuts since last year’s
meeting in Davos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are
among banks selling businesses and slimming down as they adapt
to capital requirements approved by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, new national regulations and a slowdown in
economic growth in Europe.  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , the biggest German lender, is considering a
sale of its asset-management unit as it raises capital to adapt
to Basel rules. The Frankfurt-based lender is reducing costs
globally and said in October it will cut 500 jobs from its
corporate banking and securities unit by March 31.  A year ago, bankers in Davos were trying to persuade
regulators to relax new regulations, arguing that banks that
held less capital and were subject to fewer restrictions would
be an aid to economic growth. Those arguments weren’t
successful, said  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO Robert Diamond in an interview
before a private meeting of finance executives Jan. 26. Barclays
announced 422 U.K. job cuts earlier this month.  For more, click here.  Trichet, Roubini, Sands, Turner Discuss Big Banks  Former European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet,
New York University professor Nouriel Roubini, U.K. Financial
Services Authority Chairman Adair Turner,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands, former Mexican central bank
Governor Guillermo Ortiz, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc
Frieden, participated in a panel discussion about the banking
industry.  Among the topics discussed by the panel were banking
regulations, whether the banking system is “fragile” and the
industry is “fragmented.”  Bloomberg’s Maryam Nemazee moderated the panel at the  World
Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .  For the video, click here.  Clayton Dubilier CEO Says He’d Accept Carried-Interest Change  Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC Chief Executive Officer Donald
Gogel said he’d accept changes to the carried-interest tax rate
that enhances compensation for private-equity partners.  The controversy over U.S. presidential candidate and former
buyout executive Mitt Romney’s tax rate may lead to changes to
the U.S. tax code, including the carried-interest rate, Gogel
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker 
at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.  For the video, click here.  For more about the World Economic Forum, click here, and
click here.  Compliance Policy  EU to Seek Deal on Clearing Law for Over-the-Counter Derivatives  European Union lawmakers and officials will meet this week
to thrash out a deal on clearing rules for over-the-counter
derivatives, paving the way for implementation before a Dec. 31
deadline.  Talks planned for tomorrow in Brussels will focus on “the
big question” of what powers regulators should have to override
national decisions authorizing clearinghouses, said  Sharon
Bowles , a U.K. lawmaker who chairs the parliament’s financial
regulation committee.  Denmark , which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, will lead the negotiations with members of the
 European Parliament  and Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial
services chief.  Europe  is working to toughen rules on trading of OTC
derivatives in line with a 2009 agreement among the Group of 20
nations. The Financial Stability Board warned last year that the
EU may miss a deadline for implementing measures by the end of
2012 that include requiring trades in standard types of
derivatives to be centrally cleared and logged in databases.  This week’s meeting may also tackle a planned exemption for
derivatives trades between different units of the same bank,
Bowles said. Denmark wants to ensure that the exemption would
apply if one of the units is based outside Europe, Preben
Aamann, a spokesman for the Danish presidency, said by e-mail.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Iran Oil Curbs Extend to 95% of Tankers in EU Insurance Rules  European Union sanctions on Iranian oil will extend to
about 95 percent of tankers because they are insured under rules
governed by European law.  The  International Group of P&I Clubs  insures all but 5
percent of the global tanker fleet and its 13 member clubs
follow European rules to participate in the claim-sharing pool,
said Andrew Bardot, the London-based secretary and executive
officer. Carrying Iranian oil would invalidate the ships’ cover
against risks including spills and collisions, he said.  While the embargo on Iranian oil only covers the EU’s 27
member states, the extent of the region’s role in insuring ships
will curb trade globally. Iran is the second-biggest member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and sends oil
to  China , Europe,  Japan ,  India  and  South Korea . EU foreign
ministers agreed to the ban on Jan. 23, seeking to increase
pressure on Iran over its nuclear program, which the nation says
is for civilian and medical purposes.  Vessels carrying oil from the nation will have to use
“questionable” insurance, said Simon Schnorr, the London-based
marine client director at Aon Risk Solutions, a unit of the
world’s largest insurance  broker .  The EU sanctions will still apply to shipping companies
with no European link because of their insurance policies,
according to Intertanko, the largest trade group representing
tanker owners.  For more, click here.  Holder Announces Working Unit on Mortgage-Backed Bonds Fraud  A new U.S. government unit will investigate misconduct in
the bundling of mortgage loans into securities that fueled the
housing bubble and contributed to the financial crisis, Attorney
General Eric Holder said.  In providing details about the new unit Jan. 27 at a news
conference in  Washington , Holder said that the Justice
Department in the past few days has subpoenaed 11 financial
institutions in related investigations.  Both civil and criminal capabilities will be used in
pursuing the investigations, Holder said.  President Barack Obama announced the creation of the unit
during his State of the Union speech on Jan. 24.  A coalition of labor unions, consumer advocates and
political activists, including  MoveOn.org , has been pressuring
the administration to do more to probe banks’ home lending and
the creation and sale of mortgage-backed securities.  The new unit will take control of existing civil and
criminal investigations in an attempt to better coordinate
efforts on mortgage fraud, according to the Justice Department.
It will include officials from the Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission as well as U.S. attorneys and
state attorneys general.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC’s Schapiro Said to Face Pushback Over Choosing Next Watchdog  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  may have to revise her plan for hiring the agency’s
next internal watchdog after at least three commissioners
demanded greater say in the process, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Schapiro recently told commissioners that she had selected
panels of senior SEC staff to rate, interview and suggest final
candidates to succeed H.  David Kotz , according to the people,
who asked not to be named because the plans weren’t public.  Kotz, whose four-year tenure as inspector general ended
Jan. 27, was accused by SEC employees and alumni of pursuing
investigations that often lacked evidence of wrongdoing and
unfairly damaged some workers’ reputations. Kotz also came under
scrutiny for giving a lengthy interview to the host of a paid
radio show who posted it on his website and uses it in marketing
financial services.  The flap over Kotz’s tenure has made commissioners and
staff more sensitive to how the agency oversees the inspector
general’s office, the people said. While the watchdog previously
reported to the chairman, the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave the
responsibility to the full five-member commission.  Citing that change, three of the commissioners told
Schapiro they should have an equal say over which staff will
rate and interview candidates for the job, according to the
people. The commissioners have also called for new procedures
and policies to clarify who the new watchdog would report to and
what kind oversight the commission would have.  Noelle Maloney, who has served under Kotz as his deputy,
will be acting inspector general until a replacement is named,
said SEC spokesman John Nester, who declined immediate comment
on the hiring process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 