-- Fort Meade as Cyber Hub Turns Maryland Into a Startup Hot Spot
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2012-01-30T05:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/fort-meade-as-cyber-hub-turns-maryland-into-a-startup-hot-spot.html
Bill Anderson passed up Silicon
Valley and opened his  technology  startup in central  Maryland ,
even though it lacked the prestige and signature names such as
Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  One draw for the founder of Oculis Labs Inc. four years ago
was the growing market for cybersecurity and intelligence work
connected to Fort Meade, the Army base that is Maryland’s
biggest employer and home to the National Security Agency. The
opportunities have multiplied with the additions of the U.S.
Cyber Command in 2010 and the Defense Information Systems Agency
last year.  The hub has attracted hundreds of companies, including
dozens of startups, seeking a share of the federal government’s
increased spending on cybersecurity, Rick Geritz, chief
executive officer of Cyberhive.org, a website that tracks the
state’s technology companies, said in an interview. Federal
spending on cybersecurity is expected to rise 40 percent to $14
billion in 2016 from an estimated $10 billion this year,
according to Deltek Inc., a Herndon, Virginia-based research
company.  “I don’t know if this business would have been successful
if we had done it anywhere else,” Anderson, a 45-year-old
cryptologist whose company has gone from three employees to 10
since 2010. “We don’t have to think about whether the meeting
is going to pay off. We just get in the car and go down the
road. There’s a bunch of potential.”  Northrop Partnership  Anderson previously worked for SafeNet Inc., an information
security company in Belcamp, Maryland. He said in an phone
interview that he wanted to locate his own company, Oculis Labs,
near skilled workers and potential customers, including the
agencies at Fort Meade. He put it in Hunt Valley, about 40 miles
from the base, a sprawling 5,000-acre complex between Baltimore
and Washington with about 42,000 military and civilian
employees, including more than 12,000 contractors.  Oculis is also close to partner  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
which is helping to market Oculis software that detects computer
eavesdropping. Northrop, based in Falls Church, Virginia, works
with the University of Maryland at Baltimore County to
commercialize startup technologies, including Oculis’s product.  Much of the cybersecurity spending, which is largely
classified, will pass through Fort Meade, John Slye, a senior
analyst at Deltek, said in a phone interview.  Startups aren’t the only companies competing for that
revenue, one of the few opportunities in a  federal budget  facing
the possibility of $1.2 trillion in cuts during the next decade.
Consultants  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) ,
both based in McLean, Virginia, are among the prominent
government contractors that have opened offices near Fort Meade.  Escalating Threats  The Defense Department created the Cyber Command in 2009 to
consolidate efforts to protect the military’s critical networks
and weapons programs from escalating cybersecurity threats,
including those originating in  Iran  and  China .  China has made industrial espionage a key part of its
economic policy, U.S. intelligence officials said in a report
released in November.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the Bethesda, Maryland-based maker
of the F-35 jet, was offered government assistance after a cyber
attack affected the company’s network.  The world’s largest defense company has said the May 21
incident resulted from a data breach at RSA, part of Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based EMC Corp. RSA sells SecurID tokens that are
used by government agencies and companies such as Lockheed to
shield against hacking.  In December, Iran claimed it was able to bring down the
Lockheed Martin RQ-170 spy drone by hacking into it.  Fort Meade Move  Security experts have confirmed that work by Northrop
Grumman,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  is helping the
U.S. government develop the capacity to spy on or disable other
countries’ computer networks, Bloomberg Businessweek reported in
a July 21 story.  The Defense Information Systems Agency moved to Fort Meade
last year from Arlington, Virginia, as part of the Base
Realignment and Closure program, or BRAC. The U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers is planning to build a data center at the base.  Between 2007 and 2015, the number of new jobs directly tied
to the base may reach 27,000, said Bob Leib, special assistant
to the Anne Arundel County executive for BRAC.  “Fort Meade is without a doubt the most important economic
center of the state today,” Leib said in a phone interview.
“These are family-supporting jobs.”  Technology Buffer  Technology already has provided a buffer to Maryland’s
economy. The sector’s employment rose 3.3 percent in the state
between 2001 and 2008, while it fell 17 percent nationwide,
according to Maryland data.  Even so, Maryland has been slower to recover from the
recession compared to most states. It ranked 37th among the
states and the District of Columbia for its economic health
improvement from June 2009 through September 2011, according to
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. The index factors
in changes to personal income, tax revenue, employment, home
prices and mortgage delinquencies, among other data.  Maryland faces competition from  Virginia , home to the
Pentagon and Central Intelligence Agency, and  California , the
heart of the U.S. technology sector. In 2010, California had
about 931,000 technology jobs paying an average of $110,560 and
Virginia had 278,000 jobs paying $95,925 a year, according to
TechAmerica, an industry group. Maryland’s 170,000 technology
workers earned an average of $90,300.  ‘Fertile Ground’  “There definitely are other areas of the country that have
more experience developing and growing product companies,” said
Eric Fiterman, a former cyber-crimes agent for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation who founded Rogue Networks LLC last year
in Catonsville, Maryland, to build network-monitoring software.  “This a very fertile ground in terms of people and
knowledge,” he said in a phone interview. “The folks in the
government have been dealing with security problems for a long
time.”  Maryland has been trying to address a shortage of
cybersecurity workers, a gap that’s estimated to be a high as
30,000 in the U.S., according to a 2010 study by the Center for
Strategic and International Studies that cited an NSA estimate.  The state is boosting the number of college students in
computer science and mathematics degree programs, said Ellen
Hemmerly, executive director of a research park affiliated with
the University of Maryland’s Baltimore County campus. The park
runs an incubator for 15 startup cybersecurity companies,
including Oculis and Rogue Networks.  Security Clearances  Among the challenges is finding technology workers with
security clearances, said Rick Gordon, chief operating officer
of Lookingglass Cyber Solutions Inc., a young company in
Baltimore.  Others include securing meetings with agencies that operate
in the classified world, and getting considered as one of the
government’s trusted suppliers, said Eric Chapman, associate
director of the University of Maryland’s Cybersecurity Center.  “We need to get to the visionaries, the higher placed
executives in these agencies,” said Oculis’s Anderson, who had
the advantage of personal contacts in the cryptology field.
“It’s about relationships, and that’s a cumulative process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nishad Majmudar in  Washington  at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  