-- Fujifilm Says It’s ‘Best Partner’ for Olympus to Expand Medical Business
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-01-30T08:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/fujifilm-says-it-s-best-partner-for-olympus-to-expand-medical-business.html
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  proposed a
partnership with Olympus Corp., the Japanese camera and
endoscope maker that lost more than half its market value last
year over an accounting scandal.  The Japanese imaging equipment and digital camera
manufacturer may invest in Olympus and promote personnel
exchanges with the Tokyo-based company after making a proposal
today to adviser SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said Shigehiro Nakajima, Fujifilm executive vice president.  “We’re the best partner for Olympus,” as Fujifilm can
combine its X-ray and ultrasound technology with Olympus’s
medical businesses, Nakajima told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Fujifilm, seeking to expand in health care amid
intensifying competition for cameras and copy machines, bought
two units of Merck & Co. about a year ago and has completed 21
acquisitions in the past five years, including a $995 million
deal for SonoSite Inc., a Bothell, Washington-based maker of
ultrasound imaging equipment. Olympus is seeking a partner to
replenish capital cut by the recognition of previously concealed
investment losses.  “They would make a good couple,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an
equity analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone.
“Fujifilm has ample cash and should make use of it.”  The company had cash, near cash and short-term investments
worth 296 billion yen as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Olympus President Shuichi Takayama earlier this month said
he will consider all options to restore capital after slashing
net assets 70 percent following revelations that the company had
falsified accounts to hide investment losses for more than a
decade. Selling preference shares convertible into equity may
let the company raise funds at the same time as sidestepping
objections from some investors to a sale of common stock.  Katsunori Nagayasu, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said last month lenders will continue to support
Olympus. Nagayasu is also president of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) ,  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank and one of
Olympus’s main lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  