-- Gabon Says BHP Close to Winning Belinga Iron-Ore Deposit Rights
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-01-30T12:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/gabon-says-bhp-close-to-winning-belinga-iron-ore-deposit-rights.html
Gabon is close to removing control
of its largest  iron ore  project from  China Machinery Engineering
Corp (CMECEZ) . and awarding it to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , said an official
from the African country’s mining ministry.  Gabonese officials including Mines and Oil Minister
Alexandre Barro Chambrier will meet executives of Melbourne-
based BHP in  Cape Town  early next month to complete the deal,
Michel Edzang, an official at the Mining Department and adviser
to the minister, said in an interview in Libreville. A spokesman
for BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, declined to
comment.  The West African nation started a review in 2010 of  Belinga 
after a consultant to the government said progress developing
the mine had been slow. China Machinery, which had estimated
Belinga could produce 30 million metric tons of the steel-making
raw material a year at a cost of about $3.5 billion, said it
remained in talks on the venture.  “We’re still discussing with the  Gabon  government on how
to solve the problems,” Cai Ning, manager of China Machinery’s
engineering department, said today by phone from Beijing.
“We’re waiting for their reply. We didn’t say we’re withdrawing
and the project is still ongoing.”  China has strengthened ties with  Africa  as it seeks to
secure access to the continent’s raw materials. Export-Import
Bank of China loaned about $67.2 billion to sub-Saharan African
nations in the past decade, according to a Fitch Ratings report
in December.  BHP Diversifying  A move into Gabon would mark a shift by BHP toward
diversifying its production of iron ore, which is dominated by
output from mines in  Western Australia . Iron ore contributed 29
percent of BHP’s $71 billion in sales for the 2011 fiscal year.  The mining company may partner with  India ’s Abhijeet
Infrastructure Ltd. in the Belinga project, which requires the
construction of a railway, Edzang said in the Jan. 26 meeting.
BHP is expected to start production from its manganese mine in
Gabon this quarter, he said. Manoj Jayaswal, chairman of Nagpur,
India-based  Abhijeet Group , couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Minister Barro Chambrier said Jan. 14 on Radio Television
Gabonaise there were “accelerated discussions” on the
exploitation of Belinga, in the northeast of the country. He
didn’t name the parties the government was in talks with.  “The Gabon government didn’t fulfill its part, hindering
the project and making it unable to move forward,” China
Machinery’s Cai said. “The truth is, we have been working on
the project because the Chinese government gives high priority
to this project.”  Legal Obstacle  Without the Gabon government’s approvals,  China  Machinery
lacks the legal right to proceed, Cai said.  China Machinery said in 2009 that it had signed a 25-year
contract to build and operate the mine, near Gabon’s border with
the Republic of Congo. As part of the accord, the Beijing-based
company said it would build a 500-kilometer (310-mile) railway,
a port and a hydropower station. China Machinery signed an
initial agreement on Belinga in September 2006, according to its
website.  Development has previously been opposed by
environmentalists because Belinga lies within Gabon’s Ivindo
National Park, a  rain forest  that is home to elephants, western
lowland gorillas and chimpanzees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  