-- Genome Proving Cure for Ailing Twins Paves Breakthrough to Doctor’s Office
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-01-30T22:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/genome-proving-cure-for-ailing-twins-paves-breakthrough-to-doctor-s-office.html
By the time his twins Noah and
Alexis were 12 years old, Joe Beery and his wife Retta had spent
a decade trying to figure out what made their children so ill.
After Joe took a job at  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , a California
company that makes DNA sequencers, their luck turned.  The company’s machines revealed that the twins had been
misdiagnosed and incompletely treated for more than a decade.
New medication put an end to an illness that had caused
vomiting, muscle weakness and seizures. Their daughter, who had
spells of breathing difficulties that turned her skin blue, was
healthy again.  “Genome sequencing literally saved her life,” Retta Beery
said.  Nine years after scientists sequenced the first  complete
human genome  -- the instruction manual for making all the body’s
cells -- the industry is poised for a series of takeovers and
technological breakthroughs that will bring the technology into
doctor’s offices and patient hospital rooms. Equipment made by
Life Technologies and  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  is spewing out human genome
sequences faster than ever and prices will soon drop to $1,000,
below that of many widely used diagnostic procedures, such as
colonoscopies.  Roche Holding AG’s hostile $5.7 billion bid for Illumina
may spark additional deals as pharmaceutical and diagnostic
companies race to bring DNA scanning into routine medical use,
analysts said.  Changes in Oncology  The explosion of genomic data is creating a revolution in
the treatment of some genetically driven diseases, especially
cancer, said  Harold Varmus , director of the U.S. National Cancer
Institute. With an exact understanding of the genetic
alterations causing individual tumors to grow uncontrollably,
doctors can target therapies for better effectiveness, he said.  “It’s the biggest change I’ve ever seen in oncology,” he
said in an interview. “People are taking genetic information
they see in patients’ tumors and changing therapy in dramatic
ways.”  The surge in clinical use of genomics will increase the
global market for sequencing products to about $10 billion from
the current $1.5 billion over the “next few years,” according
to Life Technologies Chief Executive Officer Greg Lucier. That
would exceed the $3.8 billion global market for magnetic
resonance imaging machines. Ross Muken, an analyst with Deutsche
Bank AG in  New York , said it may take 15 years for the
sequencing market to reach Lucier’s estimate.  Life Technologies rose 1 cent to $48.56 at the close of
trading in New York. The stock has gained 25 percent this year.  Inaccessible to Most  Huge obstacles loom. While the Beerys benefited from Joe’s
job at Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies, whole
genome sequencing isn’t routinely covered by insurers. The
procedure currently remains inaccessible to most patients unless
they have the persistence to be chosen for clinical research
studies, or can pay out of pocket.  Just as important, the volume of data that needs to be
organized and analyzed is smothering efforts to make the genome
applicable to day-to-day medicine. Each person’s DNA code
contains 6 billion chemical letters, called bases, and differs
from what’s considered “normal” at more than 3 million of
those points. Doctors are still learning the medical
significance of the millions of variations. Most of the
gigabytes of genetic data churned out by sequencers around the
world is, for now, incomprehensible to scientists, let alone
people who see patients daily.  ‘Tidal Wave’  “We are standing on the beach, and a tidal wave of
information is coming toward us,” says  David King , CEO of
 Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings  in Burlington,  North
Carolina , which does medical testing.  Health insurers are also reluctant to underwrite testing
such as a full genome sequence that may encourage plan
participants to use and demand services that might be needless
in many cases, King said at a conference at  Harvard Medical
School  in  Boston  last year.  “If you want to see their hair stand on end, ask them
about a test that’s going to be offered to everyone to see if
they have some genetic predisposition to obesity or diabetes or
something else,” King said. “They will run from the room
screaming.”  Even if it costs just $1,000 to sequence a genome, there
are questions that must be answered before insurers will pay for
it, said Susan Pisano, a spokeswoman for America’s Health
Insurance Plans, a Washington-based industry group.  How It’s Done  “It’s whether there’s evidence that it makes a difference
to the health of individuals,” Pisano said. “Are we confident
that there’s an adequate level of accuracy? And what are we
going to do with the results?”  (Bloomberg News is examining the personal, medical and
business impact of genome sequencing. Reporter John Lauerman
gave a blood sample in September for sequencing, and the results
will be detailed in a future article.)  Most sequencers are high-powered cameras costing from
$50,000 to $700,000 that can read and arrange the four chemical
bases of DNA -- called A, C, G and T -- quickly, accurately and
in order. DNA from a person’s tissue is chopped into pieces,
assembled on a slide, and the four bases are labeled
fluorescently or with some other marker, so they can be detected
by a camera. Finally those millions of pieces are reassembled
into one single DNA sequence.  Machines with newer technology, such as Life Technologies’
Personal Genome Machine and Ion Proton sequencers, sense the
different chemical bases by measuring the release of hydrogen
ions from each “letter” of the DNA alphabet.  QuantuMDx , a
closely held U.K. company, has designed a mini-sequencer the
size of an iPod that could be used to test patients for
infections and drug responses.  Venture Backing  Sequencing efficiency is racing ahead. Clifford Reid, CEO
of  Complete Genomics Inc. (GNOM)  in  Mountain View , California, said his
capacity will increase 100 times in the coming years.  The next challenge is developing software and gadgets to
help put sequencing information to use in hospitals and
physician offices. Google Inc.’s Google Ventures fund, which
invests as much as $200 million annually in startups, has put a
“significant” chunk of its money into companies aiming to
speed the use of the genome, said Krishna Yeshwant one of its
partners.  Closely held companies such as GenomeQuest, based in
Westborough,  Massachusetts , Emeryville, California-based Omicia
Inc. and  Softgenetics LLC  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , are
making software to search through gene variations and find those
that are “actionable,” for doctors trying to diagnose and
treat disease.  Months to Minutes  Knome Inc., co-founded by Harvard Medical School geneticist
 George Church  to sequence genomes for the public, has
reorganized as a DNA analytics company, and will begin licensing
software to hospitals and clinics this year, said Jason Lee,
chief marketing officer.  Martin Reese, CEO of Omicia, hired a  software developer 
with experience both at  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to
develop a system that would sort huge numbers of genetic
variations, select those that were most likely to be associated
with disease, and make it easy for users to process the results.  “We’re taking a process, hand annotation of the genome,
that can take up to six months to do, and automating it so that
it takes just a half hour or an hour,” Reese said.  Like the computer industry 20 years ago, gene-sequencing
companies are also aiming to make smaller, friendlier products.  During an interview in his office, Jay Flatley, the CEO of
San Diego-based Illumina, waved an Apple iPad loaded with an app
that displayed his genome. He skipped from page to page with his
fingertips. Patients could take this information with them to a
doctor’s appointment, he said, and discuss treatments.  Genetic Variants  “What people want to know is, what genetic variants do I
have that are different for a disease or drug?” he says,
quickly paging through screens of diagrams, text and color
icons. He stopped on one describing a gene that would affect his
response to the blood-thinner warfarin, should he ever take it.
“I’m in the high-sensitivity category, so I should get a lower
dose.”  Roche said Jan. 25 that it had offered $5.7 billion, or
$44.50 a share, for Illumina. The sequencer manufacturer
countered with a so-called “poison pill” measure that would
give shareholders the option of buying preferred stock to match
each of their common shares, which may make the company too
expensive for Roche to buy.  Hospital Investment  The power of sequencing is spurring hospitals and clinics to
invest.  Dana-Farber Cancer Institute  in Boston plans to buy at
least two sequencers from Illumina this year, said Barrett Rollins, chief scientific officer of the Harvard-affiliated
oncology center. Doctors at the University of  Iowa  use
GenomeQuest’s software to sift through deaf children’s DNA to
determine whether they’re likely to benefit from hearing aids or
cochlear implants.  The Beerys’ introduction to sequencing began at a 2008 job
interview. Joe, 49, was chief information officer at US Airways
Group Inc. and Greg Lucier, chief executive of Invitrogen --
which later became Life Technologies -- was trying to recruit
him.  At a dinner overlooking the Pacific shore in Del Mar,
 California , the Beerys described to Lucier and his wife how
their children had been misdiagnosed with cerebral palsy at the
age of 2. Alexis had muscle weakness and general fatigue that
worsened each day from the morning on.  “We went through so many invasive tests through the
years,” Retta said. “Between the two of them, I’m sure it’s
been more than a million dollars from insurance and what we’ve
paid.”  Good Night’s Sleep  Retta described scouring the literature for conditions that
fit the strange symptoms. When the twins were 5 1/2 years old,
she read about a rare disorder called a “dystonia,” caused by
a deficiency of a nervous system chemical. It sounded similar to
what the children were suffering from and was caused by a
shortage of dopamine, a nervous system messenger molecule.
Doctors treated the condition with a dose of a drug called
Sinemet.  “Alexis took a quarter of a pill, and she slept through
the night for the first time in her life,” Retta said.  Lucier told the Beerys that Invitrogen was about to
purchase a sequencing company called Applied Biosystems, a move
that would later result in the company being renamed Life
Technologies. Applied’s sequencers had the potential to find
faulty genes in children in just weeks or months, rather than
the years-long odyssey the Beery twins, then in their early
teens, had endured, Lucier said.  Symptoms Reappeared  “When you help me merge these companies, there’s a
possibility we’ll have the technology to sequence kids with
problems like these at birth,” Joe Beery recalled Lucier
saying.  “On the way home, I already knew that this was a company
that I wanted to be a part of,” said Joe, who signed with Life
Technologies within about eight weeks.  A few months after that, the Beery twins’ treatment started
to lose effectiveness, and some of the children’s symptoms
reappeared. Alexis’s were particularly frightening and severe.
During a two-month period, she went to the emergency room seven
times because she was turning blue from lack of oxygen, Retta
recalled.  In 2009, Joe and Retta were listening to a presentation by
Eric Topol, a Scripps Research Institute scientist who has
organized several large genetic studies. As Topol talked about
the power of sequencing to solve medical mysteries, a thought
began to take shape in Retta’s mind: why not sequence the
children’s genomes?  DNA Decoded  Through Life Technologies’ sequencing division, Joe and
Retta got in touch with a team of doctors and scientists at
Baylor College of Medicine’s  Human Genome Sequencing Center  in
Houston. One of the Baylor researchers, James Lupski, had
sequenced his own genome to identify the mutation behind his
case of an inherited nerve disorder, called  Charcot-Marie-Tooth 
disease.  The Beery children’s DNA was decoded in two months by
Baylor’s Richard Gibbs on Life Technologies’ machines, the
sequencers the Beerys learned about in the dinner at Del Mar.
Life helped pay for the procedure, along with Baylor research
funds. Baylor’s doctors and scientists then performed the
analysis. As the process went forward, Joe would take a few
minutes during his regular work meetings with Lucier to update
him on progress.  “I wanted to stay close to it,” recalled Lucier, who
later had his own genome sequenced. “It was one of the first
full human genome sequencing efforts to study a disease, and I
wanted to make sure it did not disappoint.”  Alive and Healthy  The procedure revealed that the twins had been incompletely
diagnosed. In addition to the dopamine deficiency, the dystonia
was being caused by a second genetic mutation that interfered
with a separate nervous system chemical, called serotonin. The
twins’ doctors found that the dystonia could be fully treated
with a serotonin replacement that was readily available through
pharmacies. The change was dramatic: soon Alexis was back to
school, track and basketball. A small dose also helped Noah, who
had been less severely affected by the deficiency.  News spread quickly through Life Technologies’ offices that
the sequencing had helped save the Beery twins. Last summer, Joe
told the story to a crowd of hundreds of Life Technologies
employees, with the twins present. He explained how he saw the
work of the company’s employees playing a key role in keeping
his children alive and healthy.  ‘Prayers Answered’  “People were crying,” Lucier recalled. “People came up
to the Beerys afterwards to hug them and thank them for their
courage in doing this. It allowed all our employees to draw a
line between their work and making life better for patients.”  Earlier this month, the company introduced the Ion Proton
sequencer, a $150,000 machine Lucier says will be able to
sequence an entire human genome in one day for a cost of about
$1,000. Until now, most sequencers have been sold to the
research community. While that’s an important market, the
potential for sales to hospitals, clinics and testing
laboratories is far larger, Lucier said.  The Beerys said they hope more parents and children will be
helped as they have been. Joe Beery said that while he and his
family always prayed for guidance, they never dreamed that the
answer to their children’s health mystery would arrive because
he landed at a company that took a gamble on genome sequencing.  “The fact that I ended up where I ended up, you have to
believe those prayers were answered,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 