-- German Non-Harmonized Inflation Rate Declined to 2% in January
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-30T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/german-non-harmonized-inflation-rate-declined-to-2-in-january.html
German non-harmonized  inflation 
slowed in January.  The inflation rate eased to 2 percent from 2.1 percent in
December, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
The office delayed publication of data calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, citing new EU standards.
Economists forecast that the harmonized inflation rate increased
to 2.4 percent from 2.3 percent, according to the median of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Within the next few months inflation should come down
below the 2 percent mark,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief
economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “Even though the
economy shrank in the last quarter, the signs are that we’ll
avoid a technical recession.”  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its forecast
for 2012 economic growth in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent as the sovereign debt crisis
threatens to tip the euro region into recession. At the same
time, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the economy is
experiencing a “temporary weak phase” and should return to
robust growth later in the year.  Euro-area inflation will remain at 2.7 percent this month,
according to the median of 38 estimates in another Bloomberg
survey. That report will be released on Feb. 1.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 1 percent this month after two
reductions. President  Mario Draghi  said while the economy is
showing “tentative” signs of stabilizing, “cost, wage and
price pressures in the euro area should remain modest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  