-- German Stocks Decline the Most in a Month as Greece’s Debt Talks Continue
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-01-30T17:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/german-stocks-drop-as-greece-continues-debt-talks-deutsche-bank-declines.html
German stocks  dropped the most in
one month, led by lenders’ shares, as  Greece  struggled to agree
a debt write-off plan with its creditors and Portugal’s credit-
default swaps rose to a record price.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  both declined more than
3.5 percent. Kloeckner & Co. SE slumped after Chief Executive
Officer Gisbert Ruehl told Financial Times Deutschland that
demand for steel will drop.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  fell after saying that
it will report a wider loss for 2011 than it had predicted.  The  DAX (DAX)  dropped 1 percent to 6,444.45 at the close in
Frankfurt for its biggest retreat since Dec. 28. The gauge has
still  rallied 9.3 percent  this year amid speculation the global
economy will withstand the impact of the euro area’s debt crisis
and as central banks acted to fuel growth. The broader HDAX
Index lost 1.1 percent today.  “We see  Portugal  as a big problem; we believe they are
going to be the second Greece,” said Markus Neuburger, head of
sales at Donner & Reuschel in Munich. “Our customers have been
cautious and we don’t see much interest in equities yet.”  European Union leaders gathered for their first summit of
2012 today as they continued their efforts to control the euro
area’s debt crisis. Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  has
yet to strike a debt deal that may see creditors lose about 69
percent of the net-present value of the country’s debt, said a
person familiar with the talks.  Portugal’s credit-default swaps rose to a record today,
according to CMA, amid concern that investors will have to take
losses on their bond holdings if Greece agrees a debt deal with
its creditors.  Bonds Drop  Portugal’s government bonds declined, pushing the yield on
the 10-year security up 217 basis points to 17.39 percent. Two-
year note yields advanced 383 basis points to 21.01 percent.  “When Greece hit these levels, real talk of debt
restructuring began to take hold,”  Padhraic Garvey , a fixed-
income strategist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam, wrote in a note
today. “Portugal has about six months to prove that it is not
another Greece, else its fate could likely be sealed by negative
market price action.”  Deutsche Bank,  Germany’s biggest lender , fell 3.8 percent
to 32.26 euros. Commerzbank, the  country’s second largest ,
slipped 4 percent to 1.81 euros.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the credit grades of  Italy ,  Spain 
and three other euro-area countries on Jan. 27, saying the five
nations lacked financing flexibility.  Kloeckner, ThyssenKrupp  Kloeckner, the German steel trader operating in 15
countries in  Europe  and  North America , tumbled 7.3 percent to
10.85 euros. Steel demand in Europe may drop 5 percent or more
this year, FT Deutschland cited Ruehl as saying. Today’s economy
is more threatening to the industry than the financial crisis of
2008, Kloeckner’s CEO also said.  ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, lost 3.6
percent to 21.11 euros. The company may be nearing a sale of its
Inoxum stainless steel unit to Finland’s Outokumpu Oyj in a deal
valued at about 2.7 billion euros ($3.5 billion), Die Welt
reported in a pre-release of an article to be published
tomorrow, citing unidentified people close to the company.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker,
declined 5.1 percent to 45.47 euros.  Hochtief (HOT)  tumbled 5.8 percent to 48.07 euros. The builder,
based in Essen, Germany, said it will have a wider loss than it
had forecast for last year because of additional charges in the
fourth quarter at its Australian subsidiary and costs related to
the departure of executives.  RWE, Praktiker Gain  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest power utility, advanced
1.2 percent to 29.15 euros, its fifth straight gain. Morgan
Stanley analysts increased their recommendation on the shares to
“overweight,” raising their price estimate to 36 euros from 29
euros. The brokerage also said that analyst estimates and RWE’s
own forecasts will “increase materially.”  “RWE is now one of the cheapest integrated utilities on
our new numbers,” the bank wrote in a report. “Our increases
reflect a more focused disposal program and the unique fuel
mix.”  Praktiker AG surged 9.2 percent to 2.26 euros.  Germany ’s
third-largest home-improvement retailer said on Jan. 28 that it
had reached an agreement with a group of banks led by
Commerzbank to transfer bilateral credit lines into a joint-
credit arrangement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  