-- German Bunds Advance for a Fourth Day Before EU Summit; Italy Bonds Slide
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-01-30T16:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/german-government-bonds-rise-for-a-fourth-day-before-latest-eu-debt-summit.html
German 10-year  government bonds  rose
for a fourth day as European Union leaders gathered for their
latest summit on resolving the debt crisis amid evidence the
region’s  economy  is deteriorating.  The advance pushed the yield to the lowest since Jan. 18 as
EU chiefs meet in Brussels to conclude a deficit-control treaty
and endorse the statutes of a 500 billion-euro ($655 billion)
rescue fund to be set up this year. Italian 10-year debt snapped
a two-day gain as the nation sold 7.5 billion euros of
securities, below the maximum target. Portuguese 10-year yields
surged to a euro-era record even as the  European Central Bank 
was said to buy the nation’s bonds.  “There’s still uncertainty in the market and that’s
keeping yields in real core countries like  Germany  low,” said
Michiel de Bruin, who oversees about $32 billion as head of
European government debt at F&C Netherlands in Amsterdam.
“Growth in Europe is still expected to be quite low and in such
an environment there will be a perception that yields can remain
relatively low as well.”  The yield on 10-year bunds declined seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.79 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time.
The 2 percent bund due January 2022 gained 0.595, or 5.95 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.865. The two-year yield fell
two basis points to 0.17 percent.  The euro weakened for the first time in six days, dropping
0.9 percent to $1.3099 and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated
1.1 percent.  Italian-German Spread  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area improved less than economists estimated.  The Italian 10-year yield jumped 18 basis points to 6.08
percent, widening the  difference  over benchmark German bunds 25
basis points to 429 basis points. Spanish 10-year yields
increased six basis points to 5.03 percent, widening the so-
called spread over similar-maturity German bunds by 13 basis
points to 3.23 percentage points.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 2 billion euros of a benchmark
10-year bond, 3.57 billion euros of five-year bonds at 5.39
percent and a total of 1.9 billion euros bonds due 2016 and
2021. Investors bid for 1.30 times the amount of five-year bonds
offered, down from 1.42 times on Dec. 14.  ‘Weak Auction’  “It was a weak auction, the amount wasn’t at the top of
the range and still they only managed to get a low bid-to-cover
on the five-year auction,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-
rate strategist at UBS AG in London. “Demand for Italian paper
is not there, it is nowhere close to where it used to be. The
short-term growth picture is likely to deteriorate and
structurally nothing has changed.”  Business confidence in  Italy , the euro area’s third-largest
economy, fell in January to the lowest in more than two years as
the economy probably slipped into a recession, data from Istat,
the Rome-based national statistics institute, showed today.  There is “some” probability that the euro area will fall
into recession, European Central Bank Governing Council member
Jozef Makuch said an interview in  Hospodarske Noviny . Countries
must cut excessive fiscal deficits and reach structurally
balanced budgets, said Makuch, who is also the head of the
Slovak central bank.  European nations including Italy, Belgium and  Spain  may
sell more than 33 billion euros of securities this week as
credit-rating cuts risk upending optimism the region’s debt
crisis is being contained.  Belgium  sells as much as 3 billion
euros of bills tomorrow, with Spain,  Portugal , Germany and
 France  issuing 13 different maturities in the five days.  Portugal Concern  Greek notes due August 2013 rose amid debt-swap
negotiations with creditors, pushing the yield down to 163.93
percent from 171.28 percent last week, leaving the price at
23.725.  The country faced criticism that its economic makeover is
faltering, and it fended off German-led calls for a European
overseer to take command of its budget after its deficits
surpassed targets for two years.  “What the Greeks have to do is show they are ready to
implement the package,” Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told
reporters as he arrived for the EU summit.  Portugal’s bonds due in April 2021 sank for a fourth day
amid concern investors may also have to take losses on their
holdings in the event of a Greek debt deal. The yield climbed to
a euro-era record 17.39 percent.  “Some type of private-sector involvement for Portugal is a
likely event and that is probably one of the key risks,” Jim Cielinski, head of fixed income at  Threadneedle Asset Management
Ltd . in  London   said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” with  Owen Thomas . “Portugal has been trading
off quite markedly.”  ECB Purchases  Portugal’s 10-year yield spread over Germany widened 224
basis points to 15.60 percentage points, also a euro-era record.  The Frankfurt-based ECB bought Portuguese government bonds
today, according to three people with knowledge of the
transactions, who declined to be identified because the deals
are confidential. A spokesman for the ECB declined to comment
when contacted by phone.  Portuguese bonds have lost 8.3 percent this month,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek securities
earned 0.1 percent, after a 62 percent slump last year. German
bonds have lost 0.4 percent this month, the indexes show.  Volatility on Portuguese sovereign debt was the highest in
euro-area markets today, followed by  Greece , according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year spreads and credit-
default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  