-- Giants’ Long-Shot Season Makes Las Vegas Bookies Root for Patriots Victory
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-30T16:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/giants-long-shot-season-makes-las-vegas-bookies-root-for-patriots-victory.html
The  New York Giants ’ upset win over
the undefeated  New England Patriots  in the Super Bowl four years
ago led to the biggest gambling losses for Nevada’s sports books
in more than two decades.  Eli Manning and the underdog Giants may again be turning
Las Vegas bookmakers into Patriots fans.  The Giants as recently as last month had odds as high as
100-1 to win the  National Football League ’s championship game.
Chris Andrews, director of race and sports for Cal Neva’s sports
books, said he had one regular client place a futures bet of
“well over four figures” at 60-1 odds on the Giants when they
had a 6-6 record and were heading to  Dallas  with a four-game
losing streak.  “We’re pretty strung out on the Giants and we’re not
alone,” Andrews said in a telephone interview from Reno,
Nevada. “As far as the future book goes, we certainly don’t
want to see the Giants win.”  While Andrews declined to identify the bettor with the
four-figure Super Bowl wager, he said the man already cashed a
bet on the Giants winning the National Football Conference
title. A winning $2,000 wager at 60-1 odds would yield a
$120,000 profit, while a winning $5,000 wager would return
$300,000.  “In future bookmaking in general, you don’t want the long
shots to win and the Giants were not one of the favorites
through much of the year,” Art Manteris, vice president of race
and sports book operations at Station’s Red Rock Casino in  Las
Vegas , said in a telephone interview. “Most sports books are in
the same spot.”  Foxborough Win  The Giants beat the Patriots 24-20 in Foxborough,
 Massachusetts , on Nov. 6 and then lost four straight games.
Their 38-35 home loss to the defending Super Bowl-champion  Green
Bay  Packers on Dec. 4 left them with a 6-6 record.  “We were at 100-1 after they lost to Green Bay,” Andrews
said. “We’re actually pretty aggressive with the futures, we
move them quite a bit from one week to the next if a team looks
bad or good. In retrospect, we probably went too high.”  The Giants recovered to win three of their final four
regular-season games to make the playoffs for the first time in
three years. They’ve continued the run with three playoff
victories and could become the first team in NFL history to win
the  Super Bowl  after having a four-game losing streak.  Losing Streak  “The four-game losing streak was tough, but our story this
year is amazing and we’re looking forward to finishing it off,”
Devin Thomas, who recovered two fumbled punts to help New York
win the NFC championship in  San Francisco , said last week. “You
don’t like to lose, but we always have a mentality that they
didn’t beat us, we beat ourselves, so let’s find out what we
were doing to lose.”  Andrews said this year’s Super Bowl may be the most heavily
wagered championship game in Nevada and so far he’s seen almost
twice as many bets on the Giants.  Frank Streshley of the  Nevada  Gaming Control Board said the
Super Bowl handle is most affected by the popularity of the
teams in the game, the nation’s economy and the point spread.  “The closer the point spread, the more interest there
tends to be from a betting standpoint,” Streshley said.
“People are generally more likely to place a wager when they
don’t have to lay as many points.”  The Patriots are favored by 2 1/2 to 3 points, depending on
the sports book.  Record Handle  The biggest Super Bowl handle was in 2006, when $94.5
million was bet in Nevada on the Pittsburgh Steelers’ 21-10 win
over the  Seattle Seahawks . The Steelers were four-point
favorites, and sports books cited their national following for
the number of bets made.  The Giants-Patriots matchup in 2008 drew $92 million in
wagers.  New York  won 17-14 as 12-point underdogs and Nevada’s
sports books lost almost $2.6 million, just the second time
they’ve lost money on the Super Bowl since 1991.  The NFL championship game’s handle in Nevada dropped to
about $82 million in 2009 and 2010 during the economic downturn,
and rebounded to $87.5 million last year, when the Packers beat
the Steelers 31-25.  “I think we’re going to set a record this year,” Andrews
said. “Just a hunch on my part. The matchup is so attractive
and the economy has rebounded enough where we should pass that
Steeler-Seahawk Super Bowl.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  