-- Gillard’s Support Slips as Australian Opposition Retains Lead, Poll Shows
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-01-31T03:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/gillard-s-support-slips-as-australian-opposition-retains-lead-poll-shows.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , the nation’s first female leader, starts 2012 with
support for her government at the lowest level on record at the
start of a parliamentary year, a poll today showed.  The ruling  Labor party ’s primary vote fell one percentage
point to 30 percent, behind the Liberal-National coalition’s 45
percent, according to the first Newspoll survey of the year
published in the Australian newspaper. Gillard’s lead as
preferred prime minister fell 3 points to 40 percent, compared
with opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s 37 percent.  The poll caps a challenging start to 2012 for Gillard, who
after parliament opens Feb. 7 plans to implement a price on
 carbon emissions  and pass laws to create a new tax on miners
ahead of national elections due in 2013. An independent
lawmaker’s decision to withdraw support for the government and
opposition demands for an inquiry into Labor’s role in clashes
between police and aboriginal protesters last week may have
robbed her of any momentum won late last year, Newspoll’s Martin
O’Shannessy said.  “Labor is very good at fighting from behind in the
underdog position,” O’Shannessy, Newspoll’s chief executive,
said in a phone interview today. “Gillard’s challenge is to get
Labor’s primary vote up to 35 percent, which is contestable” to
win an election, he said.  Gillard’s parliamentary majority was reduced to one seat
last week when  Andrew Wilkie  withdrew his support. Wilkie, who
helped Labor form a minority government in 2010, said Gillard’s
decision to implement a trial period on technology that
restricts gambling on  slot machines  fell short of a pledge to
make the limits mandatory.  Majority Ended  Gillard formed a government in September 2010, three months
after replacing  Kevin Rudd  as leader in a late-night party coup,
after the nation’s closest election in seven decades. The vote
ended Labor’s majority. She had to rely on the support of
Wilkie, two other independents and a Greens Party lawmaker to
secure the votes needed to pass legislation in the 150-member
 House of Representatives .  The opposition is demanding an inquiry after Gillard’s
media aide resigned Jan. 27 for disclosing Abbott’s location at
a restaurant in the national capital of Canberra, information
that was passed on to protest organizers. Security officers
rushed Gillard and Abbott from the venue, where they were
attending a function, as dozens of demonstrators banged on the
windows.  Strong Economy  The government is also encountering opposition to its plan
for a 30 percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits, forecast to
raise A$7.7 billion ($8.2 billion) in the first two years should
it be approved by parliament’s upper house. Gillard’s approval
rating in December rose to the highest in seven months after the
lower house passed the tax plan and she signed a defense accord
with U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Gillard has faced speculation since September that Rudd
would challenge her leadership. The former prime minister won’t
vie for the top job, Minister for Regional Australia Simon Crean
said today.  “There is no point in having a band of prima donnas unless
they operate as a team,” Crean said in an interview on the 3AW
radio station. “Part of the reason he lost the leadership was
because he wasn’t” prepared to operate as part of a team, he
said, referring to Rudd.  ‘Strong Position’  Gillard’s struggle to boost her government’s popularity
comes even as the nation shrugs off the effects of the global
economic downturn, spurred by a resources boom that’s pushing
exports to records.  Australia ’s  economy  will expand 3.7 percent
in 2012, the fastest pace among Group of 10 currencies,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The coalition’s primary vote shows it’s in a pretty
strong position and the battle is with the prime minister,”
said Newspoll’s O’Shannessy. “I don’t think Gillard will face a
challenge from her party -- there would be a big breach of faith
with the electorate were that to happen.”  The Newspoll survey of 1,139 people was conducted Jan.
28-29 and had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  