-- Gingrich Uses Romney Endorsements to Paint Him as Insider’s Pick
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/gingrich-using-romney-s-endorsements-to-depict-him-as-choice-of-insiders.html
As the Florida primary draws to an
end,  Mitt Romney  is showcasing his support from some of the
biggest names in the Republican party, highlighting a friendly
statement from 1996 presidential nominee  Bob Dole  and
campaigning side-by-side with 2008 nominee  John McCain .  Newt Gingrich, his chief Republican rival, is also making a
big deal out of those endorsements -- to argue that he is the
true outsider in the race and appeal to the anti-establishment
Tea Party voters who upset congressional primaries in the last
cycle.  Gingrich, in an interview on his campaign plane, described
Dole, a former Senate majority leader, and McCain, an Arizona
senator, as “the guys who lost” and said they “probably
aren’t the guys Romney should have trotted out. It’s allowed me
to say ‘we tried a moderate in ‘96 and lost. We tried a moderate
in ‘08 and we lost,’” he said.  “They certainly say to every  Tea Party  person: Now we know
who he is,” added Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, in a
reference to Romney.  Endorsements are a campaign tactic intended to validate a
candidate’s credentials and tap into the political bases of
those who’ve endorsed him, which can produce new fundraisers and
manpower.  Romney Momentum  The rallying around Romney’s candidacy last week was picked
up by such Republican-leaning websites as the Drudge Report.
That, plus more than $10 million in pro-Romney advertising on
broadcast networks, has created a sense of momentum for him and
against Gingrich in the days leading to the Jan. 31 primary.  Yet in a Republican Party split between loyalists and anti-
establishment activists, it’s an open question whether those
endorsements will help the former Massachusetts governor.  In  South Carolina , Romney enveloped his candidacy in the
embrace of sitting Republican governors, including the state’s
Governor Nikki Haley; Gingrich’s campaign was revived by strong
debate performances and a call from former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, a prime voice for the party’s anti- Washington  wing, to
back him and extend the primary. Gingrich won the Palmetto
State’s Jan. 21 contest by 12 percentage points.  In Florida, the former speaker is trying to recreate that
dynamic and interviews with voters suggest some are open to the
argument, although it may be not be a large enough bloc to stall
Romney’s momentum before its Jan. 31 primary. A  poll  released
yesterday by the Miami Herald gave Romney an 11-point lead, with
42 percent support among  Florida  Republicans compared to 31
percent for Gingrich.  McCain Endorsement  “I really haven’t been all that impressed with those
guys,” Joe Deen, 55, said yesterday at a Cocoa Beach, Florida
event for Gingrich. “McCain especially. I’ve often felt like he
was barely conservative to start with.”  Across Florida this week, Republican voters echoed similar
sentiments about the former party nominee who lost the general
election to President  Barack Obama .  “I voted for McCain because he was the best on the ticket
but I did not want him,” said Andrea Kidd, 47, after hearing
Gingrich speak in  Orlando . “He kowtowed on conservative
principles. We don’t want that again.”  McCain isn’t the only surrogate whose support for Romney is
raising red flags among activists.  Earlier this week, Dole, the former Kansas senator who lost
the 1996 general election to then-President  Bill Clinton , called
Gingrich “a one-man-band who rarely took advice” and whose
ideas were mostly “off the wall.”  Dole Criticizes Gingrich  “If Gingrich is the nominee, it will have an adverse
impact on Republican candidates running for county, state, and
federal offices,” Dole wrote.  Erick Erickson, a Republican columnist, challenged that
critique in a Jan. 26 post on redstate.com. Dole, wrote
Erickson, gave in to Democrats during the 1995 government shut-
down, undermining Gingrich’s demands.  “We’re supposed to hate  Newt Gingrich  because Bob Dole
caved to the Democrats 24 hours before they were going to cave
to Gingrich?” he wrote. “Pffffft.”  Over the weekend, Gingrich picked up the endorsement of
 Herman Cain , an Atlanta businessman and former presidential
candidate. Texas Governor Rick Perry also backed Gingrich when
he withdrew from the race before the South Carolina primary.  Sipping white wine on his campaign airplane, Gingrich said
Cain’s endorsement is “a big deal” because “it sends a signal
of populism. It brings you a bump in the news cycle. It has, I
think, a really good signal about the insurgents versus the
establishment.”  Fighting Washington Elite  At campaign rallies, the former Georgia congressman casts
himself as an ideological warrior fighting the Washington elite.  “The prospect of Gingrich actually becoming president for
the old guard is horrifying,” he said in an interview with  Fox
News  on Jan. 27. “They’re all comfortable. They’re all set in
their ways. They’re all part of an establishment.”  Still, his long record in Washington and consulting work
after resigning from the House in 1999 leave some anti-spending
conservatives unconvinced.  “There’s absolutely no way for Gingrich to identify
himself outside of Washington D.C.,” said Mark Meckler, a co-
founder of Tea Party Patriots.  Florida political consultants say Gingrich has his own ties
to the state’s establishment. For co-chairman of his state
campaign operation, Gingrich picked  Bill McCollum , a former
Florida attorney general who lost a 2010 gubernatorial
Republican primary bid to Governor  Rick Scott , who was backed by
Tea Party activists.  Gingrich Establishment Ties  “Gingrich is running around talking about the elites and
the establishment but two years ago his campaign chairman was at
very top of that list,” said  David Johnson , former executive
director of Florida’s  Republican Party .  Romney has worked hard to point out those aspects of
Gingrich’s record. This week, his campaign sent surrogates to
travel from one Gingrich event to another countering the former
speaker’s message and explaining why they believe Romney would
be a stronger candidate against Obama next fall.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, confronted one of those
backers, U.S. Representative  Jason Chaffetz  at a Jan. 27 event
in Delray, Florida, noting that some Republican officials have
criticized those tactics. The Utah congressman defended his
presence at the event, saying Gingrich vowed to send his
supporters to counter Obama events if the two were to face off
in a general election.  On Jan. 28 in  Port St. Lucie , Gingrich was asked about
Romney backers attending his events.  “Does the term ‘desperation’ come to mind?” Gingrich
said.  Hammond then turned to Chaffetz: “One thing is clear: The
establishment sticks together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Cocoa Beach, Florida at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  