-- Gingrich Labels Romney ‘Wall Street Elite’ Before Florida Vote
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/gingrich-labels-romney-wall-street-elite-before-florida-vote.html
Newt Gingrich , accusing Republican
presidential primary opponent  Mitt Romney  of being a
“fundamentally dishonest” tool of Wall Street, pledged to stop
big banking firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from
“rigging the game.”  Pressing his underdog campaign into the last full day
before Florida’s primary election tomorrow, Gingrich spoke of
running a White House that would “challenge the system head-
on” and disrupt the “Wall Street elite.”  “To the degree they survive by rigging the game,”
Gingrich said in an interview with Bloomberg News, “they have a
lot more to fear. To the degree that they’re willing to be in a
very investment-oriented, high-tempo, entrepreneurial world,
they have more to gain.”  Gingrich said his plans, like eliminating the capital gains
tax and repealing the  Wall Street  regulations of the Dodd-Frank
Act, would benefit the banking industry. Gingrich also said he’d
consider new legislative changes, including replacement of the
 Glass-Steagall Act , a 1933 law that increased  bank regulations 
and was repealed in 1999. He said he would stop deals like the
$13 billion payment Goldman Sachs received for  American
International Group, Inc. (AIG)  investment guarantees after the
bailed-out insurer received billions from the U.S. government.  Running Out of Cash  Gingrich is seeking to make up ground before Florida’s vote
tomorrow. The former U.S. House speaker says he is down to about
$600,000 after winning  South Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary and is
spending money as fast as he can collect it. Gingrich, 68, says
he probably trails Romney in  Florida  ballots cast at early-
voting sites and through the mail. Almost 535,000 Florida
Republicans already have voted.  Romney, 64, a former Massachusetts governor, also led
Gingrich by 42 percent to 27 percent among likely Republican
primary voters, according to an  NBC News-Marist poll  released
yesterday. The survey of 682 likely Republican voters was
conducted Jan. 25-27 and had a margin of error of 3.8 percent.  Gingrich is “looking for some kind of excuse,” Romney
told voters yesterday in Hialeah, Florida, a largely Cuban-
American community northwest of Miami. “But I’m afraid the real
reason he hasn’t been successful connecting with the people of
Florida is because of his message, and his failure to connect
with the needs of the people in this state.”  Freddie Mac  In Naples, Romney told voters yesterday that Gingrich was
sinking in Florida because of his work for  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the
federally tied home mortgage company. In Florida, 23 percent of
mortgaged homes are delinquent or foreclosed upon, the most of
any U.S. state, according to Jacksonville, Florida-based Lender
Processing Services.  “Mr. Speaker, your trouble in Florida is not because the
audience is too quiet or too loud, or because you have opponents
that are tough,” Romney added, a reference to Gingrich’s
nationally televised debate performances last week, which drew
tepid responses from supporters.  “Your problem in Florida is that you worked for  Freddie
Mac  at a time that Freddie Mac was not doing the right thing for
the American people, and that you are selling influence in
Washington at a time when we needed people to stand up for the
truth in  Washington ,” Romney said.  ‘Staring in Amazement’  If Gingrich appeared tired during the two debates during
the week leading to Florida’s primary vote, he said he was
simply “staring in amazement” at Romney.  “I’m standing there thinking to myself, ‘You think you can
lie your way to the presidency? You think it’s possible in
America today, even to be this dishonest?’” Gingrich said in
the Bloomberg interview. “There was no way in that kind of
setting to demonstrate to people what a fundamentally dishonest
man I was up against.”  Gingrich said he went into the debates with one goal: “I
didn’t want to get mad enough to lose my poise.”  “I felt that the Romney people had a very deliberate
strategy. They’d all been talking about my temperament and they
were looking for an excuse,” he said. “So I just wanted to be
very calm no matter what. I spent a lot of my energy just
staying disciplined.”  Gingrich yesterday renewed his criticism of what he
described as a barrage of negative ads run against him, accusing
Wall Street and Goldman Sachs of financing the attacks.  ‘Carpet-Bombing’  “Romney has the ability to raise an amazing amount of
money out of Wall Street, from Goldman Sachs, to all the major
banks,” Gingrich said in an interview on Fox News Sunday. “And
he has a basic policy of carpet-bombing his opponent.”  Gingrich continued his attacks yesterday outside a mega-
church near Tampa and again at a rally that attracted more than
1,000 to The Villages, a retirement community northwest of
 Orlando .  “I am not running for president of the  United States  to
make the Wall Street elite and the Washington elite happy,”
Gingrich said at The Villages. “I am running to change both
groups on behalf of the people of the  United States of
America .”  Asked to name the best-run national campaigns he’d seen or
been a part of, Gingrich first named President Barack Obama’s
primary campaign in 2008. He added  Richard Nixon ’s in 1972, with
the exception of the Watergate scandal,  Ronald Reagan ’s in 1984
and  George H.W. Bush ’s in 1988.  Yet Gingrich refused to compare his campaign with those.  “I’m totally unique,” Gingrich said in an interview. “My
campaign resembles nothing that has ever been run. It’s a very
idea-oriented, Internet-based, constantly-evolving,” he said.
“It’s organic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tampa, Florida at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Pompano Beach , Florida at  
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  