-- Global Cyber Regulations Needed to Combat Attacks, Study Finds
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-01-30T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/global-cyber-regulations-needed-to-combat-attacks-study-finds.html
Global cybersecurity standards are
needed to prevent attacks against power grids, communications
networks and financial institutions, a study for Internet-
security provider  McAfee Inc. (MFE)  found.  The U.S. and other countries should create regulations to
block criminals and terrorists from conducting economic
espionage and damaging public services, according to 67 percent
of 250 government and company representatives from 21 countries
who were surveyed.  The U.S. government is trying to break up global Internet
crime rings. An FBI investigation dubbed “Operation Ghost
Click” ended Nov. 9 with criminal charges against six Estonians
and a Russian for operating a Web fraud infecting more than 4
million computers in at least 100 countries, including the U.S.  “Few countries wish to go up against the  United States 
from an air, land, space or sea perspective,” Tim McKnight, a
vice president at  Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop Grumman
Corp. who deals with Web security issues, said in an interview.
“They’ve all recognized that cyber is a soft underbelly for the
United States.”  Eighty-four percent of those surveyed said cyber attacks
are a threat to national and international security as well as
trade. The study found 43 percent of respondents are most
concerned with an attack causing major economic damage.  The U.S. was rated among the best prepared to deal with
cyber attacks, behind Israel, Sweden and Finland. Albania,
Mexico and Romania were considered least ready of 21 nations.  “It has taken the spectacular increase in cyber attacks
for political leaders in the United States, the European Union
and part of  Asia  to sit up and take stock of the costs,”
according to the report by the Security & Defence Agenda, a
nonprofit research group in Brussels that McAfee commissioned to
conduct the study. McAfee, based in  Santa Clara ,  California ,
benefits from added demand for Internet-security products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  