-- Global Economy, Recession Risk Are Bankers’ Main Concern, Survey Reports
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-01-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/global-economy-recession-risk-are-bankers-main-concern-survey-reports.html
The fragility of the global economy
is the greatest threat to the banking industry as a return to
recession could mean more losses from bad loans and  bank
failures , according to an industry survey.  Macro-economic risk rose to become the number-one concern
among bankers, the  Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation ,
a forum for bankers and regulators funded by institutions
including the  Bank of England , reported in a survey today. The
amount of debt some countries have, access to liquidity and a
scarcity of capital were their next worries, it said.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded nine European nations on Jan.
13, saying recent policy steps may prove “insufficient” to
contain the fiscal crisis, already in its third year. France and
Austria were both cut by one level to AA+. S&P also lowered the
rankings of Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia by one rank, and  Italy ,
Spain, Portugal and Cyprus by two.  “The fragility of the world economy with the possibility
of a return to recession poses the greatest risk to the banking
industry in these turbulent times,” the London-based group said
in a statement. “The picture painted by this survey is
unquestionably the bleakest we have seen in more than 15
years.”  Political interference, the top worry in the last survey in
2010, dropped to number five. Concerns about credit risk ranged
from sovereign debt to falling real-estate prices in  Europe , the
U.S. and  China  and consumer-debt levels in China and developing
nations such as Turkey.  “The biggest risk of all is that it will not prove
possible to bring about an orderly reduction of borrowing by
nations, banks and commercial and individual customers resulting
in a major recession,” Brian Pearse, former chief executive
officer of Midland Bank Plc and chairman of the CSFI, said in
the statement.  The survey questioned 710 bankers, observers and regulators
in 58 countries in November and December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  