-- Goldman Sachs Among Banks Fighting to Exempt Half of Swaps Books
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/goldman-sachs-among-banks-lobbying-to-exempt-half-of-swaps-from-dodd-frank.html
More than half of the derivatives-
trading business of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley and
three other large banks could fall largely outside the Dodd-
Frank Act if they succeed in lobbying regulators to exempt their
overseas operations, government records show.  The debate over the reach of Dodd-Frank has been among the
most contentious aspects of the regulatory overhaul enacted by
President  Barack Obama  after the 2008 credit crisis. The banks
have met with regulators, testified to Congress and filed dozens
of letters contending that they will suffer a competitive
disadvantage if the regulations apply to their foreign arms.  Banking lobbyists have been gaining traction with their
argument that a combination of U.S. supervision of their holding
companies and foreign supervision of their operations abroad is
sufficient to oversee risk to the financial system.  While the banks haven’t publicized how much of their swaps
business is overseas, they file quarterly statements to the
 Federal Reserve.  A Bloomberg News analysis of the filings shows
that Goldman Sachs had 62 percent of its $134 billion in fair-
value derivatives assets and liabilities in non-U.S. branches or
subsidiaries for international banking as of Sept. 30, while 77
percent of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s $101 billion was in non-U.S.
operations.  If overseas operations aren’t subject to U.S. rules or
equivalent regulation by other nations, it could impede the goal
of preventing another credit crisis, Darrell Duffie, professor
at  Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business, said in a
telephone interview.  “Not only is that neglectful from a viewpoint of systemic
risk as it sits today, but it’s also an incitement to move the
risk abroad,” Duffie said.  JPMorgan and Citigroup  The Fed filings show that  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  had 59
percent of its $188 billion in overseas branches or
international affiliates;  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had 53 percent of $122
billion; and  Bank of America Corp.  had half of $125 billion in
non-U.S. operations in the same period.  The fair-value assets and liabilities include the value of
interest rate, foreign exchange, commodity, equity and  credit
derivatives  that are held for trading purposes and marked at
market prices.  JPMorgan uses a different method to determine the size of
its derivatives business, according to a person familiar with
the bank’s operations. As a consolidated bank, JPMorgan
calculates that it has $30 billion in derivatives exposure once
assets and liabilities are netted. The exposure includes 53
percent, or $16 billion, in foreign branches and subsidiaries,
and 47 percent, or $14 billion, in domestic offices, said the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the bank has 
not authorized employees to speak publicly on the matter.  Proposed Rules  Spokesmen Michael S. Duvally of Goldman Sachs, Mary Claire Delaney of Morgan Stanley, Molly Millerwise Meiners of Citigroup
and  Jerry Dubrowski  of Bank of America declined to comment. Joe
Pavel, a spokesman for the  Federal Reserve , declined to comment
on the reach of Dodd-Frank.  The banks have been focused on rules that the Fed,  Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.  and  Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency  proposed in April, requiring capital and margin to be
set aside to reduce risk in non-cleared trades.  Dodd-Frank aims to have most derivatives guaranteed by
clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers and traded
on public exchanges or other venues. The law requires regulators
to set capital and margin for trades that remain non-cleared, or
transacted directly between buyers and sellers. Non-cleared
trades can be more profitable for dealers.  ‘No Lesser Risk’  The regulators said in their April proposal that foreign
swaps pose “no lesser risk” to a U.S. company because of their
location and noted that an exemption might allow banks to design
swaps to  evade the law  by using their overseas affiliates. While
global regulators are looking to establish an international
regulatory system for margin to level the playing field, they
have yet to announce a plan.  The tension about the scope of the rules has its roots in a
part of Dodd-Frank known among lawyers and regulators as 722d,
for its section number in the law. Under the provision, the
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission , which has authority to
regulate most of the U.S. swaps market, may apply its rules to
transactions with a “direct and significant connection with
activities in, or effect on, commerce of the  United States .”  Dodd-Frank “expresses clear congressional intent that it
apply to certain extraterritorial activities,”  Dan Berkovitz ,
the CFTC’s general counsel,  said last year at a day-long agency
meeting  with banks, energy companies and exchanges.  Goldman Counterparties  The provision raised the stakes for banks because their
swaps business is global. In 2008,  Sally Davies , a  Fed adviser ,
said that between 55 percent and 75 percent of U.S. banks’
notional derivatives exposure was with non-U.S. residents.  For example, New York-based Goldman Sachs’s largest
counterparty for credit derivatives on the eve of the credit
crisis in June 2008 was  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ’s London branch; its
third-largest interest-rate derivatives counterparty was
JPMorgan’s London branch; and its largest counterparty for
currency products was Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s London
branch, according to a 2010 report from  the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission , a U.S. panel that investigated the crisis.  Selling over-the-counter derivatives is among the most
lucrative business for financial companies, with U.S. bank
holding companies reporting $14 billion in trading revenue in
the third quarter of 2011, according  to the OCC . The five banks
control 95 percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S. bank
holding companies, which had $326 trillion in notional
derivatives as of Sept. 30, the agency said.  Allies in Congress  In seeking the foreign exemption, the five banks have
enlisted H. Rodgin Cohen and Kenneth M. Raisler, among other
lawyers at New York-based  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP . Edward J. Rosen, a New York-based partner at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP , has taken a similar position as representative of
a dozen U.S. and international banks, including UBS Securities
LLC and  Barclays Capital .  The lobbying has found allies in Congress and among
regulators as agencies prepare to complete their rules before
2013. Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat and chairman
of the Senate Banking Committee, and Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and namesake of the law, are
among lawmakers from both parties urging regulators to focus
their rules primarily on the banks’ U.S. businesses.  “If those margin rules for foreign operations are
maintained and Europeans and other foreign jurisdictions do not
match it, that would be a significant competitive
disadvantage,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified to
Congress on July 21.  John Walsh , acting Comptroller of the
Currency, said on Jan. 26 that regulators understand the
industry’s concerns and will be “carefully considering all of
the issues” raised.  Edge Corporations  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to  interest rates , commodities or events, such as the default of
a company. The values of overseas derivatives held by individual
banks that were calculated for this story include assets and
liabilities for foreign branches and subsidiaries, including so-
called Edge corporations.  Edge corporations, formed under the 1919 Edge Act on
international banking, are bank subsidiaries for which Congress
granted greater leeway to compete overseas. Citibank Overseas
Investment Corp., J.P.Morgan International Finance Limited and
Bankamerica International Financial Corp. are among Edge
subsidiaries that have interest rate and equity derivatives and
could benefit from an exemption.  Edge Numbers  The banks don’t report the holdings of Edge corporations in
their standard quarterly filings. According to documents
obtained through a public records request to the Fed, Citibank’s
Edge corporation had a combined $7.8 billion in fair-value
derivatives as trading assets and liabilities in the first
quarter of 2011, while JPMorgan’s had $88 billion.  Banks are seeking to have Edge corporations and other
international affiliates exempted from Dodd-Frank rules when
they have contracts with non-U.S. companies, Sullivan & Cromwell
said in a letter on June 29. The exemption should also cover the
subsidiaries’ swaps with foreign-based affiliates of other U.S.
companies because the trades don’t have a direct and significant
effect on U.S. commerce, the  law firm  said in its letter. Under
the requested exemption, two U.S. companies could trade swaps
outside of Dodd-Frank rules so long as their overseas affiliates
engaged in the transaction.  The combination of U.S. banking supervision at the parent
company level and foreign regulation of overseas operations is
sufficient to protect the U.S. financial system, according to
the Sullivan & Cromwell lawyers.  Preventing an AIG  U.S. and European Union regulators have said they want to
bridge international gaps to avoid disparities that helped
undermine oversight of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2007
and 2008 and contributed to a $180 billion taxpayer bailout. The
insurer booked many of its swaps in  Europe , where regulators in
2007 decided that U.S. authorities should have oversight. That
transatlantic split “excluded any comprehensive examination and
regulation” of AIG’s credit-default swaps, the U.S.
Congressional Oversight Panel said in a June 2010 report.  Still, gaps have emerged since the heads of the G-20
countries, a group consisting of the world’s richest nations,
met in Pittsburgh in 2009 to plan financial regulatory changes.  For example, the CFTC approved new limits on speculation in
oil, natural gas and other commodities, while  British regulators
oppose  hard government-set caps. The U.S. also aims to prohibit
a single dealer from owning and running a swaps-trading venue.
Other G-20 countries say multi-dealer platforms aren’t essential
to the market overhaul, the Financial Stability Board, an
international panel set up to monitor the implementation of
derivatives rules globally, said in an  Oct. 11 report .  Waiting for SEC  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said this month that his agency
won’t complete guidelines on the reach of Dodd-Frank until after
April, while the financial industry waits for a similar proposal
from the Securities and Exchange Commission. Gensler has said
the CFTC may eventually defer to foreign regulators when they
have comparable and consistent regulations.  “This is the obvious place for harmonization -- for
regulators to get together across jurisdictions to work this
out, because otherwise you end up trampling on each other’s feet
and possibly going at cross purposes,” Duffie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 