-- Google’s Android Falls Out of Favor as Holiday Buyers Pick Apple’s IPhone
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/google-s-android-falls-out-of-favor-as-holiday-buyers-pick-apple-s-iphone.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  was the only
smartphone maker partnering with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that found holiday
cheer competing against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Apple led the smartphone market in the fourth quarter after
unveiling the iPhone 4S in October. Of the 9.4 million devices
activated by AT&T Inc., the second-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, 7.6 million were iPhones.  Verizon Wireless , the largest
provider, said 56 percent of its 7.7 million smartphones were
iPhones. Samsung was No. 2 in shipments.  Apple sold a record 37 million iPhones globally in the
three months ended Dec. 31, dispelling speculation that demand
might be eroded by the dozens of devices using Google’s Android
operating system. Instead, Apple’s dominance may serve as a
signal that rivals such as  HTC (2498)  Corp. would do better to act like
Hollywood studios, which hold back movies to avoid competing
against the debut of a sure-bet blockbuster.  “For the Android smartphone vendors to come out with
something, they need to be very brave,” said  Ramon Llamas , a
senior analyst at market-research company IDC. “It was Apple’s
Christmas.”  Samsung found success with its Galaxy line of smartphones.
Though the Suwon, South Korea-based company -- also one of
Apple’s biggest parts suppliers -- came in just behind Apple for
the quarter, it was the largest vendor for all of 2011,
according to  Strategy Analytics , a research company.  “They are clearly the winners,” said Nehal Chokshi, a
senior analyst for Technology Insights Research LLC in  New York .  Motorola, HTC, LG  As Apple and Samsung together sold more than 70 million
smartphones in the fourth quarter, companies such as  Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) , HTC and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  were left to
fight for the remaining customers.  The fallout for Apple and Samsung’s competitors can be seen
in their financial results. On Jan. 6, HTC, maker of the
Sensation and Incredible smartphones, reported its first
quarterly  profit decline  in two years. Motorola Mobility, maker
of the Razr and Droid devices, also said earlier this month that
it expected to report results that were lower than forecast in
part because of the challenging market. LG, scheduled to release
results on Feb. 1, has reported two consecutive quarterly
losses.  Some companies are taking a cue from Apple, whose iPhone is
its only smartphone. HTC and Motorola have announced shifts in
strategy to focus on fewer models instead of a swath of
variations.  Different Approaches  Google licenses the Android operating system to multiple
hardware makers, while Apple’s iOS software is available only on
its own products. The rising popularity of devices running
Android has been seen by investors as a long-term threat to
Apple’s market-leading profit margins. Chokshi said a similar
example is the difficulty Apple’s Mac personal-computer business
had competing against Microsoft Corp.’s Windows operating
system, which runs on PCs from various vendors.  Apple’s performance during the holiday quarter should ease
those concerns, said  Brian White , a former analyst at
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, which closed last week. Sales in
China will help the iPhone remain the leading smartphone, he
said. Morgan Stanley estimates Apple could sell as many as 40
million iPhones in China by 2013.  “The biggest mobile Internet opportunity in the world is
just a baby,” White said. “Just think about when that explodes
and Apple’s exposure there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  