-- Gupta, JPMorgan, Goldman, Stanford, Carnival in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-30T11:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/gupta-jpmorgan-madoff-stanford-carnival-in-court-news.html
Lawyers for Rajat Gupta, the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co.  director who
has denied U.S. charges he leaked stock tips to Raj Rajaratnam,
are investigating whether the hedge fund manager had a different
inside source at the companies.  At a Manhattan court conference Jan. 20, defense attorney
 Gary Naftalis  complained federal prosecutors hadn’t turned over
documents he wanted on whether Rajaratnam or others at his hedge
fund, Galleon Group LLC, had a source inside Goldman Sachs or
P&G other than Gupta, a transcript of the proceeding stated.
Gupta is accused of leaking information about both companies.  At the hearing, Naftalis said Gupta’s defense may turn on
whether “there are people at Goldman Sachs and at Procter &
Gamble who are giving out inside information, whether it be
about Goldman or Procter & Gamble or affiliates.” That would
“constitute real exculpatory information for a real defense
that the source of any information here is not us but somebody
else.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told the judge that
prosecutors had “no information, zero, no witness statements,
no documents, no type of any kind that anyone other than Mr.
Gupta tipped Mr. Rajaratnam or anyone at Galleon about material
nonpublic information of Goldman or of Procter & Gamble,”
according to the transcript.  Near the conclusion of the discussion, U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff told Naftalis the government is “going to give you
Mr. X, they’re going to point you to at least areas where they
think Mr. X’s possible involvement in leaking information comes
up in the stuff you have.”  Naftalis didn’t return a call seeking comment on the
hearing. Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G, and David Wells, a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  At a hearing Jan. 17, Brodsky said the witnesses for Gupta
may include Goldman Sachs director Claes Dahlback and  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  reinsurance chief Ajit Jain.  Gupta, who faces trial in April on five counts of
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy, faces as long as
20 years in prison if convicted on each of the securities fraud
charges and as long as five years if convicted of conspiracy,
according to the government. He also faces a fine of as much as
$5 million. Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison term after
being convicted of directing the biggest hedge fund insider
trading scheme in U.S. history.  The cases are U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, and SEC v. Gupta,
11-cv-07566, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Blavatnik Opposes JPMorgan Delay Over Lawyer’s Heart Surgery  Billionaire Len Blavatnik, who is suing  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  over claims it lost 10 percent of the $1 billion it managed
for him, refused to extend the fact-gathering period as
requested by a bank lawyer about to have open-heart surgery, the
lawyer said.  Bruce Birenboim, an attorney for JPMorgan, explained
Blavatnik’s refusal in a letter to a Manhattan judge Jan. 27.
Birenboim said Blavatnik wouldn’t extend the schedule two months
to June 29, a request Birenboim made because he will be
unavailable for six to eight weeks.  “I have never in my 30 years of practice found an
adversary’s position to be so unprincipled and unprofessional,”
Birenboim, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
LLP, wrote to New York State Supreme Court Justice Melvin L.
Schweitzer. He said Blavatnik and his lawyers “have chosen to
litigate this matter without regard” for “common civilities”
and “professional courtesies.”  Blavatnik, 54, sued in 2009, claiming that New York-based
JPMorgan, the  biggest U.S. bank  by assets, put twice as much
money into risky mortgages as his investment guidelines allowed
while Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  was unloading such
securities from the bank’s books. Blavatnik says the bank lost
$98 million of his funds.  Blavatnik, born in Ukraine, runs New York-based Access
Industries Group, which owns energy, media and real-estate
companies. Blavatnik is worth $9.5 billion, according to  Forbes .
Blavatnik bought Warner Music Group Corp. from  Edgar Bronfman 
last year.  The case is CMMF LLC v. JPMorgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Schwab Suit Against Merrill Wins Judge’s Tentative Go-Ahead  Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch unit,  Wells Fargo Co. (WFC) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  must face a lawsuit by  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  alleging
they misled the company about the risks of $100 million worth of
mortgage-backed securities it bought from them, a California
judge ruled tentatively.  Judge Richard Kramer in  San Francisco  said Jan. 27 that he
intends to let claims over 46 of the 50 securitizations at issue
proceed. The four claims he rejected, because they were filed
too late, involved securities from Countrywide Financial Corp.,
the mortgage lender acquired in 2008 by Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America.  “It is my tentative ruling that those four securitizations
are barred by the statute of repose,” Kramer said at a hearing
Jan. 27.  Schwab, an independent San Francisco-based brokerage,
alleged in a 2010 lawsuit that the securities dealers lied or
didn’t disclose information about loans underlying the bonds
they sold, including the loan-to-value ratios of mortgages and
the number of properties that were not primary residences,
according to the complaint.  The case is one of several pending in state courts around
the country by investors seeking repayment for mortgage-backed
securities. The Federal Home Loan Banks of Seattle, San
Francisco, Pittsburgh, Chicago and Indianapolis, as well as
companies including Schwab and Allstate Insurance Co., have sued
investment banks under state investor-protection laws.  The case is Charles Schwab v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith, 10-501151, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  Mets Owners Ask Judge to Dismiss Madoff Trustee’s Claims  The New York Mets’ owners asked a judge to dismiss $386
million in remaining claims brought by the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying their “early faith” in Madoff
was well-founded because of his reputation.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of trustee
 Irving Picard ’s $1 billion in claims against the team owners.
The judge said Picard must prove they were willfully blind to
the convicted Ponzi schemer’s crimes if he wants to recoup money
they withdrew from their Madoff accounts, the Mets owners noted.
Since Picard hasn’t proved that, he has no case against them,
they argued.  “Defendants trusted their broker, Bernard L. Madoff, and
never suspected him of any fraud, let alone a Ponzi scheme,”
team owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz said in a court filing
Jan. 26. Picard can’t show they believed there was “a high
probability” that Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme or that
they took “deliberate action” to avoid seeing what was going
on, they said.  The Mets owners, after losing money in the Ponzi scheme and
an income stream from Madoff, have said they are trying to sell
stakes in the Major League Baseball team. Picard’s claims remain
a threat to their finances.  Asking Rakoff to rule on one of his remaining claims,
Picard said the Mets owners must return $83 million in
fictitious profits taken from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme in the two
years before his 2008 arrest. The law allows him to take back
the money simply because the operation was a fraud, he said in a
court filing Jan. 26.  To get the money, Picard need only prove that Katz and
Wilpon didn’t give value in return for the money, and they can’t
possibly prove they did, as they were net winners, he said.  To get the other $300 million, Picard must prove the Mets
owners were willfully blind to the fraud, Rakoff has said. s
that they didn’t know of the fraud, Wilpon and Katz attached
testimony from Arthur Friedman, a partner in their company,
Sterling Equities, who handled their investments with the Madoff
firm, depositing checks, making withdrawals and trying to
duplicate Madoff’s investment strategy.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Goldman Sued by Stichting Pensioenfonds in New York  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was sued by the Netherlands’
biggest retirement fund, accusing the investment bank of making
false or misleading statements in selling residential mortgage-
backed securities.  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP (ADPZ)  sued New York-based Goldman
Sachs in New York State Supreme Court Jan. 27, saying that the
bank knew that originators of the loans underlying the
investments hadn’t followed underwriting standards.  “Goldman knew of, and facilitated, the wholesale and
systematic abandonment of underwriting guidelines by various
third-party originators faced with Goldman’s demands that as
many loans as possible be originated so that they could be
packaged and sold to investors like plaintiff,” lawyers for
Stichting said in the lawsuit.  Stichting also sued Deutsche Bank AG and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  over sales of mortgage-backed securities in New York state
court last year.  Stichting, the pension fund for Dutch public educational
and government workers, has more than 250 billion euros ($332.8
billion) in assets under management, according to the complaint.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the lawsuit in a telephone interview.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 650264/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  Carnival Sued in Miami Over Fatal Costa Concordia Shipwreck  Carnival Corp., the world’s largest cruise line owner, was
sued in Miami over the Jan. 13 wreck of the Costa Concordia off
the coast of Italy.  The complaint, which names six plaintiffs, four Americans
and two Italians, was filed Jan. 27 in state court in Miami,
said attorney Marc J. Bern, who provided Bloomberg with a copy.
The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed with the court.  The plaintiffs were “in terror of catastrophic injury,
death, drowning, having been placed in a situation where common
sense said the vessel was sinking but the orders from the crew
were to return to their cabins,” according to the complaint.  Bern said he’s working with an Italian consumer-law group,
Codacons, as well as the New York firm of Proner & Proner. He
said he expects to later sue on behalf of about 1,000 passengers
of the Costa Concordia.  Carnival Cruise lines, based in Miami, and Costa Cruise
Lines, based in Hollywood, Florida, are named as defendants in
the complaint. Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman for Carnival, said,
“Since this is pending litigation, we are not in a position to
comment at this time.”  The Carnival ship, carrying 4,200 passengers and crew for a
Mediterranean cruise, struck rocks and ran aground leaving at
least 17 people dead.  The case is Scimone v. Carnival Cruise Lines, Circuit Court
of the 11th Judicial Circuit (Miami).  For more, click here.  Omnicare Sued by U.S. Regulators to Block Takeover of PharMerica  U.S. regulators sued  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  to block its $440.8
million takeover of rival drug-supply company  PharMerica Corp. (PMC) ,
a deal they said would increase prices for elderly nursing-home
residents covered by Medicare.  Omnicare’s acquisition of Louisville, Kentucky-based
PharMerica would give it the bargaining leverage to raise
medicine prices for those covered by Medicare prescription drug
plans, passing those costs on to U.S. taxpayers, the Federal
Trade Commission said Jan. 27 in a statement.  Omnicare offered $15 a share in August in an unsolicited
bid for PharMerica, which the Covington, Kentucky-based company
extended Jan. 27 for a fourth time before the FTC’s
announcement. The regulators’ complaint leaves little room for
Omnicare to make changes or negotiate further, probably killing
the deal, said A.J. Rice, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial
Group LLP in New York. That would make PharMerica attractive to
private-equity firms, he said.  An acquisition would give Omnicare control of as much as 60
percent of the market to distribute drugs to nursing homes,
hospitals and hospices, said Jeff Jonas, an analyst with Gabelli
& Co. in Rye, New York. Omnicare already is the largest such
supplier.  “If Omnicare is allowed to purchase its biggest and only
national competitor, it will diminish competition and raise
health-care costs, leaving taxpayers and patients to foot the
bill,” said Richard Feinstein, director of the FTC’s bureau of
competition, in a statement.  Omnicare said in a statement that it disagrees with the FTC
decision and the deal for PharMerica would help lower costs. The
company sought the acquisition to save money through automation
and scale amid U.S. cuts to health-care spending, Omnicare Chief
Executive Officer John Figueroa said when the bid was announced
in August.  For more, click here.  Former Groupon Sales Reps Countersue Over ‘Abusive’ Tactics  Former  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  sales managers countersued the company,
which had accused them of taking trade secrets to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Groupon, the world’s largest online coupon site, sued two
former managers in October after they left to join Google
Offers, a competing venture. Lawyers for the managers accused
Groupon of using “sham litigation” to bully and silence
employees and obtain intelligence on a burgeoning competitor,
according to court papers filed Jan. 25 in an Illinois state
court.  “In its stop-at-nothing strategy to take itself public and
further enrich its founders, Groupon has crossed the line,”
lawyers for the managers said. “This counterclaim seeks to put
an end to that abusive and illegal behavior.”  The filing accused Groupon of hiring “out-of-work young
people” based on false promises and using a complicated
compensation scale to undercut commissions and implement
unrealistic sales quotas. As morale waned among employees ahead
of the company’s initial public offering, Groupon filed the
lawsuit and several others like it in an attempt to silence
workers, lawyers for the managers said in the filing.  “This suit also signaled to employees that, should they
leave, Groupon would aggressively attempt to prevent them from
working for a competitor, regardless of the legality of Groupon
taking such action,” lawyers for the managers said in the
filing.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
the counterclaims.  The case is Groupon Inc. v. Hanna, 11CH36731, Cook County,
Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Cantor Couldn’t Mitigate Effect of Four Departures, Court Told  Cantor Fitzgerald LP, suing four managing directors in Hong
Kong who left to join a China-backed investment bank, had no
opportunity to mitigate the situation, the New York brokerage’s
lawyer said.  “Four people from an organization leave in an abrupt
manner on the same day,” Cantor’s lawyer Nicholas Cooney said
in his closing arguments Jan. 27. “They didn’t have time to
bring others up to speed.”  Jason Boyer, the former head of Cantor’s Hong Kong
business, and Bradford Ainslie - formerly of its Asian cash
equities desk - last week told Judge A.T. Reyes that their
resignations were independent of each other. Together with Brett
McGonegal and Uwe Parpart, Cantor’s former Asia chief economist
and strategist, they joined Reorient Financial Markets Ltd.,
backed by an asset manager under  China ’s State-owned Assets
Supervision and Administration Commission.  “Employees are allowed to discuss amongst themselves plans
for the future under the law,” Ashley Burns, a lawyer
representing McGonegal and Ainslie told the court Jan. 27.  Cantor accuses the four defendants of breaching their
employment contracts and said the departure of the four caused a
29 percent drop in its average monthly revenue in Hong Kong.  Reyes reserved his judgment, saying he would rule as soon
as possible. He declined to seal portions of documents detailing
Cantor’s past revenue and expenses, as well as how the brokerage
calculated compensation.  The case is Cantor Fitzgerald  Europe , Cantor Fitzgerald
(Hong Kong) Capital Markets Ltd. and Jason Boyer, Bradford
Ainslie, Brett McGonegal, Uwe Henke von Parpart, HCA1160/2011 in
Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  For more, click here.  U.S. Asks Appeals Court to Affirm $7.2 Billion Picower Deal  The U.S. asked a federal appeals court to affirm a $7.2
billion forfeiture by the Jeffry Picower estate, to be used to
compensate investors who lost money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme.  A challenge by Adele Fox was “frivolous,” and it wouldn’t
serve justice to let her intervene in a deal that “in no way
impairs Fox’s rights,” the U.S. said in a court filing in New
York. Fox, a former Madoff investor, sought to overturn the
settlement because it gave Madoff trustee Irving Picard priority
in dealing with the Picower estate, and barred her from suing
the estate herself.  Fox, in addition to making “irrelevant” arguments, is
“single-handedly holding up the distribution of more than $7.2
billion of funds to Madoff’s victims in desperate need of those
funds,” Matthew Schwartz, an assistant U.S. attorney, wrote in
a Jan. 26 filing. He asked the court to dismiss Fox’s appeal of
a lower-court ruling affirming the settlement.  Fox said she is among the Ponzi scheme’s so-called net
winners, who took out more money than they put in. The trustee
and the government have determined that “not a penny of the
forfeiture” by the Picower estate will go to her and other net-
winner investors, she said in her appeal.  Picower, one of Madoff’s largest investors, may have
suspected the con man was running a Ponzi scheme, according to
Picard. Picower drowned in 2009 and his estate forfeited the
money to the U.S. and Picard to settle the trustee’s claims.  The case is U.S. v. $7.2 billion, 11-2898, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  One Stanford Client Lost $20 Million, Ex-Executive Testifies  A former Stanford Group Co. executive told a jury that one
client of R. Allen Stanford’s securities brokerage lost at least
$20 million before the business was closed by U.S. regulators.  Jason Green, who led Stanford Group’s private client group,
made that statement while being cross-examined by the
financier’s lawyer on the fifth day of Stanford’s investor fraud
trial at the U.S. courthouse in Houston.  Stanford’s defense lawyers have maintained that all
purchasers of the certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd. and sold by the brokerage
were able to withdraw every penny of their money until the
Securities and Exchange Commission sued in February 2009.  Asked by defense attorney Ali Fazel if anybody had not
gotten their money back before then, Green replied, “Yes, one
person I know of specifically” was denied $20 million. Green
didn’t identify the client.  Stanford, 61, who was indicted in June 2009, is accused of
leading a $7 billion investment fraud scheme centered on sales
of the CDs. Charged with 14 counts including mail fraud, wire
fraud and obstruction of an SEC probe, he told jurors earlier
this week that he’s innocent.  The criminal case is  U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case against Stanford is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more trial details, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes Loses $16 Million Drapkin Verdict  Ronald Perelman ’s MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. was
ordered by a jury to pay $16 million to Perelman’s ex-
lieutenant, Donald Drapkin, after jurors found the billionaire’s
firm breached a separation agreement.  Jurors in Manhattan federal court deliberated for about 90
minutes before returning their verdict Jan. 27 in Drapkin’s
breach-of-contract lawsuit. They had heard three days of
testimony.  “I’m very happy,” Drapkin said immediately after the
verdict.  “We are obviously disappointed” in the outcome, Barry
Schwartz, executive vice chairman of MacAndrews & Forbes, said
in a statement. “We believe that the facts unequivocally proved
a substantial breach by Mr. Drapkin. We will review all
appropriate post-trial options.”  Drapkin, a dealmaker, sued MacAndrews & Forbes in 2009,
saying he was hired by Perelman in the 1980s to serve as vice
chairman and act as in-house investment banker. In court papers,
he said the relationship between the two men had deteriorated so
much by 2006 that Drapkin’s salary had been slashed and his
responsibilities cut.  Drapkin said he agreed to leave the firm in 2007 in return
for millions of dollars in severance and proceeds from the sale
of his stock. He claimed he wasn’t paid $16 million. MacAndrews
& Forbes said it withheld the payments because Drapkin breached
the separation agreement by withholding documents and trying to
get Eric Rose, who heads the firm’s life sciences business, to
leave.  The judge barred evidence about the soured relationship and
said the focus of the trial would be on whether the firm had
breached its contract with Drapkin. As a result, much of the
three days of testimony focused on contract clauses, document
retention and e-mails.  The cases are Drapkin v. Mafco Consolidated Group, 09-
cv-1285, and MacAndrews & Forbes LLC v. Drapkin, 09-cv-4513,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Carnival Reaches Consumer Settlement as Wreck Sparks Lawsuits  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Italian unit said it reached a damage-
settlement agreement with consumer groups, as the company was
sued for the first time in the U.S. over the wreck of the Costa
Concordia cruise ship.  Costa Crociere SpA agreed to pay 11,000 euros ($14,500) to
every passenger of the cruise ship that ran aground off the
Italian coast on Jan. 13, killing at least 16, plus reimburse
expenses including the cost of the cruise, according to a
statement from the Genoa-based company Jan. 27. The agreement
was reached with consumer groups in countries including Italy,
Germany, France and Spain, a company spokesman said.  The U.S. complaint, alleging negligence and breach of
contract, was filed Jan. 26 in federal court in Chicago by crew
member Gary Lobaton, who seeks class-action status to represent
all victims of the disaster off Giglio Island. A spokesman for
Costa, a unit of Miami-based Carnival, declined to comment on
the U.S. lawsuit.  Italian criminal lawyer Giulia Bongiorno next week will
file a complaint on behalf of clients with Italian prosecutors
investigating the wreck. Concordia’s Captain Francesco Schettino
was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing
the wreck and abandoning the ship.  “My clients aren’t happy with just a financial
compensation,” Bongiorno, who helped overturn the murder
conviction of Amanda Knox’s former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito
in October, said in a phone interview Jan. 27. The aim is to
request that prosecutors investigate all responsibilities and
not just the captain’s, she said. Bongiorno, 45, who’s also a
member of Italy’s Parliament, will represent more than 50
passengers, Corriere della Sera said.  The Concordia struck rocks near Giglio after Schettino
deviated from the planned route and steered close to the island,
court documents show. The accident happened hours after the
vessel left a port near Rome on a Mediterranean cruise carrying
about 4,200 passengers and crew. Eighteen are still missing,
though that number probably includes two of the dead who have
not yet been identified.  The compensation proposal “is higher than the current
indemnification limits that are provided for in international
conventions and the laws currently in force,” Costa Crociere
said. Families of victims and injured will be offered a separate
compensation, Costa said. A Costa spokesman declined to
immediately comment on the U.S. lawsuit.  Italian consumer group ADOC estimated that about 3,000
passengers would get about 14,000 euros each if they accept the
offer, including expenses, according to an e-mailed statement.
ADOC forecast 85 percent of passengers will accept the offer.
That would bring the total cost to about 42 million euros.
Carnival has liability cover of as much as $3 billion with the
Standard Club, a mutual insurance association owned by ship
owners, and the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association Ltd.,
according to spokesmen for the two firms.  Italian consumer group Codacons advised clients not to
accept the offer, according to a statement on its website Jan.
27. The association is putting together a class-action lawsuit
with U.S. law firms Napoli Bern Ripka Shkolnik and Proner Proner
LLP to be filed in Miami, it said. The group is seeking “at
least” 125,000 euros per passenger and more than 1 million
euros for “most serious cases,” according to the statement.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 