-- Iran: IAEA Inspection Team May Stay Longer
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-30T11:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/iaea-trip-helps-new-climate-team-may-stay-longer-iran-says.html
International Atomic Energy Agency
inspectors who arrived in Tehran yesterday to clarify aspects of
 Iran’s nuclear program  may extend their stay, Foreign Minister
 Ali Akbar Salehi  said, according to IRNA.  The delegation planned “a three-day mission, but their
stay can be extended if they wish,” Salehi said in the
Ethiopian capital  Addis Ababa , the official  Islamic Republic
News Agency  reported today.  The IAEA visit and the possibility of renewed nuclear talks
with western powers have “created a new atmosphere,” said
Salehi, who is in Addis Ababa for an African summit, according
to  IRNA . Salehi said yesterday that he is “optimistic about the
outcome of the team’s visit to Iran.”  The visit comes amid growing tensions between Iran and
western nations, which say the Persian Gulf country is using its
nuclear program as a cover for developing weapons. Iran rejects
the allegation, saying it needs the technology for power
generation and medical research.  European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23 to ban
Iranian oil imports starting in July and to freeze the assets of
the country’s central bank, the latest in a series of sanctions
by the  United Nations , the U.S. and the EU. Iran had warned that
it may retaliate by disrupting shipping in the  Strait of Hormuz ,
a conduit for 20 percent of global oil.  Salehi told reporters yesterday the IAEA team will visit to
some of Iran’s nuclear sites, without naming the facilities.  ‘Overdue’ Dialogue  Iran began to produce uranium enriched as much as 20
percent in the Fordo Fuel Enrichment Plant, near the holy city
of Qom, the IAEA said earlier this month. The start of
enrichment activities at the site, which is built into the side
of a mountain south of Tehran, aroused western suspicions.  Chief Inspector Herman Nackaerts, who’s heading the six-
member IAEA team, said before arriving in  Iran  that he is
looking forward to the start of “a dialogue that’s overdue.”  Though the Vienna-based IAEA says Iran hasn’t used its
declared uranium stockpile to make weapons, it has cited
“credible” sources as saying the country has studied how to
make a nuclear bomb. Iran, which is under four sets of UN
sanctions, has said documents in the IAEA’s possession are
forged. The government has historically refused to address the
nuclear-weapons allegations until it’s allowed to examine the
evidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  