-- ICE to Begin Portfolio Margining for Bank Credit Swap Trades
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-01-30T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ice-to-begin-portfolio-margining-for-bank-credit-swap-trades.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) ,
owner of the world’s largest credit-default swaps clearinghouse,
said it received approval to lower its bank members’ cost to
guarantee their proprietary positions.  The company received the necessary approvals from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission last month, Atlanta-based
Intercontinental said in an e-mailed statement today.  Intercontinental, which owns ICE Clear Credit in New York
and ICE Clear  Europe  in  London , is petitioning regulators to
allow the same change for customers of its bank members, such as
 hedge funds  or money managers that use clearing services, the
company said. The margining change only applies to ICE Clear
Credit, the company said.  “Customer portfolio margining is a key prerequisite to
making CDS clearing attractive to clients,” Tom Benison,
managing director at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , one of the bank
members of the credit-swaps clearinghouses, said in the
statement. “Clients currently can avail themselves of
offsetting trades in the bilateral world, so it’s important that
they have the same ability within the clearing framework.”  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are mandating the use of
clearinghouses for most swaps after the unregulated trades
contributed to the financial crisis that began in 2007.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 