-- ICE Gasoil Premium Falls; Gasoline Crack Drops: Oil Products
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-01-30T17:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ice-gasoil-backwardated-naphtha-spread-falls-oil-products.html
European front-month gasoil’s
premium to later-dated contracts on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange fell amid speculation that colder weather will bolster
demand for heating oil.  Gasoline’s premium to Brent, or crack,  dropped  from the
highest level in almost eight months.  Light Products  Naphtha’s  discount  to Brent widened to $1.95 a barrel,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based
broker. That compares with $1.88 at the end of last week, the
least since May 10.  Rising propane prices are making naphtha more attractive
for use in petrochemicals, according to Petromatrix GmbH, a
Switzerland-based researcher. Propane’s  discount  to naphtha
narrowed to $27 a metric ton today from $106.50 on Jan. 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Propane has also surged and is making naphtha more
competitive,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix,
said today in a note.  Gasoline (MOGEEURB)  for immediate loading in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp traded at $993 to $1,002 a ton, according to a survey of
brokers and traders monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board and
Platts pricing window. That compares with deals from $985 to
$1,020 on Jan. 27. Those prices are for Eurobob grade fuel, to
which ethanol is added to make the finished motor fuel.  The front-month gasoline  crack , or premium to Brent,
dropped to $9.11 a barrel, PVM data show. That compares with
$10.11 on Jan. 27, the highest since May 31.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil futures for February were at $953 a ton on ICE as of
5:08 p.m. local time. The contract’s discount to March futures
dropped to 75 cents from $1.25 at the end of last week.  A narrowing discount usually signals rising demand or near-
term scarcity of supply. Parts of  Germany  will have a
“serious” frost today and tomorrow, with temperatures forecast
to fall to 14 degrees Celsius (6.8 Fahrenheit), according to
Germany’s  National Weather Service .  “Winter is finally coming to Europe and this week should
witness temperatures well below normal,” Jakob said. “Heating
oil consumption will start to increase.”  Gasoil barges  dropped relative to the front-month futures
contract on ICE, according to the survey. Vitol Group sold at a
discount of $3 to front-month futures, the survey showed. That
compares with a $2 discount on Jan. 27.  Residues  Low-sulfur  fuel oil  traded from $674 to $676 a ton, while
high-sulfur fuel oil traded from $664 to $670 a ton, according
to the survey.  Refineries  Petroplus Holdings AG’s Coryton refinery in  England  hasn’t
received new crude supplies yet, U.K. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said today in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  