-- If Carried Interest Irks You, You Don’t Get It: William Dantzler
-- B y   J .   W i l l i a m   D a n t z l e r   J r .
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/if-carried-interest-irks-you-don-t-get-it-commentary-by-william-dantzler.html
The release of Mitt Romney’s tax
returns last week gave the nation a crash course in the
mysterious “carried interest” that was said to allow him to pay
15 percent on millions of dollars of capital gains.
Unfortunately, more heat than light was shed on what a carried
interest really is.  A carried interest is an ownership interest in a
partnership that entitles the partner to a percentage of the
profits but doesn’t obligate the partner to provide any capital.
It is the other partners who provide the necessary capital, and
they are thereby “carrying” the partner who does not.  A carried interest can arise in many contexts. It is fairly
common on Main Street. My dad was a veterinarian who, as he got
up in years, brought a young veterinarian into his practice.
Although my dad did not call it that, the young veterinarian had
a carried interest -- that is a percentage of the profit with no
obligation to invest capital.  Income from being a veterinarian is ordinary income, and
thus the young partner with the carried interest paid  tax  on his
share of the partnership income at ordinary income rates. If the
underlying activity of the partnership, however, is an activity
that produces capital gains, then the partner with the carried
interest will have a share of the underlying capital gains and
will pay tax on that income at a 15 percent rate.  Different Income  That is the situation with a private-equity partnership
whose business is to buy companies and (it hopes) sell those
companies a few years later at a profit. So, the only difference
between an investor with a carried interest in a private-equity
partnership and my dad’s young veterinary partner is that the
underlying activity in private equity produces capital-gain
income, and Congress has chosen to tax capital-gain income at 15
percent.  For a couple of years after President  Ronald Reagan ’s tax
reforms were adopted in 1986, capital gains were taxed at the
same rate as ordinary income. That was very unusual. In most
recent years, capital gains have been taxed at a lower rate than
ordinary income, and the differential was increased by the Bush
tax cuts. You can argue whether capital gains should be taxed at
15 percent, but that is a big issue having only a little to do
with carried interest.  In all the years that capital gains have enjoyed a
favorable  tax rate , there has been a simple definition of what
is a capital gain. It is simply gain on the sale of investment
property, such as stock. The distinction between capital gain
and ordinary income has never been based on the amount of sweat
that went into producing the income. The workaholic investor who
spends 60 hours per week researching stocks still earns capital
gains that are no different, in the tax law, from the gains of
an investor who gives little thought to his portfolio.  Bill Gates  has a capital gain when he sells  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
stock even though, by most accounts, Microsoft would not exist
without his considerable effort. Similarly, the distinction
between capital gains and ordinary income has never been based
on the amount of money invested or, indeed, whether there was
any investment at all. An entrepreneur who starts a business
with no investment (or more likely an investment by someone else
with money) still generates capital gains on the sale of her
business, and it is sometimes said that this fact accounts for
the vibrancy of the tech economy in the  United States .  What then would be the basis for saying that a private-
equity executive with a carried interest should have his
percentage of the capital gain from the sale of an underlying
investment recharacterized as ordinary income? Is it because he
sweats and the other investors don’t?  Well, maybe, but what about the full-time investor who
sweats over his stock portfolio or the entrepreneur who slaved
over her startup business. It is hard to make a distinction
based on effort.  Plus, most private-equity executives earn large cash
salaries that are taxed as ordinary income. Do we have to value
the executive’s effort and see if it exceeds her cash salary,
and then attribute that excess to the carried interest?  Tax Law Perspective  From the perspective of tax law, it just doesn’t make sense
to have a tax distinction based on the sweat of the private-
equity executive. A distinction based on the fact that the
private-equity executive with the carried interest provides no
capital to the partnership seems hard, too.  Do we really want a tax law in which only people who
already have money can earn a capital gain? And, if earning a
capital gain requires an investment, then how much? Does it have
to be a big investment? Can it be borrowed from the other
partners? Isn’t a carried interest in effect just a loan from
the moneyed partners?  These are difficult questions that affect the entire
structure of capital-gains taxation -- not just carried
interest. It would be very hard to draw a fair line between the
type of private-equity investment that is deserving of capital
gain treatment and that which is not.  It is perhaps not an accident that the carried interest
discussion is taking place in the political arena -- over Mr.
Romney’s tax returns -- rather than the worlds of tax law or  tax
policy , and that the advocates of taxing carried interest at
higher rates are not tax experts who understand the complexity
of the issue and the difficulty of drawing fair lines.  (J. William Dantzler Jr. is a partner at law firm White &
Case LLP and head of its global tax practice. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 