-- High Frequency’s Weinberg Says Europe Should Focus on Shoring Up Its Banks
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-01-30T15:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/high-frequency-s-weinberg-says-eu-must-put-money-on-table-to-boost-banks.html
European Union leaders meeting in
Brussels today should shore up the region’s banks and focus on
Greece’s debt crisis instead of longer-term regional accords,
according to economist  Carl Weinberg .  European leaders should pledge 300 billion euros ($393
billion) for the European Financial Stability Facility to ensure
that no European banks fail, Weinberg, founder and chief
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York,
said in an interview. He said leaders should ensure that Greece
avoids default instead of talking about a treaty for
European fiscal integration.  “Put money on the table,” Weinberg said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “Put
that money on the table so everybody knows that no bank will be
allowed to fail, that every bank is safe.”  EU leaders gathered in Brussels for their first summit of
2012 as a deteriorating economy and the struggle to complete a
Greek debt write-off deal risk sidetracking efforts to stamp out
the financial crisis. EU chiefs plan today to put the finishing
touches on a German-led deficit-control treaty and endorse the
statutes of a 500 billion-euro rescue fund to be set up this
year.  European finance officials yesterday discussed a deal that
 Greece  and its private creditors expect to complete in the
coming days after bondholders signaled they would accept
government demands for a bigger cut in their debt holdings.  ‘Hard Default’  “They really have to find a way to let Greece down in a
very orderly, organized, contained way,” said Weinberg. “If
Greece has a hard default, that’s going to challenge
institutional solvency to the max, and it’s going to give a
preview of what would happen if there were bigger defaults or
bigger sovereign meltdowns out there.”  Weinberg said he believes that  hedge funds  had acquired a
“blocking position” in the negotiations and were “holding out
to get a better deal for themselves to improve their own
profits.”  The EU summit is “destined to fail because they are
talking about the wrong things,” he said. “They don’t really
have anything of traction to say about Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ,
Betty Liu in  New York  at 
 Bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  