-- India’s Largest Solar Program Cuts Power Rates by Up to 33%
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-30T10:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/india-s-gujarat-state-refuses-to-extend-solar-project-deadline.html
India ’s largest solar program cut
the preferential rate it pays utilities for sun power as much as
33 percent as global prices of panels declined by more than
half.  Photovoltaic plants commissioned after the Jan. 28 deadline
will be paid a rate of 9.98 rupees (20 cents) per kilowatt-hour
for the first 12 years, compared with 15 rupees for those
finished on time, the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission
said in a  tariff order  on its website. The rate will be reduced
to 7 rupees per kilowatt-hour for the next 13 years.  India joins governments in  Europe  that are cutting clean-
energy subsidies as equipment costs plunge. Panel prices fell  51
percent  last year after the 10 largest manufacturers doubled
production capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The projects that missed the deadline will still be able
to make money but not as much as they would have,” said Anmol Jaggi, director of Gensol Consultants Pvt., which advises
project developers. Banks will be more cautious about lending to
those facing the reduced tariff, he said.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  and  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) ’s
SunEdison unit didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls asking
whether their projects were completed on time. Companies that
finished their projects by Jan. 28 include  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) ,
 Tata Power Co. (TPWR) ,  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI) , Azure Power India Pvt.
and Green Infra Ltd.  The Gujarat Renewable Energy Development Agency didn’t
respond to e-mails and phone calls requesting details on how
many projects missed the deadline. Less than half of the 958
megawatts of capacity finished on time, Gensol’s Jaggi
estimated.  Solar-Thermal Revision  Of the 958 megawatts of capacity, Gujarat issued contracts
for 25 megawatts of projects using solar-thermal technology
where steam is produced from sunlight for conventional turbines.
Photovoltaic technology uses panels that convert sunlight
directly into electricity.  The regulator raised the rate for solar-thermal projects
and fixed it for 25 years to give them more certainty after one
developer was unable to raise bank loans after 11 months,
according to the tariff order. These projects will now be paid
11.55 rupees per kilowatt-hour that won’t be reduced from 11
rupees to 4 rupees per kilowatt-hour after 12 years as planned
earlier, it said.  The rate paid to photovoltaic plants will be lowered 7
percent annually from the 9.28 rupees for each year that their
completion is delayed after March 31, 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 