-- India Ends State Bank’s Wait for Funds by Agreeing to Infuse $1.6 Billion
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-01-31T04:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/india-ends-state-bank-s-wait-for-funds-by-agreeing-to-infuse-1-6-billion.html
State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender, will receive a 79 billion rupee ($1.6 billion)
capital infusion from the government, ending a two-year wait for
funds as slowing economic growth leads to a rise in bad loans.  The state-owned lender approved selling stock to the
government on a preferential basis, according to a filing
yesterday to the stock exchange in Mumbai. The lender has been
seeking to replenish its base for about two years after
increased provisions for defaults and expansion in credit
depleted capital.  Shares of  State Bank  have rallied 27 percent this month on
speculation that the funds would be injected in the first
quarter. The stock slumped 42 percent last year, and Moody’s
Investors Service in October downgraded the Mumbai-based
lender’s financial strength rating, citing the capital shortage
and its deteriorating asset quality.  “Investors had already factored in the government’s
investment into State Bank, leading to the smart bounce back in
the share prices in recent weeks,” said Alex Mathews, head of
research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. “The key
question now is, how the lender will use this capital to boost
its lending book in the coming quarters.”  The lender climbed 3.1 percent to 2,047.5 rupees as of 9:48
a.m. in Mumbai. That compared with a 1.1 percent increase in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The bank’s bad-loan ratio widened to 4.19 percent of total
advances as of Sept. 30, from 3.35 percent a year earlier. Its
Tier 1 capital ratio, which was below the government’s 8 percent
target for state-run lenders, “provides an insufficient
cushion” to support growth and to absorb higher credit costs as
defaults climb, Moody’s had said in the statement on Oct. 4.  ‘More comfortable’  The bank’s  Tier I capital  will be above 8 percent by March
31, Chief Financial Officer Diwakar Gupta said in a telephone
interview today.  “Going ahead, we will be more comfortable with growth as
the capital moves up higher than the regulatory requirements,”
Gupta said.  India ’s government, which owns  59.4 percent of the bank ,
will inject capital into state-run lenders to ensure they have
an 8 percent Tier 1 ratio by March, banking secretary D.K.
Mittal said on Oct. 27. The government’s stake in State Bank may
increase by 225 basis points after the investment, Gupta said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The bank planned to cancel untapped credit lines, change
how some loans are classified and set up a “capital hunt”
panel to review ways to conserve money, Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said in an interview on Dec. 12.  The  Reserve Bank  of India’s 13 interest-rate increases
since March 2010 caused economic growth in the quarter ended
Sept. 30 to slow to the least in more than two years, eroding
State Bank’s asset quality.  The central bank also cut the nation’s growth forecast on
Jan. 24 to 7 percent for the year through March from the 7.6
percent predicted in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  