-- Ineos Seeks $850 Million From Note Sale to Refinance Debt
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-01-30T09:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ineos-pushes-ahead-with-refinance-with-850-million-notes-sale.html
Ineos Group, the world’s largest
maker of phenol and nitrile chemicals, plans to sell $850
million in senior secured notes to help refinance debt.  The sale includes U.S. dollar-denominated fixed-rate bonds
and floating-rate notes in euros, both due 2019, the Rolle,
Switzerland-based chemical maker said in a statement. Ineos has
the option to repay the securities early after three years,
according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction.  Ineos said it will use the proceeds from the note sale and
cash on hand to refinance borrowing built up after years of
acquiring the unwanted chemical assets of  oil companies 
including BP Plc. The company had net debt of about 6.1 billion
euros ($8 billion) at the end of December. Ineos expects annual
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
excluding refining of 1.74 billion euros, leaving it leveraged
at 3.5 times.  Ineos has suffered as muted demand for olefins and polymers
in parts of  Europe  offset better demand in  North America . The
company said Jan. 26 that it’s seen a significant improvement in
trading this year compared with the fourth quarter of 2011 and
“substantial” sales price increases will be sought for
February.  Barclays Capital  is managing the sale of the euro notes,
while JPMorgan Chase & Co. is overseeing the dollar issue, said
the banker, who declined to be identified because terms haven’t
been set. Meetings with bond investors start today in  London  and
continue in the U.S. until Feb. 2, the banker said.  The notes will be issued through Ineos Finance Plc and be
used to refinance bank debt, the banker said.  Ineos’s cash balances stood at 581 million euros, with 293
million euros in headroom under a revolving credit facility, the
company said in last week’s earnings statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  