-- TIPS Beating Treasuries for Fourth Year
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-30T20:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/tips-beating-treasuries-for-fourth-year-seen-with-fed-at-zero-through-2014.html
Bonds that pay negative yields are
turning into the hottest part of the $9.94 trillion market for
U.S. Treasuries, a sign of shaken investor confidence in an
economy the  Federal Reserve  says shows only “modest” strength.  A $15 billion auction of Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities this month drew the strongest demand since March even
though yields on the notes average less than zero percent for
the first time, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Yields on all types of Treasuries are at or near record
lows and, except for the 30-year bond, provide negative real
returns after taking into account the  consumer price index .  Investors are seeking the safety of  U.S. debt  as analysts
cut their growth forecasts and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis deepens,
helping the government borrow  record sums  to support the economy
almost five years after the subprime mortgage meltdown led to
worst financial disaster since the Great Depression. TIPS have
returned 111.3 percent the past decade, beating the 73.4 percent
for Treasuries not indexed to inflation. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has gained about 33 percent, including dividends.  “Even with real rates being negative, investors view TIPS
as the optimal place to put your money if you do have to buy
U.S. bonds because it is still government paper while also
protecting you from long-term inflation,”  George Goncalves , the
head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in a Jan. 27 interview. The firm is one of 21 primary
dealers of U.S. government securities that trade with the Fed.  Bond Auctions  Treasuries of all kinds rallied last week as the Fed said
it “expects economic growth over coming quarters to be modest”
and that it may need to keep  interest rates  near zero through
2014, more than a year later than planned. A day later, the
Treasury sold $29 billion of seven-year notes at a record low
yield of 1.359 percent.  The week ended as figures from the Commerce Department
showed that gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, climbed at a 2.8 percent annual pace last
quarter, less than the 3 percent median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped last week by 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 1.89 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader. The price of the 2 percent note maturing
November 2021 rose 1 6/32, or $11.88 per $1,000 face amount, to
100 30/32. The yield fell five basis points to 1.84 percent at
3:07 p.m. in  New York .  TIPS Auction  Yields on 10-year TIPS fell to negative 0.2 percent from
negative 0.004 a week earlier, as the price of the benchmark
0.125 percent note due January 2022 rose 10/32 to 103 10/32. The
yield was negative 0.25 percent today.  The allure of TIPS was never more clear than in the auction
of 10-year securities earlier on Jan. 19. Even though the yield
was minus 0.045 percent, the first time in history that it was
less than zero at an auction of that maturity, investors
submitted offers for 2.91 times the amount raised. That was the
highest so-called  bid-to-cover  ratio since the 2.97 at March’s
auction, when the yield was 0.49 percent.  While buyers of the TIPS sold this month aren’t paid
interest, the principal on the bonds rises with consumer prices,
a feature not found in the rest of the Treasury market, which is
already trading at its most expensive levels on record.  ‘Pathetic’ Yields  TIPS have “yields that are pathetic by normal standards,”
Jeffrey Schoenfeld, a partner and chief investment officer in
New York at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., which manages $45
billion, said in a Jan. 24 phone interview. With rates this low,
TIPS “stand out as being a little on the cheap side,” he said.  TIPS have returned 4.2 percent since September, compared
with 0.9 percent for all Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Trading (PDPLTIIS)  has increased to an average $9.51
billion a day since the end of June among the primary dealers of
U.S. government securities, according to the Fed. That’s up from
$6.78 billion in the second half of 2010.  TIPS, which have grown to a  $739 billion market  since being
introduced in 1997, pay interest on a principal amount that
rises and falls with the CPI, which increased an average of 3.2
percent in 2011. The securities yield negative 0.535 percent
overall, down from last year’s high of 0.72 percent in February,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Slower Inflation  The difference in yields between 10-year TIPS and 10-year
Treasury notes of 2.09 percent, known as the  break-even rate ,
represents traders’ expectations for inflation over the life of
the securities. The CPI is forecast to rise 2.1 percent this
year, down from 3.2 percent in 2011, according to the median
estimate of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  After taking inflation into account, 10-year Treasury notes
yield negative 1.14 percent, compared with the median positive
of 2.58 percent over the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s dangerous being very long Treasuries right now,”
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York, said in a Jan. 27 interview.  Many investors see little choice but to own U.S. government
debt of any type. In an update of its World Economic Outlook
report on Jan. 24, the  International Monetary Fund  cut its
estimate for global growth this year to 3.3 percent from a
September forecast of 4 percent.  A day later, the Fed extended its previous pledge to keep
the target rate for overnight loan between banks near zero until
the middle of 2013, as more than two years of economic growth
have failed to push unemployment below 8.5 percent.  ‘Exceptionally Low’  “Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in a statement on Jan. 25.  The decision bolstered speculation that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will tolerate faster gains in consumer prices, which
erode the value of bond interest payments over time. The FOMC
last week set a goal of 2 percent inflation, with most policy
makers forecasting 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent in 2012.  The gauge of inflation used by the Fed is called the
personal consumption expenditures index. The measure, excluding
food and fuel prices, rose 1.7 percent in November from a year
earlier, below the average increase of 1.9 percent the last
decade, according to the latest government data.  ‘Negative Territory’  “Fed policy is the main reason real rates are in negative
territory,” Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in
New York at  Barclays Capital , also a primary dealer, said in a
Jan. 25 interview.  Yields on benchmark 10-year TIPS may fall to negative 0.4
percent by the end of June, even as the government sells more of
the securities to diversify its debt offerings, according to
Pond. In its quarterly survey of bond dealers on Jan. 13, the
Treasury asked how it could to further develop TIPS.  Donald Ellenberger, the co-head of government and mortgage-
backed debt at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh, agreed the
securities still have room to gain.  “There are some investors who feel the Fed’s action will
ultimately be inflationary,” Ellenberger, who oversees about
$10 billion, said in a Jan. 27 interview. “We are overweight
the asset class.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  