-- Turkey’s Lira Depreciates First Day in Four on Greek-Debt Restructure Talk
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-30T15:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/lira-weakens-first-time-in-four-days-on-greek-debt-deal-talks.html
The lira weakened for the first time
in four days as investors avoided risky assets before a
gathering of European leaders to secure a deal over the Greek
debt writeoff.  The Turkish currency declined 0.9 percent to 1.7927 per
dollar as of 5:03 p.m. in Istanbul. A close at this level will
be the biggest depreciation since Dec. 28, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “People are taking positions against the chance of a
disagreement over  Greece ,”  Emre Balkeser , head of trading at
Garanti Investment in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  European Union leaders gathered for their first summit of
2012 as a deteriorating economy and struggle to complete a Greek
debt writeoff risk delaying efforts to stamp out the financial
crisis. Greece and its private creditors said Jan. 28 they
expect to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders
signaled they would accept European government demands for a
bigger cut in their debt holdings.  Turkey’s  current-account deficit  is still elevated and
inflation will remain high through the first half of 2011,  Ahmet Akarli , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  London , said
in a client note.  The deficit fell in November for the first time in two
years, bringing the cumulative 12-month total to $77.8 billion,
still equivalent to about 10 percent of gross domestic product.
 Inflation (TUPM)  ended last year at 10.5 percent in December, twice the
central bank’s target and the highest in three years.  Lira Drops  “We continue to see significant fundamental depreciation
pressure on the lira, and believe that the paying pressure on
local rates may intensify once again,” Akarli said.  Turkey ’s lira dropped 18 percent last year in the biggest
decline among  emerging markets . The yields on two-year debt
soared 390 basis points in 2011, the most since 2006 on concern
the country’s current-account deficit and the European debt
crisis will hurt investor confidence.  Yields (TRABNBM)  on the benchmark two-year debt declined for a third
day, down 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 9.47
percent, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index showed. A close at this
level will be the lowest since Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  