-- Is Modern Finance Ruining Modern Art? (Part 1): Mark C. Taylor
-- B y   M a r k   C .   T a y l o r
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/is-modern-finance-ruining-modern-art-part-1-commentary-by-mark-taylor.html
Art and money have always been
inseparable. As  Andy Warhol  declared almost four decades ago,
“Business art is the step that comes after Art.” During the
past several decades, however, this relationship has been
transformed by the appearance of a new form of capitalism:
finance capitalism.  In previous forms of capitalism -- agricultural,
industrial and consumer -- people made money by buying and
selling labor and material goods; in finance capitalism, by
contrast, wealth is created by circulating signs backed by
nothing other than other signs. When investment becomes more
speculative, the rate of circulation accelerates and the
floating signifiers, which now constitute wealth, proliferate.  The structure and development of financial markets and
the art market mirror each other. As art becomes a
progressively abstract play of non-referential signs, so
increasingly abstract financial instruments become an
autonomous sphere of circulation whose end is nothing other
than itself. When the overall economy moves from industrial
and consumer capitalism to finance capitalism, art undergoes
parallel changes. There are three stages in this process: the
commodification of art, the corporatization of art, and the
financialization of art.  Virtual Versus Real  At the end of these interrelated trajectories, the real
seems to have become virtual and the virtual appears to be
real. But just when the circuit seems to be complete, the
system implodes and the real returns.  When Warhol proclaimed art to be business and business to
be art, he was acknowledging the overwhelming importance of
postwar consumer culture. Not only had the center of the art
world shifted from  Europe  to  New York , but the U.S. had become
the world’s dominant economic and military power. The work of
many of the most influential artists of the era both reflected
and promoted American values and power at home and abroad.
Warhol’s artistic appropriation of the images and icons of
consumer culture put on display both the machinations of
consumer capitalism and commodification of art that was so
vigorously promoted by the burgeoning gallery system.  With increasing economic prosperity, art, whose
collection and exhibition had long been limited to the church
and aristocracy, became the social marker for individuals
aspiring to rise above the middle class. But even Warhol could
not have anticipated the explosion of the art market by the
turn of the millennium.  According to  reliable estimates , by 2006, the private art
market had reached $25 billion to $30 billion. Christie’s
International and Sotheby’s, the two leading auction houses,
reported combined sales of $12 billion, and more than two
dozen galleries were doing $100 million in sales annually.  This phenomenal growth in the art market was not limited
to the U.S. Global capitalism created a global art market.
From 2002 to 2006, this market more than doubled, from $25.3
billion to $54.9 billion. This astonishing growth was fueled
by  emerging markets  in  Russia ,  China ,  India  and the  Middle
East . The price of individual works escalated as quickly as
the purported value of the financial securities with which
they were being purchased. In 2006,  Ronald Lauder , honorary
chairman of the board of the Museum of  Modern Art , purchased
 Gustav Klimt ’s “Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I” for $135
million, which at the time was the highest price ever paid for
a single painting. One year later,  Jeff Koons ’s “Hanging
Heart” sold at auction for $ 23.6 million , which was the
highest price ever paid for a work by a living artist.  Flower Puppies  Koons is the poster boy for this frenzied commodification
of art. What began in Warhol’s Factory in the 1960s ends in
Koons’s factory, where his cast of assistants fabricates
whatever he imagines. Whether pornographic figurines or cute
flower puppies, remarkable craftsmanship characterizes Koons’s
art. Just as Warhol, reacting to abstract expressionists,
removed hand from work, so Koons further mechanizes the means
of production.  There is, however, a critical difference between Warhol
and Koons. Neither Koons nor his art gives any hint of the
irony and parody that lend Warhol’s art its edge. While
Warhol’s work unsettles, Koons’s art is crafted to reassure.
Unapologetically embracing banality and freely admitting his
ignorance of art history, Koons sounds more like Joel Osteen
than Marcel Duchamp: “I realized you don’t have to know
anything and I think my work always lets the viewer know
that,”  he once told a reporter . “I just try to do work that
makes people feel good about themselves, their history, and
their potential.” What is surprising is how many seemingly
intelligent and sophisticated people have been taken in by
this erstwhile stockbroker.  Having learned his trade on the floor of commodity
exchanges, Koons does not move beyond the commodification of
art. His exquisitely crafted works have become precious
objects whose worth is measured by their rapidly rising
exchange value. The next stage in the development of the art
market -- the corporatization of art -- can be understood in
two ways.  First, in the past two decades, many major corporations
have appropriated the age-old practice of attempting to
increase their prestige by purchasing and displaying art. In
many cases, companies hire full- or part-time advisers and
consultants to develop their collections.  Second, and more
interesting, a few enterprising artists have transformed the
corporation itself into a work of art.  High and Low  The most interesting example of the corporatization of
art is the work of the Japanese artist  Takashi Murakami . Like
Warhol and Koons, Murakami collapses high and low by
appropriating images from popular culture to create oversized
sculptures and his signature “Superflat” paintings.  But he has also expanded his artistic practice to create
a commercial conglomerate that is functionally
indistinguishable from many of today’s media companies,
advertising agencies and leading corporations. In 2001, he
created  Kaikai Kiki  Co., which currently employs some 70
people. According to the company website, the goals of this
enterprise “include the production and promotion of artwork,
the management and support of select young artists, general
management of events and projects, and the production and
promotion of merchandise.” The products marketed range from
more-or-less traditional paintings, sculptures and videos to
T-shirts, key chains, mouse pads, cell-phone holders and even
$5,000 limited-edition Louis Vuitton handbags. His 2007-2008
exhibition,  “© Murakami ,” at the Los Angeles Museum of
Contemporary Art included a fully operational Louis Vuitton
boutique.  Having formed a hybrid of a media corporation,
advertising company and a talent agency, Murakami dubbed his
for-profit corporation a work of art. One of the primary
functions of this novel entity is the organization of a
biannual art fair in  Tokyo , “GEISAI,” which allows clients
(young artists) to exhibit their work for a fee. As the artist
and photographer Walead Beshty  has observed , “the delirious
intricacy of Murakami’s unrepentant entrepreneurialism” is
hard not to appreciate. Kaikai Kiki’s “tentacles extend into a
network of alliances spanning the entertainment industry,
corporate image consultation, toy manufacturing and high
fashion -- this aside from the production of art objects. His
ability to mold productions (and services) to varying scale
into an ornate constellation is as mesmerizing as his
willingness to almost selflessly dissolve his own business
complex.”  Yet Murakami’s corporatization of art does not express
the fundamental economic transformation that has taken place
since the late 1960s. As financial capitalism expands, the
production of tangible goods is increasingly displaced by the
invention of intangible products. This is as true in the art
market as it is in the stock market.  (Mark C. Taylor is the chair of the Department of
Religion at  Columbia University . This is the first of two
excerpts from his new book “Refiguring the Spiritual: Beuys,
Barney, Turrell, Goldsworthy,” to be published March 20 by
Columbia University Press. The opinions expressed are his
own. Read  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark C. Taylor at  mct22@columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  