-- Historian-in-Chief Gingrich Can’t Shake His Past: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/historian-in-chief-gingrich-can-t-shake-his-past-noah-feldman.html
I was driving when I heard the
latest Republican front-runner intoning that “the centerpiece of
this campaign, I believe, is American exceptionalism versus the
radicalism of Saul Alinsky.” He went on from there, but I was
already grinning from ear to ear.  Newt Gingrich  had me at
Alinsky.  What excites me is not the preposterousness of the
statement. No, there isn’t actually any conflict between the
idea that America stands alone and the outlook of the proudly
independent inventor of community organizing, who once said,
“I’ve never joined any organization -- not even the ones I’ve
organized myself.” And, yes, the  Tea Party  is a perfect example
of anarchic Alinskian organization. But those are just silly
facts, not reasons for pure joy in the driver’s seat.  What I love was the absurdity of Newt Gingrich apparently
believing that the name Saul Alinsky would have any kind of
meaning to the Americans listening to him. Alinsky died in 1972.
His 1971 book, “Rules for Radicals,” is a classic -- but it is a
cult classic, known largely to community organizers and the
experts who study them. (Or it was: Thanks to Gingrich, the
paperback became the No. 1 seller in Amazon.com’s  “civics” 
category.)  Who believes it’s good campaign politics to attack a
relatively unknown visionary who has been dead for 40 years? A
historian, that’s who. Gingrich just can’t help himself. Sure,
he wants to be president. But more than that, he wants to teach
us some history.  A Critical Progressive  Gingrich would not be the first historian president. That
distinction properly belongs to  Theodore Roosevelt . While
serving as governor of  New York , Roosevelt wrote and published a
full-dress biography of Oliver Cromwell, a book one reader
called “a fine imaginative study of Cromwell’s qualifications
for the governorship of New York.”  Woodrow Wilson , so far the
only president to hold a Ph.D., got his doctorate in political
science and history. Gingrich, for his part, has the Ph.D. in
history that Teddy lacked, not to mention more than two dozen
published books. (Although his works of history, and several
historical novels, have a co-author, William Forstchen.)  But the technicality of academic achievement is secondary
to the question of Gingrich’s self-conception, which is as
historical as it could be. Not only did he write his Tulane
University  dissertation  on Belgian education policy in the
colonial Congo, he also was hired as an assistant professor at
West Georgia College to teach European history -- a job he held
for several years.  Gingrich’s files from his time at West Georgia, posted
 online  by the Wall Street Journal, are telling.  They begin with
the wonderful moment in an importuning letter of application
where he explains that, “I am more a critical progressive
seeking reform rather than a new leftist.”  It’s a relief, I guess, to discover that Gingrich wasn’t a
member of Students for a Democratic Society. Yet, it would seem,
as he entered academia Gingrich was prepared to embrace the
prevailing liberal winds of the time -- or thought he should, if
he wanted a job. Gingrich’s critical progressivism (if it ever
really existed) was short-lived. By 1974, he was already taking
a leave of absence to run for Congress as a Republican.  But his desire for “reform” was durable and serious.
Indeed, so eager was he to make changes that Gingrich applied to
be president of the college -- in his first year as a junior
faculty member. This ill-fated application led him to produce a
document aimed at charting the next 30 years in the history of
the college -- which is to say, its future.  Bitten by the future bug, Gingrich went on to teach a
speculative class on the year 2000. (One can almost hear the
chanting of “In the year 2000 … in the year 2000” from the old
Conan O’Brien skit.) A college press release (admittedly not a
very precise primary document) described Gingrich as a
specialist on futurism.  Drawn to Futurism  No doubt a press release touting Gingrich’s expertise in
the future made it inevitable that the history department would
ease him out of teaching about the past. Gingrich joined the
geography department, described by the university’s
administration in an official memo as more suited to his new
future-oriented interests.  Here Gingrich foundered. An educational institute that he
tried to start with a colleague went nowhere. When he very
reasonably asked if he could earn outside consulting money to
supplement his $9,700 salary, the president explained dryly that
while Gingrich could consult privately as a state employee, he
couldn’t double-dip and earn state consulting fees. Sadly for
Gingrich,  Freddie Mac ’s $25,000-a-month appreciation of his
historical talents lay a couple of decades ahead.  Gingrich’s further leave of absence to run for office a
second time yielded no results. After his seventh year teaching
in the university, with no real departmental home and no
significant publications to his name, he went the way of so many
talented junior faculty before and since: He left the university
to start his real life.  The change did him good. In 1978, just a year after being
denied tenure, he was elected to Congress. His files display the
delicious juxtaposition of the college president’s polite letter
of non-renewal and his equally polite (but only slightly more
effusive) letter of congratulations now that his former junior
colleague had become his congressman. A better fulfillment of
the fantasy of the untenured could hardly be imagined.  Once he had transcended the academy and escaped the company
of actual historians, Gingrich was free to become as historical
as he wanted. His appealing combination of pedantry and
righteous anger will make him a formidable opponent should he be
lucky enough to face off against the professor-in-chief, who is
more the cool, rational educator than the nutty professor riding
his hobbyhorse.  To get to that point, however, Gingrich must get past his
most serious problem as a candidate: his history as a speaker
forced to step down from the job and leave the House in 1999
after the failure of his party and his program. Gingrich’s
success in  South Carolina  was an indication that the American
people don’t know much about history. Whether the same will be
true in  Florida  will be seen on Tuesday. To many voters there,
one suspects, the 1990s aren’t ancient history at all.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  