-- Lithuania’s Economic Growth Slowed in Fourth Quarter to 4.3%
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-01-30T09:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/lithuania-s-economic-growth-slowed-in-fourth-quarter-to-4-3-.html
Lithuania’s  economic growth  slowed
in the fourth quarter for the first time in more than a year as
export gains and industrial output waned.  Gross domestic product grew a preliminary 4.3 percent from
a year earlier, compared with a 6.7 percent rise in the previous
three months, the  statistics office  in the capital, Vilnius,
said today by e-mail. That’s below the median estimate of three
economists in a Bloomberg survey, which forecast 6 percent. The
economy contracted a seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent from the
previous quarter, the first contraction in two years.  Lithuania’s economy is slowing from the second-fastest pace
in the European Union in the third quarter as the euro region’s
debt crisis damps demand for the Baltic country’s goods in its
main export markets. Industrial production, which accounts to
about 20 percent of economic output, fell 2.1 percent in
December, the biggest drop since January 2010.  “The slowdown was faster than we expected,” said  Violeta Klyviene , an economist with Danske Bank A/S. “The export-
orientated economy is experiencing the negative effects from the
euro region. It’s a small and open economy and that makes it
difficult to compensate for the negative effect from the euro
region through domestic demand.”  The economy grew 5.8 percent in 2011, the statistics office
said.  “It will be difficult to keep this high pace of GDP growth
in 2012 because of the expected mild recession in the  euro
zone ,” said Rokas Bancevicius, a senior analyst at DnB Bank in
Vilnius, in an e-mailed note. “This might have a negative
effect on the country’s exports as  Germany  alone accounts for
roughly 10 percent of exports. Global economic uncertainty as
well as high energy prices will constrain growth of internal
demand as well.”  The office is scheduled to release a breakdown of fourth-
quarter GDP data on Feb. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  