-- Dimon ‘Sucker Punches’ Analyst Mayo, Hedge Riches Beckon: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-01-30T00:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/jamie-dimon-sucker-punches-analyst-mayo-hedge-fund-riches-beckon-books.html
Some Wall Street memoirs have more
sizzle than bacon: They’re written by insiders who tell less
than they know.  Felix Rohatyn  comes to mind.  Others have more bacon than sizzle, as Mike Mayo’s “Exile
on Wall Street” illustrates.  Mayo has built a reputation as a blunt old-school bank
analyst who understands how to finger slippery accounting,
declining loan quality and indefensible executive paychecks. Yet
in some ways he remains an outsider.  After 20 years at institutions ranging from  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , he comes across as a scrappy
kid pressing his nose against the tinted glass -- a guy with no
Ivy League pedigree and a chip on his muscled shoulder.  His interloper status makes his book enlightening and
frustrating by turns. Long on analytical insights and short on
corner-office anecdotes, these pages hint at how little even a
well-placed researcher could know about the toxic debt buried in
dark crannies of Street balance sheets during the housing
bubble.  Though famously bearish on banks, Mayo kept a “buy”
rating on  Lehman Brothers  as it veered toward collapse. He was
at Deutsche by then, and his reasoning was clear:  Lehman’s stock 
was trading so far below core book value -- even after factoring
in potential real-estate losses -- that the market price smacked
of a chance to purchase dollar bills for 75 cents each, he says.  (He was hardly the only pro fooled by the numbers. Consider
how bullish  investing legend   Bill Miller  was about Bear Stearns
Cos. before it swooned into the arms of  Jamie Dimon .)  Dimon’s Wisecrack  Megabanks are notoriously bad at communicating with
investors and analysts, as Mayo shows. In one bizarre passage,
he says that Dimon “sucker punched” him on the snowy day in
2004 when  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Bank One Corp. made a formal
presentation about their merger. Mayo, who long maintained a
negative rating on Bank One, had upgraded it to match his
“buy” on JPMorgan on news of the deal.  Dimon, in high spirits, couldn’t resist taking a poke at
Mayo: “The title of his next report should be ‘I Was Wrong,’”
he told the packed room.  Given Dimon’s habit of shooting from the hip, it’s tempting
to scoff at Mayo’s suggestion that his reputation as a stock
picker had been impugned -- not once, but twice, when Dimon made
a similar dig two years later. Yet you’ve got to marvel at how
out of touch with the dignity of others bank executives can be.  Greenspan Pinup  Mayo isn’t ashamed of exposing his geeky side -- the photo
of  Alan Greenspan  he pinned up in his apartment, his excessive
sit-ups and push-ups, his bravado: “I was a warrior of
capitalism again,” he crows. Yet what comes through above all
is his stubborn honesty.  Mayo learned how to pick apart balance sheets as a
regulator assessing hundreds of bank deals at the  Federal
Reserve  in  Washington  in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The job
imbued him with a sense of civic virtue, and no wonder: We the
Taxpayers had just shambled through the savings-and-loan crisis.  By 1992, Mayo was ready for Wall Street. Inspired by both
 Paul Volcker  and Gordon Gekko, he hoped to combine public
service with making serious money. He wanted it both ways.  After much cold calling and many snubs, he snagged a job as
a junior analyst at Union Bank of Switzerland. Two years later,
he jumped to Lehman, where he made his mark with a 1994 report
that put “buy” ratings on most of the banks he covered.  From Bull to Bear  Congress had struck down a rule that prevented most banks
from operating in more than a single state; he correctly
predicted that this would trigger consolidation, cost-cutting
and higher stock prices. His bullishness was mocked -- until the
 Standard & Poor’s bank index  began climbing.  Mayo’s next big stand came in 1999, when he went bearish on
the whole industry in a 1,000-page report. This came at the
height of the New Economy craze, when the ratio of analyst
ratings was roughly 100 “buys” for every “sell,” Mayo says.
As bank stocks began falling, the backlash was harsh. One
trader, he recalls, put his photo on her bulletin board with the
word “WANTED” scrawled across it.  His warnings included a prediction that aggressive
increases in home-loan volumes could end in a cycle of “lower
 home prices  and lower collateral.”  Right call, though it took
almost a decade to be proved right.  In late 2007, as the subprime crisis deepened, a Deutsche
Bank sales rep begged him to meet a client at a little-known
hedge fund: “It’s all he wants for his birthday,” he recalls
her saying.  So he went along for a talk, which led to a job offer: “It
would be very lucrative,” the man said. Mayo turned him down.  The client was  John Paulson , whose firm made $15 billion
that year betting against the housing bubble.  “Exile on  Wall Street : One Analyst’s Fight to Save the Big
Banks From Themselves” is from  Wiley  (202 pages, $29.95, 19.99
pounds, 24 euros). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 