-- Janney Hires Ex-MF Global Employees in U.S. Capital Markets Expansion
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-30T20:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/janney-hires-ex-mf-global-employees-in-u-s-capital-markets-expansion.html
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said it
added five new hires to its  capital markets  business unit,
including two former employees of MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Charles Engel and Paul Callahan, both formerly of MF
Global, will be joining Janney Capital Markets as managing
directors of institutional credit sales, the company said.
Engel, former vice president of high-yield sales at MF, will be
based in  Dallas ,  Texas , where Janney said it plans to open a
satellite office. Callahan will be based in New York. The two
spent nearly 10 years together at Samco Capital Markets before
brief stints with MF.  “One was at MF for three days, and the other was there for
a month,” Steve Genyk, head of fixed income at Janney, said in
a telephone interview. “When we evaluated them, we really
looked to their time together at Samco. They’re terrific hires
for us.”  MF Global Holdings, once run by former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Co-Chairman  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy in October. Corzine, also a former U.S. senator and
New Jersey governor, quit as chief executive officer on Nov. 4.  Janney, the Philadelphia-based investment advisory firm,
said it also hired Colin Morse as vice president of its
financial institutions team, Joseph Bosch as managing director
of public finance, and Daniel Froehlich as vice president of
public finance. Morse previously worked at First Empire
Securities in New York, while Bosch and Froelich are both
formerly of George K. Baum & Co. in  Missouri , Janney said.  “We are going to continue to grow,” Genyk said of Janney.
“As talent becomes available that focuses on the segments of
the market where we have a competitive advantage, we will
continue to hire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  