-- Sanlam in Talks to Buy JPMorgan’s South African Fund-Administration Unit
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-01-30T16:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/jpmorgan-in-talks-to-sell-south-africa-fund-business-to-sanlam-old-mutual.html
Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) ,  South Africa ’s largest
insurer, said it’s in talks to buy U.S. lender  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. ’s fund administration unit to expand in its home market.  The insurer’s investment unit will form a joint venture
with the asset management arm of London-based  Old Mutual Plc (ONL)  to
buy the operation, which oversees about 1 trillion rand ($127
billion), Johan van der Merwe, head of  Sanlam (SLM) ’s investment unit,
said by telephone from  Cape Town  today. Juliana Wheeler, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan in  London , declined to comment.  The U.S. lender bought the South African fund-services
business, formerly called TASC Administration, from Sanlam in
2004 to provide payment-processing and cash-management services
for money managers. TASC was South Africa’s largest independent
third-party administrator, with 140 employees, 15 clients and
about 320 billion rand of assets under administration, JPMorgan
said at the time. The Sanlam and  Old Mutual (OML)  units are JPMorgan’s
largest fund-service clients in South Africa, according to
Sanlam.  “JPMorgan had very good intentions when it started the
business but has strategically decided to exit,” van der Merwe
said. “JPMorgan is being very accommodating.”  The old TASC unit now has at least 200 employees who are
likely to be moved into Sanlam and Old Mutual’s joint-venture
company, Van der Merwe said. Diane Radley, chief executive
officer of Old Mutual Investment Group in South Africa, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  Absa, Cadiz  The fund administration unit is part of New York-based
JPMorgan’s treasury and securities operation, which posted a 3
percent decline in  fourth-quarter  profit from the year-earlier
period. The bank began offering rand-clearing services in South
Africa in November for the first time.  Maitland Group , a European-based fund administrator, is
JPMorgan’s largest competitor in South Africa, according to
Andre le Roux, business development manager for Maitland, who
said his company has about 920 billion rand in funds under
administration in South Africa. His firm is seeking to win
clients from JPMorgan including Absa Asset Management Ltd., and
 Cadiz Holdings Ltd. (CDZ) , he said.  Old Mutual fell 1.7 percent to 146.1 pence in London
trading today. Sanlam slid 1.2 percent to 29.95 rand by the 5
p.m. close in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  