-- Korean Won, Ringgit Lead Asian Currency Losses on Growth Concern, Europe
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-30T08:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/korean-won-ringgit-lead-asian-currency-losses-on-growth-concern-europe.html
The Philippine peso and  Malaysia ’s
ringgit led losses in Asian currencies as slower-than-forecast
economic expansion in the U.S. clouded the outlook for the
region’s exports.  Data this week may show growth in South Korea’s factory
output slowed to a five-month low in December,  China ’s
manufacturing contracted in January and  Taiwan ’s fourth-quarter
gross domestic product rose by the least since 2009, according
to Bloomberg surveys. The  U.S. economy  grew 2.8 percent last
quarter, a government report showed on Jan. 27, less than the
median forecast of a 3 percent increase. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY)  snapped a three-day gain before European Union
leaders gather for the first meeting of 2012.  “The U.S. GDP data are casting doubt on sustained robust
growth, while the European summit this week brings with it some
further headline risk,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based
currency strategist at Scotia Capital, the investment banking
unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia . “Gains in Asian currencies have
been very impressive and thus we may have a shoring up of
positions ahead of risk events this week.”  The Asia Dollar  Index (DXY) , which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, dropped 0.4 percent to
116.88 as of 4:04 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The peso slumped 0.5
percent to 43.08 per dollar, the ringgit slipped 0.5 percent to
3.0530 and South Korea’s won declined 0.4 percent to 1,127.25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Indian rupee  fell
0.4 percent to 49.5025.  European Union leaders gather today to put the finishing
touches on a German-led deficit-control treaty and endorse the
statutes of a 500 billion-euro ($658 billion) rescue fund to be
set up this year.  Narrowing Surplus  The won declined for a second day after a central bank
report showed the current-account  surplus  narrowed to $3.96
billion in December from a revised $4.56 billion in November.
Data tomorrow may show industrial production grew 4.1 percent in
December, compared with 5.6 percent the previous month, while
the government may say on Feb. 1 that exports probably increased
1.2 percent this month, the least in more than two years,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Although  South Korea  posted a current-account surplus,
investors are adopting a cautious stance ahead of the export
data,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst at
Woori Futures Co. “The won advanced a lot recently and there is
not much momentum for further aggressive gains.”  The peso fell for a second day after the government
reported the  economy  expanded 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter,
compared with the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey for 3.8
percent. Annual growth cooled to 3.7 percent in 2011 from a
revised 7.6 percent a year earlier.  China, Taiwan Reopen  China’s yuan and Taiwan’s dollar strengthened as markets
re-opened after the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday. The yuan
added 0.1 percent to 6.3310 per dollar, while Taiwan’s currency
advanced 0.7 percent to NT$29.786.  The yuan strengthened after the  Federal Reserve  vowed to
maintain low  interest rates  to boost its economy and the Chinese
central bank raised the currency’s daily reference rate. The
Dollar Index slid 1.7 percent last week as the Fed pledged to
keep interest rates “extremely low” until 2014.  “The yuan’s gain today reflects more on the weakness in
the greenback in the past week, rather than China reacting to
political pressure on appreciation,” said Kenix Lai, a Hong
Kong-based currency analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened to the highest level in more
than four months on speculation the Fed’s policy outlook will
attract cash to the island’s higher-yielding assets. Investment
inflows into emerging-market stock funds rose to about $3.49
billion in the week to Jan. 25, the highest level since March,
according to EPFR Global.  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah dropped 0.2 percent to
9,005 per dollar, while the  Thai baht  was unchanged at 31.15.
The Vietnamese dong climbed 0.6 percent to 20,890 as the onshore
markets reopened today after the holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  