-- Kraft’s Brazil Chocolate Seen as Template After Spinoff: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-30T14:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/kraft-s-brazil-chocolate-seen-as-template-after-spinoff-retail.html
Investors searching for insights
into  Kraft Foods Inc.’s (KFT)  strategy once it splits in two this year
may want to consider a 100-year-old Brazilian chocolate brand
called Lacta.  During the past five years, Kraft has turned Lacta into the
top-selling chocolate brand in Brazil, ahead of the Nestle brand
and a local contender called Garoto. Now the Northfield,
Illinois-based company plans to use Lacta and nine other well-
known brands to lead growth in  emerging markets  after the more
sedate U.S. grocery business is spun off, said Sanjay Khosla,
Kraft’s executive vice president of emerging markets.  “The strategy we took with Lacta is very similar to what
we’ve done with other developing-market power brands like Oreo,
Tang and Cadbury,” Khosla said. “The whole game is about
focusing on where you can win. For Lacta, that meant investing
big-time in marketing and expansion.”  Food companies have struggled to cope with slow growth and
high commodity prices in the U.S. Companies like Kraft and
Pittsburgh-based  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  are looking overseas. In the
third quarter ended Sept. 30, Kraft boosted revenue 12 percent
to $13.2 billion; 54 percent of those sales were generated
outside  North America  and 30 percent from emerging markets.  Kraft  shares  fell 0.39 percent to $38.32 at 9:32 a.m. in
New York. They advanced 19 percent last year, compared with a 10
percent gain for the S&P 500 Consumer Staples Index.  Following the spinoff, the $16 billion-a-year U.S. Grocery
unit, as it is currently known, will pay a higher dividend to
make up for slower growth. Global Snacks, which will generate
about $32 billion in revenue a year, will have a lower payout so
it can invest in overseas brands. Emerging market sales will
account for 42 percent of revenue in the new company.  Global Snacks  Global Snacks will grow 17 percent this year and 10 percent
annually after that, Thilo Wrede, an analyst with Jefferies & Co
in  New York , said in a phone interview. By comparison, the
grocery unit will achieve 3 percent growth at best, according to
his estimates. Still, for Global Snacks to become a hot growth
story, it may need to divest slower growing businesses, Wrede
said.  “It’s a little bit wait-and-see right now,” he said.
“The international grocery business is one-quarter of Global
Snacks, so it will lower growth rates.”  Kraft came up with the “power brands” strategy four years
ago. Tang breakfast drinks is the largest developing markets
brand in the portfolio, with $1 billion in annual sales. Jacobs
Coffee, which is concentrated in  Europe , is the second largest
brand.  Largest Brazilian Brand  Lacta, which is No. 3, is Kraft’s largest Brazilian brand.
Its sales accounted for about one-third of Kraft’s  Brazil 
revenue and posted 34 percent gross margin, Khosla said.  Kraft’s largest emerging market is Brazil, where real
income rose 10 percent in the 12 months ended Nov. 30, according
to Bloomberg Data.  “The emerging middle class will be a huge factor,” said
 Matt Arnold , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .
“Affordable luxuries like packaged chocolate are growing
well.”  When Kraft acquired Lacta in 1996, its previous owner was
on the verge of shutting a chocolate factory that made candy
specifically for the Easter holiday -- big business in Brazil.
Chocolatiers spend six months building inventory for the
holiday, and Easter chocolate fetches three times as much per
kilo than regular bonbons, Khosla said.  While Kraft rescued the plant and invested in the Lacta
business, it wasn’t until 2007 that Kraft made it a “power
brand,” Khosla said.  Borrowed Innovation  The company borrowed an innovation in 2008 from its
European Milka brand, a resealable package that lets consumers
keep the product fresh. The package clings to itself and
preserves the chocolate. That helped sales.  The next step was to move Lacta beyond basic chocolate
bars. While Khosla focused on overall strategy, his Brazilian
team, led by  Latin America  President Gustavo Abelenda, explored
local tastes and looked for something enticing. Research showed
Brazilians craved more decadence in their bon-bons.  “We asked, ‘What would delight you?’” Khosla said. “They
said they wanted something that melts in their mouth.”  In 2010, Kraft’s Brazilian operation introduced Delice, a
mousse-filled chocolate. The new product helped boost Lacta’s
sales 29 percent that year, according to Khosla.  In the past, Kraft had been “risk averse” with new
products,  Alexia Howard , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst,
said during an in investor conference in mid-January.  “That has changed in the last couple of years,” said
Howard, who is based in New York.  New Products  New products are important to Kraft’s emerging-market
strategy and accounted for 8 percent of sales in 2009 and 9
percent of sales in 2010, she said. That should grow to 11
percent in 2013, according to Howard.  Kraft’s 2010 acquisition of Cadbury Plc is a big piece of
the strategy. While some analysts questioned the price tag of
about 13.6 billion pounds ($18.5 billion), Cadbury gives Kraft a
distribution network in  Asia  and Latin America, Wrede said.  “What they really bought was a way to ship small-pack
snacks in Brazil and  India ,” he said.  Before buying Cadbury, Lacta was featured mostly in large
stores. The brand had little exposure in mom-and-pops, according
to Abelenda. Cadbury sold brands like Halls lozenges and Trident
gum in smaller stores. The deal instantly gave Lacta 100,000 new
outlets in Brazil.  New Factory  The brand now owns 37 percent of the market and Kraft wants
more. Last year, the food maker poured $200 million into Brazil,
including $80 million for a new chocolate factory. It also
increased Lacta’s marketing budget by 22 percent to support a
new ad campaign, whose slogan is “Entregue-se,” or “Surrender
Yourself.” In one racy  ad , Pegasus swoops in and carries away a
woman after biting into a Lacta chocolate bar.  Kraft is making a similar push in  China . Oreo Cookies hired
basketball star  Yao Ming  as spokesman and the company has made a
major marketing push. In the past two years, it has become the
top-selling cookie in the market and its sales outside the U.S.
have grown 30 percent a year for five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  