-- Nabors $7.2 Billion Takeover Seen With Surging Options: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-30T21:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/nabors-7-2-billion-takeover-seen-with-surging-options-real-m-a.html
Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  has gotten so
cheap that traders in the options market are betting the world’s
largest land-drilling contractor may be a takeover candidate
after the departure of its 81-year-old chief executive officer.  Nabors, which lost $2.4 billion in value in the past six
months as delays in equipment deliveries and upgrades of rigs in
Saudi Arabia cut profitability, is cheaper than 97 percent of
oil and gas services companies versus sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the past two weeks,  calls  priced 10
percent above Nabors’ stock rose the most in 18 months versus
puts on one-month contracts, signaling traders are anticipating
an acquisition, said JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC.  Gene Isenberg, who led Nabors since 1987 when it emerged
from bankruptcy, was replaced in October as the  board  appointed
his deputy the company’s CEO. While Isenberg remains chairman,
the change in leadership may have opened the door for a takeover
of Nabors that could be worth 39 percent more than last week’s
market value of $5.2 billion, according to Penn Capital
Management. A potential suitor such as  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  or
Schlumberger Ltd. would gain more than 1,200  rigs  from the
Americas to  Africa  and the  Middle East ,  Greenwood Capital  said.  “The valuation is very cheap and it’s an opportunity to
buy a company with very good assets,”  Eric Green , a
Philadelphia-based manager at Penn Capital, which oversees $6
billion and owned about 1.7 million Nabors shares as of Sept.
30, said in a telephone interview. “With the CEO leaving it
does give the potential for the company to be in play.”  Green said Nabors could command a takeover in the “mid-
twenties range” on a per-share basis, or about $7.2 billion at
$25 apiece. The stock ended at $17.93 a share last week.  Biggest S&P 500 Gain  Dennis Smith , a spokesman for Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Nabors, declined to comment on whether it has been approached by
potential acquirers or would consider a sale.  Pamela Easton, a spokeswoman at Baker Hughes of Houston,
declined to comment on whether it was considering an acquisition
of Nabors. Mary Jo Caliandro, a spokeswoman for Houston- and
Paris-based Schlumberger, didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Nabors rose 3.5 percent to $18.56 today in New York, the
 biggest gain  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Prices of
bullish contracts on Nabors also surged to a four-year high
relative to comparable bearish bets today, the data show.  Globally, Nabors actively markets 491 land drilling rigs as
well as 749 land workover rigs, which are more heavy duty
machinery used to repair and boost wells that are producing. The
company also sells hydraulic fracturing services, owns stakes in
oil and gas fields from  Canada  to Colombia, operates offshore
rigs in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  and drives trucks in  Alaska .  Hydraulic Fracturing  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is used to free gas and
oil trapped in shale rock by injecting water mixed with sand and
chemicals to keep the cracks open and petroleum flowing.  Shares of Nabors tumbled 30 percent in the second half of
2011, four times the 6.9 percent decline for the average  energy
company  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock retreated as second-quarter earnings  fell short
of analysts’ estimates . The company lost income after failing to
deliver fracking equipment on time and from flooding in North
Dakota and rain in the Marcellus Shale region. Recertification
and upgrades needed for some of its rigs in  Saudi Arabia  also
reduced profit, it said July 27.  On Oct. 28, Nabors announced that Anthony Petrello, its
president and chief operating officer since 1992, would replace
Isenberg, who turned 82 in December. While the company didn’t
give a reason for the change at the time, it said that Isenberg,
who spent the last 24 years building Nabors from an Alaska-based
driller with 38 rigs into a global operator with more than 1,200
rigs, recruited Petrello to be his successor.  Opportunities to Buy  Nabors last week traded at a 10 percent discount to sales
of  $5.7 billion  for the past 12 months, Bloomberg data show.  That was the lowest among U.S. oil and gas service
companies with a market capitalization of more than $1 billion
and cheaper than 60 of 62 rivals globally. Nabors was also
valued at 8 times this year’s estimated earnings, about 40
percent less than the industry average, the data show.  A chance to acquire Nabors on the cheap may entice Baker
Hughes, the world’s third-largest provider of services, tools
and technology to oil and natural gas producers, according to
Penn Capital’s Green. The company could bundle some of Nabors’
services with its own, he said.  Andy O’Donnell, Baker Hughes’ president for the western
hemisphere, said at a Nov. 15 conference that it is “always
going to look at opportunities and have things we buy.”  ‘Natural Fit’  Nabors is also a “natural fit” for  Schlumberger (SLB) , the
biggest oilfield-services provider, if it wants to boost its
land-drilling presence, Greenwood Capital’s  Walter Todd  said.  Buyout firms could consider taking Nabors private as well,
said  Todd Lowenstein , who helps oversee $16 billion for Highmark
Capital Management Inc. in  Los Angeles .  “It’s trading almost at liquidation value,” Lowenstein
said. “People get interested when that happens. Either a
private equity or a strategic buyer could be interested.”  Petrello, Nabors’ new CEO, may resist an outright sale and
be more inclined to consider unloading some of its units to
boost its stock price, according to  Mark Demos , who helps
oversee $14.6 billion for Fifth Third Asset Management.  “The most likely scenario is the new CEO is going to have
a lot of pressure to create value for  shareholders  and he’ll be
selling businesses to focus more on probably the drilling
businesses,” Demos said in a telephone interview from
 Minneapolis . “They have OK assets. If the CEO truly believes in
the cycle, he doesn’t want to sell right now.”  Bullish Options  The company could divest its exploration and production
assets, as well as businesses such as its workover rigs or its
Alaska or Gulf of Mexico operations, according to Luke Lemoine,
an analyst at Capital One Southcoast Inc. in  New Orleans .  Traders in the  options market  are more bullish on the
possibility of a takeover. After falling to a five-month low on
Jan. 20, the implied volatility, the key gauge of options
prices, for calls that pay off if Nabors rises 10 percent have
jumped 15 percent versus comparable puts on one-month contracts,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The surge in prices of bullish contracts relative to
bearish bets was the steepest since July 2010, the data show.  “That is indicative of a bet on a takeout,” Chris Rich,
head options strategist at JonesTrading in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “The options players are definitely
looking at this as having a probability of a takeover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 