-- New York Rangers’ Marian Gaborik Scores Three Goals in NHL All-Star Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-30T05:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/new-york-rangers-marian-gaborik-scores-three-goals-in-nhl-all-star-win.html
Marian Gaborik scored three goals,
including two against New York Rangers teammate Henrik Lundqvist, to lead his team to a 12-9 victory in the  National
Hockey League ’s All-Star game.  Gaborik, the Rangers’ leading scorer, also added an assist
for Team Chara and was named Most Valuable Player for
yesterday’s game at Scotiabank Place in Ottawa.  Zdeno Chara of the  Boston Bruins  and Daniel Alfredsson of
the hometown Senators were captains and drafted their teams from
a pool of NHL All-Stars four days ago. Lundqvist, the Rangers’
goaltender, was an assistant captain for Alfredsson’s squad and
exchanged good-natured taunts with Gaborik via Twitter
throughout All-Star weekend.  “It’s been a buildup, so he definitely won this one, no
question,” Lundqvist told reporters. “I have to give it to
him. It was a great performance, even though his players set him
up for some wide-open nets there. He’s always in the right place
at the right time. It was still a lot of fun out there, even
though I wanted to shut the door against him.”  Alfredsson had two goals and an assist to lead his squad,
while Henrik Sedin of the  Vancouver Canucks  added a goal and two
assists for Team Alfredsson.  Gaborik scored two goals in the first period against
Lundqvist, helping Team Chara open a 3-0 lead.  “I was just fortunate to get lucky against him,” said
Gaborik, whose 25 goals at the All-Star break were tied for
sixth-most in the NHL. “He’s one of the best, if not the best,
goalies in the league. I tried to get into his mind the whole
weekend. It was a pretty good challenge against him.”  The score was tied 6-6 heading to the third period, when
Chara, Toronto’s Phil Kessel and Joffrey Lupul, Calgary’s Jarome Iginla,  Chicago ’s Marian Hossa and Anaheim’s Corey Perry scored
for Team Chara. Lupul finished with two goals for Team Chara,
while Bruins goaltender  Tim Thomas  had 18 saves against Team
Alfredsson in the final period to collect his record-extending
fourth consecutive All-Star game victory.  “In these types of games really the only chance you have
to have your name on the record as the winning goalie is if you
play in the third period,” Thomas said. “You can get a shutout
in the first period and still not end up with the win, probably
won’t end up with the win. That’s why I wanted to play the third
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  