-- Nigeria’s Naira Declines for Third Day on Interest Rate Bets
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-30T16:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/nigeria-s-naira-declines-for-third-day-on-interest-rate-bets.html
Nigeria ’s naira weakened against the
dollar for the third day on speculation the nation’s central
bank will probably leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer depreciated
0.2 percent to 161.25 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of
4:49 p.m. in Lagos, its weakest since Jan. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Nigeria sold $250 million at a twice-
weekly foreign currency auction today, with the marginal rate,
also used as the prevailing exchange rate, down 0.1 percent to
157.05 naira, the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said.  Nigeria’s central bank announces its decision on its key
interest rate tomorrow in Abuja, the capital. The rate, which
was left unchanged at a record-high 12 percent on Nov. 21, may
be held “for a bit” as increases in fuel prices add pressure
to inflation, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 16.  “Lowering the  exchange rate  or leaving it unchanged which
is likely, will favor borrowing and possible increase in the
demand for dollars, which will be the reverse if central bank
raises the rates,” Usman Onoja, chief executive officer of
Lagos-based Lovonus Trust and Investment Ltd., said today by
phone.  Nigeria’s annualized consumer inflation rate fell for the
first time in four months to 10.3 percent in December from 10.5
percent a month earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said.  “The focus of the central bank will be the outlook for
inflation following the increase in the price of petrol and the
risk of fiscal expansion,” Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi
Asaolu, analysts at Lagos-based FBN Capital Ltd., said in an e-
mailed note to clients today. “Both areas are marked by
uncertainty and our view therefore is that the policy rate of 12
percent will be unchanged.”  Ghana ’s cedi appreciated for a fourth day, climbing 0.4
percent to 1.6761 per dollar as of 4:49 p.m. in Accra, the
capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  