-- Nomura Is Said to Appoint Simon Aird as Head of European Equity Syndicate
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-01-30T16:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/nomura-said-to-hire-aird-as-european-head-of-equity-syndicate.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker Simon Aird plans to join  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest
brokerage, as head of European equity syndication, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Aird will start at the Japanese bank’s  London  office in the
beginning of February, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the plans are private. He was with Credit
Suisse for more than a decade. While there, he worked in London
as a managing director in the European equity syndication team,
and in  Hong Kong  as the Swiss bank’s head of equity syndication
for Asia outside of Japan.  Duncan Smith, Nomura’s former head of European equity
syndication, left to join  Royal Bank of Canada  in September. A
Nomura spokeswoman in London wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  Nomura, whose overseas operations posted their biggest loss
in six quarters for the three months ended in September, is
trimming $1.2 billion in costs to revamp businesses that have
stumbled since it acquired the European and Asian operations of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   The bank recently lost two former Lehman executives:  Jesse
Bhattal , the company’s wholesale banking chief, and Tarun
Jotwani, head of global markets, agreed to step down this month
amid Nomura’s efforts to cut costs and avert a downgrade by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Credit Suisse was the fourth-biggest equity sales
underwriter in Europe, the Middle East and Africa last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nomura ranks 13th, the
data show. Equity syndication units manage stock offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  