-- Djokovic Seeks Grand Slam Sweep, Gold Medal After Marathon Win Over Nadal
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-30T14:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/novak-djokovic-plans-slow-approach-in-quest-for-sweep-of-grand-slam-titles.html
Novak Djokovic is feeling confident
enough to target a tennis feat that hasn’t been accomplished in
43 years -- a men’s Grand Slam sweep.  The 24-year-old Serb, who battled  Rafael Nadal  for 5 hours,
53 minutes two days ago to win the Australian Open final, said
he’s aiming to capture all four majors this year.  “Grand Slams and the Olympics are my biggest priority,”
Djokovic told a small group of reporters. “It’s an ultimate
challenge to win all four Grand Slams, but the way I’m playing
right now I have a game that is good enough to win the titles on
all surfaces and I have proven that.”  Last weekend’s match with Nadal in Melbourne was the
longest Grand Slam final in history, and gave the top-ranked
Djokovic his third Australian title. He won 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 6-7
(5-7), 7-5, finding the energy to rip off his shirt and pound
the arena walls when the match ended at 1:37 a.m.  The 24-year-old Serb fell two wins short of completing a
calendar-year sweep of the majors in 2011, losing in the
semifinals of the  French Open  to  Roger Federer . A victory in
Paris this June would give him all four Grand Slam titles at the
same time. He’s reached the semifinals in Paris three times.  Djokovic joined Nadal, Federer,  Pete Sampras  and Rod Laver
as the only players to have won three majors in a row since the
sport went professional in 1968. Only two men have managed to
win all four of the sport’s biggest tournaments in a single
year. Laver, who presented Djokovic with the Australian Open
trophy in front of a packed arena that bears his name, did it in
1962 and 1969, while  Don Budge  of the U.S. achieved the feat in
1938.  Steffi Graf  is the last singles player to sweep the majors,
in 1988, when she also won the Olympic women’s gold medal in
 Seoul .  ‘Everything Possible’  “Obviously the times are different and tennis nowadays is
much more competitive and much more physical and that makes the
challenge more difficult to achieve,” Djokovic added. “But
everything is possible.”  Djokovic said back-to-back victories over Nadal in clay-
court finals in  Madrid  and Rome last year, when he opened the
season with 41 straight wins before losing to Federer in Paris,
have given him confidence and self-belief going into the
European clay swing that culminates with the French Open, where
Nadal has won six titles in the past seven years.  The victory at  Rod Laver  Arena extended Djokovic’s winning
streak in title matches against Nadal to seven. He last lost to
the Spaniard at the ATP World Tour Finals in 2010.  Djokovic also took the championship in Melbourne 12 months
ago, sparking a season in which he won 10 tournaments, grabbed
the No. 1 ranking from Nadal and secured a season-record $12.6
million in prize money. A successful title defense may give him
a similar platform for 2012, he said.  ‘Gave Me Wings’  “At the end of 2010 I won the Davis Cup and then the
Australian Open and that gave me wings, a strong wind in the
back,” Djokovic said. “I felt so good coming back to  Europe 
and then taking some rest. It’s just a different way of looking
at your upcoming tournaments because the year has just started
and you already have one Grand Slam. For confidence and for
mental strength and approach, it means a lot.”  Holding off Nadal, a 10-time major winner, in their near
six-hour contest also provides a boost, he said. The match
surpassed the previous record for a Grand Slam final of 4 hours,
54 minutes between  Ivan Lendl  and  Mats Wilander  at the 1988  U.S.
Open . It was also the longest match at the Australian Open,
which was hosting its 100th men’s championship.  “The facts are that I am at the peak of my career and I
feel physically and mentally at the peak,” Djokovic said. “I
feel that there are many more majors and tournaments that I want
to win and to prove to myself and to everybody else that I still
have qualities and abilities to achieve those big things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at  Melbourne  Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  