-- Nowotny Says Euro Area Faces Recession in ‘Phases’ of 2012
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-30T20:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/nowotny-says-euro-area-faces-recession-in-phases-of-2012y.html
European Central Bank council member
 Ewald Nowotny  said the euro region faces a recession this year
and that the ECB mandate extends beyond  price stability .  “It is my view that we could have stagnation in the euro
region as a whole or recession in certain phases” of the year,
Nowotny, who heads Austria’s central bank, said at an event in
Berlin today.  Nowotny said the ECB has the primary mandate of securing
price stability. Once that goal has been achieved, the ECB is
free to support economic growth as long as meeting the primary
goal isn’t at risk. Central banks can’t “watch as Rome burns,”
he said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 1 percent this month after two
reductions in as many months. President  Mario Draghi  said while
the economy is showing “tentative” signs of stabilizing,
“cost, wage and price pressures in the euro area should remain
modest.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 24 predicted the
economy of the 17-nation euro area will contract 0.5 percent
this year as the debt crisis prompts governments and consumers
to cut spending.  Nowotny said the ECB has to fight inflation and deflation
alike over the medium term. Combating deflation is more
difficult because there’s an  interest-rate  limit of zero
percent, he said. Euro-region inflation will be “clearly
below” 2 percent this year, he said.  Funding Squeeze  The ECB lent euro-area banks a record 489 billion euros
($641 billion) for three years in December to ward off a funding
squeeze caused by a worsening in the two-year-old sovereign debt
crisis.  Since then, bond yields in many countries in the region
have dropped and the  bond market  has shown signs of reopening,
prompting Draghi to say on Jan. 19 that 2012 will be a “much
better” year for  Europe . The ECB will offer a second batch of
unlimited three-year loans on Feb. 28. The three-year tenders
aren’t a “new normality” for the bank, Nowotny said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  