-- Obama Recovery From Bush Slump Proves No Morning in America Yet
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/obama-economy-recovery-from-bush-collapse-proves-no-morning-in-america-yet.html
The brightening economy as the 2012
election year begins doesn’t yet match  Ronald Reagan ’s “Morning
in America.”  President Barack Obama presides over an economy that eluded
the threat of a double-dip recession in mid-2011 and now is
strengthening, with growth accelerating in the fourth quarter to
a 2.8 percent rate, the fastest in 18 months, from 1.8 percent
the previous quarter.  Still, the pace remains well short of the recovery that
helped propel the re-election of Reagan -- who, like Obama,
faced a contraction considered in its time to be the worst since
the Great Depression and also lost congressional support in mid-
term elections.  “We’re getting growth but we’re not getting prosperity,”
said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse in  New York ,
who was an assistant to former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  from 1981 to 1983.  Gross domestic product in the final three months of 1983
rose at an annualized 8.5 percent, the third straight quarter of
growth greater than 8 percent. While the  unemployment rate  last
month was only two-tenths of a percentage point higher than in
December 1983 -- 8.5 percent compared with 8.3 percent --
joblessness that year dropped 2.5 percentage points in just 12
months, compared with a decline of less than 1 percentage point
in 2011.  While Reagan’s rebound to victory as the economy shifted
direction is a precedent Obama supporters would like to follow,
Reagan, a Republican, had an advantage because his recession was
caused by high inflation, which the  Federal Reserve  countered by
 raising interest rates .  Worldwide Credit Crunch  Now the world’s largest economy is struggling with the
aftermath of a global credit crunch triggered by a plunge in the
housing market and record debt, which  Kenneth Rogoff , an
economics professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said is harder to come back from.  “When you have a deep financial crisis paired with
recession, it’s a completely different animal than a normal
recession,” Rogoff said in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland ,
last week. “The one in the  Reagan administration  was a very
typical, more normal one, caused by a tightening of monetary
policy. Comparing that with the latest recession is not a good
analogy.”  Obama, a Democrat, inherited a contraction that started in
December 2007, during Republican  George W. Bush ’s presidency,
and was exacerbated by turmoil in financial markets following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.
When Obama took office in the first quarter of 2009, the economy
was shrinking at a 6.7 percent annual rate.  Banking Panics  History shows that recoveries take longer when they follow
financial crises, according to the 2009 book “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” by economists
Carmen Reinhart and Rogoff. The authors traced similarities
among such crises in 66 countries dating back to medieval times,
including sovereign defaults, banking panics and inflationary
surges.  The level of debt held now by governments, the financial
industry and especially consumers remains a greater drag on the
U.S. than in 1983, Reinhart said Jan. 27 in a radio interview
from Davos on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. In the third quarter of 2011, total  household debt  was
86 percent of GDP, compared with 47 percent in the third quarter
of 1983, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.  “The capacity for households to carry on to be the engine
of growth that they have been in past recoveries is simply not
there,” said Reinhart, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  ‘Dramatically Different’  The difference in the rebounds means the mood of the
electorate as 1984 began also was “dramatically different from
the situation that faces  Barack Obama ,” said Peter Hart, the
pollster for Reagan’s Democratic rival, Walter Mondale.  Reagan started his re-election year with a job-approval
rating of 54 percent, compared with 43 percent for Obama,  Gallup 
poll data show. The Conference Board’s  Consumer Confidence  Index
in December 1983 was 103.6, and 43 percent of the public thought
the U.S. was headed in the right direction, based on an
 ABC/Washington Post poll .  Last month,  consumer confidence  was 64.5, and the share of
the public who said on Jan. 15 the country is heading in the
right direction was 30 percent.  “Reagan could talk about morning in America and could come
from that perspective,” Hart said. “The major difference this
time is that Americans are much more likely to believe we are in
a long-term decline.”  Industrial Production  In the final three months of 1983, average after-tax
personal income had risen 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
adjusted for inflation, according to the Commerce Department. In
the final quarter of last year, it had dropped 0.8 percent.
 Industrial production  in December 1983 was up 10.84 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 2.95 percent in December 2011.  Obama offered a re-election message in his State of the
Union address last week that relies less on the strength of the
economy than did Reagan’s 1984 “Morning in America” campaign
theme. Instead, Obama stressed a “fair shot” for middle-class
Americans. To win a second term, he doesn’t need to match the
lopsided 49-state victory Reagan achieved; he need only get a
majority of electoral votes.  Franklin Roosevelt, the most recent U.S. president to
confront an economic calamity as serious as the 2008 financial
crash Obama inherited, twice won re-election with jobless rates
higher than Obama faces: 16.9 percent in 1936 and 14.6 percent
in 1940.  No Help  A turnaround isn’t always enough to help an incumbent. An
eight-month recession contributed to  Bill Clinton ’s defeat of
President  George H.W. Bush , even though it ended in March 1991,
20 months before the November 1992 election. Unemployment rates
continued to rise, peaking at 7.8 percent in June 1992, before
beginning to fall.  Reagan, who came to office following the inflationary
shocks of the 1970s, campaigned for his first term on the basis
of bringing down a “misery index” that incorporated both the
inflation and unemployment rates. He also was able to benefit
from slowing price increases. The Conference Board’s confidence
index nearly doubled from December 1982 to the end of 1983 as
the cost of living continued to retreat from the 11.8 percent
year-over-year rise Reagan faced in January 1981.  Inflation now is tamer than during the Reagan recovery,
with consumer prices up 3 percent in the 12 months ended in
December, versus 3.8 percent for 1983, according to the Labor
Department. Household sentiment was little changed last year,
climbing 1.7 percent.  Stock-Market Boost  The stock market provided another boost for Reagan in the
run-up to re-election. The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
climbed 17.3 percent in 1983, while it was unchanged last year.
That generated momentum for the Republican, even though the S&P
has done better during Obama’s presidency, increasing 55 percent
from his inauguration through Jan. 27, versus 22 percent in the
comparable period under Reagan.  In the  bond market , yields on 10-year Treasury notes were
1.89 percent on Jan. 27, down from 3.387 percent on the same day
a year earlier. On Jan. 27, 1984, as Reagan was preparing his
re-election bid, 10-year yields were 11.59 percent, up from
10.67 percent a year earlier.  Reagan also didn’t have to cope with a record number of
homes in foreclosure left over from a housing bubble; home sales
were soaring as he approached re-election, restoring confidence
among owners and providing a source of employment growth.  Construction Jobs  “Housing was part of that story,” Soss said. “You added
a lot of construction jobs that you aren’t adding now.”  Purchases of previously owned single-family homes in
December 1983 were up 23 percent from a year earlier, according
to the Washington-based National Association of Realtors. Last
month, year-over-year sales rose  4.3 percent .  Still, recent gains in the housing market suggest the
industry that precipitated the worst recession since the 1930s
won’t be a drag on growth this year. Obama last week proposed a
plan aimed at reducing monthly mortgage payments, which would
help combat a drop in  home prices  that Fed policy makers say is
weighing on the economy.  Lower rates combined with prices that have fallen to a
median of  $164,500  last month from $229,000 in June 2007 are
making homes affordable for more Americans. A mortgage rate of 4
percent on a fixed 30-year loan of $100,000 would cost about
$477 a month, compared with around $1,138 at the December 1983
rate of 13.4 percent.  Rising Consumer Sentiment  An improving job market and freer credit are bolstering
consumer sentiment and spending, the biggest part of the  U.S.
economy .  Retail sales  have risen every month since June 2011,
according to Commerce Department data.  Polls show such signs of strength are beginning to
translate into greater public optimism, even as the European
debt crisis poses a risk to global financial markets and the
U.S. expansion.  More people now believe the economy will get better, with
37 percent expecting improvement in the next year versus 17
percent saying it will worsen, based on an NBC News/Wall Street
Journal  survey  concluded Jan. 24. That’s up from 30 percent
expecting improvement a month earlier. Approval of Obama’s
handling of the economy also rose to 45 percent from 39 percent
in December.  Hart, now chairman of the Washington-based polling firm
Hart Research Associates, said Obama probably will benefit if
the economy continues to show improvement. Changes also take
less time now than in 1984 “to get into the bloodstream” of
public opinion in the age of 24-hour cable news and the
Internet, he said.  “It will definitely help President Obama if the economy is
moving forward and there’s a sense of progression,” Hart said.
“Instead of June being the last target point, it may turn out
to be October.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  