-- Obama Says U.S. May Explore Georgia Trade Pact as Country Seeks NATO Entry
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-01-30T23:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/obama-says-u-s-may-explore-free-trade-agreement-with-georgia.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
supports Georgia’s aspirations to join NATO and is willing to
explore the “possibility” of a free-trade agreement.  Following a meeting with Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili at the White House, Obama said the U.S. is ready to
help Georgia’s free-market development and promised to continue
a dialogue on “how we can continue to strengthen trade
relations between our two countries, including the possibility
of a free-trade agreement.”  Obama, in his public comments, didn’t make any commitment
to sell arms to Georgia as the country has requested.  Obama said he expects “fair and free elections” in
Georgia’s parliamentary elections later this year and
presidential contest in 2013. Saakashvili pledged a more
“diversified and pluralistic political scene” and said Georgia
will not revert to corruption or less democratic principles.  Georgia’s government is striving to recapture the 10
percent or more economic growth it achieved before losing a
five-day war with  Russia  in 2008.  Its economy grew 8.7 percent in 2011, according to
preliminary data cited by Georgia’s statistics office.  Standard
& Poor’s  raised its  credit rating  one level last month to BB-,
three short of investment grade, citing “improving public
finances.” Fitch followed suit Dec. 15.  Increasing Trade  The two nations signed a framework agreement in 2007 aimed
at building commercial and investment relations. The U.S. sent
$506 million in exports to Georgia last year through November,
an 84 percent increase from the same period in 2010, led by cars
and meat products, according to data compiled by the Commerce
Department. The U.S. imported $175 million from Georgia, with
iron alloys and fertilizer topping the list.  Saakashvili said outside the White House that there was no
timetable for working on a free-trade agreement.  He also said a working group from the two nations would be
addressing his administration’s request for the U.S. to sell or
provide heavy weapons to Georgia.  Obama today made a commitment to Georgia’s right to self-
defense, which represents an “elevation” of the U.S.-Georgia
relationship, Saakashvili said.  Relations With U.S.  Saakashvili’s visit comes as Georgia, which has 935 troops
serving in 50-nation coalition fighting the war in  Afghanistan ,
is seeking membership in NATO. The Georgian president said he
was “incredibly grateful” for U.S. support for the bid.  Lawrence Sheets, South Caucasus project director for the
 International Crisis Group  in Tbilisi, said Saakashvili’s visit
would have been politically difficult for the U.S. a year ago
while Washington and Moscow were working on a so-called
“reset” in their relations. Russian-American ties have since
worsened.  Saakashvili and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  have yet
to restore diplomatic relations between their two nations.
Saakashvili is calling for Russia to remove “illegal
embassies” from two occupied regions, while Medvedev has
declined to meet or speak with Saakashvili.  Resolving a disagreement with Georgia was one of the final
obstacles to Russia gaining acceptance into the  World Trade
Organization  last year. Obama agreed to allow Russia to join the
WTO after the nation accepted a compromise on international
monitoring at the borders.  NATO Bid  Sheets said there is “genuine U.S. gratitude” for
Georgia’s commitment in Afghanistan. Still, he said, the U.S.
should signal that relations could suffer if Georgia’s elections
process later this year appears to be tainted.  Even with U.S. support, Georgia faces hurdles in getting
approved for membership in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, said Damon Wilson, a former NATO adviser and
senior director for European affairs at the White House National
Security Council.  It probably won’t be settled when the alliance holds its
summit in May in  Chicago , he said.  “There is an effort to keep enlargement off the table,”
Wilson, executive vice president of the Atlantic Council, told
reporters in  Washington  today.  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said during a
November visit to the Georgian capital Tbilisi that, while
Georgia had come “a lot closer” to joining the alliance,
“further reforms will be” needed.  Georgia is among a group of countries that U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  wants to link more closely to NATO
because of their consistent contributions to alliance missions
such as the war in Afghanistan or the Libya operation last year,
Wilson said. The other countries include  Australia , Qatar, the
United Arab Emirates,  Sweden  and  Finland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  