-- Oil Futures Decline for Second Day on Greece Concern, Consumer Spending
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-01-30T21:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/oil-declines-for-second-day-on-greece-debt-concern-consumer-spending.html
Oil declined as European leaders
sparred with  Greece  over a second rescue program and U.S.
consumer spending stalled, bolstering concern that economic
growth and fuel demand will slow.  Oil fell for a second day as Greece fended off German-led
calls for a European overseer to take command of the nation’s
budget after deficits surpassed targets for two years. Consumer
purchases were little changed in December after rising 0.1
percent the prior month, the Commerce Department reported.  “People were nervous about the Greek talks and the current
outlook is pessimistic,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The economic data is affecting the overall
outlook.”  Crude for March delivery fell 78 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
settle at $98.78 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices are down 5 cents this month.  Brent oil for March settlement dropped 71 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $110.75 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Greece’s aid program won’t be finalized today because talks
with banks over debt reduction aren’t completed, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said. European Union leaders met in
Brussels for the first summit of 2012.  Yesterday, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
rejected the idea of appointing a commissioner to oversee the
nation’s budget.  “Our partners acknowledge that European integration is
based on the institutional equality of nation-states and on
respect for their national identity and dignity,” Venizelos
said in an e-mailed statement from his office in  Athens .  Bigger Cut  European finance officials discussed a deal yesterday that
Greece and its private creditors expect to complete in the
coming days after bondholders signaled they would accept
government demands for a bigger cut in their debt holdings.  “We are down on concerns about Europe,” said  Phil Flynn ,
an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The consumer spending number
doesn’t look good.”  The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.1 percent increase in U.S. sales. Consumer
spending accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  In the U.S., the union representing more than 30,000
workers at refineries, terminals and pipelines warned members on
Jan. 28 that a strike may be imminent as negotiations with the
industry near a Feb. 1 deadline.  “Your policy committee is concerned that the lack of more
substantive response from the industry will necessitate  strike
action  at one or more locations,” the United Steelworkers said
in an update to workers.  Equities, Dollar  Oil also declined as U.S. stocks dropped and the dollar
strengthened against the euro. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell as much as 1.2 percent before paring losses after oil
settled for the day.  The euro fell as much as 1.1 percent against the dollar.
 The S&P’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 raw materials fell 0.7 percent. A
stronger dollar and weaker euro reduce oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  “All commodities including oil are taking the cue off
equities and equities are taking the cue off  Europe  and
Greece,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “Everything is selling off
and we are overdue for correction to the downside of equities.”  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area rose to 93.4 in January, less than the  median
prediction  of 93.8 in a Bloomberg survey, European Commission
data showed.  Euro Declines  Oil also declined after Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri said the oil market
is very well supplied. The group is producing 30.6 million
barrels a day, he said.  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in  London 
that the kingdom will continue to be a stable supplier of crude
oil to global markets and is able to respond to shortages.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised bullish
wagers on Nymex crude by 10,079, or 5.2 percent, to 204,044
contracts in the seven days ended Jan. 24, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitment of Traders reported on Jan. 27.  Money managers increased bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 404
contracts, or 0.5 percent, to 86,252 lots in the same period,
according to ICE Futures Europe’s commitment of traders report.
ICE’s data include futures and options.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 399,409
contracts as of 3:13 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 457,462 on
Jan. 27, 21 percent below the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.37 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  