-- Oil Falls a Second Day on Speculation EU Talks May Fail to Resolve Crisis
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-01-30T13:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-before-european-leaders-meet-for-debt-talks.html
Oil dropped for a second day in  New
York  on speculation that European Union leaders meeting today
may fail to resolve the region’s debt crisis, while OPEC’s
secretary-general said the market is well-supplied.  Futures slipped as much as 0.9 percent as stocks dropped
and the dollar strengthened. EU chiefs will gather in Brussels
today to complete a German-led deficit-control treaty and
endorse a 500 billion-euro ($660 billion) rescue fund.  Hedge
funds  and other large speculators increased wagers on rising
crude prices, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitment of Traders report on Jan. 27 showed.  “The market is taking off risk before the meeting,” said
Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, who
predicts  Brent crude  will average $107 a barrel this quarter.
“Ahead of this meeting, sentiment is less optimistic.”  Crude for March delivery fell as much as 85 cents to $98.71
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $99.10 at 1:10 p.m. London time. The
contract lost 14 cents to $99.56 on Jan. 27. Prices are 0.3
percent higher this month.  Brent oil for March settlement was at $111.23 a barrel,
down 23 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate futures was at $12.13, compared with $11.90 on Jan.
27 and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Euro Weakens  European equities fell, headed for the biggest two-day drop
in two months. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slumped as much as 1.1
percent. The euro weakened against the dollar, declining 0.8
percent to $1.3111, making commodities priced in the U.S.
currency less appealing.  EU leaders are working to hold the 17-member euro area
together with more stringent fiscal rules. Greek bondholders
have been pushed to cede more ground after agreeing last year to
a 50 percent cut in the face value of more than 200 billion
euros of debt.  Greece  and its private creditors said on Jan. 28
they expect to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders
signaled they would accept European government demands for a
bigger cut in their debt holdings.  “The fact we’re still at the beginning of 2012 talking
about Greece is a sign this problem hasn’t been dealt with,”
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .  Refinery Strikes  In the U.S., a union representing more than 30,000 workers
at refineries, terminals and pipelines throughout the country
told members on Jan. 28 that a strike may be imminent as
negotiations with the industry near a Feb. 1 deadline.  International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors arrived in
Tehran yesterday for talks on  Iran’s nuclear program .  Iran , the
second-biggest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has been at loggerheads with Western countries over
accusations its nuclear program is a cover for developing
weapons, a charge the government denies. EU foreign ministers
agreed on Jan. 23 to ban Iranian oil imports starting in July
and freeze the assets of its central bank.  Iranian lawmakers are drafting legislation that calls on
the government to halt oil exports to  Europe  as long as the
import ban is in place, Fars news agency reported yesterday. The
bill would also require Iran to block imports from countries
participating in the EU ban, said Nasser Sodani, deputy head of
the parliament’s energy commission.  “There seems like a delay in Iran’s plan to halt oil
sales,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz
Inc. in Singapore. “The visit by the IAEA will likely add
volatility to the oil market over the next few days, depending
on what they say.”  Market Well-Supplied  OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri said in London
today the oil market is very well-supplied. The group is
producing 30.6 million barrels a day and there is no shortage of
crude in the market, he said.  Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in  London 
today the kingdom will continue to be a stable supplier of crude
oil to global markets and is able to respond to shortages.  Hedge funds and other large speculators raised bullish
wagers on New York crude by 10,079, or 5.2 percent, to 204,044
contracts in the seven days ended Jan. 24, the CFTC report
showed. Money managers increased bullish bets on Brent crude by
404 contracts, or 0.5 percent, to 86,252 lots in the same
period, according to ICE Futures Europe’s commitment of traders
report published today. ICE’s data include futures and options.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  