-- TonenGeneral to Buy Exxon’s Japanese Unit for $3.9 Billion
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-01-30T21:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/tonengeneral-to-buy-exxon-s-japanese-unit-for-3-9-billion-3-.html
TonenGeneral Sekiyu KK (5012)  agreed to buy
partner  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Japanese business in a $3.9 billion
deal that may force the oil refiner to seek new alliances.  TonenGeneral will acquire 99 percent of Exxon Mobil Yugen
Kaisha, which produces and sells fuels, for 302 billion yen
($3.9 billion) using cash and bank loans, the Tokyo-based
company said yesterday.  Refiners in  Japan  are grappling with rising operating costs
after a 2010 order from the government to upgrade their oldest
plants to extract more fuel from crude. While Japan’s
consumption is declining due to a shrinking population and
greater use of hybrid and electric autos, the transaction also
reflects Exxon Mobil Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson ’s
strategy of  focusing  on oil exploration.  “TonenGeneral will struggle to recover their acquisition
costs unless they find a strategic partner,” said Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist in Tokyo. “There are
no Japanese refiners that can partner with Tonen. So, it should
be someone from the  Middle East .”  Saudi Arabia ’s state oil company, the source of almost 31
percent of Japan’s crude imports during the first nine months of
2011, owns a 15 percent stake in domestic refiner  Showa Shell
Sekiyu KK. (5002)  The Abu Dhabi government owns a 21 percent stake in
Japanese refiner  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007)   TonenGeneral Managing Director Jun Muto said at a briefing
in Tokyo today the company isn’t planning to sell a stake in the
revamped company. “We don’t have any plan to cooperate with a
company in the Middle East,” he said.  Shares Fall  TonenGeneral fell 2 percent to 733 yen at the close in
Tokyo. Exxon  dropped  0.4 percent to $85.49 at the close in  New
York .  The deal, which Exxon called a “restructuring” of its
Japan business into a single asset, doesn’t involve the U.S.
company’s liquefied natural gas marketing and sales or its
specialty chemicals operations in the country. Exxon will
continue to assist TonenGeneral with crude oil and products
acquisition, both companies said.  TonenGeneral will be left with 200 billion yen to 300
billion yen in net debt after the transaction, which is expected
to close in June, Muto said.  The company had 100 billion yen in cash at the end of 2011,
according to a presentation on its website, and its market value
was $5.5 billion as of Jan. 27.  Stake Reduced  For Exxon, the world’s largest energy company, the
transaction is the biggest divestiture since the 1999 deal with
Mobil Corp. that created the company. Exxon will see its stake
in TonenGeneral decline to 22 percent from 50 percent and the
Japanese refiner will retain exclusive rights to use its brands,
according to statements by the two companies.  “Reducing exposure to refining makes sense in places like
Japan, where demand isn’t growing,” said Brian Youngberg, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , who has a “hold”
rating on  Exxon Mobil .  “In more mature economies like Japan, the U.S. and  Europe ,
you are seeing demand for gasoline declining,” he said. “Most
companies are at least reviewing their position in Japan.”  Japan’s fuel market changed in 2010 with a government
directive to promote increased gasoline and gasoil production
from residue, a low-grade byproduct of the refining process.
Residue-processing facilities such as coker units cost about 100
billion yen to build, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The government order didn’t play a role in Exxon’s planning
and TonenGeneral has no immediate plans to reduce production,
Muto said. “The appropriate level of capacity is something
we’re going to have to study going forward,” he said.  TonenGeneral also maintained its  dividend  forecast of 38
yen per share for 2011 and said that it intends to repeat it
this year. In November, the company forecast full-year net
income of 133 billion yen. It hasn’t yet announced earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  