-- Hong Kong’s Tiger Court Fight Tests Regulator’s Offshore Reach
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-01-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/hong-kong-s-tiger-court-fight-tests-regulator-s-offshore-reach.html
Hong Kong’s securities watchdog is
fighting to defend the way it tackles offshore targets after
losing the first round of its  insider trading  case against hedge
fund firm Tiger Asia Management LLC.  The Securities and Futures Commission will try next week to
overturn a court ruling that it can’t seek civil remedies from
New York-based Tiger Asia under a law used to freeze the assets
of suspected rule breakers. The regulator has invoked the law in
at least three other pending cases.  The legal battle, which both the SFC and Tiger Asia’s
founder Bill Hwang have pledged to take to Hong Kong’s top court,
will determine whether the agency can sue independently for
relief before asking government departments to bring criminal or
civil market misconduct cases.  “Their first line of attack has been an injunction to
freeze your assets,” said Nick Hunsworth, a disputes partner at
Mayer Brown JSM in  Hong Kong , of the city’s regulator. “If now
they’re being told that wouldn’t work, it would impose on them a
radical rethinking of their strategy.”  Though Hong Kong criminalized market manipulation offenses
such as insider trading in 2003, prosecuting suspected offenders
has been a challenge in a market where overseas investors made
up 46 percent of equities trading turnover for the 12 months
preceding September 2010, according to the most recent  Hong Kong
stock exchange  data.  Attacking Assets  Almost one in four companies listed in Hong Kong are
neither incorporated nor domiciled within the jurisdiction,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mainland Chinese
companies made up 46 percent of the exchange’s market
capitalization through the end of December, according to stock
exchange statistics.  “If a person is not in the jurisdiction but their assets
are, then the court can decide whether there are grounds to
freeze them,” Mark Steward, the SFC’s enforcement director,
said in an interview. “Clearly we are attacking some vested
interests who have a lot to lose if we succeed.”  Steward said the commission is focused on putting
counterparties and other victims of market misconduct back into
the position they were in before any questionable transactions
took place. “We can’t say the job is done until victims have
been remediated,” he said.  Tiger  Asia ’s lawyers, including Steward’s predecessor at
the SFC, Alan Linning, argue the regulator can’t use a provision
for obtaining temporary freezing orders, known as section 213 of
the Securities and Futures Ordinance, to bring its own lawsuit
seeking the unwinding of transactions and a ban against trading
in the local market.  ‘Abuse of Process’  Hong Kong Court of First Instance Judge Jonathan Harris
agreed with the hedge fund firm, ruling in June that the
commission must first seek criminal prosecution or ask the
Financial Secretary to start a civil inquiry in a tribunal.  Harris called the SFC’s attempt to bring a market
misconduct case to the court an “abuse of process.”  Hong Kong’s Market Misconduct Tribunal doesn’t have
specific rules for compelling overseas defendants to answer
claims in the city, Steward said.  Furthermore, a Hong Kong double jeopardy law shields
defendants from standing in both tribunal and criminal
proceedings, a lawyer for the SFC, Simon Westbrook, argued
before Harris last year. A claim in the tribunal would
immunize the Tiger Asia defendants from criminal prosecution.  “We have remedies here that are predicated on people being
within the jurisdiction in Hong Kong,” Steward said.  Chinese Bank Placements  The Court of Appeal is scheduled to hear the SFC’s
arguments on Feb. 7. After that, the case could be contested
once more in the Court of Final Appeal. Hong Kong was guaranteed
an independent judiciary and separate legal system when Britain
returned its former colony to Communist-led China in 1997.  One of the so-called Tiger Cubs that received backing from
Tiger Management LLC founder  Julian Robertson , Tiger Asia and
its employees traded on advance information from bankers
arranging placements of  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank
of China Ltd. shares in 2008 and 2009, the SFC alleged in court
filings.  Tiger Asia, which has no employees and no physical presence
in Hong Kong, denied the allegations in an Oct. 12 letter to
investors. The firm also disclosed that it had received
subpoenas from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Steward declined to discuss the possibility of seeking
extradition from the U.S. for Tiger Asia’s Hwang and officers 
Raymond Park and Will Tomita for prosecution in Hong Kong.  Morgan Stanley’s Du  “Extradition is something that exists between countries
rather than between regulatory agencies,” Steward said. “It’s
not a process we can easily tap into.” He declined to elaborate
on the hurdles the commission faces.  The SFC has no record of extraditing suspected financial
criminals to Hong Kong since its creation in 1989. Convicted
former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director Du Jun had fled to
mainland China and stood trial on insider trading charges in
2009 only after he traveled back to Hong Kong on his own accord.  Civil actions based on section 213 have been brought by the
SFC against  Hontex International Holdings Co. (946) , as well as former
executives of  China Forestry Holdings Ltd. (930)  and  Gome Electrical
Appliance Holding Ltd. (493)   Against Hontex, the SFC froze and is seeking to return to
investors HK$1 billion ($129 million) raised by the company in a
2009 initial share sale. The regulator alleges Hontex disclosed
false or misleading information in its listing prospectus.  Criminal prosecution of those in charge of the company
isn’t possible because they fled to  Taiwan  or mainland  China ,
Westbrook said in June.  Gome, China Forestry  The SFC’s share manipulation case against Gome founder
 Huang Guangyu  and insider trading case against Li Han Chun,
China Forestry’s former chief executive officer, have stalled.
Both men were detained by Chinese authorities on the mainland.  Steward said the SFC is intent on using the law in Hong
Kong to pursue remedies for investors to the fullest extent and
that clarification from the courts is healthy and necessary.  Hong Kong legislators have also begun to consider a bill
that could empower the regulator to start civil tribunal
proceedings in cases involving failures to properly disclose
price-sensitive information.  A victory in the Tiger Asia case would give the SFC a
broader power to sue targets that would be a significant weapon
in its arsenal, Hunsworth said.  “If you come and play in the Hong Kong market and you are
accused of doing something wrong, you could immediately be faced
with civil proceedings,” he said. “It would make it less
inviting for overseas people to remain unlicensed and outside
Hong Kong.”  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  