-- Top Rand Analysts Diverge from Traders in Seeing Slide For Worst Currency
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-01-31T06:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/top-rand-analysts-diverge-from-traders-in-seeing-drop-for-worst-currency.html
The most accurate forecasters expect
the rand to extend last year’s worst major currency slump, even
as options traders are at their most bullish in five months.  Commerzbank AG, the nearest to predicting rand-dollar moves
in the past six quarters, sees a 6.2 percent slump to 8.35 by
April as Europe’s debt crisis stokes  risk aversion  and slower
economic growth damps demand for commodity exports. Traders are
taking the opposite view, cutting the premium on options to sell
the rand over those to buy to the lowest since August at 367
basis points amid speculation record-low U.S. rates will bolster
higher-yielding assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The euro-region debt crisis will not be resolved in a
smooth manner,” Justin Smirk, an analyst in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp., the second-most accurate rand forecaster in data
compiled by Bloomberg Rankings that predicts the rand to fall to
8.38 per dollar this quarter, said in e-mailed comments. “We
see significant risk aversion developing just as Europe slides
into a recession, which will hit all of the more risky assets
including commodities, and thus also the rand.”  The rand tumbled 18 percent last year, the most among the
world’s 16 main currencies, as a 22 percent decline in the LMEX
London Metal Index cut export revenue for  South Africa , the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and the largest producer of
gold on the continent. While  developing countries  including
 Poland , Mexico and  Malaysia  sold dollars to support their
exchange rates, South Africa’s central bank hasn’t intervened to
influence the currency.  Smaller Cushion  South Africa’s policy makers have less scope over the
exchange rate because reserves are smaller relative to the size
of the market. The central bank had $48.9 billion of reserves in
December, or about half Poland’s $97.87 billion, while daily
trading is about twice as high at $14.4 billion, according to
the latest data from the  Bank for International Settlements  for
2010. Average daily zloty trading was $7.8 billion, according to
the BIS.  “The rand has been more sensitive to  market sentiment  than
other emerging-market currencies such as the zloty and lira
because they are being supported by the central bank,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank,
said in a phone interview. “The  Reserve Bank ’s cushion is not
as big as some of the other  emerging markets  and so it is
generally more cautious.”  Falling Reserves  The central bank adds to its foreign exchange reserves “as
and when appropriate,” though it doesn’t target a level for the
rand and won’t sell dollars to defend the currency, Governor
Gill Marcus said in October.  The rand has gained 3.4 percent this month, spurred by the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s pledge to keep  interest rates  low and
European Central Bank loans to contain the sovereign debt
crisis.  Brazil ’s real,  Mexico ’s peso and Poland’s zloty surged
more than 6 percent. South Africa’s currency gained 0.3 percent
today to 7.8208 per dollar as of 8:10 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Traders are showing more confidence in the currency, with
three-month implied volatility against the dollar, a gauge of
traders’ expectations for price swings, dropping to 16 percent
on Jan. 27, the lowest level since Aug. 4. The rate is 247 basis
points, or 2.47 percentage points, less than the currency’s
actual price swings, the widest gap among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. Implied volatility was
higher than actual moves as recently as Jan. 9.  The premium on options to sell rand over those to buy the
currency has more than halved from as high as 840 basis points
on Oct. 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growing Odds  “The odds are turning increasingly in favor of the rand
extending its gains in the weeks and months ahead,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote
in a Jan. 23 research note.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said last year that the
flexible exchange rate acts as a “shock-absorbing mechanism”
by depreciating when capital is flowing out of the country,
improving exporters’ competitiveness and narrowing the current-
account deficit.  Foreign investors sold a net 21.6 billion rand ($2.4
billion) of South African equities since the beginning of 2011,
according to JSE Ltd. Slowing growth in  Europe , which buys 30
percent of South African manufactured goods, drove the trade
deficit to 21.3 billion rand in the first 11 months of last year
from 5.3 billion rand in the year-earlier period, the South
African Revenue Service reported.  The central bank cut its economic growth forecast for this
year to 2.8 percent on Jan. 19 from a previous estimate of 3.3
percent and pared projected growth for next year to 3.8 percent
from 4.2 percent.  Slower growth in South Africa and the risk of a worsening
euro-region debt crisis is likely to reverse the rand’s rally,
said Nomvuyo Guma, a Johannesburg-based currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest rand trader.  “Despite this liquidity-induced optimism that has been
keeping markets buoyant thus far this year, we maintain that
there is downside risk for the rand once the euphoria fades,”
Guma said. “The rand’s fundamentals don’t support this rally.
We still hold a bearish view on the rand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  