-- OPEC Sees Oil Market Well-Supplied, Ready to Fill Shortage
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-30T15:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/opec-sees-oil-market-well-supplied-ready-to-fill-shortage-1-.html
Global oil markets are “very well
supplied,” the head of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries said, while  Saudi Arabia , the group’s largest member,
said it’s able to deal with any future shortages.  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of world oil output, is
pumping about 30.6 million barrels a day, Secretary-General
Abdalla El-Badri said today in a speech at Chatham House in
 London . There’s unlikely to be any disruption to shipping in the
Persian Gulf, as threatened by Iranian officials in response to
a European embargo on the country’s oil exports, he said. Saudi
Arabia has capacity to fill in any supply gaps that emerge, the
country’s oil minister,  Ali Al-Naimi , said at the same event.  “It is because of our ongoing investment that Saudi Arabia
is able to respond to shortages around the world,” al-Naimi
said, citing disruptions to Libyan oil production last year.
“Any future shortages will be handled.”  The European Union imposed a ban last week on the import of
Iranian crude to take effect on July 1. The region is  Iran ’s
second-largest customer after  China , absorbing 450,000 barrels
of the nation’s crude a day, according to the Energy Department.
Iranian officials, including the vice-president, have said they
may react by closing the  Strait of Hormuz , an access route from
the Persian Gulf through which 20 percent of global oil supplies
flow each day.  ‘Impossible Task’  It would be an “impossible task” to replace this supply
if the waterway were obstructed, el-Badri said.  OPEC members in the  Middle East  and North Africa are
spending $200 billion on more than 80 projects to add new
production capacity through 2015, el-Badri said. Saudi Arabia’s
growing domestic energy consumption won’t hurt the kingdom’s
ability to act as an oil exporter as it will meet local demand
by developing natural-gas resources, al-Naimi said.  Saudi Arabia expects to  produce  16 billion cubic feet of
gas a day by 2020, compared with 10.7 billion cubic feet last
year, al-Naimi said.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The group is next due to meet in June.  Talks may begin on formally re-incorporating Iraq into the
group’s production target, from which it has been exempt for
more than a decade, by the middle of next year, el-Badri said.  Brent crude futures fell as much as 0.6 percent to $110.80
a barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  