-- Oregon Race Previews Medicare as Sleeper Issue in Campaign
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-01-30T16:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/oregon-race-previews-medicare-as-sleeper-issue-in-campaign.html
The two political parties are test-
marketing their strategies for the presidential campaign and
congressional races in a special election in  Oregon .  Republican candidate Rob Cornilles in ads is accusing
Democrat Suzanne Bonamici of seeking to cut Medicare benefits
for seniors because she supports President Barack Obama’s 2010
health law. The Democratic campaign arm has linked Cornilles
with a plan by House Budget Committee chairman  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, to create Medicare vouchers that passed
the U.S. House last April.  Democrats say they have the upper hand with voters on
Medicare, which they are touting as  Florida (BEESFL)  voters go to the
polls tomorrow, because a Democrat won a special election in
western  New York  last May. That campaign turned into a
referendum on Ryan’s Medicare vouchers plan. Until then, the
state’s 26th district had been held by a Republican since 1970.  As in the New York race, neither candidate in the Oregon
contest to replace former Representative David Wu, a Democrat,
was a member of Congress during votes on the Medicare plan. Wu
resigned from the House last summer after the Oregonian
newspaper reported on allegations that he engaged in unwanted
sexual activity with an 18-year-old girl.  The Medicare issue probably will be refought in the general
election in electoral-vote rich states with large populations of
senior citizens including  Pennsylvania (MAGEPA)  and  Florida (MAGEFL) .  ‘Wedge Issue’  “If the Democrats get their way, it will become a
principal wedge issue,” said  Dan Mendelson , president of
Avalere Health in Washington and a health official in former
President  Bill Clinton ’s administration. Meanwhile, he said, in
Congress “nothing of substance will actually happen
legislatively.”  Medicare, the health-insurance program for Americans 65 and
older and those who are disabled, is funded with payroll taxes
paid by most employees and employers. The Medicare trust fund
held by the  U.S. Treasury  is projected to be depleted by 2024,
according to the 2011 trustees’ report.  In the Oregon race, which will be decided by mail-in
ballots by tomorrow, a recent television ad by Cornilles says
Democrat Bonamici supports cutting $500 billion from Medicare,
and that “hurts seniors.” It’s an attack similar to those used
in Republicans’ successful 2010 campaign to regain control of
the U.S. House, and it’s a line Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  is testing before the general election.  ‘Old Playbook’  “Let’s not forget, only one president has ever cut
Medicare for seniors in this country, and it’s  Barack Obama ,”
Romney said in a Dec. 10 Republican debate.  “They are going to go back to the old playbook that worked
so well,” said Max Richtman, president of the National
Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, which
opposes Ryan’s Medicare plan. Obama’s 2010 health-care law
reduces future Medicare spending, though there are no cuts to
current funding levels.  The Bonamici campaign says Cornilles, who has called for a
“hybrid” approach to Medicare that includes the current
program and a private option, supports privatizing the health-
care program for seniors. Cornilles says he doesn’t support full
privatization.  Democratic District  The Oregon district is a solid Democratic one, where Obama
had 61 percent of the vote in 2008. So if Democrats win by a
narrow margin that will encourage Republicans to repeat this
strategy in races across the country, Richtman said.  In the 2010 election, voters supported Wu over Cornilles by
a margin of 13 percentage points. In the district, 11.2 percent
of the population was 65 and older as of the 2010 Census.
Bonamichi has raised $1.5 million to Cornilles’s $1.1 million,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington
group that tracks campaign spending.  Congressional Democrats are making Medicare a theme of
their 2012 election effort after 235  House Republicans  last year
voted for Ryan’s plan to turn Medicare into a system under which
retirees would receive subsidies to buy private health
insurance. In releasing the plan, Ryan acknowledged he was
handing Democrats “a political weapon.”  Other elements of the health-care debate may play a role in
campaigns this year. Congress must act by Feb. 29 to prevent
cuts in doctors’ reimbursement rates under Medicare. The current
rate was extended for two months in December as part of payroll
tax-cut legislation. The  Supreme Court  is likely to rule by July
on the constitutionality of a key part of Obama’s health-care
law, the requirement that individuals purchase health insurance.  Florida’s Elderly  Though health care so far hasn’t been a significant theme
of the Republican primary, pollsters and lawmakers expect that
to change once the race moves to a general election,
particularly in Florida. In that state, 2010 Census data show
individuals older than 65 make up 17 percent of the population,
or about 3 million people. Nationally, it’s 13 percent.  “It’s perhaps the largest legislative achievement of the
Obama administration and, in a presidential year, the president
has to run not only on his vision for the future but on his
record,” said Henry Aaron, a health policy analyst at the
nonprofit  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich and Romney
have expressed at least some support for Ryan’s plan.  Modified Plan  Ryan has modified his Medicare proposal, in December
working with Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, to propose a
framework that allows people turning 65 starting in 2022 to
choose between the existing Medicare system and an alternative
one of regulated private insurance plans. He is likely to
include some version of this modified plan in his fiscal 2013
budget proposal, giving Republicans in Congress a chance to cast
votes in favor of a bipartisan plan.  “We think that our Medicare reforms have become more
politically palatable,” Ryan told reporters on Jan. 20. House
Republicans are not “backing off on the kinds of reforms that
we’ve advocated,” he said.  Ryan reiterated that point yesterday on the “Fox News
Sunday” program, saying that “we’re not going backwards, we’re
going forward.”  Nadeam Elshami, spokesman for House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said in an e-mailed response to
Ryan’s comments on Fox: “Once again, Republicans have chosen to
undermine rather than strengthen Medicare, increase costs for
seniors and cause Medicare to ‘wither on the vine,’ leading to
an end of the guarantee.”  Election-Year Dynamic  Health policy experts say a new plan probably won’t change
the election-year dynamic over Medicare.  “Nothing’s going to stop the attacks” on Republicans over
the Medicare vote, said John Rother, president and chief
executive of the National Coalition on Health Care, a group of
providers, business and labor groups advocating to reduce
health-care costs. “What else do Democrats have with respect to
the senior vote unless something new comes along?”  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has run ads
on radio and placed calls in 81 districts focused on the House
Republicans’ vote on Ryan’s plan last year. In turn, the
 National Republican Congressional Committee , the party’s
campaign arm, says it has countered with a number of ads
highlighting Democratic members’ or candidates’ support of
Obama’s health law.  “Particularly if the economy doesn’t improve then any
tinkering with Medicare becomes a big issue,” said  Susan MacManus , a University of South  Florida  political scientist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  