-- Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Lead Investment Bank Pay Cuts
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-01-30T18:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/morgan-stanley-credit-suisse-lead-wall-street-s-retreat-on-compensation.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  made some of the year’s biggest cuts in
compensation for investment bankers, averaging as much as 30
percent, as Wall Street firms grappled with lower revenue. A
table summarizing changes in compensation appears below.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
will also cap cash awards and defer more payouts, people with
knowledge of the plans have said, while Zurich-based  Credit
Suisse (CS) ,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, plans to give a
portion of senior employees’ bonuses in bonds backed by
derivatives. New York-based Citigroup may cut some bonuses in
the securities and banking unit as much as 70 percent.  Wall Street firms are curbing pay and changing formulas to
limit expenses, with some giving more stock and less cash.
Revenue shrank last year as mergers and trading slowed, turning
financial stocks into 2011’s worst performers in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Recipients may find they do better with shares
instead of cash, according to Paul Sorbera, president of  Wall
Street  executive search firm Alliance Consulting.  “If things turn around, it may really turn out to be a
windfall for them,” said Sorbera, whose firm is based in New
York. “Some of these stocks are off 80 percent.” The S&P
Financials Index advanced 8.6 percent this year as of last
week’s close, and  Bank of America Corp. , ranked second by assets
in the U.S., was leading the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  with a
31 percent advance.  Blaming Bonuses  Bank of America plans compensation cuts averaging
25 percent, with some cash bonuses capped at $150,000 and some
base salaries frozen at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company, people have said. (Click here to see details.)  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut discretionary compensation “significantly
more” than the New York-based firm’s 26 percent drop in
revenue, Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said on Jan. 18.  Financial firms boosted salaries starting in 2009 to
de-emphasize bonuses, which lawmakers said had encouraged
outsized risks that fueled the financial crisis. Still, bonuses
have made up the bulk of pay packages, and the size of the cuts
stirred disappointment on Wall Street.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
Jan. 25 that the “world has changed,” and that bankers at the
New York-based firm must accept lower pay. “If you put your
compensation in a one-year context to define your overall level
of  happiness , you have a problem which is much bigger than the
job,” Gorman said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “If
you’re really unhappy, just leave. I mean, life’s too short.”  The following table lists some of the Wall Street firms
reducing pay, with summaries of the terms. Links to news stories
with more complete descriptions are in the right-hand column.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in  New York  at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  