-- Emerging Stocks Slide as Greek Pushback Boosts Global Concerns
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-30T22:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/most-emerging-stocks-decline-on-china-policy-caution-europe-debt-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks fell as
Greece signaled it would reject oversight of its budget for aid
and a report showed U.S. consumer spending stalled in December,
deepening concern that global economic growth will slow.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 1 percent to
1,006.17 by 5 p.m. in  New York , after climbing on Jan. 27 to the
highest level since September.  Brazil ’s Bovespa  Index (SPX)  slid 0.2
percent, extending a two-day decline, while benchmark measures
fell at least 0.8 percent in  Russia  and  South Africa .  India ’s
Sensex Index slid 2.2 percent and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
declined 1.5 percent after a week-long holiday hiatus.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos yesterday
rejected reports of plans to appoint a commissioner to oversee
implementation of the debt-stricken nation’s budget, citing
“national dignity.” U.S. consumer spending was little changed
in December, after rising 0.1 percent in November, indicating
households in the world’s largest economy are focused on
repairing finances instead of buying more goods.  “We could have a juncture here while markets digest
everything going on in  Europe ,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief
investment strategist in New York at Pension Partners LLC.
“Investors are a little bit concerned with the speed at which
emerging-market stocks have gained so far this year.”  The MSCI benchmark gauge for developing-market stocks has
risen 9.7 percent this year, compared with the 4.5 percent gain
in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-market equities and the 4.4
percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Petrobras, Bradesco  The Bovespa index sank as Brazilian raw-materials companies
followed commodities prices lower. Petrochemicals maker  Braskem
SA (BRKM5)  slumped 2.8 percent and oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
slid 0.4 percent to a one-week low as crude fell.  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4)   lost 1.6 percent and Itau Unibanco Holding SA fell 1.7
percent after each was cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s largest oil company, slumped 11
percent, leading declines in the Merval index. Newspaper
Pagina/12 reported that Argentine officials have discussed a
takeover of the Repsol unit. A YPF press official, who asked not
to be named in accordance with company policy, declined to
comment.  Russia’s  Micex Index (MICEX)  fell 0.8 percent in Moscow and the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  also retreated 0.8 percent in
South Africa.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest lender, dropped 2 percent,
and  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , the diversified miner that accounts for
9 percent of the South African  stock index , lost 2.1 percent.  The  BUX Index (BUX)  retreated 1.1 percent in Budapest.  Turk Telekom  The  ISE National 100 Index  gained 0.8 percent in Istanbul.
 Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) , Turkey’s largest phone company, added
1 percent after Reuters reported that the government of Qatar
was looking at a possible takeover of the company’s parent, Oger
Telecom Ltd.  Greece and its private creditors said on Jan. 28 that they
expect to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders
signaled they would accept European demands for a bigger cut in
their debt holdings. The euro-region economy will contract by
0.5 percent this year, according to the median of 19 economist
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Greece ’s failure to sufficiently implement reforms was
“frustrating” and that the government in Athens and
bondholders would have to step up their contribution should
current debt-reduction plans prove insufficient,  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  told reporters after a summit of European leaders
yesterday in Brussels.  The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for U.S. consumer spending to rise 0.1 percent last month.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 412 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  