-- Otkritie Interested in Buying Latvijas Krajbanka, TV3 Reports
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-01-30T08:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/otkritie-interested-in-acquiring-latvijas-krajbanka-tv3-reports.html
Otkritie Capital, the brokerage
partly owned by  Russia ’s VTB Group, is interested in acquiring
 Latvijas Krajbanka AS (LKB1R) , the Latvian lender declared insolvent
over missing money, TV3 reported, without citing anyone.  Otkritie would invest 38 million lati ($71.6 million) and
lend another 120 million lati in liquidity support, the TV3 news
program Neka Personiga  reported , citing one of the plans to
reopen the lender. Under the plan the state would not be able to
reclaim about 350 million lati, which had been used to pay
depositors, for 10 years or partly write off part of the figure,
the news program reported.  KPMG Baltics, Krajbanka’s administrator, will decide
tomorrow whether to support a plan to reopen the bank or
bankruptcy, TV3 reported. Krajbanka, the country’s sixth-biggest
deposit bank, was suspended on Nov. 21 over more than 100
million lati in missing money, a figure later increased to 167
million lati, according to  Latvia ’s bank regulator. The lender
was declared insolvent by a Riga court on Dec. 23.  The banking regulator did not allow Otkritie to buy GE
Money’s Latvian subsidiary last year due to the Russian
company’s unclear ownership structure, TV3 reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Awaiting Clearance  Alexei Karakhan, a Moscow-based spokesman for Otkritie,
declined to comment by phone when contacted today. The bank is
still planning to buy GE Money and is awaiting clearance from
the Latvian financial regulator before the deal can close,
Karakhan said.  Alexander Antonov, whose son Vladimir is fighting
extradition in  London  to  Lithuania  over missing money in
Krajbanka’s parent  Bankas Snoras AB (SRS1L) , arrived in Riga to meet
with the country’s prosecutor, the news program also reported.  “We want to show with our attitude that there was nothing
criminal,” Antonov said in an interview with the news program.
Antonov has offered to give evidence against Latvia’s so-called
oligarchs to reduce possible charges against his son for the
failure of Krajbanka, Neka Personiga reported, without saying
where it got the information.  Latvian General Prosecutor Eriks Kalnmeiers said he would
evaluate information should he receives it, according to an
interview with Neka Personiga.  London Arrests  “We are giving all the possible information that we have,
to the law enforcement institutions, to the commission, the
administration” that would help a plan to reopen the lender,
Antonov said in the interview.  Former Snoras owners  Vladimir Antonov , 36, and Raimondas Baranauskas, 53, were arrested in London on Nov. 24 after
Lithuanian authorities issued a European arrest warrant. They
told a court in the U.K. capital on Nov. 25 that they were
innocent of allegations of fraud and embezzlement that pushed
the bank into insolvency and were granted bail by Judge Caroline
Tubbs.  Vladimir Antonov “strenuously denies dishonesty in any of
his dealings,”  Rachel Scott , his lawyer, told the court. “He
doesn’t impose a serious flight risk.”  The men are accused of stealing about 879 million litas
($335 million) from Snoras in Lithuania through forgery and
misappropriation, U.K. prosecutor Natalie Soule said. They
allegedly forged documents to show false deposits in unspecified
Swiss banks, Soule said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in  Riga  at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  