-- Outokumpu Falls as ThyssenKrupp Talks Continue: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-01-30T16:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/outokumpu-falls-on-thyssenkrupp-stainless-talks-helsinki-mover.html
Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V) ,  Finland ’s biggest
stainless-steel producer, slid to the lowest price in more than
a week in Helsinki trading as talks about a possible combination
with a unit of  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  continued.  Outokumpu fell 35 cents, or 4.5 percent, to 7.36 euros at
the close, the lowest price since since Jan. 20 and the third-
steepest decline today on the  OMX Helsinki 25 Index . That pared
the stock’s gain this year to 45 percent, giving the Espoo,
Finland-based company a market value of 1.35 billion euros
($1.76 billion).  Outokumpu is negotiating with  ThyssenKrupp (TKA)  on merging with
the German manufacturer’s Inoxum stainless-steel division. The
price of the unit will be about 2.7 billion euros, and Essen-
based ThyssenKrupp will receive a stake of less than 30 percent
in Outokumpu, Die Welt newspaper  reported . Outokumpu will also
take over liabilities and hand over cash, Die Welt said, citing
unidentified people close to the company.  “I cannot comment on market rumors,” Kari Tuutti, an
Outokumpu spokesman, said by phone following the Die Welt
report. “All I can say is constructive negotiations continue.”  German Plants’ Fate  ThyssenKrupp is asking the Finnish steelmaker to keep
Inoxum’s German plants open, Handelsblatt reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people close to the negotiations.  “Any problems are likely to be related to strong trade
unions,” including an apparent demand by labor leaders that
ThyssenKrupp retain 30 percent of the new company, Erkki Vesola,
an analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in Helsinki, said by phone today.
“There are many moving pieces here.”  Options for Inoxum include an initial public offering,
spinoff or sale, ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker,
said on Jan. 23. Outokumpu values the ThyssenKrupp unit at 2.5
billion euros, according to Handelsblatt. Tuutti declined
earlier today to comment on the Handelsblatt report, saying the
steelmakers want to conclude the talks “as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  