-- Toxic Cadmium Spill in South China Halted Before Tainting Drinking Water
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-30T09:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/toxic-cadmium-spill-in-south-china-halted-before-tainting-drinking-water.html
Officials in southern  China  said
they’ve contained a toxic metal spill that threatened water for
1.5 million people and contaminated a tributary of the Pearl
River, which supplies Hong Kong and Macau.  Crews in the city of Liuzhou used ships to spread canvas
across the Longjiang River and stop the cadmium, China National
Radio  reported  today. Tests done at 6 p.m. yesterday at
Liuzhou’s water plants met national standards, it said.  The cadmium spill, first detected Jan. 15 upstream in the
city of Hechi, has killed fish and prompted panic buying of
bottled water, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. Hechi Mayor He Xinxing issued a public apology after
the incident, China National Radio reported. The city’s
Communist Party Chief Huang Shiyong pledged to “severely crack
down” on polluting companies, the China News Service reported.  Environmental contamination has fueled social unrest in
China as three decades  of growth  transformed the nation into the
world’s second-biggest economy and its largest polluter. Lead
poisoning from battery makers, fluoride leaks from solar panel
plants and acid spills from copper mines are among incidents
that have sparked public outrage, prompting President  Hu Jintao 
and other senior officials to pledge to reduce pollution.  Neutralizing Toxin  In Guangxi, authorities dumped hundreds of tons of
chemicals into the river to neutralize the cadmium, according to
Xinhua. Hechi officials haven’t been able to confirm the direct
source of the pollution because of the area’s complicated
geography, China National Radio reported, citing Wu Haique,
director of the city’s environmental protection agency.  Cadmium, used in batteries and paint pigments, may cause
kidney dysfunction and cancer, according to the  U.S. Department
of Labor . Liuzhou is prepared to discharge water from upstream
reservoirs to help dilute the metal, today’s radio report said,
citing Gan Jinglin, the city’s director of environmental
protection.  Any cadmium in the water will be “greatly diluted” by
bigger rivers and reservoirs downstream, and levels of the metal
won’t exceed safety standards in neighboring Guangdong province,
 Hong Kong  and Macau, China National Radio reported yesterday,
citing Xu Zhencheng, a researcher involved in the spill cleanup.
About 70 percent of Hong Kong’s water comes from Guangdong,
according to the city’s government.  The cadmium will have a lasting environmental impact
including on local fish and soil when the metal sinks to the
riverbed, the radio reported yesterday, citing Li Li, a
researcher at Chinese Research Academy of Environmental
Sciences.  Songhua Spill  Several instances of chemical spills have threatened
Chinese cities’ drinking water in the past decade. A 2005
explosion at a unit of PetroChina Co. in northern China caused
100 tons of toxins to be spilled into the Songhua river, forcing
authorities to shut off tap water for more than 3 million people
in the city of Harbin. That incident led to the resignation of
Xie Zhenhua as China’s top environmental protection official.  Tests conducted late yesterday in Guangxi found that
cadmium concentrations at the Liuxi water plant were 0.0046
milligrams per liter, within national standards, the radio
report said, citing local authorities.  Liuzhou may stop drawing water from the river and use
reserves and ground water instead if the level of cadmium
reaches double the normal rate, China National Radio said,
citing Liuzhou Mayor Zheng Junkang.  All seven heavy-metal production plants located upstream
have suspended operation in order to curb potential sources of
pollution, according to Xinhua.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  