-- Belichick Seeks to Match Noll’s Super Bowl Win Record as Patriots Arrive
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-30T06:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/patriots-arrive-in-indianapolis-as-belichick-eyes-fourth-super-bowl-win.html
The  New England Patriots  arrived in
Indianapolis, where coach  Bill Belichick  will seek to match
Chuck Noll’s record four Super Bowl victories.  The Patriots begin practices today in Indianapolis for the
 National Football League ’s Feb. 5 championship game against the
 New York Giants . A win would give Belichick his fourth title in
five Super Bowl appearances with the Patriots.  Belichick, 59, said it’s an “honor” to be mentioned along
with Noll, who won four Super Bowls during his 23-year run as
coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers. Noll’s final season was in
1991, which was Belichick’s first year as an NFL coach with the
 Cleveland Browns . Belichick has been the Patriots’ coach since
2000 and won Super Bowl titles after the 2001, 2003 and 2004
seasons.  “I have a tremendous amount of respect for Chuck and the
job he did with his team and the organization,” Belichick said
after the Patriots’ arrival yesterday. “It is very flattering
to be mentioned in the same sentence with Chuck Noll.”  The Giants are scheduled to arrive in Indianapolis today.  The Patriots received a sendoff from about 25,000 fans
yesterday at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough,  Massachusetts ,
where Belichick, owner Robert Kraft, quarterback  Tom Brady  and
other players addressed the crowd.  “We had a great turnout at the stadium,” Belichick said.
“I don’t know how many fans there were, but the whole lower
deck was packed on the whole side of the field and the end zones.
We got a great send-off.”  Belichick’s three Super Bowl wins are tied with Joe Gibbs
and Bill Walsh for the second-most among coaches, while Brady’s
three titles are one shy of the quarterback record of four held
by Terry Bradshaw and his childhood idol, Joe Montana.  “Honestly, I haven’t really given much thought to any
records or anything like that,” Brady said yesterday. “For me
and for our team, it’s really about this one game and the
challenges that the Giants present to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  