-- Pep Boys to Be Acquired by Gores Group
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-01-31T01:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/pep-boys-agrees-to-be-bought-by-gores-group-for-1-billion-including-debt.html
Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe & Jack  agreed
to go private in an acquisition by Gores Group LLC valued at
about $791 million after the auto-parts retailer’s previous
attempts to sell itself were unsuccessful.  The cash offer of $15 a share is 24 percent higher than Pep
Boys’ closing price on Jan. 27, the companies said today in a
statement. Including debt, the deal is valued at $1 billion and
is expected to be completed by the end of the fiscal second
quarter of 2012, according to the statement.  The transaction is the largest in the auto-parts retailing
sector since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pep
Boys, founded in 1921, has more than 7,000 service bays in 700
locations across the U.S. Pep Boys halted efforts to sell itself
last year after failing to attract high enough bids, two people
with knowledge of the negotiations said in February.  “These are the salad days for automotive service
companies,” as consumers pinched by the economy hang on to cars
longer, said Mike Grady, head of retail  investment banking  at
Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “These are
recession-resistant companies.”  Pep Boys, based in Philadelphia,  rose  24 percent to $14.93
at the close in New York, the biggest gain since May 17, 2001.
The shares declined 18 percent last year.  Bank Loans  The company said commitments for $875 million in loans had
been obtained to support its acquisition by Los Angeles-based
Gores Group. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG and  Wells
Fargo & Co . are providing the financing, the company said today
in a regulatory filing.  Today’s offer values Pep Boys at about 5 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the median of
6.1 in 11 deals for auto-parts retailers worldwide over the past
decade.  Pep Boys hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GGS)  about six years ago
to weigh its options after investor Barington Capital Group LP
lobbied for a change in leadership.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Odell,
reported  revenue  of $1.99 billion in the fiscal year ended
January 2011, a 4.1 percent increase from the previous year.  Pep Boys obtained a $320 million term loan B in 2006 that
matures in October next year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also has a $300 million revolving line of
credit that comes due in July 2016, the data show.  Pep Boys’ board has approved the deal, according to the
statement. The agreement contains a 45-day “go shop” period
that allows the company to receive other offers.  Bank of America Corp.  provided financial advice to Pep
Boys, as well as a fairness opinion to the board. Morgan, Lewis
& Bockius LLP gave legal counsel to the retailer. Gores Group
received financial advice from Credit Suisse, Barclays and
Sagent Advisors, while Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
served as legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan at 
 Jcallan2@bloomberg.net 
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  