-- Philips ‘Cautious’ About 2012 After Posting First Annual Loss Since 2008
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-01-30T12:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/philips-says-it-s-cautious-about-2012-after-reporting-loss.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , the
world’s biggest lightbulb maker, said it’s “cautious” about
prospects for 2012 after writedowns, sluggish sales and costs to
exit a television business led to its biggest loss in a decade.  Expenses tied to an overhaul and investment in factories to
raise efficiency will weigh on earnings, the Amsterdam-based
company said today as it reported fourth-quarter and full-year
net losses. Philips is “fully committed” to reaching 2013
financial targets, it said.  The Dutch company joins competitors including  Siemens AG (SIE)  in
struggling to maintain profit during an economic slowdown in
 Europe . Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten said this month
that earnings dropped as Philips battled deteriorating demand
for health-care equipment and lighting products in the region.
Munich-based Siemens, a rival in those markets, said achieving
its goals has become more difficult as quarterly profit missed
estimates.  Philips “did not do that bad when you look at sales
growth, but when it comes to margins they will have to do a lot
of work to achieve targets,” said Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-
based analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers.  Stock Declines  Philips  fell  as much as 3.3 percent to 15.06 euros and was
down 2.8 percent at 1:30 p.m. in Amsterdam. The stock has
dropped about 33 percent since  Van Houten  took the helm in
April, reducing the market value to 15.3 billion euros ($20.1
billion). Versteeg has a “buy” recommendation on Philips.  The full-year net loss, excluding minority interests, was
1.3 billion euros compared with profit of 1.45 billion euros in
2010. The loss was the  biggest  since 2002. Sales rose 1.3
percent to 22.6 billion euros. On a comparable basis, revenue
increased 4 percent, driven by gains of 6 percent at the
lighting unit and 5 percent in health care.  “We are cautious about 2012 given the uncertainty in the
global economy, and Europe in particular,” Van Houten said in a
statement today. “Europe is not a great place for growth right
now,” though the company is growing in  Asia  and the U.S., he
told reporters.  The company plans to extend a 2 billion-euro buyback plan
by one year to the second quarter of 2013, citing volatility of
the markets.  Spending Reductions  Philips outlined a first round of head-count reductions in
the Netherlands at its lighting unit on Dec. 15 as part of a
bigger overhaul involving 4,500 jobs worldwide in an 800
million-euro savings drive.  Van Houten introduced a companywide program named
“Accelerate” last year after concluding that Philips lacked
the speed needed to bring  products  to market. The manufacturer
now sees initial signs of improvement in oral care, personal
care and domestic appliances, Van Houten said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  On top of the plans announced last year, the company
recently started an austerity program to reduce travel costs and
discretionary spending, and bring down inventories, Chief
Financial Officer Ron Wirahadiraksa said. “We have to do more
with less,” he said.  Van Houten has set a target of increasing earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization to 10 percent to 12 percent of
revenue by 2013, on sales growth of 4 percent to 6 percent.
Ebita fell 34 percent to 1.68 billion euros in 2011, and the
margin narrowed to 7.4 percent of sales from 11.5 percent a year
earlier.  Margins of just 2 percent in lightbulbs indicate the extent
of the challenge facing Van Houten, analyst Versteeg said.  Improvement ‘Action’  The CEO has been in charge of the lighting unit after
division chief  Rudy Provoost  left to become CEO of  Rexel SA (RXL)  last
year.  “There is a lot of action in place to improve the
performance at lighting, as the company faces aggressive pricing
behavior” in packaged light-emitting diodes, Van Houten said on
a conference call. The CEO expects an improvement in the
lighting unit’s performance in the second half of this year.  The fourth-quarter net loss attributable to shareholders
was 162 million euros compared with profit of 463 million euros
a year earlier. Analysts had  expected  a net loss of 25.75
million euros, according to the average of eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The loss included a charge of 272 million euros in the
fourth quarter related to the agreement with Hong Kong-based  TPV
Technology Ltd (903)  for Philips’ unprofitable TV unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  