-- Philippine GDP Quickens, Easing Pressure
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-01-30T03:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/philippine-gdp-quickens-easing-stimulus-pressure.html
Philippine economic growth
accelerated for a second straight quarter as rising consumer and
government spending helped the nation cushion an export slowdown
that has hurt expansions across  Asia .  Gross domestic product  rose 3.7 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, after a revised 3.6 percent
increase in the previous three-month period, the National
Statistical Coordination Board said in Manila today. The median
estimate of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a
3.8 percent gain.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered its benchmark rate this
month, the first cut since 2009, joining emerging markets from
Brazil to  India  in easing monetary policy to fight the threat of
a global recession. President  Benigno Aquino  is widening the
 budget deficit  this year as he increases spending to a record to
help boost growth to as much as 8 percent annually.  “This acceleration eases some pressure on the BSP to
stimulate growth through monetary policy,” said Trinh Nguyen, a
Hong Kong-based economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , who predicts the
central bank will keep rates unchanged at its next policy
meeting in March. “Most of the growth will continue to be very
domestically derived as exports are still unlikely to recover.”  Annual Expansion  The report also showed annual GDP in 2011 grew 3.7 percent,
matching economists’ estimates, compared with a revised 7.6
percent expansion a year earlier and with a government target of
at least 4.5 percent.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose to a record Jan.
24 and is the best performer among Asia’s benchmark indexes
tracked by Bloomberg in the past six months as investors bet
policy makers will take steps to stimulate growth amid faltering
global demand. The index fell 0.8 percent today after the
report.  Benchmark bond yields due January 2018 fell to a five-week
low, according to Tradition Financial Services. The peso fell
0.2 percent to 42.915 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc.  Bangko Sentral will ensure that monetary policy settings
are “appropriately accommodative of non-inflationary growth,”
Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in a mobile-phone text message
after the report. The monetary authority will “assess the
growth prospects of our major trading partners and their impact
on our domestic growth and inflation dynamics.”  Export Slowdown  Growth in Asian economies is weakening as the two-year
sovereign-debt crisis which started in  Greece  reduced demand for
the region’s goods. Taiwan’s GDP probably increased 2.8 percent
in the fourth quarter, the slowest pace in more than two years,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of a report tomorrow.  South Korea’s economy grew the least in two years last
quarter and  China  reported this month its weakest expansion in
10 quarters. Philippine  exports , which are equivalent to about
30 percent of the economy, tumbled for a seventh month in
November.  The government is keeping a goal of expanding the economy
by 5 percent to 6 percent this year, Economic Planning Secretary
Cayetano Paderanga said today after the report.  Aquino is accelerating a plan to seek investments in mass
rails, roads, and airports to upgrade the nation’s
infrastructure to compete with its Southeast Asian neighbors.
The government may offer as many as 16 projects to investors
this year, compared with one contract awarded in 2011.  “The government and the central bank are taking the right
steps,” Eugene Leow, an economist in Singapore at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd., said before the report. “It’s all part of a
coordinated strategy to push up domestic demand in light of weak
external conditions.”  The Philippines has won sovereign-rating upgrades from
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service after intensifying
efforts to raise revenue and boost growth.  Standard & Poor’s 
raised its outlook on the country’s debt rating last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  