-- Plosser Says Fed May Need to Raise Rate This Year as 2014 Target Not Firm
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-01-30T16:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/plosser-says-fed-may-need-to-raise-rates.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the Fed may need to raise the
main  interest rate  this year, and last week’s pledge to keep
rates near zero through late 2014 isn’t a firm commitment.  “The statement is pretty clear that late 2014 is
contingent on the evolution of the economy,” Plosser said today
in an interview on CNBC. “It is not a commitment and it
shouldn’t be interpreted as a commitment. It will depend on how
the economy” evolves, he said.  The Fed on Jan. 25 released federal funds rate forecasts by
policy makers for the first time as it extended its pledge to
keep rates near zero at least through late 2014. The central
bank had previously said it would keep borrowing costs low at
least until the middle of 2013.  Plosser said he was one of three policy makers to project
that it may be appropriate to raise the benchmark rate this
year. He is not a voting member on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in 2012.  The Fed pushed down the rate close to zero in December 2008
and has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3
trillion to boost the economy and reduce the jobless rate, which
stood at 8.5 percent in December.  “This has been his view for a while that the size of the
balance sheet is problematic and monetary conditions are too
loose relative to the state of the economy,” said Michael Gapen, a senior economist at  Barclays Capital  in  New York  and
former staff member of the Fed Board’s Division of Monetary
Affairs.  Gist of Argument  “The gist of this argument is that the statement is too
pessimistic on the outlook” and “therefore, promising a low
Fed funds rate until late-2014 is excessive in his view,” Gapen
said.  U.S. economic growth of about 3 percent in 2012 will
probably reduce the  unemployment rate  to about 8 percent at
year’s end, Plosser said. The FOMC should be patient and
cautious when weighing additional easing, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference last
week that the Fed is considering buying more bonds.  Treasuries rose, pushing five-year yields to a record low,
as European leaders sparred with  Greece  about a second rescue
program, fueling demand for the perceived safety of  U.S. debt .  Treasury Yields  Benchmark 10-year yields dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.83 percent at 11:20 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Five-year debt
yielded 0.73 percent, after reaching a record low of 0.7157
percent.  “I worry about this accelerationist view that we have to
go ever faster on the pedal of monetary policy,” Plosser said.
“You run the risk of runaway inflation, distortions in the
marketplace, bubbles and so forth.”  Rates near zero are “punishing savers” and could be
leading portfolio managers to take “unwise risks,” Plosser
said. While the Fed’s goal has been to encourage a move to
riskier assets, “we don’t know the full consequences of that,”
he said.  The Fed’s program to extend the average maturity of assets
in its portfolio, known as Operation Twist, could also have
unintended consequences, the Philadelphia Fed leader said. “We
don’t quite know what distortions it has created,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  