-- Portugal Likely to Get Scant Relief From Greek Debt Agreement: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-01-30T13:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/portugal-may-get-little-relief-from-greek-debt-deal-euro-credit.html
The Greek debt swap negotiations
that may produce relief for  Athens  are fueling concerns in
Lisbon where an agreement would make it more likely Portuguese
investors would be next in line to accept a loss.  European leaders have said a Greek accord where investors
take a 50 percent writedown in the face value of their bonds is
unique and won’t be applied to other nations struggling to tame
rising debts. Holders of Portuguese securities are skeptical,
with the yield on the nation’s 10-year bonds rising today to a
euro-era record of 16.45 percent.  “Portugal’s debt and lack of growth is very similar to
Greece,” Yannick Naud, who manages $150 million at Glendevon
King Asset Management, said in a Jan. 23 interview in London.
“Its bonds are falling because it’s very obvious to everyone
that if there’s a haircut for  Greece , there might well be a
haircut for Portugal too.”  EU chiefs arrive in Brussels today to put the finishing
touches on a German-led deficit-control treaty and to endorse
the statutes of a 500 billion-euro ($656 billion) rescue fund to
be set up this year. Efforts to hold the 17-nation euro area
together with bolstered fiscal rules and a stronger firewall are
colliding with stalled progress in Greece.  ‘Key’ Risk  Portuguese bonds have been the worst performers of the nine
European Union countries downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan.
13, when the company cut the nation’s credit rating to junk. The
increase in borrowing costs is dimming prospects in  Portugal ’s
ability to sell longer-term bonds in the public markets by the
end of next year, as investors may be forced to endure
writedowns before rescue funds from the EU run out in June 2014.  “Some type of private sector involvement for Portugal is a
likely event and that is probably one of the key risks,” said
Jim Cielinski, head of fixed income at  Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd  in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
“Portugal has been trading off quite markedly.”  The nation’s gross domestic product will contract 3 percent
in 2012, the International Monetary Fund said in a December
review of the Portuguese bailout plan.  “Portugal is likely to experience a sharp decline in GDP
over the next few years as a response to fiscal tightening, well
beyond the initial assumptions underlying the European Union-
 International Monetary Fund  program,”  Luigi Speranza , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a Jan. 27 note to clients.  Markets Shut  “With markets still shut to Portugal, this implies the
need for either additional public financing and/or restructuring
of past debt. We think the former is the most likely option, but
we cannot rule out the latter.”  Speranza estimates the Portuguese economy will shrink 5
percent this year and the country will face a 9 billion-euro
funding shortfall at the end of 2013 unless it can sell debt.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has said Portugal will
adhere to targets set in the 78 billion-euro bailout agreed to
last year. Should Portugal’s fiscal discipline fail to result in
lower borrowing costs, international lenders may have to offer
more support, he said at a Jan. 24 press conference in Lisbon
after meeting Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy .  “If for external reasons that don’t have to do with the
fulfillment of the program, Portugal or Ireland aren’t in a
condition to return to market on the scheduled date, the IMF and
the EU will maintain aid,” Passos Coelho said.  Debt Rising  The Portuguese program is “off to a good start,” Hossein Samiei, an adviser at the IMF’s European department, said on
Jan. 21. The IMF’s board approved a 2.9 billion-euro
disbursement from the aid program in December.  The European Commission forecasts debt will surpass 100
percent of GDP this year and total borrowing will peak at 106.8
percent in 2013. Greece’s debt swap aims to trim its borrowing
to 120 percent of GDP by 2020, which is set to approach 200
percent this year without the plan.  While it’s too early to assess whether Portugal will
require further assistance before the deadline for returning to
debt capital markets, the government probably will have an
easier time negotiating a new rescue package than Greece because
it’s making progress,  Antonio Barroso , a London-based analyst at
Eurasia Group, said in a Jan. 25 report.  Portugal has been selling treasury bills. The country
auctioned 2.5 billion euros of three-, six- and 11-month bills
on Jan. 18, the maximum set for the sale.  Borrowing Needs  The 11-month securities, the longest maturity auctioned by
Portugal since it sought a rescue last April, were issued at
4.986 percent. That’s more than twice what neighboring  Spain 
last paid for similar maturity debt. Portugal needs to borrow
about 17.4 billion euros in 2012 and has no bond redemptions
until June 2012, when 10 billion euros of debt matures.  The issue “isn’t short-term debt,” said Filipe Silva, who
oversees 60 million euros of fixed-income holdings at Banco
Carregosa SA in Oporto in northern Portugal. “It’s long-term
debt and Portugal still doesn’t have conditions to return to the
market.”  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield is the second highest in the
 euro zone  after Greece and more than eight times the 1.84
percent rate of similar maturity German bunds, the region’s
benchmark.  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring $10 million of
Portuguese sovereign debt for five years rose to a record $4
million in advance and $100,000 annually today, CMA data show.
That implies a 72 percent chance the government will default in
that time.  Situation ‘Perilous’  The spread between Portugal and  Germany  shows the
“Portugal situation is equally perilous” as Greece, said  Peter Dixon , global equities analyst at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank
AG, during an interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” program.  Unless Portuguese yields decline, it will become “more and
more difficult” for the nation to raise money in the market,
 Gary Jenkins , the director of Swordfish Research in  London , said
in a Jan. 20 note to customers. “There remains the danger for
bondholders that at some stage Portuguese politicians decide to
follow the Greek example,” he said.  “Not only will a second aid package be required, but the
recognition that a debt restructuring may be necessary is
increasing,”  Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman, wrote in a Jan. 24 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  