-- Bank Foreclosure Agreement Deadline for States Set for Feb. 3
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/proposed-50-state-foreclosure-accord-deadline-set-for-feb-3-1-.html
States have until Feb. 3 to decide
whether to accept a proposed nationwide settlement of a
foreclosure probe with banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  that may total as much as $25 billion.  State and federal officials have been negotiating an
agreement with the largest mortgage servicers that would set
standards for how banks conduct home foreclosures while
providing mortgage relief to borrowers. Any accord would be
separate from a state-federal probe of mortgage securitization
announced last week.  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto wrote in a
Jan. 27 letter to the U.S. Justice Department, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping to lead negotiations, seeking more
details on the deal. Masto said she needs answers quickly to 38
questions to evaluate the agreement because the sign-on deadline
is Feb. 3.  “I need this information as soon as possible to allow my
office to continue to evaluate the proposal on behalf of the
state of Nevada,” she wrote.  Jennifer Lopez , a spokeswoman for
Masto, confirmed the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News, and declined further comment.  Flawed Documents  All 50 states announced an investigation into bank
 foreclosure  practices in 2010 following disclosures that
companies were using flawed documents in seizing homes. A group
of state attorneys general and federal officials have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement.  Separately,  Joseph Smith , the North Carolina commissioner
of banks, will serve as monitor to ensure banks comply with
terms of the settlement, according to a person familiar with the
matter who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. A
representative of the office couldn’t be reached for comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  States are now considering whether to sign on the agreement
and discussed the terms last week. At a meeting in  Chicago  with
officials from Democratic attorney general offices, Miller
declined to comment about whether there’s a deadline for states
to accept the deal.  “We, along with our federal partners, are responding
directly to Attorney General Masto to try to address her
concerns,” Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller’s office,
said in an e-mail yesterday. Greenwood confirmed the Feb. 3
deadline.  Masto is part of a group of attorneys general including New
York’s  Eric Schneiderman  and Delaware’s  Beau Biden  who have said
any settlement shouldn’t provide liability releases to the banks
for claims that haven’t been investigated.  ‘Inadequate for California’  Biden has said he won’t sign onto the deal as drafted.
California Attorney General Kamala Harris’s office last week
called it “inadequate for California.”  “You investigate first and settle later, and we’re still
in the midst of investigations,” Biden said in an interview
last week.  Schneiderman, who’s joining federal agencies to investigate
the bundling of  mortgage loans  into securities sold to
investors, said in an interview last week that the releases in
the proposed foreclosure settlement will allow that probe to
proceed.  “That major hurdle is out of the way,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  