-- Putin Guards Russia’s Mideast Influence in UN Snub of Assad Ouster Demand
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-31T17:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/putin-guards-russia-s-mideast-influence-in-un-snub-of-assad-ouster-demand.html
Russia  won’t back the U.S. and its
Arab allies in a United Nations resolution to oust Syrian leader
Bashar al-Assad as it seeks to defend its most important lever
in the Middle East, said researchers from Moscow to London.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will lead a
diplomatic push in the UN  Security Council  today to sanction
Syria, which hosts Russia’s only military base outside the
former Soviet Union and is a buyer of Russian weapons. Russia is
willing to use its Security Council veto to block the
resolution, which calls on Assad to transfer powers to his
deputy, a senior foreign ministry official said today.  More than 5,000 people have been killed in the Syrian
uprising, according to the UN. Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  wants to return to the presidency in March elections and
last week accused the U.S. of needing “vassals” rather than
allies. He opposed President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s decision to
refrain from vetoing the UN resolution that paved the way for
military action in  Libya .  “The Russians aren’t likely to back down, even if it’s
going to get very uncomfortable for them to continue backing
Syria,” said Thomas Gomart, director of the Russian Center at
the French Institute of Foreign Relation in Paris. “If they
surrender on this issue, their whole parade in the Middle East
would crumble.”  ‘Not a Friend’  Failure to secure UN approval for the departure of Assad
may bolster his regime, prolonging a standoff as the U.S. and
 Europe  step up sanctions to pressure Syrian ally  Iran  to give up
its suspected nuclear weapons program.  Russia argues that the UN-sanctioned bombing of Libya by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was abused to bring about
regime change and that the U.S. and western European governments
are trying to repeat that scenario in  Syria .  “We are not a friend, we are not an ally of President
Assad,” Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in an interview
with Australian Broadcasting Corp. television today in Sydney.
“We never said President Assad remaining in power is the
solution to the crisis. What we did say is it is up to the
Syrians themselves to decide how to run the country.”  The West is putting pressure on Syria because the country
refuses to break off its alliance with Iran and not for
repressing the opposition, Russian Security Council head Nikolai
Patrushev said Jan. 12.  ‘Heightened Instability’  “Russia appears concerned about heightened instability in
the area at large, the prospect of further empowering Islamists,
and the West’s typically cavalier attempts to push its agenda
under the guise of noble moral values,”  Peter Harling , director
for  Egypt , Syria and Lebanon at the Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group , said in e-mailed comments on Jan. 29.  The Syrian leader’s father, Hafez al-Assad, who ruled his
country for three decades until his death in 2000, was a close
ally of the  Soviet Union . Russia maintains a servicing point for
naval vessels in the Syrian port of Tartous, where about 600
Defense Ministry staff are stationed, according to Izvestia
newspaper, giving it access to the Mediterranean.  Aircraft, Missiles  This month, three Russian warships, including the country’s
only aircraft carrier, visited Tartous in what a former head of
the Russian navy said was a show of force aimed at preventing
NATO military involvement in Syria.  Russia dismissed U.S. criticism after a ship delivered
Russian ammunition to Syria this month. It also signed a $550
million deal to sell 26 Yak-130 jet trainer aircraft to the
country, according to the Kommersant newspaper.  Prior to the latest deal, Russia had contracts with Syria
worth at least $3 billion, including Yakhont anti-ship cruise
missiles, MiG-29 fighter jets and Pantsir short-range air-
defense systems, according to Ruslan Pukhov, head of the Center
for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow.  “The Russian behavior has taken all Western countries by
surprise,” said Jonathan Eyal, director of international
 security studies  at the  Royal United Services Institute  in
 London . “It’s not so much that the Russians have objected to
Western policy in Syria but the length to which they have gone
to support the Syrian regime, especially deliveries of weapons
and the presence of Russian naval ships in Syrian ports.”  A Russian veto, repeating its action in October when it
teamed up with  China  to stop a European-drafted resolution that
sought to censure Assad, would leave Western and Arab policy
toward Syria in a “quandary,” said Eyal.  ‘Key Moment’  A spat with the west may also boost Putin’s popularity,
said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Council on Foreign and
Defense Policy in Moscow.  “Russia can’t stop Western intervention in Syria but it
will do everything to ensure it is illegitimate under
international law,” Lukyanov said in a phone interview
yesterday. “For Putin, this is a key moment ahead of the
presidential elections.”  The  Arab League  suspended its observer mission in Syria due
to an increase in violence and a “grave deterioration of the
situation,” Egypt’s  Middle East  News Agency reported on Jan.
28, citing a statement from the group’s Secretary-General, Nabil
El-Arabi.  Blow for Russia  The head of the monitoring mission, Mohammed al-Dabi, said
the number of casualties had been exaggerated by the media,
according to a 30-page report presented last week in Cairo to
the Arab League that presents the mission’s findings in a Dec.
28-Jan. 18 visit.  The disbandment of the mission is a blow for Russia, which
had repeatedly cited the study as evidence that reports of
violence by security forces had been overblown. Russia had
insisted on inclusion of the document, translated from Arabic,
as part of the Arab League’s presentation today to the Security
Council.  Without a UN mandate, Western powers would be reluctant to
get involved militarily in Syria, and the Arab League wouldn’t
have the stomach to fight with one of its members, said Eyal at
the Royal United Services Institute. Qatar this month suggested
sending Arab troops to Syria to halt the violence.  Syria’s opposition, which didn’t respond to an invitation
from Russia to attend talks in Moscow with Assad
representatives, showed frustration at the Russian stance.  “Russia holds the keys to change,” Bassma Kodmani, a
Paris-based spokeswoman for the Syrian National Council, said
last week. “If Russia withdrew its support tomorrow, the regime
would fall in a matter of weeks. It’s the only support it has
left besides Iran.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 