-- Putin Vows Asset Sales as State to Cut Role in New Economy
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2012-01-30T17:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/putin-vows-asset-sales-as-state-to-cut-role-in-new-economy-1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who’s running for president in March, pledged to reduce
the government’s presence in the economy by selling state assets
and scaling back regulation.  “We need a new economy,” Putin wrote in an  article 
published today in the Vedomosti newspaper. He said the
government will divest stakes in major non-commodity companies
and lower its holdings in some commodity producers by 2016,
excluding utilities and defense enterprises.  Russia must also become less reliant on exports of natural
resources, strengthen weak institutions, improve the investment
climate and tackle corruption, Putin said. The government may
introduce a tax on  luxury goods  such as expensive real estate
and cars, according to the prime minister.  Putin, 59 is facing the biggest challenge to his rule since
he came to power 12 years ago after mass protests sparked by
allegations of fraud in Dec. 4 legislative polls. This is his
third article since Jan. 16, with the first focusing on general
economic issues and civil freedoms and the second on
nationalism. A fourth will discuss social policy, Putin said.  The government was correct to bolster its presence in the
economy in the initial years of his rule to stop the billionaire
owners of resources companies selling their assets abroad, Putin
said. Still, that increased role deterred foreign investment in
 Russia ’s economy, he said. Net capital outflows more than
doubled in 2011 to $84.2 billion.  “This situation, in many cases, is a consequence of our
actions,” he said. In addition, creating national champions in
the energy and metals industries didn’t produce companies that
are “globally competitive and sustainably profitable.”  Efforts to build a single economic space with the former
Soviet Republics of Kazakhstan and Belarus will help improve
Russia’s business climate, Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  