-- Rand Slides From Three-Month High Before European Union Debt Crisis Summit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-30T14:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/rand-falls-from-three-month-high-versus-dollar-before-europe-crisis-summit.html
The rand declined for the first time
in four days, retreating from a three-month high, as stocks and
commodity prices fell before European Union leaders meet in
Brussels to discuss the region’s debt crisis.  South Africa ’s currency slid as much as 1.5 percent and
traded 1.4 percent weaker at 7.8665 as of 4:12 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the worst performance out of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. The rand advanced 2.5 percent last week,
reaching 7.7435, its strongest since Oct. 30.  A measure of  commodity prices  retreated for the first time
in four days and  emerging-market stocks  fell as EU leaders are
putting the finishing touches on a German-led deficit-control
treaty and endorse a 500 billion-euro ($661 billion) rescue fund
to be set up this year.  Greece  and its private creditors said
Jan. 28 they expect to complete a deal in coming days after
bondholders signaled they would accept a bigger cut in their
debt holdings.  “Most of the focus will remain on the EU summit and any
indications of a possible setback in the Greek talks,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Markets once again
seem nervous.”  South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  slipped for a second
day, led by commodity producers including Anglo American Plc.
Raw materials account for 60 percent of the nation’s exports.  Euro-area confidence in the economic outlook improved less
than forecast in January as the region’s leaders struggled to
revive growth and bring an end to a fiscal crisis now in its
third year.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area rose to 93.4 from a revised 92.8 in December,
the European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s less than
the median prediction of 93.8 in a Bloomberg survey of 30
economists.  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 declined for the
first time in three days, driving the yield up two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  