-- U.S. 5-Year Yield Reaches Record Low on Greek Debt Concern, Fed’s Policy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-30T22:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/treasuries-snap-rally-before-consumer-spending-factory-employment-data.html
Treasuries rose, pushing five-year
yields to a record low, as European leaders sparred with Greece
about a second rescue program, fueling demand for the perceived
safety of U.S. debt.  Benchmark 10-year notes  climbed  for a fourth day, driving
the yield to a six-week low, as the  Federal Reserve  last week
extended its pledge to keep  interest rates  low until late 2014.
The difference between yields on two- and 10-year securities
narrowed to the least in six weeks on speculation the Fed is
willing to adjust its bond holdings to support the economy.  “Domestically we are slowly improving, but  Europe  is still
a mess and the Fed is still buying,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government and agency debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “We are still in a buy-the-
dip kind of market as issues in Europe are substantial. And we
won’t see a big move higher in rates until there is some
finality.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.85 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after touching the
lowest since Dec. 19. The 2 percent note due November 2021
advanced 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 12/32.
Five-year debt yielded 0.73 percent, after reaching a record low
of 0.7157 percent.  Long Bonds  U.S. 30-year bonds  gained  more than one point, pushing
yields down six basis points to 3 percent.  The difference between two- and 10-year rates narrowed to
1.63 percentage points, the least on a closing basis since
Dec. 29.  The Treasury Department lowered its borrowing estimate for
the current quarter by $97 billion to $444 billion, reflecting
in part higher receipts and lower spending.  The Treasury revised downward the first-quarter net-
borrowing estimate of $541 billion made three months ago. U.S.
Treasury officials also project net borrowing of $200 billion in
the second quarter. The projection precedes department’s
quarterly refunding announcement on Feb. 1.  Investors holding Treasuries made a zero return this month.
They outperformed German and British government securities,
which handed investors a loss of 0.4 percent and 0.5 percent,
respectively, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Continuation of Sentiment  Greece  faced criticism that its economic makeover is
faltering, and it fended off German and Dutch calls for a
European overseer to take command of its budget after its
deficits surpassed targets for two years. Bargaining with Greece
threatened to overshadow a summit meant to point the way out of
the financial crisis by speeding the setup of a full-time 500
billion-euro ($657 billion) rescue fund and signing off on a
German-inspired deficit-control treaty.  “We are seeing a continuation of last week’s sentiment,
especially with the backdrop of things being far from over from
overseas,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader at Societe
Generale SA in New York, a primary dealer. “We are in a risk-
off atmosphere as we are not getting any answers from overseas.
A lot hinges on what can get done.”  Portugal ’s bonds due in April 2021 declined for a fourth
day amid concern investors may also have to take losses on their
holdings in the event of a Greek debt deal. The yield climbed to
a euro-era record 16.56 percent. The Italian 10-year yield
jumped 23 basis points to 6.12 percent, and similar-maturity
Spanish yields increased 10 basis points to 5.06 percent.  Fed Purchases  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs under a plan it announced in September. The
central bank bought $4.65 billion of securities due from
February 2020 to November 2021 today, according to the New York
Fed’s  website .  “The global economic outlook will remain challenged,”
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, a
primary dealer, wrote in a note to clients. “The thematic
rolling compression of the yield curve will continue over time.
The Fed added rocket fuel to this thinking last week.”  Retail Patterns  Consumer spending  stalled in December as Americans used a
jump in incomes to restore depleted savings, indicating the
biggest part of the economy will not be a driver of the
expansion. Purchases were little changed after rising 0.1
percent the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.1 percent increase.  Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the
Fed may need to raise the main interest rate this year, and last
week’s pledge to keep rates near zero through late 2014 isn’t a
firm commitment.  “The statement is pretty clear that late 2014 is
contingent on the evolution of the economy,” Plosser said today
in an interview on CNBC. “It is not a commitment and it
shouldn’t be interpreted as a commitment. It will depend on how
the economy” evolves, he said.  Bonds that protect against inflation are turning into the
hottest part of the $9.94 trillion market for  U.S. Treasuries .  A $15 billion auction of Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities this month drew the strongest demand since March even
though yields on the notes average less than zero percent for
the first time, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Yields on all types of Treasuries are at or near record
lows and, except for the 30-year bond, provide negative real
returns after taking into account the  consumer price index .  Investors are seeking the safety of  U.S. debt  as analysts
cut their growth forecasts and Europe’s fiscal crisis deepens,
helping the government borrow  record sums  to support the economy
almost five years after the subprime mortgage meltdown led to
worst financial disaster since the Great Depression.  TIPS have returned 111.3 percent the past decade, beating
the 73.4 percent for Treasuries not indexed to inflation. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained about 33 percent,
including dividends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  