-- Renewable Energy Corp. Advances Most in Two Weeks: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-01-30T11:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/renewable-energy-corp-advances-most-in-two-weeks-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy  Corp. ASA, the
Norwegian maker of polysilicon, rose the most in more than two
weeks in Oslo after executives of two of  China ’s top five solar
product makers said they expect installations to double in 2012.  Renewable Energy, or REC, rose as much as 8.2 percent, the
most since Jan. 12 and was today’s largest gainer in the  OBX
index. (OBX)   The Sandvika-based company’s shares rose 7.3 percent to
4.51 kroner at 12:31 p.m. in Oslo. The 37-member Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index rose 0.3 percent. REC shares gained
36 percent this year, after falling 81 percent in 2011.  “U.S. listed peers of REC moved up pretty sharply on
Friday, and this was on news from China that China was going to
be a pretty large market in 2012,” Tomas Skeivys, a Vilnius-
based analyst with Terra Markets AS said over the phone today.
“REC is reacting to that today.”  Suntech Power Holdings Co. Chief Executive Officer
Zhengrong Shi estimated last week that China may add 4 gigawatts
or more of panels, while Trina Solar Ltd. CEO Jifan Gao expects
5 gigawatts. China added 2.2 gigawatts in 2011. The cost of
solar panels fell 47 percent last year as Chinese manufacturers
led by Suntech boosted output, winning market share from Western
rivals such as Q-Cells SE.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe,  Arizona , gained 11
percent on Jan. 27, while Canadian Solar Inc. rose 9.2 percent.  News website Hegnar online reported today that a number of
well-known Norwegian investors bought shares in REC last week,
citing a list of the largest owners in the company. Jan Haudemann-Andersen’s Datum AS now controls 5 million shares,
while Tore A. Voldberg bought shares through two companies.  “REC tends to be a very sensitive and volatile share over
the past months,” said Skeivys, who has a “hold” on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  