-- Renewable Energy Deals Buck Uncertainty to Rise 40%, PWC Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-01-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/renewable-energy-deals-buck-uncertainty-to-rise-40-pwc-says.html
Renewable energy mergers and
acquisitions rose 40 percent in value last year, bucking the
uncertainty caused by the European Union debt crisis, the global
consultant PwC said today.  About $53.5 billion of wind, solar, biofuels,  energy
efficiency , geothermal, biomass and hydro deals were completed,
up from $38.2 billion in 2010, PwC said in an e-mailed report.
It’s the highest in the four years that PwC has conducted the
survey. The overall number of deals dropped to 570 from 606.  The uptick in money spent on mergers and acquisitions
against a backdrop of European governments cutting spending to
balance budgets and “challenging” debt markets shows how the
renewables industry has matured, Ronan O’Regan, director of
energy in London at PwC, said in a phone interview.  “Total deal value was up, and there’s been a trend toward
larger-size deals, which reflects increasing maturity in wind
and solar,” O’Regan said. It’s a surprise as “the negative
drivers seem to outweigh the positives,” he said of EU
government efforts to cut deficits.  Wind and solar each had more than $15 billion of deals
while $10 billion of transactions were completed in energy
efficiency. European bidders accounted for 48 percent of the
total,  North America  24 percent. The value of deals with Asian
bidders almost doubled to $9.4 billion, or 18 percent of the
total, up from 12 percent last year, the consultant said.  “We expect to see this activity strengthen with interest
from acquirers from Korea and  Singapore  featuring alongside
Chinese and Japanese bidders,” PwC said in the report, without
naming potential acquirers.  The year’s biggest deal was  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  of  Brazil ’s
$2.9 billion purchase of ERSA Energias Renovaveis SA, according
to PwC. It classified  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s acquisition of part of its
clean energy unit Iberdrola Renovables SA as a share repurchase.  It will be “difficult” to predict what volume of deal
activity will be this year because of the “rolling
uncertainty” regarding European economies, O’Regan said.  “On balance, it’ll be another difficult year and I’d be
surprised if deal value increases by as much in 2012 as in
2011,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  