-- Tribune Workers’ $32 Million Settlement Over Retirement Fund Wins Approval
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-30T18:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/tribune-workers-32-million-settlement-over-retirement-fund-wins-approval.html
Tribune Co (TRB) ., the bankrupt Chicago-
based newspaper publisher, is contributing $4.45 million to the
$32 million settlement of an employee retirement-fund lawsuit
that it’s no longer a party to.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer today granted final
approval to the settlement at a hearing in federal court in
 Chicago . The media company was dropped from the case after it
filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2008.  The balance of the settlement money will come from
Greatbanc Trust Co. of Lisle, Illinois, which was trustee and
fiduciary of the retirement plan, and from Greatbanc’s and
Tribune’s insurers, plaintiffs’ lawyer Daniel Feinberg said.  No objections were lodged against the proposed settlement,
Feinberg told the judge today.  Dan Neil and Eric Bailey, reporters for the Tribune-owned
Los Angeles Times, sued in 2008 on behalf of more than 13,000
plan participants after real estate investor  Sam Zell  and his
closely held EGI-TRB LLC leveraged employee shares to take
Tribune private in an $8.3 billion stock buyback.  Pallmeyer in 2010 ruled that Zell couldn’t be held
financially liable for the workers’ losses and that only the
bankrupt Tribune had received any of their plan assets.
Greatbanc, which remained a defendant in the case, paid
$1 million toward the settlement.  Court-Assisted Mediation  The newspaper publisher agreed to the settlement
contribution after engaging in bankruptcy-court-assisted
mediation with Greatbanc, their insurers, a committee of
unsecured creditors and representatives of the U.S. Labor
Department, according to court filings.  Bankruptcy court approval for the publisher’s contribution
was granted in October, Feinberg said.  Gary Weitman , a spokesman for Tribune Co., declined to
comment on Pallmeyer’s ruling. Charles Jackson, an attorney for
Greatbanc, also declined to comment.  The case is Neil v. Zell, 09cv6833, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago). The bankruptcy case is
In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  