-- Romney Debate Coach’s ‘Chops’ Credited as Potential Game-Changer
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-30T12:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/romney-debate-coach-s-chops-credited-as-potential-game-changer.html
The call went out the night  Mitt Romney  lost the  South Carolina  primary.  Brett O’Donnell, award winning debate-coach to college
students and presidential candidates alike, was needed in
Florida, where Romney would be preparing for two televised
debates over the next five days that could be pivotal to his
chances of winning the state’s Jan. 31 primary.  O’Donnell was in Tampa the next day, and less than 48 hours
later, a pithier and more combative Romney showed up Jan. 23 to
debate  Newt Gingrich , who had dominated two such televised
gatherings in South Carolina in performances strategists
credited with propelling him to victory there Jan. 21.  Romney’s feistier delivery and more aggressive style that
night -- reprised Jan. 26 in Jacksonville -- may have helped
turn the tide for him in  Florida , where polls show him surging.  Danny Palmer, 63, a retired pilot from the Pensacola suburb
of Gulf Breeze, said he had been “firmly a Newt Gingrich
supporter” before the Jan. 26 debate when Romney focused on the
former speaker’s consulting work for  Freddie Mac , a government-
sponsored mortgage lending company that has required billions in
taxpayer bail-out funds.  “The turning point for me was when Newt brought up the
fact of Mitt’s investing in Freddie Mac, and he turned it back
on Newt and said, ‘You have the same stuff!’ He showed some
fight,” said Palmer, who now backs Romney.  Master Coach  It came as no surprise to campaign operatives and debate
specialists who have worked with O’Donnell and call him a master
coach, as adept at preparing candidates to make their points
succinctly as he is at pumping them up before they take the
stage.  “Brett actually studied and taught debate at the highest
levels before bringing his considerable chops to politics,”
said  Mark McKinnon , a Republican strategist who worked with
O’Donnell on former President  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election
campaign.  Romney, 64, deserves most of the credit for his improved
debate performances last week, McKinnon said, adding: “But
having Brett O’Donnell aboard for debate prep is going to raise
the level of anyone’s game, because Brett is simply the best in
the business.”  ‘Loud and Clear’  Romney discussed his improved performance in an interview
today on NBC’s “Today” program. “We were getting just wailed
on by Speaker Gingrich and really didn’t respond very well” in
South Carolina, he said. The shift in momentum in Florida is the
result of making sure “that our message is out loud and
clear,” he said.  A Quinnipiac University  poll  released today shows Romney
with a 14-point lead -- 43 percent to 29 percent -- over
Gingrich, up from a nine-point lead on Jan. 27. The margin of
error of the telephone poll, which surveyed 539 likely voters in
the Republican primary, is plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  Romney credited the two debates in Florida for the change
in
sentiment. “I was able to confront Speaker Gingrich,” he
said. “I pushed back on the attacks.”  O’Donnell, 47, who like other members of Romney’s team
declined to be interviewed for this story, played down his role
in Romney’s debate turnaround last week.  “ Governor Romney ’s a very good candidate, so it was just a
matter of talking through strategy,” O’Donnell told WSET-TV, an
ABC affiliate in Lynchburg,  Virginia  on Jan. 27.  The former Massachusetts governor’s campaign had phoned him
the previous Saturday night and he was at work coaching Romney
by the following Monday morning, he told the station.  Debate Experts’ Perspective  Debating experts could see the difference. Kathleen Hall Jamieson of the Annenberg School of Communication at the
 University of Pennsylvania  said while Romney’s earlier
performances were “competent,” and showed a command of detail,
they were not particularly memorable and in some cases --
particularly when he was under fire for refusing to immediately
release his tax returns -- featured halting answers, awkward
pauses, and indecisive language.  “Instead of leaning into the podium, he leaned back from
it,” Jamieson said in an e-mail. In the Jacksonville debate,
she said, “his answers were quicker and delivered in a more
decisive and aggressive fashion.” And Romney “got the final
word in key exchanges with Gingrich, and won audience applause
for doing so.”  Jamieson said changes of that scope in such a short period
of time “are probably the result of coaching. His best moments
were clearly rehearsed, but nonetheless effectively delivered,”
she said.  Goading Gingrich  Romney began the Jan. 26 debate demanding an apology from
Gingrich for using what he called “inexcusable” and
“repulsive” language in a Florida radio advertisement that
branded Romney “anti-immigrant.” Later, he goaded Gingrich
into rehashing his criticism of Romney’s wealth, pouncing when
he did with an energetic defense of his financial fortunes that
concluded, “I’m proud of being successful.”  And when Gingrich, 68, portrayed Romney’s position that all
illegal immigrants should leave the U.S. as impractical, citing
how unlikely it was that grandmothers would be deported, Romney
was ready with a riposte:  “Our problem is not 11 million grandmothers,” he said,
drawing applause that had eluded him in past debates.  ‘Tuning Things Up’  Eric Fehrnstrom , a senior campaign adviser, said Romney had
been “deliberately trying to keep things cool, but also be firm
at the same time.” Fehrnstrom said most of the debate
preparation happened early on, and Romney’s more recent
rehearsals had been “just a matter of tuning things up.”  Romney also had received some debate advice from New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie , who urged him to go on rhetorical
offense, according to two people familiar with their
conversation who asked for anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  The skills Romney displayed on the debate stage last week
are vintage O’Donnell, said Michael Hall, his former student and
later co-debate coach with O’Donnell at Liberty University, an
evangelical school in Lynchburg whose debate department is named
for him.  O’Donnell was adept at coaching his students in “the
ability to say something efficiently,” said Hall, who said he
has also helped with his political clients. “There are a lot of
debaters and a lot of candidates who can say things in a very
articulate and persuasive way in a stump speech, but the time-
pressures of a debate are a unique element that demand a
different type of persuasion, and Brett had a very good way of
teaching that.”  ‘Energized and Motivated’  At debate time, students and clients could also expect “a
version of a pre-game speech designed to get you energized and
motivated” from O’Donnell, Hall said.  “One of Brett’s primary concerns was going to be making
sure that you were focused and that you were pumped up for the
debate -- really that you had good energy levels,” Hall said.  O’Donnell is no newcomer to the debate game. According to a
biography on the website of his company O’Donnell and Associates
Strategic Communications, he served as Liberty’s debate director
for 18 years, earning the school’s team championship titles as
well as his own national award in 1997 as debate coach of the
year.  Bachmann a Client  After working with Bush, he coached Arizona Senator  John McCain , the 2008 Republican nominee. Minnesota Representative
 Michele Bachmann  hired him last year for her presidential bid,
and shortly after she suspended it in January following a sixth-
place finish in the Iowa caucuses, the Romney team picked
O’Donnell up, Fehrnstrom said.  Romney also isn’t the first candidate to reach out to
O’Donnell to help spark a quick campaign turnaround at a crucial
point. When McCain’s team was worried about former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin’s shaky rehearsal performances in advance
of a pivotal vice presidential debate with Senator  Joe Biden  in
October 2008, McCain’s advisers dispatched O’Donnell to help her
prepare.  His latest client sounds pleased with the results. As he
crisscrossed Florida over the weekend making his final pitches
to voters before the primary, Romney opened most of his stump
speeches ribbing Gingrich about his debate performances in the
state and boasting about his own.  “Those debates were fun -- wasn’t that a hoot?” Romney
said yesterday at a rally in Naples. “I felt energy, just up
there on the stage -- it could not have been better!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Pompano Beach , Florida at  
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  