-- Rubber May Advance to Highest Level Since September: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-01-30T02:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/rubber-may-advance-to-highest-level-since-september-technical-analysis.html
Rubber may extend a recovery from a
two-year low to the highest level since September, according to
 technical analysis  by research company JSC Corp.  The 25-day moving average for the most-active contract on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange climbed above its 50-day moving
average this month for the first time since August, signaling
that the medium-term downtrend is over, said Takaki Shigemoto,
an analyst at the Tokyo-based company.  The contract also climbed above the cloud on the Ichimoku
chart, indicating its trend turned upward, he said. The chart
analyzes midpoints of historic highs and lows, or so-called
resistance and support levels, with a breakout from above or
below the cloud pointing to a trend.  “It looks like the contract is set to rebound toward 342.5
yen, its settlement price on Sept. 22, when the downward trend
began based on its candle-chart signals,” Shigemoto said.  Rubber futures slumped to 248.6 yen a kilogram ($3,239 a
metric ton) on Nov. 11, the lowest level since December 2009. It
advanced to a record 535.7 yen on Feb. 18, 2011.  The price has gained 19 percent this year amid optimism
about the U.S. economic recovery and as  Thailand  announced a
price-support plan. The rally was also fueled by speculation
that  China  may ease monetary policy to support economic
expansion.  The government of Thailand, the world’s biggest producer
and exporter of natural rubber, approved a plan on Jan. 24 to
buy 200,000 tons from growers at above-market rates to support
 local prices  after a 29 percent slump last year.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  