-- Salman Rushdie Falls Victim to Indian Intolerance: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-01-30T00:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/rushdie-falls-victim-to-indian-intolerance-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
In 1984, criticizing  George Orwell 
for having advocated political quietism to writers,  Salman Rushdie  asserted that “we are all irradiated by history, we are
radioactive with history and politics.” He added: “Politics and
literature… do mix, are inextricably mixed, and that… mixture
has consequences.”  I was reminded of this unimpeachable truth last week, when
the controversy over “The Satanic Verses” returned to the
country of its origin. Back in 1988, the Indian government,
responding to protests by a few self-appointed Muslim leaders,
prohibited the importation of Rushdie’s novel, setting off a
series of appalling events that culminated in the death sentence
pronounced by  Iran ’s supreme leader against the British-Indian
writer.  Earlier this month, the head of a Muslim theological school
protested against Rushdie’s planned visit to a literary festival
in Jaipur, the capital city of the state of Rajasthan. The
government of Rajasthan not only declined to guarantee Rushdie’s
security; it may even have helped to circulate a false story
about a threat to his life -- one that persuaded Rushdie to
 cancel  his visit.  The festival opened under a cloud of relentless and mostly
sensationalist media coverage and quickly descended into chaos.
Two writers, who chose to express their anger over Rushdie’s
absence with public readings from “The Satanic Verses,” were
told to desist by the festival’s organizers, who believed --
wrongly, it turns out -- that reading from a banned book was
illegal, and feared that the police would shut down the
festival.  Warning of Violence  Amid rumors of impending arrest, the writers were advised
to leave Jaipur. Rushdie accused the Rajasthan police of lying
to him -- a charge they denied. Finally, the organizers, warning
of violence by a few Muslim protesters at the festival site,
canceled a planned conversation with Rushdie through video link.  What exactly happened is still not clear. The organizers
may have panicked, and stumbled into self-censorship. The
Rajasthan police might have had good reason to warn Rushdie
against visiting the festival. And the handful of Muslim
demonstrators at the festival site might have remained
nonviolent if the organizers had allowed Rushdie to speak
through video link.  Some things, however, seemed dismally predictable:
competing television channels ravenous for stories about two of
their favorite subjects -- celebrities and Muslim extremists --
and eager to oblige publicity-seeking “representatives” of
various “offended” communities; opportunistic politicians, who
have sighted a few uncommitted votes in the upcoming elections
in the neighboring state of  Uttar Pradesh ; and an ethically
rudderless government, which repeatedly fails to uphold a
principle essential to democracy: the freedom of artistic
expression.  In recent years, Indian authorities seem to have abdicated
their constitutional duties in the face of extremist assaults on
writers and artists. India’s most famous painter,  M.F. Husain ,
was hounded out of the country by the xenophobic Hindu group
Shiv Sena; he spent his last years in exile. The writer
Arundhati Roy was harassed by charges of sedition for voicing a
very commonplace and unobjectionable opinion: that Kashmir is a
disputed territory.  Still, a broad notion of the rise of intolerance in India
only partly illuminates the recent episodes of the “Satanic
Verses” controversy. In 1989, Rushdie could explain it in the
following terms:  “’Battle lines are being drawn in  India  today,’ one of my
characters remarks. ‘Secular versus religious, the light versus
the dark. Better you choose which side you are on.’ Now that the
battle has spread to Britain, I only hope it will not be lost by
default. It is time for us to choose.”  Blurry Lines  The battle lines have become more blurred since Rushdie
wrote this; the ideological choices no longer seem so simple in
either the U.K. or India. The pressing issues for most of
 India (IPOPIND) ’s 200 million Muslims is not the clash between secular and
religious identities, or indeed, as Rushdie himself pointed out
in an interview last week, the alleged injury caused to their
sensibilities by “The Satanic Verses”: They are poverty,
prejudice, discrimination, and, most importantly, anti-Muslim
violence and injustice.  For instance, Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist hard-
liner who was allegedly complicit in the  killing  of almost 2,000
Muslims in the state of Gujarat in 2002, not only remains a
wildly popular chief minister; he now aims, plausibly, to occupy
the highest political office in the country.  Successive commissions appointed by the government have
recommended affirmative action for India’s economically
depressed Muslim minority. One such proposed measure is being
touted by political parties aiming for Muslim votes. But
politicians, fearful of a Hindu backlash, would rather resort to
symbolic politics -- banning this or that book, keeping Rushdie
out of India -- than take concrete measures to ameliorate the
lot of a demoralized community.  And they can always find a few Muslims who are satisfied
with temporary boosts to their communal self-esteem, which in
the previous two decades has been continuously battered by a
resurgent Hindu nationalism and a general ideological climate in
which terrorist violence is routinely identified with Islam.  Hari Kunzru , one of the four writers who read from “The
Satanic Verses” in Jaipur, is more than aware of this near-
criminalizing of Muslim identity in large parts of the world. On
his website, he explains that he “had no interest in causing
gratuitous offense. I apologise unreservedly to anyone who feels
I have disrespected his or her faith.”  ‘Islam-Bashing’  Responding to one of the more egregious spokesmen for
Indian Muslims, Kunzru writes, “I refute absolutely the
accusation of Asaduddin Owaisi, the Hyderabadi MP who has
accused me of ‘Islam-bashing under the guise of liberalism.’ I
stand on my public record as a defender of the human rights of
Muslims, notably my work for Moazzam Begg and other British
Muslims detained without trial in Guantanamo Bay.”  Kunzru directly addresses those Muslims who “feel that the
notion of ‘freedom of speech’ is just a tool of secular Western
interests, a license to insult them.” Freedom of speech, he
asserts, “is the sole guarantee of their right to be heard in
our complex and plural global culture. It is the only way of
asserting our common life across borders of race, class and
religion.”  Reaching out to Indian critics of Rushdie, Kunzru seems to
take an impeccably liberal position. Yet many Western liberals,
convinced of Islam’s incompatibility with the modern world and
the necessity of Muslim assimilation to secular lifestyles, are
prone to regard Kunzru as an appeaser of reactionary Muslim
politicians and clerics.  At the same time, Kunzru is unlikely to persuade the many
Indian Muslims who are convinced that an abstract notion of free
speech, which doesn’t take into account severe imbalances of
political and socio-economic power, cannot help them transcend
the very real barriers of race, class and religion.  In this sense, the kulturkampf inaugurated during the
publication of “The Satanic Verses” remains radioactive with
history and politics. As Rushdie himself argued in 1984, in what
now seems an innocent time: “Works of art, even works of
entertainment, do not come into being in a social and political
vacuum; and ... the way they operate in a society cannot be
separated from politics, from history. For every text, a
context.”  The events of the past week remind us that while a text
may remain the same, the political and social settings in which
it operates keep changing with bewildering frequency. Almost 25
years after the controversy first erupted over “The Satanic
Verses,” it seems to have lost none of its power to seed what
Rushdie called “the unceasing storm, the continual quarrel, the
dialectic of history.”  ( Pankaj Mishra , the author of “Temptations of the West: How
to Be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  