-- Russian Economy Probably Slowed Last Year
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-01-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/russian-economy-probably-slowed-last-year-as-industry-lost-steam.html
Russian economic growth probably
slowed last year as the euro region’s debt crisis weighed on
industrial production and capital flowed out of the world’s
biggest energy exporter even as  oil prices  jumped.  Gross domestic product rose 4.1 percent after a revised 4.3
percent increase in 2010, according to the median forecast of 17
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
estimated growth at 4.2 percent on Jan. 12. The Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow will publish an initial estimate
today or tomorrow.  Russia is recovering from an economic contraction of 7.8
percent in 2009, when commodity prices sank after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Inc. While retail-sales growth accelerated
last year amid wage increases and a post-Soviet low in
inflation, industrial-production growth slowed to 4.7 percent
from 8.2 percent in 2010 as uncertainty over the euro crimped
demand for exports of manufactured goods.  “Industrial production is in large part tied to trends on
export markets and demand for the goods  Russia  exports,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America Merill
Lynch in Moscow, said yesterday by phone. “The slowing world
economy, including  Europe , certainly has a negative effect on
industrial output.”  The Micex stock index fell 17 percent in 2011 as net
capital outflows more than doubled to $84.2 billion, according
to a preliminary estimate by the central bank. The ruble
weakened 4.9 percent against the dollar to 32.1475.  Oil Boost  Urals crude, Russia’s main export blend, averaged $109 a
barrel in 2011, 40 percent more than the previous year’s $78
average. That helped the budget return to a surplus of 0.8
percent of GDP from initial forecasts of a shortfall.  Exports of raw materials such as energy and metals account
for more than a quarter of Russian GDP, Putin wrote in an
article published yesterday in the Vedomosti newspaper.  Higher energy prices benefited some of Russia’s largest oil
producers, including OAO Lukoil, TNK-BP, and OAO Gazprom Neft,
all of which are projected to have record profit last year,
according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s gas export monopoly and largest company, is also
forecast to record its biggest-ever profit in 2011.  Putin, who is seeking to return the Kremlin through a March
4 presidential vote, says Russia needs to grow at least 6
percent a year to become one of the world’s five largest
economies and should be less reliant on energy exports.  Retail Surge  Retail sales jumped 7.2 percent in 2011, faster than the
previous year’s 6.3 percent increase, as consumer prices rose at
the slowest pace since the collapse of the  Soviet Union  two
decades ago. Inflation totaled 6.1 percent last year, according
to the central bank, which is seeking to trim that to 6 percent
in 2012.  OAO Magnit, the country’s largest food retailer by market
value, was among the companies that benefited from the surge,
posting a 20 percent gain in net income last year.  “Domestic demand rose thanks to lending growth, the pre
New Year’s mood and higher incomes toward the end of the year,”
Ksenia Yudaeva, chief economist at OAO Sberbank in Moscow, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 24 cut its forecast
for Russian growth to 3.3 percent in 2012, saying the global
economy poses risks. GDP will expand 3.5 percent this year and
3.7 percent in 2013, according to the median estimates of 17
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  