-- Ryanair Lifts Profit Goal on Winter Capacity
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-30T08:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ryanair-lifts-profit-goal-on-winter-capacity.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  raised its
full-year profit forecast after winter capacity cuts helped
reduce costs and boost fares.  Europe ’s biggest discount airline aims to post net income
of 480 million euros ($632 million) in the year ending March 31,
40 million euros higher than the previous target, it said today.
The Dublin-based company logged third-quarter net income of 14.9
million euros versus a 10.3 million-euro loss a year earlier.  Ryanair has grounded 80 aircraft during its low season,
paring year-to-year capacity for the first time in its history,
with a 2 percent reduction, and boosting average fares by 17
percent, including baggage fees.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-
biggest discount carrier, said Jan. 26 that corporate bookings
and a milder winter helped lift sales almost 17 percent in three
months to Dec. 31, offsetting an increase in its fuel bill.  “Slowing growth has been helpful for yields,” Ryanair
Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said in an interview. “It
was a good call, vindicated by our performance. We don’t see any
signs of weakness and we’re happy with forward booking levels.”  Ryanair gained as much as 2.7 percent and was trading 2.4
percent higher at 4.25 euros as of 8:03 a.m. in Dublin. The
stock has advanced 33 percent in the past six months, the
highest return in the six-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index,
with EasyJet ranked second with a 23 percent advance.  Third-quarter revenue rose 13 percent to 844.4 million
euros, including 177 million euros from non-ticket sales.  ‘Punchy’  “It was only in November that they raised their guidance
from 400 million euros, so this is fairly punchy, and it might
not be the end depending on what happens in the fourth quarter,”
said  Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin who
recommends buying Ryanair shares. “By grounding aircraft they’ve
been able to suspend costs and extract a lot of yield on the
seats they’re flying, with the weather the icing on the cake.”  New routes are performing well this winter, Ryanair said,
and the company plans to add one more new base this summer in
addition to five it has already announced as airports offer
better access terms to help preserve vital air links.  “The European Union recession, higher  oil prices , failure
of the tour-operator model, competitor fare increases and
capacity cuts have created enormous growth opportunities as
airports compete aggressively to win Ryanair’s growth,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in a statement.  Spanair Opening  Ryanair has sent staff to  Spain  following the collapse of
Spanair SA at the weekend and will offer special “emergency
fares” to attract the Barcelona-based company’s former
customers, CFO Millar said. The Irish airline could also operate
on some of Spanair’s more attractive routes, he said, but has no
interest in bidding for the failed carrier.  “It’s a material issue,” Gill said of the Spanair collapse.
“Ryanair has been developing a big presence in Barcelona and
closing down an airline like that, so quickly, will have an
immediate impact on their yields in the area.”  Ryanair has no immediate plans for a further special
dividend after making a payment of 500 million euros to
investors in 2010 and committing to another of the same amount
that’s due by the end of this year, Millar said, adding that the
total of 1 billion euros is “a good amount.”  Investor Pressure  Gill said the carrier may still face investor pressure to
increase returns “as they are making so much money.”  Ryanair has become Europe’s most valuable airline, with a
market value of 6.22 billion euros, as the worth of larger
network carriers such as  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and British
Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  is
hurt by concern that slowing economies will crimp demand. Air
France has lost 41 percent in six months and IAG 25 percent.  Ryanair said it will hold a shareholder meeting in March to
seek approval to include American Depository Receipts, as well
as ordinary shares, in future buyback programs for as much as 5
percent of its issued share capital. While a buyback has already
been authorized by investors, rules dictate that at least 50
percent of the company must be owned by EU nationals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  