-- S. Korea Prosecutors Raid Ministry Over Mining Scam, Yonhap Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-30T08:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/s-korea-prosecutors-raid-ministry-over-mining-scam-yonhap-says.html
South Korean prosecutors raided the
foreign ministry following allegations that a senior diplomat
played a key role in a stock manipulation scam involving a
diamond mining project in West Africa, Yonhap News reported.  Investigators seized computer hard drives and documents
from the office of Kim Eun Seok, the former ambassador for
energy and resources, and the spokesman’s office was searched
for clues about press releases that allegedly exaggerated the
volume of reserves at a diamond mine in  Cameroon , Yonhap said.
Repeated calls to the prosecutor’s office and foreign ministry
spokesman Cho Byung Jae went unanswered.  Kim, who was dismissed on Jan. 26 after a government
investigation recommended he be prosecuted, today denied any
wrongdoing. The case is the latest setback for President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government as it enters its final year hindered by
election defeats and party scandals.  “I saw this project only for the potential of the
resources, not for personal benefit,” Kim said in a telephone
interview. “It is miserable that this has caused so much
commotion.”  The Board of Audit and Inspection last week accused Kim of
deliberately driving up the stock price of CNK International, a
Seoul-based company involved in mining diamonds in Cameroon. Kim
overstated the size of the diamond reserves of a mine by 17
times its actual amount and put out a release an hour before
CNK’s regulatory filing went public on the Korean Stock
Exchange, the BAI said.  Stock Price  CNK’s stock prices jumped more than five times after the
ministry’s December 2010 press release, and Kim’s two siblings
saw as much as 540 million won ($480,000) in profit as of August
last year, after buying almost 80,000 shares as of January 2012,
the Board said.  Today’s raid came after prosecutors indicted two officials
from Lee’s  Grand National Party  this month on charges of
mounting a hacking attack against the National Election
Commission’s website to disrupt the  Seoul  mayoral election last
October. The GNP lost the election and senior lawmakers resigned
their party leadership posts in December, adding to turmoil
ahead of this year’s parliamentary and presidential elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul   syoon32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 