-- S. Korea Ruling Party Softens North Korea Stance in New Platform
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-30T10:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/s-korea-ruling-party-softens-north-korea-stance-in-new-platform.html
South Korea ’s embattled ruling  Grand
National Party  softened its stance toward  North Korea  in a new
policy platform that seeks to appeal to voters ahead of this
year’s parliamentary and presidential elections.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s party today passed a manifesto
pledging to restructure social welfare and boost employment,
spokesman Hwang Young Chul said in a statement. The party
leadership removed statements calling on North Korea to improve
its human rights record and change its communist system into a
democracy.  Public discontent is rising over Lee’s economic management
and ruling party scandals. Two GNP officials were indicted this
month on charges of hacking into the National Election
Commission’s website to disrupt last October’s Seoul mayoral
race, which was won by an opposition candidate. Prosecutors
today raided the foreign ministry following allegations a senior
diplomat was involved in a stock manipulation scam.  Interim party leader Park Geun Hye today said, “the GNP is
being born as a completely new party,” in a speech broadcast on
radio. “If we want to be trustworthy party, the people must
change and the policies must also change.”  Park, daughter of former president Park Chung Hee, is
considered the GNP frontrunner to succeed Lee in December
elections if she declares her candidacy.  Tensions with North Korea have risen since Lee reversed his
predecessor’s stance of engagement, and 50 South Koreans died in
attacks in 2010. The totalitarian state rejected Lee’s offer for
dialogue following last month’s death of dictator  Kim Jong Il 
and the succession of his son, Kim Jong Un.  South Korea’s largest opposition party yesterday unveiled
its out election platform. The Democratic United Party called
for increasing regulations against the country’s conglomerates,
known as chaebols, in order to restrict their influence, party
spokesman Lee Yong Sub told CBS Radio today in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  