-- Saab North America Creditors File Involuntary Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-01-30T21:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/saab-north-america-creditors-file-involuntary-bankruptcy-1-.html
Creditors of  Saab (SAABB)  Cars North America
Inc., the U.S. unit of the bankrupt Swedish automaker, are
seeking to force the Saab unit into bankruptcy in the U.S.  More than 40 creditors, all of which are U.S.-based Saab
dealerships, filed an involuntary Chapter 11 petition against
Royal Oak, Michigan-based Saab Cars North America with claims
totaling about $1.2 million.  Certain requirements must be met when creditors file an
involuntary bankruptcy or the case can be thrown out. Typically,
there should be three or more petitioning creditors that hold
undisputed claims who can prove the company has repeatedly
failed to pay its debts as they come due.  A phone call seeking comment to the Michigan headquarters
of Saab Cars  North America  wasn’t immediately returned.  The dealerships have claims against the Saab unit for
“unpaid warranty and incentive reimbursement and related
obligations,” according to court documents.  The creditors want the vehicle inventory and the parts
business to be sold, free of liens from Ally Financial Inc. and
Caterpillar Inc., and “to have an appropriate forum to address
the claims of the dealers,” Leonard A. Bellavia, a lawyer
representing the dealers, said in an e-mail.  “The bankruptcy provides the best way to maximize the
value of the assets and to have the dealers’ claims addressed in
an impartial manner,” Bellavia added.  December Bankruptcy Filing  Saab Automobile, owned by Zeewolde, Netherlands-based
manufacturer  Swedish Automobile NV (SWAN) , filed for bankruptcy on Dec.
19 after running out of cash. Production at the plant in
Trollhaettan,  Sweden , halted for most of last year starting in
March.  The company traces its roots to the establishment of
aircraft manufacturer Svenska Aeroplan AB, which was set up in
1937 and began building cars 10 years later. The auto business
was split off from the aerospace operations, now called Saab AB,
in the 1990s, with  General Motor Corp. (GM)  gaining a 50 percent
stake in 1990 and full control in 2000.  Brightwell Holdings BV, a Turkish private-equity firm, said
it plans to bid for the bankrupt Swedish carmaker and revive its
manufacturing.  The case is In re Saab Cars North America Inc., 12-10344,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmongton, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  