-- Samsung, Servier, NFL, ‘Rogue Attorney’, Zynga: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-30T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/samsung-servier-nfl-haig-zynga-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost a
patent ruling in Germany in a mobile technology case brought
against Apple Inc., a week after judges rejected a similar bid
by the Suwon, South Korea-based company against the iPad maker.  The Regional Court in Mannheim rejected the suit Jan. 27,
Joachim Bock, a spokesman for the tribunal, said in an
interview. Samsung said the ruling only relates to one of
several patents asserted and doesn’t indicate whether the court
may find Apple infringed other Samsung rights in Germany.  “We are disappointed that the court did not share our
views regarding the infringement by Apple of this specific
patent,” Samsung said in an e-mailed statement. “We will wait
for the written grounds of today’s judgment, and after thorough
review make a decision about a possible appeal.”  Germany  has become a key venue for the lawsuits between
Apple and Samsung over mobile technologies and designs since the
iPhone maker last year accused its South Korean rival of copying
products. Both litigants are awaiting a Dusseldorf appeals court
decision next week over the design of Samsung’s Galaxy Tablet
10.1. The Jan. 27 case addressed 3 telecommunications standards.  Apple had no specific comment on the ruling, said Alan
Hely, a spokesman for the company, referring to an April
statement that it has to defend against Samsung’s “blatant
copying.”  EU Ends Probe Into Servier Over Misleading Medicines Inquiry  European Union regulators dropped an antitrust probe into
Les Laboratoires Servier for hampering an investigation into
potential antitrust violations by companies seeking to keep
cheaper generic medicine out of the EU market.  Servier,  France ’s second-largest drugmaker, was accused in
2010 of providing “misleading and incorrect” information
during a probe into the pharmaceutical industry over possible
delays to generic versions of patented medicines.  The European Commission closed the case because Servier’s
arguments “would require significant further investigation”
and would “instead focus” on competition concerns raised by
“a number of pending cases, including one involving Servier,”
according to a Jan. 27 e-mailed statement.  The Brussels-based antitrust agency started a probe of the
pharmaceutical industry in January 2008. In a report in 2009, it
found that companies use a variety of techniques to delay the
introduction of generics “for as long as possible.”  This decision “confirms Servier’s position and contradicts
the allegations of dissimulation that were made against the
group at the time,” said Lucy Vincent, a spokeswoman for the
Neuilly-sur-Seine, France-based company in a telephone interview
Jan. 27.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Customs Confiscates More than 10,000 Fake NLF Jerseys in L.A.  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection Officers have seized
more than 10,000 fake National Football League jerseys at the
 Los Angeles  International Airport since September, the customs
service said in a  statement .  The fake goods have come in at air cargo consignment
locations, according to the statement. The estimated retail
value of the seized merchandise is $847,000, mainly jerseys that
“typically look similar to brand name goods but are cheaper and
of poorer quality,” Todd C. Owen, who heads Customs’ field
operations in Los Angeles, said in the statement.  Seizures of the fake sports gear were part of 27,792 such
confiscations of infringing products in the 2011 fiscal year,
Customs said, a 24 percent increase of the 19,9549 seizures
performed the previous year.  Carroll Shelby Settles Trademark Case With Washington Car Dealer  Carroll Shelby Inc. (CSBI) ’s Carroll Shelby Licensing unit has
settled a trademark dispute with a  Washington  State care dealer.  The Gardena, California-based race car company sued Shelby
Supercars LLC of Richmond, Washington, in federal court in Los
Angeles in August, objecting to the unauthorized use of the
Shelby name.  The car dealer agreed to change its name to SSC  North
America , according to a  statement  issued by Carroll Shelby Inc.
Parties on both sides also are publicly disavowing any
connection between the two entities, according to the statement.  The settlement document was filed with the court Jan. 25.
Neither the company statement nor the court filing reveals
further details of the settlement.  The case is Carroll Shelby Licensing Inc., v. Shelby
Supercars LLC, 2:11-cv-07136-CAS-AJW, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Adult Filmmaker’s Lawyer Must Pay Attorney Fees, Sanctions  A lawyer for a German maker of adult films was ordered to
pay defendants’ attorney fees of $22,000 and must pay the court
$500 for each day it fails to comply with the order, beginning
tomorrow.  Mick Haig Productions E.K., the producer of “Der Gute
Onkel,” sued 670 unnamed defendants for copyright infringement
in federal court in  Dallas  on Sept. 21.  The defendants were accused of infringing the film’s
copyright by sharing content without authorization through the
use of the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol.  The film company is represented by  Evan Stone  of Denton,
 Texas .  Stone was hit with sanctions in September for issuing
subpoenas to some of the alleged defendants without permission
from the court. He was also ordered to pay attorney fees for
three lawyers the court appointed to represent the defendants.  In the Jan. 24 order, U.S. District Judge David C. Godbey
said Stone’s argument seeking to postpone the sanctions order
“holds no water” and that the defendants’ request for
sanctions stemmed from “abuse” the lawyer’s abuse of the
discovery process.  The public interest also weighed against granting Stone a
stay of the order, Godbey said.  “By his conduct, Stone egregiously overstepped his
boundaries” and invaded the unnamed defendants’ privacy without
the court’s authorization, he wrote.  The judge said the public “has an interest in being free
from unlawful invasions of privacy by a rogue attorney.”  The case is Mick Haig Productions E.K. v. Does 1-670, 3:10-
cv-01900-N, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  NimbleBit Uses ‘Thank-You Note’ to Chide Zynga for New Game  NimbleBit LLC , maker of the “ Pocket Frogs ” game for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, made a novel complaint to  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  about the
San Francisco-based games company’s new “Dream Heights” game.  The app company posted what it called a thank-you  note  to
Zynga that says, “We notice you are about to launch a new
iPhone game called Dream Heights. Congratulations.”  The note includes side-by-side screen shots from the
“Dream Heights” and NimbleBit’s “ Tiny Tower ” games, pointing
up their similarities, with the message, “We wanted to thank
you guys for being such big fans of our iPhone game of the year
Tiny Tower!”  NimbleBit closed the note by saying “Good luck with your
game. We are looking forward to inspiring you with our future
games.” The note was addressed to “Zynga (all 2789 of you)”
from “(all 3 of us).”  Zynga didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
comment.  China ‘Not Playing by Global Rules,’ Says U.S. State Department  China “is not playing by global rules” on issues such as
 intellectual property  rights, said  Robert Hormats , the U.S.
State Department’s undersecretary for economic, energy and
agricultural affairs.  Illegal copying of software and other intellectual property
must be dealt with “in a robust way,” Hormats said Jan. 27 in
a radio interview from Davos,  Switzerland , on “Bloomberg -- The
First Word” with  Tom Keene .  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Winston & Strawn Hires Ex-Dickstein Intellectual-Property
Partner  Winston & Strawn LLP , a Chicago-based  law firm  with more
than 900 attorneys, hired intellectual-property lawyer Michael
J. Scheer, a former partner at  Dickstein Shapiro LLP (1270L) .  Scheer, who specializes in patent portfolio development,
will work out of the firm’s  New York  and Los Angeles offices,
where he will join the global intellectual property litigation
group, the firm said Jan. 27 in a statement.  “Michael’s well-known transactional and litigation
experience on complex matters is a great addition to our growing
international IP team,” said Michael S. Elkin, managing partner
of the firm’s New York office.  Winston,  ranked  by the trade magazine American Lawyer in
2010 as the 34th-highest-grossing law firm with more than $717
million in revenue, has expanded its IP litigation practice in
the past months, the firm said. In October, Winston hired IP
litigators Alfred Fabricant and Lawrence Drucker, also formerly
of Washington-based Dickstein Shapiro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 