-- Sany, Citic to Pay $475 Million for German Cement-Pump Maker Putzmeister
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-01-31T10:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/sany-citic-to-pay-471-million-for-german-cement-pump-maker-putzmeister.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , headed by
 China ’s richest man, and a partner will pay 360 million euros
($475 million) for concrete-pump maker Putzmeister Holding GmbH
to add technology and expand overseas.  The Chinese construction-equipment maker will buy 90
percent of Putzmeister for 324 million euros and Citic PE
Advisors (Hong Kong) Ltd. will purchase the balance, it said in
a Shanghai stock exchange statement yesterday. The deal may be
completed by March 1, pending regulatory approvals, the
Changsha, China-based company said.  Sany climbed to the highest in more than two months in
Shanghai trading after announcing the deal and saying that
profit probably rose more than 60 percent last year.  Zoomlion
Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co.  also plans to build a
plant in the U.S. as Chinese construction-equipment makers seek
to challenge Caterpillar Inc. and  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  internationally.  “The Putzmeister brand will give Sany an appeal that it
doesn’t have at the moment to customers in developed
countries,” said Liu Rong, an analyst with China Merchants
Securities Co. “This deal is also a milestone. Who could have
imagined even a few years ago that a Chinese company would buy
such a renowned firm?”  Burj Khalifa  Putzmeister, based in Aichtal,  Germany , supplied pumps used
to build Dubai’s  Burj Khalifa , the world’s tallest building, and
ones that helped quell the nuclear disaster in  Fukushima ,  Japan 
last year. Sany plans to make Aichtal its headquarters for
concrete machinery following the Putzmeister deal, it said in a
Jan. 27 statement. Norbert Scheuch will remain head of
Putzmeister under the new owner.  The German company, founded by Karl Schlecht, employs 3,000
people and probably had a profit of 6 million euros on sales of
560 million euros last year, Sany said. It’s being sold by
shareholders Karl Schlecht Stiftung and Karl Schlecht
Familienstiftung.  It took about two weeks for the two sides to agree on a
deal, Sany Chairman Liang Wengen told reporters today at a
briefing in Changsha. The company will pay for the acquisition
from internal resources, said Vice Chairman Xiang Wenbo.  “With this deal, we’ve turned our most competitive
international rival into one of us,” Xiang said. “It also
reflects China’s rising position in the world’s construction-
machinery industry.”  The Chinese company was advised on the deal by  Bank of
America Corp , while  Morgan Stanley (MS)  worked with Putzmeister.  China-Europe Deals  Chinese companies are making acquisitions overseas as they
seek new technologies and as European companies struggle for
funding amid a debt crisis.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , China’s second-
largest solar panel maker, this month agreed to buy Germany’s
 Sunways AG (SWW) , and Shandong Heavy Industry Group-Weichai Group
agreed to acquire luxury-yacht builder Ferretti Group.  “The current debt crisis gives Chinese companies
opportunities to buy,” Liu said.  Sany, controlled by Liang, climbed 1.6 percent to close at
14.21 yuan, the highest since Nov. 15. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.3 percent.  The company separately said profit probably rose last year
after it sold more equipment and won market share.  Net income 
was 5.61 billion yuan in 2010.  Construction growth has slowed in China as the government
seeks to cool speculation and fend off a property bubble.  Home
sales (CHRESARE)  rose at the slowest pace in three years in 2011, and
expansion of investment in real estate slowed to 28 percent from
33 percent in 2010.  Sany, which makes excavators and concrete machinery,
postponed a $3.3 billion planned initial  Hong Kong  sale last
year, citing market conditions.  Liang  topped  Forbes  Asia ’s 2011 China rich list with an
estimated wealth of $9.3 billion. The company’s three other
founders are also billionaires, according to the magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  