-- Sarkozy Should Not Attempt to Legislate Turkey’s History: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/sarkozy-should-not-attempt-to-legislate-turkey-s-history-view.html
The president of  France  is getting
ready to sign a bill making it a crime in his country to deny
that a century ago, the  Ottoman Empire  committed genocide
against Armenians. As President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s own party
proposed the legislation, we suspect that he will sign it. But
it’s never too late to drop a bad idea.  Let’s start with the genocide -- it happened. Beginning in
1915, as many as 1.5 million ethnic Armenians living in what
today is modern Turkey were killed or deported. The Ottoman
Empire was falling apart, or more accurately was being
dismembered by Britain, France and  Russia . The authorities in
Istanbul saw Christian Armenians as a potential fifth column and
drove them out through executions and deportations. Greeks and
Christian Assyrians soon followed.  This is a painful piece of Armenian history that continues
to traumatize the families of its victims, now dispersed around
the globe in  California , France and elsewhere. Every April,
there are battles in  Washington  as legislators with Armenian
constituents lobby for the U.S. to formally recognize the
genocide.  Turkey, the Ottoman Empire’s successor state, has barely
started to deal with the essential process of facing the truth
and bringing some kind of closure to the victims’ families.
While it has recently become possible for Turkish historians to
discuss the events of 1915 without facing jail, it was only in
2007 that Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant Dink was shot dead
in broad daylight for daring to write about the genocide.  Instead, Turkish officials like to emphasize that 1915 was
in the midst of World War I; that Armenian units fought with the
Russians in a grab for territory; and that many ethnic Turks
were killed too, some of them by Armenian revenge squads. That’s
all true. It’s also irrelevant. The 1948 United Nations
 convention  on genocide defines it as crimes carried out with
“intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical,
racial or religious group.” It’s what the Ottoman leaders
intended and carried through that counts.  But if  Turkey  is having trouble defending free speech,
that’s no reason for France to follow suit. The new French law
would make denying the Armenian genocide punishable by a year in
jail or a 45,000-euro fine. Just as problematic, if governments
are going to make a habit of legislating the history of other
nations, where should they stop?  The bill on President Sarkozy’s desk covers only the two
genocides that France has formally recognized -- the Jewish
Holocaust and the Armenian Great Catastrophe. Yet UN courts have
ruled that genocide was committed in  Rwanda  in 1994, as well as
at Srebrenica in Bosnia, a year later. Why not send people to
jail for denying these genocides, too?  French legislators didn’t need a UN court ruling to act on
the Armenian issue. So how about  Sudan ’s Darfur, or Pol Pot’s
killing fields in Cambodia? Or Stalin’s engineered famine in
Ukraine in the 1930s, or Oliver Cromwell’s scorched earth
campaign against the Catholics of Ireland? Or, indeed, the
decimation of Native Americans during the European settlement of
 North America ?  No surprise then that Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , not a man to mince his words, is now claiming that
France committed genocide in  Algeria , a former African colony,
in the 1950s and ‘60s.  None of this helps solve the real problems that this
troubled part of the world faces today. The question for Sarkozy
isn’t who is right in this dispute, but why should France be
legislating an issue of two other nations’ history, let alone
adding it to the French penal code? Turkey eventually will have
to reconcile with  Armenia  over the genocide, on its own.  The law could also harm economic relations. Turkey, an
emerging market with a young and growing population, is spending
tens of billions of dollars on new  capital investment . That
means passenger aircraft, water purification plants, high-speed
trains, nuclear power stations and military hardware -- all
areas in which French companies are among the world leaders.
Turkish officials have said publicly they would extract a
commercial price for the genocide law.  Some of the 86 French senators who voted against the
genocide bill are now trying to round up the votes they need to
challenge it in France’s constitutional court. We hope they
succeed. Turkey and France are NATO allies that need to be
working together to stabilize the  Middle East , not bickering
over each other’s history.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 