-- Sarkozy Transaction Tax May Drive Investors Away From French Stock Market
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-01-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/sarkozy-transaction-tax-may-drive-investors-away-from-french-stock-market.html
The French stock market,  Europe ’s
second-biggest by value, may fall out of favor with investors
after President  Nicolas Sarkozy  unveiled plans to unilaterally
impose a 0.1 percent tax on financial transactions.  “Even if the tax isn’t high, market participants who have
a choice of stocks trading in Paris or elsewhere will go
elsewhere,” said Yves Maillot, the Paris-based head of
investments at Robeco Gestions SA, which oversees $6.8 billion.
“That’s what we can fear.”  Sarkozy, 57, who faces elections in a two-round vote in
April and May, wants to make good on a pledge he made to impose
such a tax when France last year held the presidency of both the
G-8 and G-20 group of countries. He said Jan. 29 that France
will impose the levy starting in August in spite of opposition
from banks. The tax will apply to share purchases, including
high frequency trading, and credit default swap transactions.  A France-only levy is opposed by the country’s financial
community and its feasibility has been questioned by the Bank of
France. Governor  Christian Noyer  said on Jan. 16 that
implementing such a tax would require resolving “numerous
problems,” including making it applicable across Europe.  “The concern is other countries won’t follow and Paris
will lose competitiveness,” said Matthieu Giuliani, a fund
manager at Palatine Asset Management in Paris, which oversees $4
billion. “For the domestic market, it is one more handicap.”  ‘Wobbly Boxer’  Companies trading on the French stock market have a total
capitalization of $1.52 trillion, second only to the U.K. in
Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 42
percent of the  CAC 40 Index ’s market capitalization is held by
non-residents, according to the Banque de France. The benchmark
index sank 17 percent in 2011, tracking losses across Europe, as
the region’s debt crisis spread from  Greece  to Italy and  Spain .  Sarkozy expects the tax to annually raise 1 billion euros
($1.31 billion) for the government’s coffers and reduce its
 budget deficit . The relatively small size of the tax receipts
suggests the impact of the levy may be limited, some analysts
said, adding though that French financial stocks may be among
those that may be hit.  Financial stocks were among last year’s worst performers,
with  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and Credit Agricole SA each tumbling
more than 54 percent.  “Given the fragility French banks still have following
last year’s credit crisis, imposing the tax now may be the
equivalent of jabbing a boxer who is still wobbly after just
getting knocked down,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief investment
strategist at Pension Partners LLC in  New York .  Common System  BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale and  Credit Agricole , the
country’s three largest banks, each fell more than 6 percent
yesterday on speculation trading revenue may be hurt.  “French bank stocks are already being attacked,” said
Yves Marcais, a trader at Global Equities in Paris. “It’s clear
that it’ll have a direct impact on them. What you’ll get is a
decrease in transactions. Banks have trading activity and that
will suffer.”  The French financial industry has spoken out against
imposing a transaction tax unilaterally in France.  “A tax that’s limited to France would weigh on growth,
lead to a loss of competitiveness, and create a heavy handicap
for the financing of the French economy,” the French Banking
Federation said in a statement Jan. 9.  Germany  is considering a plan for a European stamp duty on
shares as an alternative to a transaction tax, in an effort to
win over the U.K. to adopting a European Union-wide levy.  Less Control  “It would be good if everyone could apply it,” said
Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee $7.5 billion at
Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “If there is a common system,
it’s more efficient.”  The U.K., home to Europe’s biggest financial center, has in
place a stamp duty. It opposes the transaction tax, with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  saying Jan. 26 that a Europe-wide
transaction tax would be “madness,” and would cost 500,000 jobs.  Investors buying U.K. shares pay a tax of 0.5 percent on
the price. The stamp duty is also levied on options to buy
shares and rights arising from shares. Stamp duty on shares
raised 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) in the year to April
2010, according to the government.  Meanwhile, Sarkozy’s opponent in the presidential
elections, Socialist Party candidate  Francois Hollande , too, has
pledged to impose a tax on financial transactions, if he’s
elected. Palatine Asset Management’s Giuliani said that he
expects gains from  France ’s transaction tax to be less than
estimated as the industry finds ways to avoid it.  “Done by only France, it will lead to more offshore
activity and less control,” he said. “We know very well that
the financial industry is very sophisticated and political
leaders are running to catch up to this sophistication. This
initiative isn’t moving in the right direction -- except
electorally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  