-- Sarkozy Increases Sales Tax to Cut Payroll Fees
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-01-30T09:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/sarkozy-increases-sales-tax-to-cut-payroll-fees.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
announced increased sales taxes and levies on financial incomes
to fund a 13 billion-euro ($17 billion) cut in payroll charges
in the opening volley of a re-election bid that requires him to
erase a 20-point  poll gap  in three months.  The increase would amount to 1.6 percentage points and
bring the rate of tax on most goods and services to 21.2
percent, Sarkozy said late yesterday in a national broadcast as
he reversed previous opposition to the move. Under the plan, the
government would use revenue raised to finance a cut in payroll
costs paid by employers to boost competitiveness.  “We have to re-ignite growth,” Sarkozy said. “We have to
catch up in  Europe  and in the world. Our market share is
declining. If we continue to burden our companies with charges
that aren’t theirs to pay, notably family charges, how can we
compete?” he added  in the interview .  By pressing an unpopular tax less than three months before
the vote, Sarkozy is seeking to portray himself as a more
capable economic manager than Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande . Economic issues may be a handicap for Hollande, with
33 percent saying they find him convincing on cutting France’s
budget deficit, according to a CSA poll published last week.  “The VAT is not a painless political tax and it certainly
won’t be an asset for Sarkozy’s candidacy,” said Jerome Sainte- Marie, who heads Paris-based CSA’s public-opinion department.
“Whatever measure he is proposing, voters seem to think they
come too late, or they are too technical and nothing brings what
they are looking for, which is change.”  Sarkozy Trails  The same poll showed Hollande’s lead over Sarkozy widening.
He has the support of 31 percent of voters in the first round, 6
points more than Sarkozy and up from 3 points a month ago. His
second-round lead rose to 20 points, at 60 percent, from 14
points.  Three months ago, in his previous national broadcast,
Sarkozy rejected a sales-tax increase, saying “it will weigh on
purchasing power and consumption and it would be unfair.”  “I won’t accept it and the prime minister won’t propose
it,” he said on Oct. 27.  In the televised discussion with journalists, Sarkozy said
the euro crisis was easing. “We can say -- with caution -- that
we see elements of financial stability in  France , in Europe and
in the world,” Sarkozy said. “Europe is no longer at the edge
of the cliff.”  Credit Rating  Sarkozy’s case as an economic steward got harder to make
this month when France was stripped of its AAA credit rating for
the first time by  Standard & Poor’s . Sarkozy had promised in
October to do everything possible to retain the top credit
rating that one of his advisers called a “national treasure.”  French jobless claims jumped by 5.6 percent last year to
2.87 million, the highest since September 1999.  Sarkozy “has a clear and cold view of his term in office:
the loss of jobs in industry and the rise of unemployment,”
said Bernard Cazeneuve, a spokesman for the  Hollande campaign .
The problem is “all the solutions that he’s proposing he has
already tried and so far their result has been calamitous.”  Sarkozy said he will declare his candidacy in due course,
declining to say outright if he will run in the elections
scheduled for April 22 and May 6.  ‘Rendezvous’  “I have a rendezvous with the French people, I won’t shy
away from my declaration,” Sarkozy said. “It’ll be soon.” He
said he was in a “very determined state of mind” ahead of the
vote.  Sarkozy also said that he’s preparing legislation that
would impose a financial-transaction tax of 0.1 percent to take
effect in France starting on Aug. 1.  Among other announcements was a plan to loosen  labor laws 
to lengthen their workweeks beyond 35 hours and reduce them when
the economy slows. French building rules will be eased to spur
the construction industry, he said.  Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  will brief the media at 3
p.m. today on implementation of Sarkozy’s policies.  The value-added tax increase, which would echo one of the
measures  Germany  used over the past 10 years to boost its own
competitiveness, has been floated by Sarkozy since December. The
plan is largely supported by economists and business leaders who
say that it may help boost exports, growth and eventually job
creation.  ‘Shock’ Sought  The measures “are a step in the right direction, but what
I’d like to see created is a shock of competitiveness,”  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  SA Chief Executive Philippe Varin said Jan. 27.  France’s exports have lagged behind those of its major
trading partners in the past decade. Between 2000 and 2010,
shipments of manufactured goods to other countries rose 50
percent to $409 billion, according to the  World Trade
Organization . Germany’s exports rose 126 percent and  Italy ’s
rose 72 percent.  To unions, though, the proposal represents a give-away to
business at a time when unemployment is at its highest in more
than a decade  “Social VAT is just another gift to the bosses, who are
going to see their costs go down, while the workers aren’t going
to see anything in their salaries,” said Farid Borsali,
secretary general of the CGT chapter at a Peugeot factory near
Paris. “Their purchasing power will go down.”  A BVA poll for BFM TV on Jan. 12 showed 55 percent of the
French are opposed to the increase in sales tax, while 43
percent favor it. A CSA poll on Jan. 4 for communist newspaper
l’Humanite said that 64 percent are against it and 33 percent in
favor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  