-- SAS Shares Drop as Spanair Ends Operations
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-01-30T09:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/sas-shares-drop-as-spanair-ends-operations.html
SAS Group (SAS) , the Nordic region’s
largest airline, fell the most in almost three months in
Stockholm trading as it wrote off its remaining stake in
collapsed carrier Spanair SA.  The shares declined as much as 9.5 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Nov. 8. The stock traded at 8.95 kronor,
down 5.8 percent, as of 10:22 a.m., valuing the Stockholm-based
company at 2.94 billion kronor ($433 million).  “It’s too bad this happened and we of course would like to
have seen a different outcome, but it’s completely manageable
for us,” Sture Stoelen, SAS’s investor relations chief, said
today in a phone interview.  SAS, which sold 80 percent of Spanair in March 2009 to a
group of investors and now holds about 11 percent, said in a
statement it would write down 1.7 billion kronor after Spanair
filed for bankruptcy. The Spanish carrier’s statement didn’t
mention a bankruptcy filing, saying “the appropriate next steps
will be taken as soon as possible.”  Spanair ceased operations, citing “a lack of financial
visibility for the coming months,” and the Spanish regional
government refused to provide further funding. The final flight
landed at about 10 p.m. Jan. 27, the Barcelona-based carrier
said.  SAS, part-owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway and
 Denmark , hasn’t posted a full-year profit since 2007 as it
struggled with high fuel costs and competition from low-cost
carriers such as  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS. (NAS)   SAS will book the writedown in the fourth quarter, Stoelen
said today. The carrier expects to make a profit in 2011 before
non-recurring items, it said in a Jan. 27 statement, reiterating
an earlier forecast. It will have a loss after accounting for
the writedown, Stoelen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  