-- Scared Gere, Stuffed Puppy Catch Sundance Fest’s Fancy: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/scared-gere-stuffed-puppy-catch-sundance-fest-s-fancy-review.html
From the high-finance suspense of
“Arbitrage,” which Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions
reportedly purchased for $2.5 million, to a slew of angry, man-
the-ramparts documentaries, some of the  Sundance Film Festival ’s
most buzz-worthy films tapped into the country’s financial
stress and social unrest.  Now it’s up to the 1 percent to decide which ones might
make a splash in the indie-film marketplace.  “Arbitrage,” written and directed by Nicholas Jarecki in
his feature debut, stars  Richard Gere  as billionaire hedge
funder  Robert Miller , desperate to sell his company before $400
million in cooked books is uncovered. Facing the financial ruin
of both his business and his picture-perfect family, Miller goes
into full panic mode when a car crash leaves his mistress dead
and invites the scrutiny he fears.  Set against a backdrop that includes  Wall Street , deluxe
Manhattan penthouses and glitzy charity balls, “Arbitrage”
finds its most compelling moments in a “Bonfire of the
Vanities”-type subplot that has Miller drawing a young, black
Harlem man -- the son of his former chauffer -- into the cover-
up of the deadly car wreck.  Two-Tiered Justice  At a post-screening Q&A, Gere addressed the film’s
depiction of moral ambiguity, infidelity and two-tiered justice.  “Most of the people we’ve seen fall, whether  Bill Clinton 
or certain financial people, every one of them has come back,”
he said. “Every wife has stayed with the guy, every daughter
has forgiven. It’s just the way the world works.”  A release date for “Arbitrage” has not been announced.  Nice Digs  No documentary was as quick to catch fire as “The Queen of
Versailles,” Lauren Greenfield’s oddly endearing portrait of
self-made, 74-year-old Florida billionaire  David Siegel  and his
wife Jackie, a former-cocktail waitress 30 years his junior.  “Versailles” begins as the Siegels start construction on
what would be America’s largest single-family home -- a 90,000-
square-foot monstrosity modeled on Louis XIV’s palace, set close
enough to Disneyworld to afford views of the nightly fireworks.  Stuffed Doggie  Filmed over the course of several years and a crashing
economy, “Versailles” begins as a quirky look at the
indiscreet charms of the nouveau riche.  Jackie proudly displays the stuffed remains of her beloved
Pomeranian while David boasts, although regretfully, of having
secured the Florida votes that sent  George W. Bush  to the White
House.  With the Wall Street crash of 2008, the Siegels’ fortunes
all but evaporate. The couple, their seven children and a
teenage niece pad around their starter home -- a mere 26,000-
square-foot gilded manse -- with a dwindling staff and piling
trash. Their Versailles remains unfinished.  “I was interested during the Boom in the connection
between the American Dream and home ownership and building
bigger and bigger,” said Greenfield, who won Sundance’s
directing award for a documentary. The Seigels were “the
ultimate realization of that dream.”  (Shortly before the start of the festival, David Siegel
filed a lawsuit against the Sundance Institute and the director,
asserting that a Sundance summary of the film as a “rags to
riches to rags” tale was defamatory. Siegel himself uses a
nearly identical phrase in the film. Greenfield declined to
comment on the suit.)  Magnolia Pictures  plans a summer release for
“Versailles.”  ‘We’re Not Broke’  Some films with a more activist approach had still not
scored distribution deals by the end of the festival on Sunday.  “We’re Not Broke,” a smart muckraker by Karin Hayes and
Victoria Bruce, investigates the offshore  tax havens  that allow
publicly bailed-out corporations to score record-setting
profits. (Bloomberg News is among the sources credited by the
film for data and statistics; interviews with reporter Jesse Drucker are featured throughout.)  Looking At Hunger  “Finding North” (a stirring docu that would benefit from
a title change) examines hunger in America.  Directors Kristi Jacobson and Lori Silverbush train their
cameras on the various and diverse faces of Americans with
“food insecurity” -- those who don’t know when the next meal
is coming -- and persuasively demonstrates a link between
underfunded social programs, the nation’s obesity and its empty
stomachs.  Heidi Ewing and Rachel Grady’s “Detropia” (like “Finding
North” and “We’re Not Broke”) spotlights the nation’s
economic downswing by examining particulars -- in “Detropia,”
the decimation of  Detroit  by the auto industry’s decline and the
outsourcing of labor to  Mexico .  Impressionistic and visually beautiful (the film won the
Sundance award for U.S. documentary editing), “Detropia”
captures its characters -- a union man, a tavern-owner whose
working-class clientele disappeared with the auto plants,
hipster artists moving into abandoned buildings -- as their
once-vibrant city is literally sold for scrap metal to  China .  American Axle  Missing from “Detropia” -- and most of the other post-
Occupy docmentaries -- are representatives of the 1 percent.  Ewing said lengthy negotiations with executives from
American Axle & Manufacturing -- a Detroit auto parts plant that
moved some manufacturing to Mexico and is featured prominently
in the film -- fell apart when the company demanded final
approval of the film.  “If American Axle changes its mind and wants to come
forward,” she said, “we’ll drop them into the film.”  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 