-- Serbia’s MK Group May Cancel Bid for Hellenic Sugar, Kostic Says
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-01-30T16:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/serbia-s-mk-group-may-cancel-bid-for-hellenic-sugar-kostic-says.html
MK Group d.o.o. , a Serbian
diversified holding company that focuses on agribusiness, may
fall out of the race to acquire Greek sugar refiner  Hellenic
Sugar Co., (HSI)  over lack of clearance from a Serbian regulator.  MK Group, which submitted a non-binding offer for 82.33
percent of Hellenic Sugar last year, has sought approval from
 Serbia ’s  Commission for Protection of Competition  for the
possible purchase as Hellenic Sugar has two sugar refineries in
Serbia. Together with MK Group’s four plants, it would push MK
Group’s market share to 78 percent from 50 percent in Serbia, MK
Group’s owner, Miodrag Kostic, said.  “The tender in Greece may expire before we receive
approval from the commission and we are reluctant to proceed in
the very costly process without assurances” from the regulator
that it won’t find MK Group in violation of anti-monopoly rules,
Kostic said in an interview in Belgrade today.  The tender, launched as Hellenic Sugar’s owner,
 Agricultural Bank of Greece SA , decided to sell non-banking
activities, initially drew 11 potential buyers and the race has
boiled down to the Serbian holding and  Suedzucker AG (SZU) , Kostic
said in the interview at an economic forum.  MK Group, whose activities include sugar refining, trade,
tourism, information technology and property management, has
until mid-March to make a binding bid for Hellenic and might
have to give up “over administrative problems in Serbia,”
Kostic said.  IPO Plans  MK Group plans to offer shares in  London  and Warsaw and may
have to wait until next year because “2012 seems to be
catastrophic” for an initial public offering, Kostic said.  “We haven’t given up, we’ve prepared legal and financial
due diligence, management presentation,” he said. “We’re just
waiting for better times,” for the planned primary listing in
London and secondary in Warsaw.  MK Group’s sugar production is 250,000 tons a year, already
50,000 tons more than Serbia’s annual consumption, while it
exports 40 percent of the output, Kostic said.  “We export to many European Union countries, that’s our
market, but I’m afraid the regulator takes into consideration
only the size of the Serbian market” and may withhold the
approval, Kostic said. “It’s absurd, but we could miss out on
the chance to buy Hellenic.”  The company had said the acquisition would help its access
to the sugar markets in neighboring Macedonia, Bulgaria and
Albania, as well as  Greece , a net importer of the commodity.  Serbia exports around 100,000 tons of sugar to Greece worth
between 70 million euros and 80 million euros a year, accounting
for 65 percent of an annual sugar export quota the country has
with the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  