-- Singapore Stocks: CapitaLand, Neptune Orient, Wilmar, Yoma
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-01-30T10:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/singapore-stocks-neptune-orient-mapletree-industrial-wilmar.html
Singapore’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) 
dropped 1 percent to 2,888.29 at the close of trading. About
four shares fell for each that rose in the 30-member gauge.  The following were among the most active shares in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.  Chinese developers: Real estate companies that get revenue
from China declined after Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the
biggest real estate brokerage in the mainland, said home sales
in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen fell 66 percent
during the the week-long Lunar New Year break compared with the
holiday period a year earlier.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  , which gets 36 percent of sales
from China, dropped 1.5 percent to S$2.61.  Yanlord Land Group
Ltd. (YLLG)  , a China-based real estate company, declined 3.8
percent to S$1.135.  Export-related stocks: Shipping companies and electronics
manufacturers dropped after a report showed the U.S. economy
grew at a slower pace in the fourth quarter than economists
estimated.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL SP), a container carrier
that counts the Americas as its biggest market, fell 3 percent
to S$1.28.  Hi-P International Ltd. (HIP)  , which assembles
BlackBerry smartphones, slid 2.2 percent to 65.5 Singapore
cents.  STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (STAT)  , a chip tester that gets
about 72 percent of revenue from the U.S., lost 1 percent to 48
Singapore cents.  Palm-oil producers: Crude palm-oil futures for April
delivery decreased as much as 1.6 percent in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  , the world’s largest
palm-oil processor, slid 1.1 percent to S$5.39.  First Resources
Ltd. (FR)  , which operates plantations in Indonesia, slipped
0.9 percent to S$1.645.  Mapletree Industrial Trust (MINT)  , an industrial
landlord partly owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, gained 3.2
percent to S$1.115. UBS AG reiterated its “buy” rating on the
stock, citing improving occupancy and rents.  Yoma Strategic Holdings Ltd. (YOMA)  , a developer of
properties in Myanmar, surged 29 percent to 35.5 Singapore
cents, its highest close since February 2007, on prospects the
company will prosper from reforms in the country. The government
there is drafting a law on tax incentives to attract foreign
investors, the economic minister was quoted as saying by the
Bangkok-based The Nation newspaper today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  