-- Sinovel Earnings to Drop 50% as Rivalry Damps Turbine Prices
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-30T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/sinovel-s-profit-to-drop-50-as-competition-hurts-turbine-prices.html
Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) ,  China ’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, expects to report a decline of more
than 50 percent in 2011 earnings as heightened competition at
home and abroad dragged down prices.  Rivalry on the market eroded sales prices, trimming revenue
and profit margins, the Beijing-based company said today in a
statement. “Cyclical fluctuations” in the world economy also
delayed some projects, curbing income, it said.  Sinovel has been buffeted by Western rivals including
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  of Denmark and  Gamesa Corp. Technologica
SA (GAM)  of  Spain , which have reduced costs to compete with Chinese
manufacturers. Vestas announced plans to lower expenses by more
than 150 million euros ($197 million) this month, losing 2,335
jobs, and warned it may cut 1,600 more in the U.S. if a tax
credit isn’t extended.  “It’s difficult for these guys to drive costs down at the
same pace as revenue, so margins are getting squeezed,” Aaron Chew, an analyst with Maxim Group LLC in  New York , said today by
telephone. Sinovel may still fare better than European
counterparts such as Vestas because of lower labor expenses and
more advantageous government subsidies in China, he said.  Lower Support  Vestas has cut sales forecasts twice since October after
Asian competitors grabbed market share and U.S. and European
governments reined in support for renewable power to curb budget
deficits.  The wind-turbine industry as a whole faces falling profits,
according to Sean McLoughlin, an analyst at HSBC Bank Plc in
 London . Manufacturers are grappling with overcapacity and
competitive pricing as well as dwindling subsidies for renewable
energy, he said by e-mail.  A tighter government approval process for projects in China
has intensified competition further, spurring domestic companies
to study expansion elsewhere. “We do not expect growth in wind
installations in China in 2012 to 2014,” so growth abroad would
allow the main Chinese players to boost sales, McLoughlin said.  Vestas announced 346 megawatts of new Chinese orders in the
first half of 2011 and 48 megawatts in the second, Haakon Levy,
an Oslo-based analyst at DnB NOR ASA, said in an e-mail. That
compares with 331 megawatts of new orders in the second half of
2010, indicating a “slowing Chinese market,” he said.  Goldwind Expansion  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., China’s
second-largest wind-turbine maker, bought two 10-megawatt wind
farms in  Montana  this month and has taken orders in seven other
U.S. states since it started sales in the region in June 2010.  The U.S. wind industry may install more than 9 gigawatts of
turbines this year, up from about 6.5 gigawatts in 2011, as
developers rush to get tax breaks due to expire at year-end,
according to researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Sinovel used to be the largest customer of turbine-part
maker  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC)  The Devens, Massachusetts-
based manufacturer is now suing the Chinese company over a
contractual and intellectual-property dispute.  “Sinovel’s attempts to expand abroad have been hampered
with the ongoing dispute with AMSC, while Goldwind has been
acquiring wind-farm projects in the U.S. to build track-
record,” Levy said.  Sinovel had a profit of 2.86 billion yuan ($451.6 million)
in 2010. The Chinese government has promoted investment in clean
energy generation to diversify away from coal, which fuels 70
percent of the economy and contributes to pollution that
blankets industrial areas from  Hong Kong  to Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  