-- Mexico Phone Industry Overcharged Users $13.4B
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-30T20:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/slim-led-phone-industry-overcharged-mexicans-by-13-4-billion-oecd-says.html
Mexico ’s phone industry, dominated
by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s carriers, overcharged customers
$13.4 billion a year from 2005 to 2009, hurting the nation’s
economy, according to a report.  The overcharging combined with the potential loss of
business caused by high prices equaled 1.8 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic product, the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation & Development  said today in a report.  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy should eliminate
restrictions on foreign investment in telecommunications and
should strengthen the powers of its phone regulator, the OECD
said. The 70 percent market share of Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  in
the mobile-phone business is “extremely high,” the OECD said.  Mexico “needs the socioeconomic boost provided by greater
access to more efficient communication services, in particular
high-speed broadband,” the OECD said. Mexico had 10.5 high-
speed Internet subscriptions per 100 habitants at the end of
2010, placing it 32nd among the 34 OECD member countries and
less than half the average of about 25, the report showed.  America Movil is reviewing the documents, said an official
who can’t be named under company policy. An official at the
company’s  Telefonos de Mexico SAB  fixed-line unit declined to
comment.  Highest Prices  Prices for high-speed  Internet service  in Mexico are the
highest in the OECD, according to the report, which used a
comparison method called “purchasing power parity” to adjust
for economic differences between countries.  America Movil  Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said last year that the
method is questionable for comparing specific prices.  While prices for wireless communications have improved,
they are still above the OECD average in most cases, according
to the report.  Mexico’s government has struggled in its attempts to reduce
Slim’s dominance of the market, which he began to build by
acquiring control of Telmex in a privatization sale in 1990. He
pushed Telmex’s wireless unit, Telcel, to offer prepaid plans
that were accessible for Mexican consumers, building that
division into America Movil, which has 242 million mobile
 subscribers  across the Americas.  Injunctions and Appeals  The companies controlled by Slim, 72, have responded to
regulators’ actions by using injunctions and appeals to keep
rules from being enforced.  After the competition commission ruled in 1998 that Telmex
was the nation’s dominant carrier, the company challenged the
constitutionality of the resolution in a Mexican federal court.
The panel withdrew its ruling in 2007 following revisions and
subsequent lawsuits.  Beginning in 2008, the antitrust agency issued six rulings
finding America Movil and Telmex dominant in different segments
of the telecommunications industry. Those rulings, which the
companies are challenging, are being used by the
telecommunications commission to craft new rules that would
target the companies specifically.  Mexico’s broadcast television market is dominated by two
companies,  Grupo Televisa SAB (TV)  and  TV Azteca SAB (AZTEF) , and also needs
more competition, according to the report. The phone regulator
last week postponed a vote on whether to proceed with plans to
make more airwaves available for broadcast TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  