-- Snedeker Wins Farmers Open Golf Playoff After Stanley Falters at Last Hole
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-30T05:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/snedeker-wins-farmers-open-golf-playoff-after-stanley-falters-at-last-hole.html
Brandt Snedeker won the U.S.  PGA
Tour ’s Farmers Insurance Open in a playoff after Kyle Stanley
blew a three-shot lead on the final hole.  Snedeker, 31, got into the playoff when Stanley made a
triple-bogey 8 at the par-5 18th hole at  Torrey Pines  Golf Club
in  La Jolla ,  California . Snedeker then collected his third
career victory when Stanley, who was seeking his first win,
missed a five-foot par putt on the second extra hole.  “You never want to see anybody go through that, not even
your worst enemy on the planet,” Snedeker, who receives $1.04
million for the victory, said at a news conference. “But he’s
an unbelievably talented player, and the sky’s the limit for
him. I hope he does not beat himself up too much over this.”  Stanley, 24, entered the final round with a five-stroke
lead and came to the closing hole with a three-shot advantage.
His third shot on the par-5, a sand wedge from 77 yards, spun
back into the pond in front of the green. After being assessed a
penalty stroke and sending his next shot to the back of the
green, he missed a 4-foot putt for double-bogey and the win.  Both players made birdie on the 18th hole to start the
playoff. Snedeker then hit his tee shot over the green on the
second playoff hole, the par-3 16th, and recovered to save par.
Stanley came up short on his first putt and missed the par
attempt to give Snedeker the victory.  “Looking back, I don’t really know what I was thinking.
It’s not a hard golf hole,” Stanley said of No. 18. “It’s
really a pretty straightforward par-5. I could probably play it
a thousand times and never make an 8.”  Stanley’s Collapse  As a rookie last year, Stanley had a two-shot lead with two
holes to play at the John Deere Classic and bogeyed the final
hole to finish one stroke behind winner  Steve Stricker , who
birdied the last two holes. Stanley’s collapse yesterday at
Torrey Pines was similar to that of Jean Van de Velde, who blew
a three-shot lead on the final hole of the 1999 British Open at
Carnoustie and lost in a playoff. Van de Velde’s lone European
Tour victory after that came in 2006.  In 2010,  Robert Garrigus  blew a three-shot lead on the
final hole of the PGA Tour’s St. Jude Classic and lost in a
playoff, then rebounded to win the Children’s Miracle Network
Classic five months later.  “I know I’ll be back. I’m not worried about that,” said
Stanley, who was in tears during his post-round news conference.
“It’s just tough to swallow right now. I just need to be
patient.  One of my goals coming into this year was to just keep
putting myself in position, and I’ll do that.”  Snedeker, who had hip surgery in November, and Stanley
finished 16-under par through four rounds, two shots better than
John Rollins.  Tiger Woods  skipped the event he won six times from 1999
through 2008 to play in a European Tour event in  Abu Dhabi ,
where he finished third, two shots behind winner Robert Rock.
 Dustin Johnson , who at No. 9 was the highest-ranked golfer in
the field at Torrey Pines, tied for 43rd at 5-under par.  The PGA Tour next moves to Scottsdale,  Arizona , for the
$6.1 million Phoenix Open from Feb. 2-5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  