-- South Africa Fails in AU Bid, Dashing Africa Plan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-01-31T07:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/south-africa-fails-in-au-bid-setting-back-plan-to-boost-africa.html
South Africa  failed in its bid to
secure control of the African Union’s top decision-making body,
setting back its plan for the continental organization to play a
more forceful role in global politics.  South African Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma
didn’t win enough support in yesterday’s election in Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia, for head of the AU Commission. The incumbent,
 Jean Ping , who failed to secure two-thirds of the vote to win a
second term, will remain in the position until the next AU
summit in June, his spokesman, Noureddine Mezni, said in a
mobile-phone text message today.  It’s “embarrassing for South  Africa  that it has not been
able to carry a majority,” Daniel Silke, an independent
political analyst who has advised  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  and
 Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) , said in a phone interview from Cape Town. “It
clearly shows South Africa will have to do some targeted
lobbying in the run-up to any future elections.”  Dlamini-Zuma, a former wife of South African President
Jacob Zuma, had challenged Ping to push the AU to take a more
forceful role in world politics and to ensure it’s run more
effectively. South Africa generates a third of sub-Saharan
Africa’s gross domestic product, is the only African member of
Group of 20 industrialized nations and holds the rotating
presidency of the  United Nations Security Council .  ‘Continent Wants Change’  Ping’s failure to gain a two-third majority sent a message
that was “very very clear that leaders of this continent want
change and they want it now,” South African International
Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday from Addis Ababa, where the  African Union  is
based.  The AU agreed to create a committee of seven heads of
state, which will meet in March, to “address issues relating to
the next elections of the members of the commission,” Mezni
said. The committee will also decide whether Ping and Dlamini-
Zuma can run again, he said.  Under Ping’s tenure, the African Union has been criticized
by African leaders including Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga
for declining to use force to help oust former Ivory Coast
President Laurent Gbagbo after a disputed election. The AU
delayed its recognition of the Libyan National Transitional
Council until a month after the rebels deposed former Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Human Rights Violations  The AU also hasn’t confronted the leaders of several member
states accused of flouting democracy and human rights
violations, including Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and
 Libya ’s Qaddafi. The group last year elected as its ceremonial
head Equatorial Guinea leader Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who
has been in power since 1979 and whom  Human Rights Watch , the
New York-based advocacy group, accuses of plundering his
nation’s oil riches.  The failure to successfully elect a chairman comes as the
commission faces managerial and financial challenges, including
under-utilization of its budget last year, according to the
Institute for Security Studies.  Of the $256 million the commission was allocated in 2011,
it used less than 40 percent, Mehari Taddele Maru, head of the
ISS’s conflict prevention program in  Addis Ababa , said in an
interview. While the commission has about 1,000 staff members,
328 posts have been vacant for the past eight years, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  