-- Southern Falls Most in Six Weeks on Dividend, Copper: Lima Mover
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-01-30T19:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/southern-falls-most-in-six-weeks-on-dividend-copper-lima-mover.html
Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,  Peru ’s
largest producer of the metal, headed for the biggest decline in
six weeks as copper prices fell and a quarterly dividend failed
to meet investor expectations.  Southern Copper , a unit of Grupo  Mexico  SAB, slumped 4.7
percent to $34.40 at 12:36 p.m. in Lima, which would be the
steepest decline on a closing basis since Dec. 13. The stock has
gained 15 percent this month.  Phoenix, Arizona-based Southern Copper declared on Jan. 27
a 19 cent cash  payment  and a stock dividend of 0.0107 shares per
common stock payable Feb. 28 to shareholders of note on Feb. 15.
The company paid a 70-cent dividend in the previous quarter.
Copper fell the most in three weeks as European leaders
struggled to reach an accord on a Greek debt bailout, dimming
prospects for global growth and metals demand.  “Investors were expecting a bigger dividend comparable to
previous quarters,” said Inteligo SAB analyst Rodrigo Zuazo.
“The drop in copper prices is also hitting the shares.”  Copper futures for March delivery declined 1.6 percent to
$3.8265 a pound on the Comex in  New York  after earlier dropping
as much as 2.4 percent, the biggest loss since Jan. 4.  The “dividends will provide shareholders a return on their
investment while Southern Copper maintains a strong cash
position,” the company said in a Jan. 27 statement.  Expansion Plans  Southern Copper is working on a $3 billion expansion of its
Buenavista mine in Mexico and is investing $900 million in
upgrades at its Peruvian Toquepala and Cuajone mines, Chief
Executive Officer Oscar Gonzalez Rocha said Nov. 4. The
company’s $900 million Tia Maria project was suspended by
environmental protests last year.  Southern Copper is yet to set a date for disclosing fourth-
quarter results after the company said last week that it may
report earnings on Jan. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  