-- South Korea’s Industrial Output Declines as Europe’s Crisis Saps Demand
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-01-30T23:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/south-korea-s-industrial-output-declines-as-europe-s-crisis-saps-demand.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
fell for a third month in December as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis hurt exports and business confidence.  Output (KOIPIMOM)  declined 0.9 percent from November, when it dropped
a revised 0.3 percent, Statistics  Korea  said today, missing all
11 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The median
estimate was a 1.1 percent gain. Production rose 2.8 percent
from a year ago after gaining a revised 5.8 percent in November,
compared with a 4.1 percent rise estimated by economists.  South Korea, which grew the least in two years in the
fourth quarter, is facing increased uncertainty from Europe’s
debt crisis, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday. The
Bank of Korea refrained from raising  interest rates  for a
seventh month on Jan. 13 to support growth amid faltering global
expansion and signs of easing inflation.  “The output data is surprisingly weak, with companies
reluctant to spend more due to the uncertain outlook,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul ,
said after the release. “The central bank may consider a rate
cut if the economy cools off too quickly.”  The won weakened 0.4 percent to 1,127.25 per dollar in
Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi index declined 1.2 percent, the biggest drop
since Dec. 19.  Confidence Declines  Consumer confidence  in South Korea fell to the lowest in 10
months in January while manufacturers’ confidence for February
held near a 30-month low as Europe’s debt crisis dims the
outlook for exports, according to central bank reports last
week.  South Korea’s  leading index  of economic indicators rose 1.5
percent in December from a year earlier, compared with a 1.1
percent gain in November, today’s report showed. Sales of
 consumer goods  fell 0.2 percent from November and advanced 1.5
percent from a year earlier.  The nation’s  gross domestic product  expanded 0.4 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous three months when
it gained 0.8 percent, the central bank said on Jan. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  