-- Soybeans Fall for a Second Day as Rains Ease South American Crop Concern
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-30T13:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/soybeans-fall-for-a-second-day-as-rains-ease-south-american-crop-concern.html
Soybeans slid for a second day in
 Chicago  as rains forecast in  Brazil  and  Argentina  helped ease
concern that drought may curb supply. Corn and wheat dropped.  Sufficient rain will fall on at least three-quarters of
 Argentina (US09PRAR) ’s soybean and corn crops this week and next, aiding
harvest prospects,  Richard Feltes , a vice president of research
at Chicago-based R.J. O’Brien & Associates, said in a report
yesterday. The country is the world’s second-biggest corn
exporter after the U.S. and ranks third for soybeans.  “Argentina is forecast to have the most amount of rain
since November in the 10- to 14-day forecast,” said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank International in London.
“There’s a chance for yields to stabilize. February is critical
for Argentina.”  Soybeans for March delivery dropped 1.2 percent to $12.0475
a bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The oilseed gained 2.7 percent last week, the second advance in
a row.  Dry weather caused by a La Nina weather pattern, which
cools water temperatures in the Equatorial  Pacific Ocean , has
led to irreversible damage to crops in parts of Argentina and
Brazil, the Rosario Cereals Exchange said Jan. 27. Argentine
corn yields may fall as much as 65 percent from estimates during
planting because of the dryness, it said.  Harvest Outlook  A quarter of Argentina’s main corn- and soybean-growing
region received more than 40 millimeters (1.6 inches) of rain
last week, too little to ease crop damage, the exchange said.
Rain this week may boost crop prospects, Joel Burgio, an
agricultural meteorologist at Telvent DTN, said in a report
today.  “Hot, dry weather again increased stress to crops in
Argentina during the weekend period,” Burgio said. “However,
showers will be in the region for much of this week. This should
help ease stress to crops, especially later-planted crops that
were not hurt by the extremely dry and hot weather during
December and early January.”  Corn for March delivery fell 1.2 percent to $6.34 a bushel.
The grain pared last week’s 4.9 percent climb.  Wheat for March delivery declined 0.9 percent to $6.415 a
bushel. The grain rose 6 percent last week. Milling wheat for
March delivery slipped 0.1 percent to 208.75 euros ($273.63) a
metric ton on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  