-- Spain GDP Contracts, Putting Economy on Edge
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-30T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/spain-gdp-contracts-putting-economy-on-edge-of-second-recession.html
Spain ’s gross domestic product
contracted in the fourth quarter, pushing the economy toward its
second recession since 2009 and undermining the government’s
efforts to reorder public finances.  GDP (SPNAGDPQ)  contracted 0.3 percent in the last three months of the
year and rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier, the National
Statistics Institute said in an e-mailed statement today in
 Madrid . The figures match the estimate published on Jan. 23 by
the Bank of Spain.  The People’s Party government, in power since December, is
trying to convince investors it can reduce the  budget deficit  by
almost half this year even as the recession weighs on revenue
and employment. The economy may shrink 1.5 percent, pushing the
 jobless  rate to 23.4 percent if the government meets its
austerity goals “strictly,” the Bank of Spain said last week.  With the highest  jobless  rate in the European Union and
credit shrinking by the most on record, Spain’s economy will
probably slump for the next two years, contracting 1.7 percent
in 2012 and another 0.3 percent in 2013, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . That will make it impossible to
reach the  deficit  targets of 4.4 percent of GDP this year and 3
percent in 2013, the IMF said on Jan. 24, forecasting a
shortfall of 6.8 percent this year and 6.3 percent in 2013.  The PP government inherited a bigger shortfall than the
previous administration had projected, it said on Dec. 30, as
the gap amounted to 8 percent, instead of the 6 percent target
set with the EU. The goal for 2012 was made when the previous
government expected the economy to growth 2.3 percent this year.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , battling to rein in borrowing
costs, called on European leaders to put the region’s permanent-
rescue mechanism in place as soon as possible after meeting with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin on Jan. 26, while also
reiterating a pledge to cut spending. Rajoy joins EU leaders at
a summit in Brussels today.  To contact the reporter on this story: Emma Ross-Thomas in
Madrid at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Craig Stirling
at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  