-- Spanair Collapse Puts Europe’s State-Owned Airlines on Alert for Investors
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-30T15:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/spanair-collapse-puts-europe-s-state-owned-airlines-on-alert-for-investors.html
Spanair SA’s collapse after the
withdrawal of state funding suggests Europe’s debt crisis may
spur airlines from the Mediterranean to the Baltic to consider
mergers or risk failure.  The first collapse of a scheduled European airline since
the last recession comes as cash-strapped governments mull
disposing of at least half a dozen other carriers in auctions
pitting Qatar Airways Ltd., which had been in talks with
Spanair, and other emerging-market bidders against  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways parent IAG.  Governments are becoming reluctant to save ailing airlines
as the debt crisis forces austerity programs in other parts of
the economy. State investors in Stockholm-based  SAS AB (SAS) ,  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  of Ireland, Portugal’s TAP and the flag
carriers of  Poland , Hungary and the  Czech Republic  have all
signaled plans to reduce direct support and seek new investors.  “Governments don’t have the financial wherewithal to
support airlines in the same way as in the past,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting in  London .
“Regulations requiring a level playing field have also made it
tougher. It could put other carriers in a similar position.”  Ryanair Opening  SAS, which had an 11 percent stake in Spanair,  fell  as much
a 9.5 percent today and was trading 4.7 percent lower at 9.05
kronor as of 4:01 p.m. in Stockholm after saying it would take a
1.7 billion kronor ($251 million) writedown over the collapse.  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) ,  Spain ’s second-biggest airline, surged
27 percent to 5.20 euros, the sharpest gain since Oct. 22, 2008,
while IAG, owner of Iberia, the No. 1 operator, fell 1.2
percent. Iberia said that Spanair’s loss, while “painful,”
showed the need for its own Express unit, which debuts in March.  Ireland’s  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , which carries more people
on routes to Spain than any airline based there, said it could
target some of Spanair’s more attractive routes, and the shares
rose as much as 2.7 percent before trading little changed.  Europe’s second-tier airlines are pondering their futures
after being left behind following the formation of the three big
groupings. Air France purchased KLM in 2004 to form the region’s
biggest airline,  Lufthansa (LHA) , the No. 2, expanded through bolt-on
deals in neighboring Austria, Belgium and Switzerland, and IAG,
or  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , was formed a
year ago via a $9 billion merger of BA and Iberia.  ‘Commodity Business’  Heinrich Grossbongardt, a marketing consultant in Hamburg
who has advised the airline industry for two decades, reckons a
European slump will spark a new “overdue” consolidation bout.  “It’s amazing how all these zombie airlines manage to
survive despite making losses year after year,” he said. “Air
travel today is a commodity business, which means economies of
scale are key. A traditional airline needs 50-plus million
passengers a year to bring costs down to an acceptable level.”  Spanair, which employs 2,000 people, said Jan. 28 it folded
after  Qatar Air (105701QD)  halted bid talks and the Catalonia government
indicated it would no longer supply funds. The last plane landed
at 10 p.m. on Jan. 27, and the company is seeking protection
from creditors, spokeswoman Aina Rodriguez said today by phone.  Spain is cutting spending as it grapples with the euro
area’s third-largest budget deficit, with Catalonia the second-
most indebted region. Barcelona-based Spanair was founded in
1986 and was Spain’s fourth-biggest airline by passenger
numbers, carrying almost 13 million in 2011 from 15 Spanish
airports using a fleet dominated by Airbus SAS A320 series jets.  Mideast Moves  The carrier would have been the third from  Europe  in less
than a year to sell stock to a Middle Eastern bidder. Qatar Air
bought a 35 percent stake in Luxembourg’s Cargolux International
SA, the region’s largest specialist freight airline, last June
and Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways said Dec. 19 it would spend
$350 million to lift a stake in Air Berlin Plc to 29.2 percent.  Qatar Air Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said in an
interview at London’s Heathrow airport on Jan. 26 that he would
remain on the lookout for opportunities.  “We will be interested in an airline with potential, but
restricted in growth due to financial constraints,” he said,
adding that he’ll “keep very quiet” about specific ambitions
after previous comments helped push up the share price of SAS,
owner of Scandinavian Airlines, the No. 1 Nordic carrier, in
which the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish governments hold stakes.  Pension Obstacle  The Norwegian government won parliamentary approval to sell
its SAS shares last June, a spokesman said Jan. 27, while
declining to comment on its intentions. Sweden’s government has
a similar mandate, spokeswoman Victoria Ericsson said, and will
wait for the “right time” before acting. Denmark’s Socialist
Party, a minority member of the ruling coalition, wants to
preserve Copenhagen’s hub status and is reluctant to sell,
according to Anne Baastrup, its transport spokeswoman.  The Irish government has said that it’s interested in
selling its 25 percent holding in Aer Lingus as part of a drive
to raise 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) from asset disposals, in
line with commitments to the  International Monetary Fund . Talks
are underway on restructuring a pension plan that’s been seen as
an obstacle to a sale, the airline said in a statement today.  Ireland has no plan to sell the stake to Etihad, government
spokesman John Carroll said Jan. 6 after transport minister Leo Varadkar arranged to meet James Hogan, the Gulf carrier’s CEO.
Talks were limited to “tourism matters,” Carroll said. Concern
about the state exiting Aer Lingus has centered on the loss of
control over slots at London Heathrow, something a tie-up in the
Gulf might ease by offering alternative connections with  Asia .  Alliance Decision  Aer Lingus spokesman Declan Kearney said yesterday from
Dublin that the issue is “a matter for government.” The
carrier recently decided not to join a global alliance because
of cost and connectivity issues, he said. An Etihad spokesman
declined to comment and said that Hogan was unavailable.  Gulf carriers, themselves backed by governments often
enriched by oil receipts, are targeting Europe’s stragglers to
help provide feed to long-haul hubs that they’re building at
their home airports in a challenge to Air France, Lufthansa and
BA, whose Heathrow base in the biggest transfer airport.  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , or Turk Hava Yollari AO, seeking to
build a Gulf-style hub in Istanbul, said Jan. 23 it was one of
two bidders in talks to buy a stake in Polskie Linie Lotnicze
LOT SA from the Polish government. Treasury Ministry spokeswoman
Magdalena Kobos said the second party is publicly traded.  Poland has been seeking to sell shares of LOT since 2009
after buying back a 25 percent stake from Swissair’s bankruptcy
receiver following an earlier abortive disposal. The government
got four offers last year, with Air France-KLM and BA among the
bidders, as well as THY, newspaper Rzeczpospolita said Oct. 16.  Czech Talks  Czech national carrier Ceske Aerolinie AS is in talks with
two potential investors, finance ministry spokesman Ondrej Jakob
said Jan. 27. That’s after Prime Minister Petr Necas said Dec.
18 that a disposal is the only way of saving the business, known
as CSA, which merged with Prague airport operator Letiste Praha
AS after a failed auction in 2009. Bidders may include Britain’s
Flybe Group Plc and an Asian carrier, broadcaster CT1 has said.  In  Hungary , the government today granted unprofitable  Malev
Zrt. (MALEV)  the status of “strategically extraordinarily important
company,” the official gazette said, a move that can be used to
shield bankrupt businesses from creditors. With finances set to
become “untenable” by month’s end, a “liquidity plan” is being
drawn up, news service MTI said, citing CEO Lorant Limburger.
ILFC Holdings Inc. will carry on providing planes, it said.  Chinese Withdrawal  A buyer is being sought for Malev after the state took a 95
percent stake to replace Russian bank Vnesheconombank as
controlling shareholder when a previous privatization failed.
Hungary is in “advanced” talks with possible investors after
 China ’s Hainan Airlines quit talks, the government said Dec. 5.  The European Commission on Jan. 9 ordered Hungary to
reclaim “unlawful aid” paid to the airline from 2007 to 2010.  With their own outlooks crimped by a slowing economy,
Europe’s biggest carriers may be reluctant to enter a bidding
contest for unprofitable companies with rivals from  emerging
markets , and inter-continental deals could offer better value.  IAG is working to identify takeover targets including long-
haul operators, according to Chairman Antonio Vazquez, who said
of European takeover prospects in an interview on Jan. 23 that
“everything is really taken, so it’s difficult to do anything.”  CEO Willie Walsh has identified TAP SGPS SA as the European
carrier he’d most like to buy after sealing a deal for BMI,
Lufthansa’s U.K. unit, which owns slots at crowded Heathrow.
Buying the Lisbon-based airline would add routes from Europe to
 South America , something which might become a priority should
Oneworld alliance partner  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  of Chile switch global
groupings after a merger with Brazil’s  Tam SA (TAMM4) , a Star member.  On the Block  Portugal will begin the process of selling TAP “in a few
weeks” and aims to complete it in 2012 after privatizations in
sectors such as energy, airline spokesman Antonio Monteiro said.  Air France-KLM’s airline purchases have been limited to
investment in Alitalia SpA of Italy and the acquisition of U.K.
turboprop operator VLM, with interest in Iberia, Austrian
Airlines, CSA and SAS failing to lead to deals. Spokeswoman
Eloise de Parscau wouldn’t comment on its plans yesterday.  At Cologne-based Lufthansa, CEO Christoph Franz hasn’t
extended the sequence of takeovers racked up by predecessor
 Wolfgang Mayrhuber  since taking over last year. The German
carrier wouldn’t comment on further merger prospects and said
Franz was focused on making the existing business profitable.  ‘Armageddon’  Keith McMullan, managing director of Aviation Economics in
London, said takeover interest in the likes of SAS and Malev
will be minimal and that state-connected carriers will enter a
process of “managed decline,” without disappearing completely.  “I don’t think the bigger carriers are the least bit
interested in them,” McMullen said. “That’s unless they have a
very particular niche, which is very rare really.”  Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, has sent staff
to Spain to lure former Spanair clients with “emergency fares,”
Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said in an interview after
the company lifted its profit outlook on improved fares, while
adding that there’s no prospect of a bid for its assets.  Ryanair CEO Michael O’Leary said Jan. 26 in Budapest that
carriers reliant on state support aren’t worth saving, and that
there are signs Europe’s economic crisis may be undermining a
tendency for them to be kept on “life support” by governments.  “Everywhere we look we’re suddenly talking to airports who
are worried,” he said in an interview, adding that “imploding”
carriers such as Spanair will spur growth at discount airlines.
“There is a realization they may have an Armageddon event.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  