-- Spirit Flouts Unwritten Washington Rule by Badmouthing Regulator
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/spirit-flouts-unwritten-washington-rule-by-badmouthing-regulator.html
Most U.S. airlines quietly complied
with U.S. rules that took effect Jan. 26 requiring them to
include mandatory taxes and fees in published fares.  Spirit Airlines (SAVE)  took a different approach, obeying the rule
while issuing a press release and an e-mail to customers
criticizing the U.S. Department of Transportation and a U.S.
senator who struck back at its comments.  The ferocity of Miramar, Florida-based Spirit’s offensive,
which included a red-exclamation-pointed  ad  on its website
accusing the Transportation Department of forcing airlines to
“HIDE taxes in your fares,” startled some communications
experts who said it violated a tenet of doing business in
 Washington .  “It’s never a good idea to take on your regulator even if
you have a good case,” said David Bartlett, a senior vice
president of Washington-based Levick Strategic Communications
LLC. “It puts you in a bad position, usually unnecessarily,
because the regulator has all the power.”  A day after Spirit issued its criticism, the Transportation
Department  announced  a $100,000 fine against the airline for not
properly tracking complaints about treatment of passengers with
disabilities.  Bill Mosley , a department spokesman, said there’s no
connection between Spirit's criticism and the timing of the fine.
“This goes back to May 2010,” Mosley said.  ‘Zero’ Risk Seen  Spirit Chief Executive Officer Ben Baldanza, in an
telephone interview, said the broadside carried “zero” risk
because it has sued the transportation department to get the new
rule thrown out.  That’s not necessarily true, said Scott Sobel, president of
Media and Communications Strategies LLC, a crisis communications
firm in Washington.  “There’s a big difference between going through a system,
like in a lawsuit, and criticizing a regulator outside those
channels,” Sobel said. “It’s always risky to criticize
government regulators outside the expected channels.”  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  Allegiant Travel Co. (ALGT)  are also
asking the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington to void the
regulation.  AT&T Inc. (T)  in recent weeks has criticized the  Federal
Communications Commission  in connection with the agency’s
rejection of the company’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-
Mobile USA Inc.  AT&T’s situation is different from Spirit’s because the
telecom giant had lost its case at the commission and may see
value in building political support by speaking out, Levick
Strategic’s Bartlett said.  Boxer Fires Back  “And it is to some degree still fraught with peril,”
Bartlett said.  Mike Balmoris , an AT&T spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The new DOT rules require Spirit and other airlines to give
the total cost of a fare and taxes upfront. Some carriers had
advertised base fares while revealing taxes and fees in fine
print or after an online shopper clicks to a new Web page.
Consumer advocates have said the rule will curb bait-and-switch
advertising.  As of Jan. 26, some airline websites, such as the one for
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , displayed the total price of a ticket
along with a breakout of fare and taxes for each flight
searched.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, sent Baldanza
a letter Jan. 26 accusing Spirit of “a deliberate attempt to
deceive the flying public.”  “Your recent statement that ‘the better form of
transparency is to break out costs so that consumers know
exactly what they are buying’ is exactly what this new DOT rule
will help do,” Boxer, a mmeber of the Commerce Committee’s
aviation subcommittee, wrote.  Spirit Backed  The government fined Spirit $375,000 in  2009  for unfair or
deceptive practices and  $50,000  in 2011 for deceptive pricing.  The airline is “disappointed” in Boxer’s letter and wants
to meet with her “and discuss facts so she is fully informed,”
Misty Pinson, a spokeswoman for Spirit, said in an e-mail.  Spirit is “raising an important point” by calling
attention to impact of taxes and other U.S.-mandated fees on the
cost of air transportation, said  Steve Lott , a spokesman for
 Airlines for America , a Washington-based trade association.  Airline tickets are subject to as many as 17 taxes and
fees, in addition to discretionary charges such as those for
checked bags, Lott said. In some cases, such charges for
domestic travel can exceed 20 percent of the cost of the ticket,
he said.  “We’re on par with sin taxes,” Lott said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Not That Paranoid’  Baldanza said Spirit’s strategy of using provocative
advertising wasn’t behind airline’s reaction, though it did
influence a “hidden tax sale” that deliberately made it
difficult for consumers to find fares. That’s because the
government is making it difficult to present costs in a
transparent format, a Spirit Web page says.  Baldanza declined to comment on the fine issued Jan. 27
other than to say he didn’t see a regulatory payback.  “I may be paranoid,” Baldanza said. “But I’m not that
paranoid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  