-- Spirits Sales Steal Share from Beer
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-01-30T15:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/spirits-sales-steal-share-from-beer.html
The U.S. stock market’s worst
performance in three years didn’t damp Americans’ taste for
cocktails.  Spirits sales by suppliers including Beam Inc. and Brown-
Forman Corp. rose 4 percent to $19.9 billion in 2011, the
 Distilled Spirits Council of the U.S.  said today at its annual
industry update in  New York . Americans weren’t afraid to
splurge, either, pushing so-called super premium spirits, such
as Ciroc vodka and Woodford Reserve bourbon, up 12 percent.  Spirits took market share from beer brewers last year after
a decade of emphasis on high-end drinks, the council said.
Distillers also brought in new drinkers by putting a creative
spin on classics with introductions such as flavored bourbon.
Total liquor sales accelerated beyond the previous year’s 2.1
percent gain.  “People who are doing well are going out and spending on
spirits as an affordable luxury,” said John McDonnell, chief
operating officer for Patron Spirits Co. and chairman-elect of
the Spirits Council. “Also, spirits companies never stopped
spending through the downturn.”  The industry’s growth came even as unemployment remained
high and the U.S. stock market languished. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  gained 5.5 percent last year, about half the
pace of the previous year’s gain. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was little changed.  Siphoned Share  Spirits’ share rose to 33.6 percent of the market from 33.3
percent the previous year. The category, along with wine,
siphoned half a percentage point of market share from beer,
which declined to 49.3 percent. American lagers, which dominate
the U.S. beer industry, have been on a steady decline as
everything from craft beer to spirits carve off customers.  Distillers introduced about 1,800 new products between 2009
and 2011, driving growth, the council said.  U.S. federal law mandates that manufacturers sell to
wholesalers, who in turn sell to retailers. About a third of
spirits sales in the U.S. are in bars and  restaurants , the
council said.  In 2009, liquor sales in the U.S. stagnated at $18.7
billion and volume had its smallest percentage increase since
2001, as consumers turned to less expensive drinks in a slow
economy. Value-spirits that year gained 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  