-- Starbucks, Tata Venture to Open First India Store by August
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-01-31T04:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/starbucks-tata-venture-to-open-first-store-in-india-by-august.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and venture partner
 Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL)  will open their first store in  India 
by August to tap rising coffee consumption in the world’s
fastest growing major economy after China.  The equal venture will open outlets in  Mumbai  and  New Delhi 
this year and have 50 locations within the first 12 months, Tata
Global Vice Chairman R.K. Krishna Kumar said at a press
conference in Mumbai yesterday.  The Indian stores will build on the world’s largest coffee-
shop chain’s expansion outside the U.S., where stores are  less
profitable  than those in the Asia-Pacific region. Starbucks will
compete with Barista Coffee Co., a unit of Italy’s  Lavazza SpA (LAVA) ,
and Cafe Coffee Day, run by Amalgamated Bean Coffee Trading Co.
in India, where consumption of the drink almost doubled in the
decade through 2010 to 108,000 metric tons.  “We are going to bring the Starbucks experience that is
known around the world to India,” John Culver, Starbucks
president for China and Asia Pacific, said in an interview.
“All the coffee we serve here will be locally sourced.”  The Seattle-based restaurant operator has an agreement to
source beans from Bangalore-based  Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO) , a unit of
Tata Global.  Asia Operating Margin  Starbucks plans to accelerate growth in the Asia-Pacific
region, where  revenue  rose 38 percent in the quarter ended Jan.
1, Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said on a Jan. 26
conference call.  The company predicts an operating margin of almost 30
percent for the Asia-Pacific region this fiscal year, according
to the call transcript. That compares with the Americas which is
expected to rise to “slightly” more than 20 percent. The U.S.
had an operating margin of 19 percent last fiscal year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Starbucks rose 1.3 percent to $48.48 yesterday, boosting
its gain so far this month to 5.4 percent. The stock climbed 43
percent in 2011, the third straight  year  of gains.  Tata Global gained as much as 6.2 percent to 104 rupees in
India trading today and Tata Coffee rose as much as 1.5 percent
to 878.70 rupees.  India Retail Rules  India’s government on Jan. 10 raised the ownership limit to
100 percent for foreign retailers selling a single brand, a
decision benefiting companies including Starbucks. The new rules
require the overseas companies to procure at least 30 percent of
their products or inputs from small Indian companies if they own
more than 51 percent in the venture.  The Indian economy will expand an estimated 6.5 percent
this year, the fastest pace among developing Asian economies
excluding  China , according to January estimates from the World
Bank. The  Reserve Bank  of India projects 7 percent growth for
the 12 months ending March.  Starbucks is expanding in markets outside the U.S., whose
sales contribution has fallen in the past decade to less than 70
percent in the last fiscal year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company plans to open its first store in  Costa Rica  in
May, adding to locations in Central America including El
Salvador and  Guatemala .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  