-- Symmetry Ex-CEO Moore to Return $450,000 in SEC Clawback Suit
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-30T23:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/symmetry-ex-ceo-moore-to-return-450-000-in-sec-clawback-suit.html
Symmetry Medical Inc. (SMA) ’s former chief
executive officer will return $450,000 in pay and stock proceeds
to resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that
he profited from accounting fraud by a U.K. unit.  Brian S. Moore benefited from a scheme in which employees
inflated financial results in 2005 and 2006 “by systematically
understating expenses and overstating assets and revenues” at
Symmetry’s Thornton Precision Components Ltd. subsidiary, the
SEC said in a complaint filed today in federal court in  South
Bend ,  Indiana . The agency also settled claims against Symmetry
Chief Financial Officer Fred L. Hite, who will pay $210,000.  “Symmetry shareholders were investing their money -- and
Symmetry and TPC executives were collecting their bonuses --
based in part on inflated numbers,” said Stephen L. Cohen,
associate director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement.  The SEC recovered compensation from Moore and Hite under a
provision in the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  that gives the agency
authority to seize payouts to CEOs and CFOs at companies that
restate earnings “as a result of misconduct.” The law doesn’t
specify whether the executives must be involved in wrongdoing.  “It is important to emphasize that the SEC did not accuse
Mr. Moore of any wrongdoing,” Russell G. Ryan, an attorney for
Moore at King & Spaulding LLP, said in an e-mail statement. “He
is glad to have put the matter behind him.” A lawyer for Hite
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Moore and Hite resolved the SEC claims without admitting or
denying wrongdoing.  Symmetry, a South Bend-based firm that designs, develops
and manufactures surgical instruments, discovered “accounting
irregularities” in 2007 and has “cooperated with the SEC since
then,” president and CEO Thomas J. Sullivan said in a telephone
interview. The company wasn’t accused sanctioned.  Congress passed Sarbanes-Oxley in 2002 to combat corporate
fraud after accounting scandals at Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.
eroded investor confidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  