-- U.S. January Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-01-30T17:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/u-s-january-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity increased in January, according to business executives
responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key
measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 0.2 to 5.8, suggesting growth
resumed this month.  Other measures of current manufacturing conditions also indicated growth in
January. The new orders index jumped to 9.5, its highest reading in six months,
after two months in negative territory. Similarly, the shipments index turned
positive after two negative readings, rising from -1.1 to 6.1. Capacity utilization
increased further in January; the index moved up from 4 to 8.5. Twenty-eight percent
of manufacturers noted higher capacity utilization, the highest share in nine months.  Perceptions of broader economic conditions were notably more positive in
January. The general business activity index shot up to 15.3 after dipping into
negative territory in December. Nearly a quarter of manufacturers noted improvement
in the level of business activity, while nine percent noted a worsening. The company
outlook index also increased markedly, rising from 5 to 13.5. Both indexes reached
their highest readings in 10 months.  Labor market indicators reflected continued labor demand growth. The employment
index came in at 12.2, up from 9.9 in December. Twenty-one percent of firms reported
hiring new workers, while nine percent reported layoffs. The hours worked index
continued to suggest average workweeks lengthened.  Prices and wages increased in January. The raw materials price index was 24.4,
little changed from December. The finished goods price index climbed from -0.8 to 9,
suggesting selling prices rose. Forty-seven percent of respondents anticipate
further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 32 percent
expect higher finished goods prices. The January wages and benefits index came in at
17.5, down slightly from a reading of 19.4 in December but still indicative of
rising labor costs.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were markedly more optimistic
in January. The index of future general business activity rose sharply from 9.5 to
22.3, reaching its highest level in almost a year. The index of future company
outlook came in at 27.9, up from 19.9 last month. Other indexes for future
manufacturing activity also increased.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected Jan.
17-25, and 92 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or
remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease.  Next release: February 27, 2012 