-- U.S. Lowers First-Quarter Borrowing Estimate
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-30T21:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/u-s-cuts-first-quarter-borrowing-estimate-by-97-billion-to-444-billion.html
The U.S. Treasury Department lowered
its  borrowing  estimate for the current quarter by 18 percent to
$444 billion, reflecting higher receipts and lower spending.  The Treasury reduced its net borrowing estimate for January
through March by $97 billion from a projection of $541 billion
three months ago. U.S. Treasury officials also see net borrowing
of $200 billion in the second quarter. The estimates set the
stage for the Treasury’s quarterly refunding announcement on
Feb. 1.  An accelerating economy is boosting  tax revenue , helping
the administration of President  Barack Obama  control a  budget
deficit  it forecasts will narrow to $956 billion this fiscal
year. Gross domestic product expanded at a 2.8 percent annual
pace in the fourth quarter of last year, the most since the
second quarter of 2010.  “If Congress can hold  government spending  in place, the
deficit may finally come in at under $1 trillion in the not-too-
distant future,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said by e-mail
after the estimates were released.  The government posted a deficit of $1.3 trillion in fiscal
2011, which ended Sept. 30. That was about equal to the
shortfall in the previous year and was the third-highest budget
gap as a share of the economy since 1945, according to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,313.02 at the close of trading in New York as  Greece  sparred
with European officials over the terms of a rescue package. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.85
percent at 4:26 p.m. from 1.89 percent late on Jan. 27.  Cash Balances  The Treasury said its forecasts assume a cash balance of
$30 billion for the first quarter and $90 billion for the April-
to-June period.  “The economy has recovered from the many setbacks it faced
early last year and is clearly starting to firm,” Janice Eberly, Treasury’s assistant secretary for economic policy, said
in a statement today in  Washington . “While we are cautiously
optimistic about the near-term outlook, we remain cognizant of
the many challenges our economy still faces.”  For the quarter that ended Dec. 31, the Treasury said it
borrowed a net $310 billion, compared with a previous estimate
of $305 billion.  The Senate voted on Jan. 26 to permit an increase in the
nation’s debt limit designed to be large enough to accommodate
borrowing through the November election. The vote was required
by a budget agreement last year in which Republicans agreed to
give Obama the power to unilaterally raise the debt ceiling so
long as they didn’t have to pass it.  ‘Running Higher’  “Cash balances have been running higher through January
than they were in the months leading up to the end of 2011,”
Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in  New York  at
Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer, said in a note before
the report. “If Treasury’s cash needs grow, there is room to
draw down on existing balances instead of issuing such a
substantial amount of new debt.”  The Treasury Department has said it expects no need for
another increase in the debt limit until after the November
election, though it’s impossible to say for certain because tax
revenue can vary widely with the strength of the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  