-- Railroads Would Get Until 2020 to Add Crash Systems in Plan
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-01-30T23:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/u-s-railroads-get-5-more-years-for-crash-technology-in-proposal.html
Railroads including  Warren Buffett ’s
 Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNI)  would get five more years to
install crash-avoidance technology -- a project estimated to
cost about $12 billion -- under a proposal by the U.S.  House
transportation  committee.  The deadline would move to Dec. 31, 2020 from Dec. 31,
2015, according to a draft copy of legislation to provide long-
term funding for highway and transit programs obtained by
Bloomberg News. The House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee is scheduled to release the draft tomorrow.  A 2008 law enacted after a California train collision
killed 25 people requires railroads to install technology to
stop or slow trains to prevent crashes on lines used to
transport passengers or toxic chemicals by the end of 2015. Some
railroads say that the necessary technology won’t be available
in time to meet that deadline.  “The idea that you could do this on a more rational,
planned basis” is a win for railroads, Tony Hatch, an
independent transportation analyst based in  New York , said in a
phone interview. “You’re still going to spend the same, maybe
even more, amounts of money but you’ll be able to do it over a
longer period of time.”  The Federal Railroad Administration estimated in 2010 it
would cost railroads $13.2 billion over 20 years to install and
maintain the systems. When the agency last year proposed changes
to the rule that would exempt as much as 14,000 miles of track,
it said railroads would save as much as $1 billion over 20
years.  Wabtec Corp. (WAB) , the maker of the only on-board computer
technology approved by the Federal Railroad Administration to
comply with the mandate, fell 4.1 percent to $69.16 in New York
at the close of trading. That’s the steepest drop since Nov. 9.
in the Wilmerding, Pennsylvania-based company’s share price.  Most Expensive Mandate  The requirement is the most expensive U.S. government
mandate in history for the country’s railroads, according to the
 Association of American Railroads , the Washington-based trade
group that represents the industry.  The association has said the rule’s costs outweigh its
benefits and that railroads might not be able to develop and
test the technology in time to meet the deadline.  CSX Corp. (CSX)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Ward said last
week that a 2015 deadline wasn’t possible because the technology
necessary wouldn’t be available in time. The Jacksonville,
Florida-based railroad, the largest in the eastern U.S., will
spend about $250 million this year toward fulfilling the
mandate, Ward said on an earnings conference call.  CSX, Union Pacific  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad by revenue,
projects it will spend about $2 billion through 2015, a $600
million increase over last year’s estimate, to install the
technology, Lance Fritz, executive vice president of operations,
said on a Jan. 19 earnings call.  The Omaha, Nebraska-based railroad spent $400 million
through 2011 on the crash-avoidance technology known as positive
train control and plans to invest about $335 million this year,
Fritz said. While the 2015 implementation date poses “some
pretty big challenges,” the company is making a “good-faith
effort” to meet the deadline, he said.  California Democratic senators  Dianne Feinstein  and  Barbara Boxer  last week wrote to Joseph Szabo, head of the Federal
Railroad Administration, saying they are “deeply concerned that
falling behind” on deploying the new systems “could prompt
attempts to extend the 2015 deadline.”  The senators urged Szabo to include in the railroad
agency’s fiscal 2013 budget request a description of how the
amount it is seeking will be enough to ensure that railroads
meet the deadline. Feinstein and Boxer also asked Szabo to give
Congress a status report on railroads’ progress in implementing
these safety systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  