-- U.S. Midwest Jobs Return as Applesauce Lifts Obama
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-31T20:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/u-s-midwest-jobs-return-as-applesauce-joins-cars-to-lift-obama.html
(Corrects name of Materne North America in 23rd paragraph
of story published yesterday.)  From northern  Michigan ’s iron mines
to  Pennsylvania ’s natural-gas fields, the industrial heartland
of America is humming with jobs again as a region once left for
dead recovers faster than the rest of the U.S.  The turnaround may shape this year’s race for the White
House as President  Barack Obama  seeks to reverse Republican
gains in the Midwest. The  title  of his State of the Union
address, “An America Built to Last,” evoked a theme of
manufacturing’s revival meant to resonate on the campaign trail.  The economies of Michigan,  Indiana , Ohio and Pennsylvania
-- all states Obama won in  2008  -- have improved faster than
that of the U.S. since the recession’s depth in April 2009,
according to the Philadelphia Federal Reserve. Michigan is
expected to lead all 50 states during the next six months, the
Fed data show.  “We’re going back to a region we abandoned a long time ago
to get energy again from rocks that were already drilled a
thousand times,” said Clay Williams, chief financial officer
for Houston-based  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , which started in
Oil City, Pennsylvania, in 1862. “We’re going back to our
roots.”  Economic recovery in so-called Rust Belt states may bolster
re-election chances for Obama, who pushed the U.S.-backed
bailout of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, both based
in Michigan. He visited the state in a three-day campaign swing
following his speech, and was greeted by guest editorials in
Detroit newspapers from Republican National Chairman Reince
Priebus and Michigan GOP Chairman Robert Schostak criticizing
his record on the economy.  Penokee Hills Comeback  Yet from Detroit and Pittsburgh to Peoria,  Illinois , and
the town of Mellen in  Wisconsin ’s Penokee Hills, employers plan
to add jobs and facilities. Automakers are ramping up production
as demand returns, energy companies are exploiting oil and
natural-gas sources, commodity prices are supporting a return to
long-closed iron and copper mines, and agriculture companies are
finding new export markets.  National Oilwell Varco, the largest U.S. maker of oilfield
equipment, is hiring workers in  Ohio  and Pennsylvania and
opening operations that distribute tools and service equipment
to companies extracting oil from shale deposits, Williams said
in an interview. The company has beaten the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index, about 135 percent to 43 percent, since July 1, 2009.  Improvement in unemployment, which dropped 19 percent in
Ohio and 29 percent in Michigan from April 2009 through the end
of last year, is a key driver for the Midwest recovery, said
Jason Novak, senior economic analyst for the Philadelphia Fed.  Economic Health  Michigan, Ohio and Indiana all ranked among the top eight
performers for improvement of economic health in the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States from the third quarter of 2009
through the third quarter of last year, the most recent period
available.  Automakers are increasing production after U.S. light-
vehicle sales rose at least 10 percent for two straight years
for the first time since 1984. This month, GM announced it had
regained the title as the top-selling global automaker, which it
lost to Toyota as it slid into bankruptcy.  The Obama campaign is banking on the U.S. auto industry’s
comeback to damp the appeal of Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  in Michigan, where his father was a popular
governor, as well as to reverse Ohio’s swing to Republicans in
the 2010 mid-term elections.  Fracking Payoff  Ohio added 72,400 jobs last year. That included 18,300
manufacturing positions after losing 419,400 such jobs from 1999
to 2009, federal data show.  Vallourec SA announced in February 2010 that it would build
a rolling mill in Youngstown next to its V&M Star facility to
produce seamless tubes for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.
The plant is to be completed this quarter and employ 350 people,
the company has said.  U.S. Steel invested $100 million in its Lorain Tubular
Operations to serve oil and natural-gas customers, creating
about 150 temporary construction jobs and 100 full-time
positions, spokeswoman Courtney A. Boone said in an e-mail.  Ohio’s unemployment was 8.1 percent in December, down from
9.5 percent a year earlier and the lowest since December 2008,
 according  to the Ohio Bureau of Labor Market Information.  A study commissioned by Ohio’s oil and gas industry
projects that by 2015 drilling could help fuel $12 billion in
spending while creating and supporting more than 200,000 Ohio-
based jobs.  ‘Another Chance’  “People in the eastern part of this state -- who have been
living, in many ways, in poverty with the shutdown of great
industrial production in Ohio -- they may have another chance,”
Republican Governor John Kasich said at a Columbus energy summit
in September.  The recovery isn’t just about autos and shale -- it’s all
sorts of related industries, said Steve Steinour, Huntington
Bancshares Inc.’s chief executive officer.  “We’re seeing now a revival that no one had expected in
this sort of time frame,” said Steinour, who is to speak today
at the  Detroit  Economic Club on the theme “Is the Midwest
Leading the Economic Recovery?”  Huntington, a Columbus, Ohio-based bank that recently
opened its first branches in Detroit, is in the midst of a $2
billion lending binge in Michigan, where unemployment dropped to
9.3 percent in December from 11.1 percent a year earlier.  The state has created a seven-person team focused on
exporting products to other countries, including a pilot program
to identify 100 companies that can sell  consumer goods  to  China ,
said Mike Finney, chief executive officer of the  Michigan
Economic Development Corporation . Other industries also are
improving.  Applesauce a Savior  “Mining is something that’s picking up fairly
aggressively here,” said Finney, referring to iron-ore
operations adding jobs in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Also,
“the agriculture sector here is really doing well.”  Agricultural co-op  Cherry Growers Inc.  is adding production
lines with about 94 jobs during the next three years in Grawn to
manufacture applesauce snacks for New York-based Materne  North
America . The  Gogo SqueeZ  treats produced in the northern
Michigan factory are sold throughout the U.S. at Wal-Mart,
Target and Whole Foods.  The new jobs, which rely heavily on automation, are a good
fit for unemployed autoworkers, Cherry Growers President Brian
Mitchell said in an interview. The $8.5 million expansion,
funded in part by Huntington and Finney’s public-private
partnership, has already generated 55 positions, he said.  Michigan gained 66,000 jobs in 2011, according to a Jan. 13
state  report . It was the first gain in the state since the turn
of the century. The Research Seminar in Quantitative Economics
at the  University of Michigan  predicts a net increase of 26,000
jobs this year, 28,500 in 2013, and 46,800 in 2014.  Thanks, Marcellus  The Rust Belt rebound also means  office space  is nearly
full in Pittsburgh as natural-gas exploration companies and
others move in, Steinour said. Pittsburgh on Jan. 19 received
improved outlooks on its credit ratings from Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s -- going to stable from negative -
- after shoring up its pension funds.  Pennsylvania has seen increases in jobs and  tax revenue 
with the development of the Marcellus shale. Activity has risen
to 1,751 wells drilled in 2011 from 195 in 2008, according to
the state’s Environmental Protection Department. Republican
Governor Tom Corbett has said he wants his state to be the
“Texas of the natural-gas boom.”  The state is vying with Ohio and  West Virginia  to attract
Royal Dutch Shell LP’s so-called cracker plant, which breaks
down natural gas into other chemicals. The company, which may
announce a decision this quarter, has said it plans to invest at
least $3.5 billion in the plant.  New Iron Age  Other Midwestern states are seeing their own moribund
industries revive. In Wisconsin, the state Assembly on Jan. 26
sent to the Senate a bill designed to streamline the state’s
mining-permit process that supporters say will clear the way for
Gogebic Taconite LLC to create about 700 iron-mining jobs near
Lake Superior in the town of Mellen.  In Illinois, where unemployment fell to 9.8 percent last
month after hitting 11.2 percent in January 2010, Peoria’s
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  is expanding to meet demand for shovels and
trucks that miners use to dig coal, copper and ore.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, announced plans in November to invest $300
million to expand a Decatur factory that builds trucks, and $340
million to manufacture tractors in East Peoria.  “We’ve always heard this Rust Belt thing about our region,
even just a few years ago,” said Huntington CEO Steinour,
speaking of the disparaging image of closed factories and
declining industry. “But you don’t hear it so much now, and we
might not have to hear it much in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 