-- Three UBS Clients Accused of Hiding Offshore Money From IRS
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-31T22:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ubs-clients-charged-for-concealing-assets-in-foreign-accounts.html
Three ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  clients, including
two who ran venture capital firms, were indicted on charges of
hiding millions of dollars in assets from U.S. tax authorities
through the use of secret offshore accounts.  Stephen M. Kerr and Michael Quiel, who separately ran
venture capital firms, were charged in an indictment made public
yesterday in federal court in Phoenix. A former San Diego
attorney, Christopher M. Rusch, was arrested Jan. 29 in Miami
after being expelled from Panama at the request of the U.S.
government.  Kerr, who ran CCN Worldwide Inc., had accounts worth more
than $5.6 million in 2007 that he failed to report to the
 Internal Revenue Service , according to a Justice Department
statement and the Dec. 8 indictment.  Quiel, who ran Legend Advisory Corp., had accounts valued
at more than $2.6 million in 2007 that he also failed to report
to the IRS, according to prosecutors and the indictment. He was
arrested in the Phoenix area.  Rusch had signature authority over secret accounts held by
Kerr and Quiel, and helped facilitate their transactions,
prosecutors said. Rusch also had secret offshore accounts in the
names of others at UBS and a Panamanian bank, prosecutors said.  Golf Course  Rusch used a Panamanian entity he controlled to help Kerr
buy a golf course in  Colorado  with money moved from Kerr’s Swiss
accounts, prosecutors said. Rusch used his client trust account
to transfer funds to Swiss accounts held by Kerr and Quiel and
to repatriate their funds back to the U.S., prosecutors said.  “I expect that my client is going to vigorously defend
himself,” Michael Lipman, an attorney for Rusch with Duane
Morris LLP, said in a telephone interview. “We expect to be
exonerated at the appropriate time.”  In the past three years, prosecutors have filed tax charges
against at least 40 U.S. clients of UBS and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s two biggest banks; London-based  HSBC (HSBA)  Holding
Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank; and other banks. They also have
charged at least 24 bankers, advisers and attorneys.  Kerr, Quiel and Rusch were charged with conspiring to
defraud the IRS. Kerr and Quiel were charged with filing false
tax returns in 2007 and 2008 and with failing to file Reports of
Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts for those years.  The case is  United States  v. Kerr, 11-cr-02385, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  