-- HudBay Seeking ‘Toeholds’ in Mineral Explorers Rather Than Larger Deals
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-01-30T15:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/hudbay-seeking-toeholds-in-mineral-explorers-rather-than-larger-deals.html
HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM) , a Canadian
copper and zinc producer, said it plans to expand by buying
“toeholds” in exploration companies rather than acquiring or
merging with rivals.  “It’s what we like to euphemistically call our farm
system,” Chief Executive Officer David Garofalo said in a Jan.
26 interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto bureau. “We’re trying to
fund promising drill programs, and if they find something
meaningful we have a seat at the table.”  HudBay, which has mines and processing operations in
Manitoba, is expanding production as base-metals demand rises.
The Toronto-based company is building two new mines in Canada
and plans to start construction this year at its Constancia
project in  Peru . HudBay forecasts copper production will more
than triple by 2016 while zinc output will increase by about 65
percent.  HudBay acquired the Constancia project when it bought
Norsemont Mining Inc. in July for C$305 million ($303 million).
HudBay abandoned a C$780.7 million agreement to buy  Canada ’s
Lundin Mining Corp. in 2009, after HudBay investors said the
proposed deal undervalued their company. Garofalo, who joined
HudBay as CEO in July 2010 from Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., said
he’s cautious about big transactions.  “We’ve seen some large-scale M&A happen on the gold side
and the base-metals side in the last couple of years and we
think that’s largely been disastrous in terms of per-share value
creation,” Garofalo said. “I think what the market is saying
is, ‘Do smaller deals and try to use cash.’”  Mining Transactions  There were $43.7 billion of mining acquisitions larger than
$1 billion completed in the last two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest by a copper miner was Quadra
Mining Ltd.’s March 2010 purchase of FNX Mining Co. for C$1
billion. The combined company, Quadra FNX Mining Ltd., fell 33
percent before Quadra said it agreed to a takeover offer last
month from KGHM Polska Miedz SA, while the S&P/TSX Materials
Index rose 14 percent.  Garofalo expects copper prices will rebound in 2012,
supported by Chinese demand for the metal and constraints on
supply. Copper futures declined 23 percent last year on the
Comex in  New York . The industrial metal used in pipes and wires
climbed 3.8 percent last week and was up 13 percent in January.  “I think demand from  China  is much more robust than people
had assumed,” Garofalo said. “ Europe  is a bit of a cloud, but
Europe is really not the catalyst for copper prices right now.”  Zinc Mining  Zinc prices, which fell 25 percent last year in  London , are
probably near a floor, as investors anticipate the metal moving
from a supply surplus to deficit in the next couple of years,
Garofalo said. There are some large primary zinc mines scheduled
to close starting 2013, he said.  “I don’t see a lot of downside in zinc,” Garofalo said.
“It’s going to be like flicking a switch, it will go from
surplus to deficit very quickly when those closures happen.”  HudBay will announce updated cost estimates for Constancia
after completing a feasibility study in the next few months,
Garofalo said. The company is also in “advanced” negotiations
with export-credit agencies for debt financing to help fund
development at Constancia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  