-- Turkey Yield Curve Normalizes at Short-End as Funding Costs Drop
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-30T15:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/turkey-yield-curve-normalizes-at-short-end-as-funding-costs-drop.html
Yields on one-year Turkish debt fell
below two-year bonds for the first time in 1 1/2 months as the
lira’s advance encouraged the central bank to cut the lenders’
borrowing costs.  The yield on two-year debt reached 9.60 percent today, 27
basis points above that of its one-year counterpart. This is in
contrast with the one-year yield being 75 basis above the two-
year’s as of Jan. 2, resulting in an inverted curve over the
one- and two-year maturity.  The lira strengthened 4.7 percent this year against the
equally-weighted dollar and euro basket, and appreciated 2.9
percent last week against the dollar after the U.S. Federal
Reserve forecast “exceptionally low”  interest rates  through
2014 and the Turkish central bank sold dollars in direct sales
and conducted daily auctions in January.  “ The bank is closely watching the lira basket and with
this below 2.10 they are adopting a dovish stance again,”  Gyula Toth , Vienna-based chief strategist for emerging  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa  at UniCredit SpA, said in e-mailed
comments today. “This will continue until the basket is firm
and global risk mood is O.K.”  Inflation at 10.5 percent in December touched a three-year
high and prompted the central bank to halt funding at its lower
lending rate. The bank refrained from funding at 5.75 percent
between Dec. 28 and Jan. 10, forcing banks to borrow at rates as
high as 12.5 percent. The bank has been lending at its lower
rate after Jan. 10.  The currency weakened 18 percent last year in the worst
performance worldwide after a current-account deficit at 10
percent of gross domestic product hurt investor sentiment. Its
depreciation also contributed to a rise in inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  