-- Wall Street Wants a Rebound, Needs a Shakeup: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/wall-street-wants-rebound-needs-shakeup-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
One of the many questions plaguing
the occupants of the C-suites on Wall Street these days is
whether the malaise in their  investment-banking  and trading
businesses is merely a temporary downturn caused by the sluggish
global economy and tougher regulation or whether it is
indicative of a broader, more systemic change in the industry.  At  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , where fourth-quarter net
income fell 58 percent, the thinking seems to be that the
business slowdown is temporary. When the cycle turns back
upward, it is assumed, the firm will be well-positioned to get
more than its fair share of the fees that result from the pent-
up demand for its investment-banking services.  “The world will snap back, and it will be a surprise, and
it will be faster than people think,” Goldman Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd Blankfein said unequivocally at an investor
conference on Nov. 15.  On Jan. 18, after the firm released unimpressive fourth-
quarter earnings, David Viniar, Goldman’s longtime chief
financial officer, reiterated the party line that business would
probably improve, but then struck a more cautious tone. “We’ve
all been doing this for a long time, and we’ve seen downturns
before,” he told analysts. “Every time you’re in one it feels
like it’s never going to end and this world is different now.”
He continued: “So is it cyclical? Is it secular? It’s a very
difficult question to answer.”  Will Boom Again  Other banking honchos are also scratching their heads on
this subject.  Jamie Dimon  of  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  thinks
investment banking will pick up significantly when the economy
improves because it is an inherently cyclical business.
“There’s no part of the investment bank that is naturally
stable,” he said on Jan. 13. “I think when things come back,
these numbers will boom again.”  But Vikram Pandit, the chief executive officer of
Citigroup, is closer to being in the Viniar camp. “The cycle
that brought us here is not the cycle that is going to bring us
out of this,” he told a panel at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland , last week. “It is going to be a new cycle,
it is going to be a new paradigm and we are all still searching
for it. As we search for it, it creates uncertainty. It creates
uncertainty that is of a kind that goes well beyond risk.”  Ruth Porat, the chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley,
is unsure, too. “It’s either a slow cyclical recovery or
secular, and I don’t think it’s clear what it is,” she told
Dawn Kopecki and Christine Harper of  Bloomberg News . “However
you look at it, it’s a slower growth environment.”  It is hardly surprising that these executives are hoping
for a return to the status quo. After all, they are responsible
for the jobs and livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of people
worldwide and, despite the Hollywood image of the callous  Wall
Street  executive -- “Margin Call,” anyone? -- nobody can
possibly enjoy firing thousands of people and then having to
admit that the size of one’s kingdom is shrinking. Plus, their
own fortunes and considerable power depend on commanding armies
of loyal subjects and trillions of dollars in assets. On Wall
Street, it seems, more is always better.  Still, whether Blankfein and Dimon turn out to be right,
and Wall Street’s fortunes snap back bigger and better than
ever, is no longer the real point. What is essential at this
crucial moment in Wall Street’s history is that industry leaders
like Blankfein and Dimon begin to redefine what Wall Street is
about and take meaningful steps to restore the confidence that
Americans have lost in banking and the  capital markets  -- in
other words, the very essence of capitalism.  Other People’s Money  What’s needed from these executives is not some vague hope
that the status quo gets restored, but a road map for an
entirely new way of doing business on Wall Street.  For starters, this would include ending the casino-like
atmosphere that has reigned for decades, in which bankers and
traders are encouraged to take big risks with other people’s
money in hopes of getting huge bonuses. That swing-for-the-
fences incentive system brought us, among others, the collapses
of Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch,  Lehman Brothers  and AIG, and the
near-collapses of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. It also
brought us the pathetic -- and quite needless -- collapse of MF
Global. The pay system on Wall Street must change to one where
the armies of bankers and traders are rewarded to take prudent,
well-reasoned risks with their shareholders’ money.  Blankfein and Dimon could begin to rectify this dynamic by
paying the people who work at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan less --
easily 50 percent less in terms of salary and bonus -- in order
to create more profits for the shareholders who actually own the
companies. (Yes, banks have cut compensation costs in recent
years -- including Morgan Stanley and now  Bank of America Corp., 
which said last week that cash bonuses will be capped at around
$125,000 -- but otherwise Wall Street has preferred to cut
people rather than change pay scales in a way that will truly
change the culture.)  How do public companies on Wall Street continue to get away
with paying out 40 percent to 50 percent of revenue as
compensation to employees? Where is it written in stone that a
Wall Street banker or trader, with little or none of his or her
personal capital at risk, deserves a million-dollar bonus, or
more, year after year? Hearing their weepy stories of
disappointment on Compensation Communication Day, as bonus day
is referred to at Goldman Sachs, isn’t just absurd, it is
insulting to every other hard-working American not lucky enough
to have a desk at Goldman.  What’s needed is not a return of the status quo on Wall
Street, but a whole new way of thinking about the industry and
its role in the global economy.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 