-- What Jesus Might Say on Political Issues Debated in Survey of Christians
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-01-30T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/what-jesus-might-say-on-political-issues-debated-in-survey-of-christians.html
Christians in the U.S. who labeled
themselves politically liberal or conservative told researchers
Jesus wouldn’t necessarily agree with their social views if he
were alive today, according to a study.  The conservatives said Jesus would probably be more against
abortion and same-sex marriage than they are, and less opposed
to helping illegal immigrants obtain citizenship. Liberals
believe Jesus would be tougher than them on morality and more
open on questions concerning fellowship.  The researchers asked 787 self-identified Christians to use
a 100-point scale representing liberal to conservative to gauge
Jesus’s views. The results, reported today in the Proceedings of
the  National Academy of Sciences , confirms previous findings
that people often separate political views from traditional
religious teachings.  “Liberals are conceding that they’re deviating from Jesus
on their views on moral issues and conservatives are conceding
that they are deviating from Jesus on fellowship issues,” Lee
Ross, the study’s lead author, said in an interview. “They
differed almost as much in Jesus’s views as their own.”  The research, completed using an online survey, was
designed to look at how rationalizing is easier as a group than
alone, said  Ross , a professor of psychology at  Stanford
University  near  Palo Alto ,  California .  On defining marriage to exclude same-sex couples, survey
participants recorded a 32-point difference between their
political views. There was 54-point difference, though, on what
they said Jesus would say.  Elections Loom  With U.S. elections looming, people may need to be reminded
that the Bible doesn’t take a stand on modern-day issues, said
Corwin Smidt, a political science professor at Calvin College in
 Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , who wasn’t involved with the study.  “Be cautious about projecting where Jesus stands on these
issues, and be a little more charitable to your opponent,” said
 Smidt , director of the Henry Institute for the Study of
Christianity and Politics at the college.  Shaun Casey , professor of Christian ethics at Wesley
Theological Seminary in  Washington  and President Barack Obama’s
faith adviser during his 2008 presidential campaign, said he was
disappointed the study defined Christians only as liberal and
conservative. Many Christians are a mix of both, depending on
the issue, he said.  “One’s religious community does shape your politics,”
Casey said by telephone. “It’s very complex how people actually
do that. How do you account for movement across the political
spectrum from some of these religious groups over time?”  About 32 percent of U.S. Protestants and 23 percent of
Roman Catholics identify themselves as Republican and 32 percent
of Protestants and 33 percent of Catholics are Democrats,
according to a  survey  by the Washington-based Pew Forum on
Religion and Public Life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  