-- View: iPads Won’t Make Textbooks More Affordable
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-30T00:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/why-ipads-won-t-make-students-textbooks-more-affordable-view.html
In his State of the Union  address ,
 Barack Obama  called on colleges and universities to control
their costs -- a message he reinforced in his  speech  a few days
later at the  University of Michigan . One good place to start
would be to reduce the price that college students pay for
textbooks.  If ever an industry were deserving of digital destruction,
it would be the  $10 billion textbook market . A handful of
companies sell almost all primary, secondary and higher-
education textbooks. At the college and university level, where
19 million students spent $4.5 billion in 2010 on texts that
they were all but compelled to buy, many schools own  bookstores 
and get a cut of the sales.  The rationale for pricing can be opaque: You can buy  Paul Krugman ’s economics textbook for $166 at Barnes & Noble in the
U.S., or you can purchase it from Blackwell’s in the U.K. for
less than half that. The federal government helps to underwrite
annual textbook price increases by baking their cost into
financial-aid calculations.  No wonder textbook prices rose 186 percent in the U.S. from
1986 to 2004. That’s slightly more than 6 percent a year, versus
an overall inflation rate of 3 percent. Although students at
four-year private institutions might not blink at spending well
over $700 a year on books and supplies, for students at public
two-year schools, who account for roughly 40 percent of all
post-secondary students, that can represent more than half their
academic costs.  Interactive Texts  Enter  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the Great Disruptor, which recently
announced with great fanfare that its iBooks 2 and iBooks Author
software would “reinvent” textbooks by offering richer, truly
interactive texts at a more affordable price. More importantly,
new software tools will democratize textbook creation by
allowing users to easily combine video, music and text, and to
create new course materials.  We don’t yet know Apple’s plans to enter the college
textbook market, much less its potential pricing framework. The
K-12 textbooks that Apple is offering through partnerships with
big textbook producers such as  Pearson Plc (PSON) ,  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and
Houghton-Mifflin Harcourt Publishing seem like a multimedia
bargain at $14.99.  But that price doesn’t really offer big savings to strapped
school systems: It covers just one student for one course year,
not the three to five years that you would get out of a $65 ink-
and-paper version. For college students to save money buying
digital textbooks, the pricing would have to reflect both the
fractional cost of the device they would need to buy and the
money that they can get back by selling the textbook to another
student -- something they can’t do with e-textbooks.  To our eyes, Apple seems less intent on disrupting the
textbook cartel than on joining it. Its iBooks 2 format is only
truly functional on Apple machines. And anyone who wants to sell
a textbook made with Author must do so through Apple and give
the company a 30 percent cut. Big publishers are happy because
digital textbooks not only lower their production and
distribution costs -- it’s not cheap to ship textbooks weighing
several pounds -- but also provide a platform for introducing
speedy updates while destroying the market for cheaper used
textbooks.  Given the strict proprietary restrictions that Apple has
put in place, we also see another odd wrinkle: your tax dollars
fattening Apple’s ample bottom line. In 2008,  almost half  of all
full-time, full-year undergraduates got some kind of federal
aid, to the tune of roughly $100 billion. If a professor wants
to assign a text accessible only on $500 iPads -- well, you get
the point. There is one straightforward way to help students
realize the  full cost benefits  of digital texts. The Department
of Education could require that digital texts at institutions
that receive federal financing be platform-neutral, readable on
whatever device a student chooses to use.  Promising Approach  Another promising approach to reducing costs would be to
push the spread of  Open Educational Resources : texts and
curriculum materials that will be accessible to all, free, under
a Creative Commons license. This approach underlies the  program 
that Obama touted in his State of the Union and Michigan
speeches, under which community colleges and businesses team up
to provide students with education and training. The state of
 Utah  just announced that it will develop and support open
textbooks for the study of secondary languages, arts, science
and mathematics; earlier pilot programs provided the state’s
high-school science students with texts at  $5 a book , compared
with an average cost of $80 for a typical text.  E-learning, though, still has a long way to go before it is
widely adopted: Digital textbooks accounted for less than 5
percent of textbook sales last year. In the meantime, to put the
print-textbook industry on notice, how about asking the Federal
Trade Commission and the  Department of Justice  to look into
publishers’ efforts to block the re-importation of textbooks
from foreign countries, and the existence of huge international
disparities in the prices of identical textbooks? Education,
after all, begins with open books.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 