-- Wireless Companies to Face New U.S. Disclosure Rules in Bill
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-01-30T19:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/wireless-companies-to-face-new-u-s-disclosure-rules-under-bill.html
Mobile carriers such as AT&T Inc.
and makers of wireless devices including HTC Corp. would be
required to disclose when phones contain monitoring software
under draft legislation in the U.S. House.  The proposed measure released today responds to concerns of
lawmakers who learned last year that mobile-phone software
provider Carrier IQ Inc. gathered data on wireless phone users.  “Consumers have the right to know and to say no to the
presence of software on their mobile devices that can collect
and transmit their personal and sensitive information,”
Representative Ed Markey, a Democrat from  Massachusetts  who
wrote the bill, said in a statement.  Carrier IQ, based in  Mountain View ,  California , sparked a
debate on the collection of mobile-phone user data and consumer
privacy. European regulators started investigating the company’s
software after a security researcher posted a 17-minute  YouTube
video  Nov. 28 detailing data logs collected by Carrier IQ.  The disclosure requirements in Markey’s draft bill would
apply to companies that make or sell mobile phones, providers of
telecommunications services and businesses that let consumers
download software with monitoring capabilities.  The  Federal Trade Commission  would be required to issue
regulations requiring those companies to get consent from
consumers before any software begins collecting and transmitting
data, according to the draft.  Companies would be required to disclose the existence of
monitoring software when a consumer buys a mobile phone or after
a sale when the software is later installed.  Disclosure Concern  The disclosure must specify that the monitoring software
has been installed; the types of information collected; the
identity of a third party to which information is transmitted;
and how data is used, according to the draft.  Andrew Coward, vice president of marketing for Carrier,
said phone companies have the option to activate or not use
Carrier’s software.  “Utilizing this option is a decision for each network
operator balancing a number of factors including the critical
need to ensure optimal network and device performance and
consumer concerns about privacy,” Coward said.  The company said in a Dec. 12 report on its website it had
discovered a software bug that allowed collection of some user
text message data. Carrier IQ said the data was unreadable and
that it didn’t gather or transmit the contents of e-mails,
keystrokes or any details from mobile phone users’ address
books. The company said its software allows collection of URLs,
which may include online search histories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  