-- Four German States Say Inflation Quickened in January on Energy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-30T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/two-german-states-say-inflation-accelerated-in-january-on-energy.html
Inflation (GRCP2SAY)  in four German states
accelerated in January as fuel and food costs rose.  Inflation rates increased in North Rhine-Westphalia,
Brandenburg, Saxony and Hesse, the states’ statistics offices
said. Inflation slowed in Bavaria and held steady in Baden
Wuerttemberg.  German inflation , calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, will quicken to 2.4 percent from 2.3 percent,
according to the median of 23 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of economists. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
delayed publication of that report today, citing new EU
standards. The non-harmonized rate eased to 2 percent from 2.1
percent, it said.  “Within the next few months inflation should come down
below the 2 percent mark,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief
economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “Even though the
economy shrank in the last quarter, the signs are that we’ll
avoid a technical recession.”  The sovereign debt crisis is weighing on growth and
threatening to tip the 17-nation euro region into recession. The
 European Central Bank  kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
at a record low of 1 percent this month after two reductions.
President  Mario Draghi  said while the economy is showing
“tentative” signs of stabilizing, “cost, wage and price
pressures in the euro area should remain modest.”  Energy, Food Prices  In Brandenburg, heating oil was 18.7 percent more expensive
in the year and cost 4.1 percent more than a month earlier. Fuel
prices rose 6.4 percent in the year and 2 percent in the month.
Food was 2.1 percent dearer than in January last year and prices
gained 0.6 percent in the month.  Euro-area inflation will remain at 2.7 percent in January,
according to the median of 38 estimates in another Bloomberg
survey. That report will be released on Feb. 1.  “A large chunk of European inflation has come from the
sharp rise in petrol prices in 2011,” said  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “As that starts to fade
out of the numbers you will start to see quite a slowdown.
Obviously the fairly weak state of the economy means wage
pressures will also remain fairly muted.”  The  International Monetary Fund  has forecast a recession
for the region, with gross domestic product contracting 0.5
percent this year as governments cut spending during the debt
crisis. The ECB last month lowered its 2012 growth forecast to
0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  Germany ’s statistics office on Jan. 11 estimated the
region’s biggest economy contracted about 0.25 percent in the
fourth quarter. Growth slowed to 3 percent in 2011 from 3.7
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  