-- Wolseley Sibling Lures Celebs With Lush Desserts: London Dining
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/wolseley-s-new-sibling-lures-celebs-with-seductive-desserts-london-dining.html
David Bailey is at the next table,
and that’s actress  Sharon Gless  by the window.  The Wolseley restaurant has a new sibling, and celebrities
already are filling it. The  Delaunay  -- the name of an old
French luxury auto -- is housed in an Art Deco-style room where
family dinners and dangerous liaisons are equally appropriate.  The Delaunay is on the Aldwych, home to several theaters,
Bush House, the High Commission of  India  and the  London School
of Economics . It’s about a 20-minute stroll from the Wolseley,
which is on Piccadilly.  The Wolseley has had few competitors in attracting actors
and artists, such as  Lucian Freud . On the day the painter died,
his table was left vacant, covered with a black tablecloth and
with a small night light. Both restaurants belong to Chris Corbin and  Jeremy King , the restaurateurs formerly behind the
 Ivy .  The Delaunay menu is central European. The ambience is of a
grand cafe where coffee and cakes are served all day, along with
a dollop of glamour and a soupcon of intrigue. The prices are
affordable, the service is discreet and the milieu rich.  Corbin and King are men for whom no detail is too minor.
You’ll usually see one of them unobtrusively working the floor,
stopping off for quiet conversations with diners while also
watching the service. The dining room feels expensive and
luxurious, yet the prices are restrained.  Gourmet Pizza  Most of the starters cost less than 10 pounds ($15.69). My
favorites include a superb, generous chopped-chicken salad with
herbs, and a tarte flambee with smoked bacon and shallots.
That’s like a gourmet thin-and-crispy pizza. The Welsh rarebit
is so magnificent that I eat it each time, though it’s not a
starter as such. The salad tiede of wild mushrooms is unbalanced
by too much vinegar, yet I enjoy it and have had it twice.  You may go along for just a few oysters or moules frites.
Among the main courses, I keep ordering the kedgeree: flaked
fish with egg, curry spices and creamy rice. I’ve done my duty
and tried a few dishes, including chicken schnitzel; sirloin
steak with butter and fries; and the great beef stroganoff.  There are also daily specials, including chicken curry on
Mondays and roast beef and Yorkshire pudding on Sundays.  Even in its opening days, the cooking and service were
generally good -- I’d say better than the Wolseley -- although
one evening several dishes turned up lukewarm. That’s a problem
if the butter takes an age to melt on your steak and the fries -
- even huddled together -- give up the fight against the cold.  Disguised Dessert  Talking of cold, the most exciting option on the menu is a
dessert: It hides behind the name of Kinder, but British readers
won’t fall for that disguise. It’s a knickerbocker glory, a tall
glass filled with raspberry, vanilla and chocolate ice creams,
whipped cream, marshmallows, meringue and chocolate sauce. It
costs 8.75 pounds and is better than a dangerous liaison. My
heart is racing just thinking about it. I’d better lie down.  Apart from this excursion into childhood, the Delaunay is a
grown-up restaurant. It’s hushed, and the soft lighting fills in
the lines on your face as smoothly as Botox. The old can feel
younger and the young can feel mature so both sides meet in that
comfortable no man’s land of middle age.  All the non-reserve wines are available by the glass and
carafe and they start below 20 pounds a bottle. For something a
little unusual, the Douro Branco “Dourosa” 2010 Quinta de la
Rosa (32.50 pounds) from  Portugal , with a hint of pink, is fresh
and citrusy and particularly good as an aperitif.  If you have any energy left, there’s a separate area that’s
hidden away in another room. This has a takeaway counter and a
few tables where you may sip coffee and have a bite to eat. It’s
a cafe within a cafe, like a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside
a sphinx: A riddle that’s solved with fine espresso and cakes.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 35 pounds plus wine  Sound level? About 70 decibels. Hushed.  Inside tip? All tables are good.  Special feature? It’s the only rival to the Wolseley.  Will I be back? Yes, often.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ****.  Delaunay is at 55 Aldwych,  London , WC2B 4BB. Information:
+44-20-7499-8558 or  http://www.thedelaunay.com/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 