-- World’s Highest Restaurant Has $1.5 Billion View With Caviar
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-01-30T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/world-s-highest-restaurant-has-1-5-billion-view-with-caviar-dubai-dining.html
At.mosphere restaurant on the 122nd
floor of  Burj Khalifa , Dubai’s final extravagance before the
financial crisis, offers a vista of the boom years.  Floor-to-ceiling windows look out over the sail-shaped Burj
al-Arab hotel, Sol Kerzner’s $1.5 billion Atlantis resort
jutting out from the tip of the manmade Palm Jumeirah island,
and beyond that, a huddle of towers near Dubai Marina.  “There are two kinds of people: One type gets a big thrill
from being at the top of the world’s tallest tower, the other
type is scared to go up there,”  Adam Tihany , the restaurant’s
New York-based designer, said in a telephone interview.  (Tihany’s designs include Daniel and Per Se in  New York ;
and Bar Boulud and Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  in  London .)  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  halted its Dubai projects after the
economic crisis, except for the 828-meter (2,717 foot) Burj
Khalifa, which opened in January 2010. (The company restarted
some projects last year.) Dubai received a $20 billion bailout
from  Abu Dhabi  in 2009 and named the tower after that emirate’s
ruler Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed  Al Nahyan .  At.mosphere is the world’s highest restaurant. Guests may
choose between a formal grill for lunch or dinner and a casual
lounge with purple and gray velvet sofas for tea and cocktails.
The 200 dirham ($54.50) minimum charge is  half  the price of a
ticket for the outdoor observation area on the 124th floor, and
it only applies to men. Women can spend what they like.  Separate Entrance  Afternoon tea is a good choice for whiling away a few
hours. Visitors are directed to a separate entrance on the
ground floor of the tower and taken up some escalators to a
high-speed elevator. There’s only one button to press, 123, and
then it takes off, flying passengers half a kilometer upwards at
an ear-popping 10 meters a second.  A glass atrium welcomes guests to their first vistas -- and
photo opportunities. The restaurant is one floor below and is
reached via a spiral staircase against a wall of windows.  At.mosphere is split into two semi-circles, with an 80-
seater restaurant in one half and a lounge that can seat 135
people in the other. Tables situated all along the outer rim
offer the obligatory view as well as ensuring optimum use of
space, as much of the interior is taken up by the elevators.  “The floor space is 1,000 square meters, but you have an
extensive core,” said Tihany. “The elevators don’t get
smaller, even though the tower gets thinner as you get higher.”  Tea is served in the lounge, where guests are scattered
among the window tables -- two British men sipping champagne,
three Farsi-speaking women chatting away -- while the sofas in
the interior are empty, presumably until the bar opens at 6 p.m.  Coffee, Champagne  It costs 290 dirhams per person for three courses and
unlimited tea, coffee and juices; a glass of champagne costs an
extra 70 dirhams.  (Afternoon tea at the Burj Al Arab’s Skyview Bar, which is
200 meters above  sea level , on the 27th floor, costs 425
dirhams. Champagne is included.)  The first course is a tray of five finger sandwiches --
chopped quail egg with truffle caviar, salmon, tuna, cucumber
and tomato with goat’s cheese -- followed by tea and scones
served with strawberry jam and lemon curd.  The main course is a choice between a mini chicken-and-
mushroom quiche and poached quail-egg Florentine. Then,
accompanied by non-alcoholic cocktails and juices, more
landmark-spotting.  At.mosphere’s washrooms overlook the $20 billion  Downtown
Dubai . The area is home to the world’s biggest  mall  and a 275-
meter-long dancing fountain that is 25 percent larger than that
of the  Bellagio  in  Las Vegas .  We return to our table and order more tea with which to
enjoy the variety of miniature cakes and sweets with a sorbet.
Our two hours of eating, drinking and relaxing 442 meters above
ground level now over, we head back to the elevator.  At.mosphere is at 1 Emaar Boulevard, Burj Khalifa Tower,
Dubai. Information +971-4-888-8888 or
 http://www.atmosphereburjkhalifa.com/ .  (Ayesha Daya writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 