-- WTO Rejects Chinese Appeal of Ruling Against Mineral Curbs
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-01-30T20:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/wto-rejects-chinese-appeal-of-ruling-against-raw-material-curbs.html
World Trade Organization judges
rejected  China ’s appeal of a ruling that found restrictions on
exports of nine raw materials break global rules and give the
country’s manufacturers an unfair edge over competitors.  The WTO concluded on July 5 that Chinese quotas, export
duties and license requirements on overseas shipments of
industrial ingredients including coke, zinc and bauxite are
discriminatory. The restrictions have stoked tensions between
China and its trading partners, which accuse the Chinese
government of having unfair commerce and currency policies.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  called the Appellate
Body report a “tremendous victory,” particularly for
manufacturers and workers. The decision “ensures that core
manufacturing industries in this country can get the materials
they need to produce and compete on a level playing field,”
Kirk said in an e-mailed statement from  Washington .  Today’s affirmation of the initial panel ruling may prompt
the U.S. and the European Union to make good on threats to
complain at the Geneva-based WTO over Chinese restraints on
exports of rare earths, a group of 17 elements used in high-tech
products such as Boeing Co. helicopter blades, Nokia Oyj cell
phones and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  hybrid cars.  ‘Deeply Troubled’  The outcome of this case obliges China to bring the
challenged measures into compliance with the rulings, the
European Commission said in a statement from Brussels.
“However, the EU continues to be deeply troubled by China’s use
of export restrictions not only on the specific products at
issue in this dispute, but also on rare earth and many other
industrial raw materials.”  Appellate Body judges  urged  China to modify its policies on
raw-material exports to ensure they “do not operate to bring
about a WTO-inconsistent result.”  “China respects the rulings of the WTO and will apply
reasonable policies to administer resource products in
accordance with the WTO rules, so as to realize sustainable
development,” the Chinese mission in Geneva said in an e-mailed
statement.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, is the top
producer of cadmium, gold, indium,  iron ore , lime, lead,
manganese, mercury, molybdenum, phosphate, salt, tin, tungsten,
vanadium and zinc. Its export restraints have caused worldwide
supplies of many raw materials to plummet, sending prices higher
and providing an incentive for manufacturers to move to China to
take advantage of the cheaper materials.  Economic Importance  The commodities at issue in the WTO complaint, filed by the
U.S., the EU and Mexico, also include magnesium, manganese,
silicon carbide, fluorspar, silicon metal and yellow phosphorus,
which are used by the steel, aluminum, automotive and chemicals
industries.  The EU said imports of the raw materials covered by the
case reach 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) a year and that “the
economic importance is well beyond this figure as those
represent inputs for the production of a large range of
products.”  China argued that the restrictions are necessary to
conserve exhaustible natural resources and ease overproduction
and emissions of carbon and sulfur gases from furnaces. The
U.S., the EU and  Mexico  said the curbs discourage the export of
materials that are “critical” for their manufacturers, while
keeping them cheaper and readily available in China.  Rare Earths  Rare earths became a political and legislative issue after
China moved to limit domestic output and slash export quotas in
July 2010 by 40 percent, souring ties with major users including
the U.S. and  Japan , where buyers have cut usage after prices
soared in the first half of 2011. The Chinese government, which
supplies 95 percent of global rare earths, said on Dec. 28 it
was leaving the 2012 overseas sales caps virtually unchanged.  The U.S. Energy Department said earlier this month that
limited supplies of five rare-earth minerals -- dysprosium,
terbium, europium, neodymium and yttrium -- pose a threat to
increasing use of clean-energy technologies such as  wind
turbines  and solar panels. While prices of rare earths fell in
the second half of 2011, they remain volatile, leading some
companies to search for ways to consider reducing reliance on
the minerals, the Energy Department said.  China has said the curbs protect the environment and are in
line with its WTO commitments. The country’s Inner Mongolia
Baotou region produces so-called light rare earths such as
lanthanum, cerium and samarium. Heavy rare-earth production,
concentrated in the south of China, includes the elements
dysprosium, gadolinium and terbium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 