-- Yale Harassment Controversy Rekindled by Quarterback’s Rhodes Scholar Case
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-01-30T18:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/yale-harassment-controversy-rekindled-by-qb-accusations.html
Yale University  is once again in the
spotlight after a controversy over its quarterback went from a
feel-good story about college sports to an embarrassment,
tarnishing the campus newspaper and reawakening accusations that
sexual harassment goes unpunished.  Patrick Witt, 22, garnered national attention in November
when he said he’d rather play his final game against  Harvard
University  than interview as a Rhodes Scholarship finalist. That
story was challenged  last week , by the New York Times, which
said Witt’s Rhodes candidacy was suspended after a fellow
student accused him of sexual assault.  Yale is the target of a complaint filed in March with the
U.S. education department that it tolerated an atmosphere
hostile to women. Last month, football coach  Tom Williams 
resigned after reports that he exaggerated his own Rhodes
candidacy. Last week, a former editor at the Yale Daily News
said the newspaper knew of the accusations against Witt for
months and didn’t pursue the story.  “Why do we get ourselves in this situation again and
again?” said Tobias Kuehne, 23, a senior from Berlin,  Germany ,
and co-editor-in-chief of the Yale Undergraduate Law Review.
Students don’t feel as if the school is being unjustly attacked
about sexual misconduct issues, he said. Rather, “the sentiment
is, why do we keep screwing up?”  Kuehne said the controversy has been the talk of the  New
Haven ,  Connecticut , campus this weekend.  Never Suspended  Witt’s candidacy for the scholarship was never suspended
although the Rhodes organization asked Yale to re-endorse him,
said Mark Magazu, Witt’s agent. Before the school responded,
Witt chose to play in the Nov. 19 Harvard game, Magazu said in a
phone interview. Witt declined to comment.  Yale spokesman  Tom Conroy  said the university, part of the
Ivy League of eight schools in the U.S. Northeast, wouldn’t
comment on the assault allegations or Witt’s Rhodes candidacy,
citing privacy rules. Elliot Gerson, American secretary for the
Rhodes Trust, declined to comment, saying matters related to the
group’s deliberations over applicants are confidential.  The  Title IX  civil rights investigation was prompted in
part by actions in 2010 by fraternity members chanting sexist
slogans such as “No Means Yes” and holding signs with sexist
remarks. Since the March complaint, Yale sanctioned the Delta
Kappa Epsilon fraternity, of which Witt was a member, and formed
an advisory committee on campus climate. The university also
streamlined its procedures for making complaints.  Title IX is the 1972 federal law that bans discrimination
against women on campus.  Seth Waxman, a member of the advisory committee and a
former U.S. solicitor general under President  Bill Clinton ,
didn’t respond to an e-mail over the weekend requesting comment.  ‘Yale Man’  The Yale administration has made it easier for students to
report sexual misconduct because the process is less confusing
and has been publicized more, said Kate Orazem, 22, a senior
history major and one of the Title IX complainants. Even so, the
attitude on campus appears the same, said Orazem, who writes for
Broad Recognition, a feminist blog at Yale and is a member of a
female sketch comedy group.  “I’m not sure that the culture that engendered those
behaviors has changed all that much,” Orazem said in a phone
interview. “There continues to be a contingent of the student
population that feels that those kinds of behaviors are
acceptable and humorous and part of their ‘Yale man’ image. I
don’t necessarily think that the Title IX complaint has done
very much to address that.”  Leadership Qualities  Witt’s decision to play against Harvard rather than pursue
the Rhodes scholarship was the subject of numerous articles. In
an interview with Bloomberg News, he said he would consider
loyalty to his teammates and his desire to be a leader in
determining what to do.  “In the description of the Rhodes, leadership is a major
facet of who they select as candidates and finalists,” Witt said
in the Nov. 8 article. “In some ways, if I were to attend the
interview and miss the game, I wouldn’t be acting as the leader
that they selected to interview.”  Rhodes Scholarships , among the most prestigious in higher
education, were established in 1902 in the will of Cecil Rhodes,
a British mine operator and explorer who founded what is now the
DeBeers Group. Thirty-two U.S. Rhodes Scholars are selected
annually from more than 2,000 applicants. Winners spend two or
three years studying at the University of Oxford in the U.K.  Witt, who transferred to Yale from the University of
 Nebraska  in 2009, is now in  Los Angeles , preparing for a
professional football career, Magazu said. He’s sharing a room
with  Andrew Luck , the former Stanford University quarterback
projected to be the No. 1 pick in the National Football League
draft in April.  Informal Complaint  When Witt’s accuser, a woman with whom he had a
relationship, took her complaint to Yale, she opted for an
informal procedure which protected her anonymity, Magazu said.
Witt was notified of her complaint and met with Michael Della
Rocca, chairman of the committee that handled the accusation.
Witt left believing the matter was resolved, Magazu said. The
Rhodes committee was contacted by someone who knew of the
accusation, although Witt believes it was not the woman, Magazu
said.  “He’s a little hurt by all this,” Magazu said. “It’s
been difficult because for him, his first instinct was to try
and run out and explain.”  Witt is now trying to focus on football and hopes the  New
York  Times story won’t damage his chances, Magazu said.  “It doesn’t help,” the agent said. “What Patrick
understands is how he reacts to this will tell as much about him
as the story.”  Football Future?  Witt isn’t likely to become a professional quarterback,
said Scott Kennedy, Director of Scouting for Scout.com.  “He’s got good size, he’s obviously smart but he just
doesn’t have the arm to play football in the NFL,” Kennedy said
in a telephone interview.  Kennedy, who said he has scouted Witt
since the quarterback was in high school, said he would be
surprised if an NFL team selected the former Bulldog in the  2012
Draft  this April.  “If he ends up on a roster it will be because of what he
can bring to the program as an assistant coach, so to speak,”
Kennedy said. “As a third-teamer who can help you game-plan.”  Magazu disagreed. He said he’s talked to most of the teams
in the league and is confident Witt will make it to the NFL.  “He’ll be drafted,’ Magazu said. “He’s 6’4”, 230 pounds
with an  Ivy League  brain and an encyclopedic understanding of
professional offenses and defenses.”  Campus Newspaper  In a Jan. 27 article on  jimromenesko.com , a blog about
journalism, Alex Klein, a former opinion editor at the Yale
Daily News, said the newspaper was aware of the accusation
against Witt and “decided to sit on the story in mid-November.”
Klein, 21, is a senior at Yale, majoring in ethics, politics and
economics.  “I’m disappointed that the Yale administration and the
Yale Daily News allowed the heroic Patrick Witt narrative that
they created to propagate even after being informed that Patrick
Witt had been accused of sexual assault,” Klein said in a
telephone interview. “It shows the Title IX complainants may
have a point.”  In a response, the current editor of the paper, Max de La
Bruyere wrote on the campus newspaper’s website that the
confidential nature of the student’s accusation against Witt
meant there would be no formal adjudication.  “In order to be fair to all those involved and the process
they had adhered to, and because the nature of the complaint
meant that all its details remain allegations, the News chose
not to print a story,” de La Bruyere wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
  jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 