-- Yazaki, Denso Agree to Plead Guilty to Price-Fixing on U.S. Vehicle Parts
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-01-31T08:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/yazaki-denso-agree-to-plead-guilty-to-price-fixing-on-u-s-vehicle-parts.html
Denso Corp. (6902)  and  Yazaki Corp (YAZZ) ., two
Japanese suppliers of auto parts, agreed to plead guilty and pay
a total of $548 million in criminal fines for their role in a
price-fixing and bid-rigging conspiracy.  Yazaki agreed to pay $470 million, the second-largest
criminal fine for a violation of the Sherman Act antitrust law,
and four Japanese executives at the closely held company agreed
to serve prison sentences ranging from 15 months to two years,
the U.S.  Justice Department  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Denso, which is 23 percent owned by  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , agreed to pay $78 million.  The penalties bring the total industry fines in the U.S.
and  Japan  to more $915 million since authorities worldwide said
almost two years ago that they began a global investigation. The
conspiracy to rig bids and fix prices of auto parts, including
instrument panels, electrical systems and heater control panels,
had been going on for as long as a decade, according to court
filings by the Justice Department.  “This most recent penalty and prison terms for four
executives again underscores the risks for Asian companies
arising from increased antitrust enforcement efforts by U.S.
regulators,” Stephen Crosswell, a lawyer with Clifford Chance
LLP, wrote in an e-mail. “Asian companies also need to be aware
of the potential exposure they face closer to home.”  ‘Ongoing’ Investigation  The investigation into the auto parts price-rigging scheme
is “ongoing,” and the executives who agreed to plead guilty
also agreed to cooperate with the probe, according to the
statement.  “The antitrust division will continue to work with the FBI
and our law enforcement counterparts to root out this kind of
pernicious cartel conduct that results in higher prices to
American consumers and businesses,” Sharis Pozen, the
division’s acting chief, said in the statement.  Japan’s Fair Trade Commission this month agreed to  fine 
Yazaki,  Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802) ,  Fujikura Ltd. (5803)  and
Furukawa Electric Co. a combined 12.9 billion yen ($169 million)
for price-fixing.  “We’re focused on our future and happy to have this
chapter closed,” said Misty Matthews, a spokeswoman for Yazaki.
In a statement on its website, Yazaki said it has cooperated
fully with the Justice Department investigation and would cut
the salaries of its chairman and president by 50 percent for
three months “as a reflection of remorse.”  Surrendering Pay  Denso, Japan’s biggest supplier of auto parts, said in a
statement that its chairman, president and some board members
and executive directors will voluntarily return 10 percent to 30
percent of their compensation for three months beginning in
February.  Since learning of the investigation in February 2010, the
company has cooperated fully with the probe, Denso said. The
fine won’t have a material effect on the company’s financial
forecast, according to the statement.  “Toyota has consistently asked its suppliers to respect
the law,” Toyota spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto  said by phone.
“If the parts makers that received orders from the authorities
did in fact commit violations of antitrust laws, we would
understand this to be a serious issue.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  spokesman Johan Willems, Mitsuru Yonekawa at Nissan and Hajime Kaneko at Honda Motor Co. declined
to comment on the case. Ford Motor Co. spokesman Trevor Hale and
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  spokesman Debasis Ray didn’t immediately
respond to queries.  Denso Shares  Denso fell 2.2 percent, the most since Jan. 6, to 2,265 yen
in Tokyo trading, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
climbed 0.1 percent.  Pozen said during a press briefing in  Washington  that the
investigation was the largest criminal probe in terms of the
volume of the underlying commerce that the division has ever
conducted. The plea agreements with Yazaki and Denso represent
the second round of charges in the investigation, which has been
continuing for about two years, Pozen said.  Tokyo-based  Furukawa Electric Co. (5801)  pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to pay a $200 million fine on Nov. 14, 2011, for its
role in an auto parts price-fixing and bid-rigging conspiracy,
the Justice Department said.  The largest fine under the Sherman Act was $500 million
against F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd. in 1999, according to the
Justice Department’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  