-- Euro Strengthens After Greece Says Debt Talks Progressing; Dollar Declines
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-31T14:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/yen-trades-near-three-month-high-versus-dollar-amid-european-debt-concern.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar, snapping its biggest decline in two weeks, after Greek
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said progress had been made in
debt-swap talks with bondholders.  The 17-nation currency climbed for the first time in four
days versus the yen after European chiefs meeting in Brussels
yesterday agreed to accelerate the introduction of a permanent
500 billion-euro ($659 billion) rescue fund and signed a
deficit-control treaty. The dollar and yen fell versus their
commodity-exporting counterparts such as the  New Zealand dollar 
and South African rand as stocks rallied and investors sought
higher-yielding assets.  “I don’t think peace has broken out, even if we have some
short-term problems sorted in Europe,” said Thomas Molloy,
chief dealer at FX Solutions, an online currency-trading
company, in Saddle River,  New Jersey . “It’s risk-on today, but
more as a result of what’s going on despite  Europe  rather than
what is going on in Europe, and the rising tide is floating all
boats.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3171 at 9:07 a.m. New
York time after sliding 0.6 percent yesterday, the biggest
decline since Jan. 13. The European shared currency climbed 0.2
percent to 100.49 yen. The dollar was little changed at 76.29
yen after falling to 76.18 yen, the weakest level since Oct. 31.  The euro is headed for its first monthly advance since
October versus the dollar and the yen. The shared currency has
appreciated 1.6 percent against the greenback, and risen 0.8
percent versus the yen.  Winners, Losers  New Zealand’s dollar is the best performer year-to-date
among the 10 developed nation currencies measured by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, with a 4.5 percent gain.
The dollar is the worst performer, falling 2.5 percent. The euro
has declined 0.8 percent and the yen has weakened 1.6 percent.  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies dropped to 10.45 percent, from as high as 10.61
percent yesterday, according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility
Index (JPMVXYG7) . A decrease makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates more attractive as the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The dollar and yen, whose countries’  interest rates  are
near zero, weakened as investors sold the currencies to fund
investments in higher-yielding counterparts. The New Zealand
dollar advanced 1.1 percent to 82.82 U.S. cents,  Australia ’s
currency climbed 0.6 percent to $1.0666 and  South Africa ’s rand
gained 1 percent to 7.7642 per dollar.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5
percent and the S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 0.9
percent.  Greece ‘Focused’  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.3 percent.  Papademos said he’s “focused on the target of bringing the
negotiations to a successful conclusion by the end of the week”
for a debt-swap agreement with  Greece ’s creditors.
Representatives of the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  want more fiscal
tightening and wage cuts from Greece, the prime minister told
reporters after the European Union meeting.  “The summit will likely be viewed as a success relative to
modest expectations, and this eliminates some event risk for the
euro system,” Peter Von Maydell, head of currency strategy at
Credit Suisse Securities in London, wrote in a note to clients.
“However, markets have likely largely priced in a successful
outcome already given the rallies in the last week.”  Dollar-Yen  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro versus the
dollar fell from a three-week high. Risk-reversal rates for
three-month options on the euro versus the dollar shrank to
negative 1.82 today from negative 1.86 yesterday, the most since
Jan. 9. The measure reached negative 4.4 percent in November.  Japan  refrained from selling yen in the foreign-exchange
market this month, the Ministry of Finance said today on its
website. The nation sold the currency on Oct. 31 when it climbed
to a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said his ministry is
prepared to take “decisive” measures to curb the yen’s
appreciation as it approached a post-World War II high.  Indonesia’s rupiah completed the best start to a year since
2008, after the country regained investment-grade status. The
currency rose 0.8 percent to 8,995 per dollar this month,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  