-- Yen Gains as Greek Bailout Concern Boosts Demand for the Safest Assets
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-01-30T22:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/yen-gains-as-greek-bailout-concern-boosts-demand-for-the-safest-assets.html
The yen strengthened against all of
its major counterparts as concern increased that Greek bailout
negotiations will hinder efforts to resolve the financial
crisis, boosting demand for haven assets.  The euro fell below 100 yen for the first time in a week as
European Union leaders concluded a day of meetings in Brussels,
and Italy raised less than its maximum target at a bond sale
after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the nation last week. The dollar
touched the weakest against the yen since Oct. 31, when it
reached a record low. The Swiss franc strengthened to the
highest level against the euro since September.  “Everyone is waiting to see what would happen on the
private sector-involvement,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “Today, the market
has taken a risk-aversion tone.”  The yen appreciated 1 percent to 100.34 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York and touched 99.99, the lowest level since Jan. 23.
The Japanese currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 76.35 per
dollar, reaching 76.22. It touched 75.35 yen Oct. 31, a post-
World War II low.  “The pressure is on the downside for dollar-yen,” said
 Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in London. “We’ve seen it stay in a range for
the past three months, but we’re starting to test the bottom of
that range again.”  The euro declined 0.1 percent to 1.20528 Swiss francs after
sliding to 1.20405, the weakest since Sept. 19. South Africa’s
rand and Australia’s dollar declined.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.3 percent.  ‘European Woes’  The  Swiss National Bank  in September capped the franc’s
strength at 1.20 per euro. The president of the central bank at
the time, Phillip Hildebrand, resigned earlier this month.  “The Swiss franc is a beneficiary of European woes,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The SNB, despite some of
their leadership changes, have said they’re going to keep their
policies.”  Measures of implied volatility climbed as  Der Spiegel  said
 Greece  may need a bigger rescue package and two euro-area
government officials said policy makers are discussing direct
interventions in Greek budget decisions.  Implied volatility of three-month options on the euro-
dollar currency pair advanced for a second day to 12.52 percent.
The implied volatility of Group of Seven currencies rose to
10.58 percent from 10.22 percent on Jan. 30, after falling 10.06
on Jan. 23, the lowest since March 2011, according to the
JPMorgan G7 Volatility  Index (JPMVXYG7) .  Meeting on Greece  An increase in the index makes investments in currencies
with higher benchmark lending rates less attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Bargaining with Greece over a debt writedown and its
economic management overshadowed efforts to point the way out of
the financial crisis by speeding the setup of a full-time 500
billion-euro ($656 billion) rescue fund and signing off on a
German-inspired deficit-control treaty.  Leaders completed the fiscal-discipline treaty, which
speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and requires euro
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said Greek debt-swap talks with
private bondholders are “going in the right direction” and the
issue should be settled in the next few days.  Italian Auction  Italy  sold 7.5 billion euros of debt due between 2016 and
2022 today, less than its maximum target of 8 billion euros.
Fitch cut the ratings of Italy,  Spain ,  Belgium , Slovenia and
Cyprus on Jan. 27, saying they lack financing flexibility in the
face of the regional debt crisis. Italy was reduced two levels
to A- from A+, and Spain was lowered two grades to A from AA-.  The  yield  on Portuguese 10-year bonds rose to a euro-era
record today, reaching 17.39 percent. Two-year yields rose as
high as 21.47 percent. Charging more to lend for shorter periods
reflects declining confidence in  Portugal ’s creditworthiness.  “Portugal is next in line in terms of vulnerability, in
terms of an economy that is not getting out of crisis,” Kit Juckes, head of currency strategy at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg on the
Economy” with Sara Eisen and  Michael McKee . “It is important
if we want to stop contagion from Greece, to Italy, Spain, to
the rest of  Europe , that we turn around focus on getting Greece
solved and putting up a firewall.”  Higher-yielding currencies fell the most against the dollar
as stocks declined around the world, spurring demand for the
relative safety of the greenback.  Fitch Warning  The South African rand tumbled 1.1 percent to 7.8414 per
dollar, and Indian rupee slid 1 percent to 49.8 per dollar,
Australia’s currency declined 0.6 percent to $1.0599, and the
Norwegian krone fell 0.3 percent to 5.8148 per dollar.  Fitch said today it may downgrade  Australia ’s four largest
banks by one level because current ratings don’t reflect their
“weaker funding profile.”  The euro has weakened 0.7 percent over the past month
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has weakened 2.3
percent, and the yen declined 1.5 percent.  Futures traders increased bets the euro will fall versus
the dollar, boosting so-called net shorts to a record for a
fifth week. The difference between wagers that the shared
currency will weaken versus those that it will rise widened to
171,347 on Jan. 24, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  showed  on Jan. 27.  The euro also fell after its rally last week “ran out of
puff” after reaching the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement
level of the drop from Oct. 27 to Jan. 13,  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong , wrote
in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  