-- YPF Tumbles Most in Six Months on Report of Takeover: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-30T21:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/ypf-tumbles-most-in-six-months-on-report-of-takeover-buenos-aires-mover.html
YPF SA (YPFD)  tumbled the most in five
months after newspaper Pagina/12 said Argentine officials
discussed a takeover of the country’s biggest oil producer,
without saying where it obtained the information.  YPF’s American depositary receipts  fell  10 percent to
$35.86, the biggest one-day decline since Aug. 8, after earlier
dropping as much as 14 percent. Trading volume surged eightfold
to 4 million from this year’s average. The stock has tumbled 26
percent over the past year.  Argentine government officials, lawmakers and oil industry
specialists discussed re-nationalizing the company that was
bought by Repsol  YPF SA (YPF)  in 1999, Pagina/12 reported yesterday.  “The relationship between YPF and the government has been
a bit more strained in the last few days,”  Christian Reos , an
analyst at brokerage firm Allaria Ledesma & Cia. Soc. de Bolsa,
said by telephone today from  Buenos Aires . The article “is a
way to pressure the company to invest more.”  A YPF official, who asked not to be identified because of
corporate policy, declined to comment in an e-mail today. An
official at the Planning Ministry wasn’t immediately available.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is pushing Buenos
Aires-based YPF and other oil companies to boost investments in
Argentina after saying they are to blame for a doubling of fuel
imports to $9.4 billion in 2011 from a year earlier.  Fernandez’s government also is probing alleged fuel-price
fixing by YPF,  Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA)  and other producers
following a complaint from the country’s transport association.
YPF on Jan. 18 denied it colluded with other companies to fix
gasoline prices. Late last year Fernandez ordered oil companies
to repatriate future export revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  