-- ThyssenKrupp Union ‘Very Far’ From Agreeing to Sale to Outokumpu
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/thyssenkrupp-union-very-far-from-agreeing-to-sale-to-outokumpu.html
The union representing  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA)  workers is “very far” from agreement with  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V) 
over a deal to acquire the German company’s Inoxum stainless
steel unit, a labor official said.  Unions want guarantees that there will be no firings in the
event of a takeover and insist that Outokumpu invest in Inoxum
sites in Bochum, Krefeld and Benrath instead of closing plants,
Andreas Huegelow, a spokesman for the IG Metall labor union,
said by phone yesterday. The discussions are “very difficult,”
he said.  Negotiations that started Jan. 27 with the companies “may
last well into the night or even the early morning hours,”
Huegelow said by phone. “The labor position and that of
Outokumpu are very far apart,” he said. If no agreement is
reached, ThyssenKrupp’s labor representatives may vote against
the sale in a supervisory board meeting this afternoon, Huegelow
said.  ThyssenKrupp is nearing the sale of Inoxum to Espoo,
Finland-based Outokumpu in a deal valued at about 2.7 billion
euros ($3.5 billion), Die Welt reported in a pre-release of an
article to be published today, citing unidentified people close
to the company.  As part of the transaction, ThyssenKrupp would acquire just
less than 30 percent of Outokumpu, receive a cash payment and
transfer Inoxum’s liabilities to Outokumpu, the newspaper said.  Kari Tuutti, a spokesman for Outokumpu, declined to comment
on the report. “All I can say is constructive negotiations
continue,” he said. A spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, who asked not
to be named in line with company policy, declined to comment.  With assistance from Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  