-- Zon Rises as Voting Rights Change May Pave Way for Sonaecom Combination
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-01-30T13:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-30/zon-multimedia-s-change-of-voting-rights-may-lead-to-sonaecom-combination.html
Zon Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON) ,  Portugal ’s
biggest cable-television provider, rose as much as 2.5 percent
after eliminating a limit on  voting rights .  Zon  rose  as much as 6 cents to 2.61 euros and traded 1.4
percent higher at 1:27 p.m. in Lisbon. The gain was the biggest
today on Portugal’s benchmark PSI-20 Index, which fell 1.4
percent. Zon has added 12 percent this year, for a market value
of 801 million euros ($1.05 billion).  A majority of shareholders voted to end the prohibition on
any investor exercising more than 10 percent of voting rights.
Banks  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA  and  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
which  Zon says  own 10.9 percent and 2 percent respectively, are
being pressed to sell assets to raise  capital ratios  under
Portugal’s bailout program. State-owned Caixa should sell all
non-core assets, according to the plan.  “A shareholder exchange” and a combination of Zon and
another telecommunications company “would make sense,” Paul Marsch, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , said Jan. 27.
Zon investors “may be impatient for the payoff” after
extensive network investment ended last year, said Marsch, who
has a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  Kento Holding Ltd., controlled by Isabel dos Santos,
daughter of  Angola ’s president, owns 10 percent of Zon, and is
the most likely buyer of additional shares, Marsch said.
Acquiring the banks’ stakes would leave Kento well placed to
combine Zon with another company, he said.  Sonaecom Contacts  Sonaecom SGPS SA, which controls Portugal’s smallest
mobile-phone operator, has been seen as a possible suitor in
local press reports since the company acknowledged “contacts”
with Zon in 2009. Sonaecom, based near the city of Oporto,
declined to comment about any merger plans.  Sonaecom dropped 0.8 percent to 1.25 euros, paring the
advance to 2.5 percent this year and giving the company a market
value of 456 million euros.  Angolan companies and investors have been increasing their
stakes in companies in Portugal, which last year became the
third euro-region country to request a bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which owns 5.5 percent of Zon, may
also sell its holding, Marsch said. The Madrid-based phone
company,  Europe ’s largest by market value, said in November that
it was looking to divest underperforming assets and operations
outside its main businesses to reduce debt. A Telefonica
spokesman declined to comment today.  ‘Consolidation Makes Sense’  “Consolidation makes sense,” said Nuno Matias, an analyst
at  Espirito Santo ’s investment bank. He estimated savings of as
much as 355 million euros from a merger of Zon and Sonaecom, and
has “buy” recommendations on the stocks.  Zon was spun off from Portugal Telecom following Sonaecom’s
failed bid for the former national phone-operating monopoly.
Investors in Portugal Telecom received Zon shares.  Joaquim Oliveira, a Portuguese investor and the chairman of
Controlinveste SGPS SA who owns 4.8 percent of Zon, told
reporters today after the meeting that it’s too early to say
what he’ll do with the stake. Asked about the possibility of a
merger, he declined to comment.  Joao Pereira Coutinho, chairman of Grupo SGC, said in an e-
mailed response on Jan. 13 that he hadn’t made a decision yet on
whether to keep the company’s 2 percent stake in Zon.  ‘Fundamental Change’ Probable  “It’s probable that a fundamental change in Zon will take
place in the near future,” he said. “The first step for that
to happen is to end limits to voting rights.”  Zon Chief Executive Officer  Rodrigo Costa  said on Jan. 12
that “we don’t spend time thinking about consolidations”
during day-to-day operations. Chairman Daniel Proenca de Carvalho declined to comment today on merger plans or
shareholder exchanges.  Espirito Santo Irmaos SGPS SA owns 5 percent of Zon and as
of Dec. 31 also had 10 percent of  Espirito Santo Financial Group
SA (ESF) , which in turn controls Banco Espirito Santo. Espirito Santo
Irmaos and Caixa asked for the meeting to change voting rights.  Banco Espirito Santo CEO Ricardo Salgado said on Jan. 12
that the company’s stake in Zon was “less strategic” than
others held by the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  