-- ‘Genius’ Diaz, Iraq Fiction Join Book Award Nominees
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-10-10T12:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/-genius-diaz-iraq-fiction-join-book-award-nominees.html
“The Passage of Power,” the fourth
volume of  Robert Caro ’s monumental biography of  Lyndon Johnson 
(Knopf), is among the nominees for the  National Book Awards 
announced today. One of the previous installments won the award,
and another was nominated.  Also named in the nonfiction category is “House of Stone”
(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt), a memoir by journalist Anthony Shadid about his family’s ancestral home in Lebanon. Shadid died
of an asthma attack while reporting from Syria last February,
shortly before the book was published.  The other nonfiction nominees are “Iron Curtain: The
Crushing of Eastern Europe, 1945-1956,” by Anne Applebaum
(Doubleday); “Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death, and
Hope in a Mumbai Undercity” by Katherine Boo ( Random House );
and “The Boy Kings of Texas” by Domingo Martinez (Lyons
Press), a memoir about growing up in a south Texas border town.  The fiction category includes two novels focusing on the
war in  Iraq .  “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” by Ben Fountain (Ecco)
tells the story of a squad of U.S. soldiers who appear at a
Dallas Cowboys game after becoming famous for winning a bloody
firefight with Iraqi insurgents.  “The Yellow Birds” by Kevin Powers (Little, Brown) is
about two young soldiers trying to protect each other on the
battlefield.  Junot Diaz, who was recently awarded a “genius” grant
from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, is
nominated for his second book of short stories, “This Is How
You Lose Her” (Riverhead).  The other fiction nominees are Louise Erdrich for “The
Round House” (Harper) and Dave Eggers for “A Hologram for the
King” (McSweeney’s).  Poetry Nominees  The nominees in poetry are David Ferry’s “Bewilderment”
(University of Chicago Press); Cynthia Huntington’s “Heavenly
Bodies” (Southern Illinois University Press); Tim Seibles’s
“Fast Animal” (Etruscan Press); Alan Shapiro’s “Night of the
Republic” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt); and Susan Wheeler’s
“Meme” (University of Iowa Press).  The Young People’s Literature nominees are William
Alexander’s “Goblin Secrets” (Margaret K. McElderry Books);
Carrie Arcos’s “Out of Reach” (Simon Pulse); Patricia
McCormick’s “Never Fall Down” (Balzer & Bray); Eliot
Schrefer’s “Endangered” (Scholastic); and Steve Sheinkin’s
“Bomb: The Race to Build -- and Steal -- the World’s Most
Dangerous Weapon” (Flash Point).  Winners receive a bronze sculpture and $10,000, while
nominees receive a medal and $1,000.  Elmore Leonard  The winners will be announced on Nov. 14 in  New York , at a
benefit for the National Book Foundation at Cipriani  Wall
Street . Novelist Elmore Leonard will receive the 2012 Medal for
Distinguished Contribution to American Letters, to be presented
by Martin Amis.  The Literarian Award for Outstanding Service to the
American Literary Community will be given to Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr., chairman and publisher of the New York Times.  Muse highlights include Mark Beech on  art ,  Craig Seligman 
on  movies  and Patrick Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writer of this story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 