-- H&R Block Declines After Hiring Goldman to Advise on Bank
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-10-10T20:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/h-r-block-hires-goldman-to-advise-on-bank-as-capital-rule-looms.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the largest U.S. tax
preparer, slid the most in more than five months after hiring
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on alternatives for its bank.  H&R Block tumbled 5.4 percent to close at $16.67 in New
York, the biggest decline since April 26. The shares have gained
2.1 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent advance in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The tax preparer may drop its designation as a savings and
loan holding company after the  Federal Reserve  proposed rules
requiring such firms to keep additional capital, the Kansas
City, Missouri-based company said today in a statement. H&R
Block is considering “a number of alternatives” for its bank
with New York-based Goldman Sachs, Chief Executive Officer Bill Cobb said in the statement without listing them.  A sale or wind-down of the bank could reduce H&R Block’s
profit from lines of credit and prepaid cards,  Mike Turner , an
analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC, wrote in a
research note.  “We view the announcement as neutral to modestly negative
near-term,” Turner wrote. H&R Block “will need to forfeit some
of the economics (and control) of the transactions that are
processed at the bank.”  H&R Block doesn’t “foresee regulatory flexibility”
regarding its capital levels and is considering a status change
so it would no longer fall under Fed oversight, the firm said
yesterday in a filing.  ‘Closely Supervise’  “The Federal Reserve will closely supervise and likely
restrict other capital allocation decisions, including stock
repurchases, acquisitions and other forms of strategic
investment,” H&R Block said in the filing. “Such regulatory
constraints are inconsistent with our strategic plans,
operational needs and growth objectives.”  The tax preparer joins insurers that are also working to
avoid the increased regulation that comes with bank status.
 MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, is seeking to sell
deposits to General Electric Co. and drop its designation as a
 bank holding company  after regulators blocked the firm from
repurchasing shares.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer whose
largest shareholder is the U.S., said in August it was weighing
whether to close its bank. Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc., Allstate Corp. and Ameriprise Financial Inc. have also
retreated from banking.  Sand Canyon  H&R Block is grappling with lost revenue from refund-
anticipation loans after U.S. regulators prompted HSBC Holdings
Plc to stop financing the products for H&R Block in December
2010. In response, the company has promoted similar refund-
anticipation checks and offered them free to some clients
earlier this year.  The tax preparer agreed in April to pay more than $28
million to resolve Securities and Exchange Commission claims
that its Option One Mortgage Corp. unit, now known as Sand
Canyon Corp., didn’t tell stockholders it may not be able to
afford the cost of buying back faulty mortgages sold to
investors unless it gets assistance.  H&R Block Bank had $1.2 billion in total assets and 58
employees as of June 30, according to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s  website.  The bank’s website advertises the
company’s Emerald prepaid cards, which Cobb said the company was
“very committed to” in a Sept. 5 conference call.  “It’s a great source of growth for us,” Cobb said. “It’s
a great service to our clients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  