-- Absa Falls as Investor Offloads at Discount: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-10T16:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/absa-falls-as-investor-offloads-at-discount-johannesburg-mover.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the lender
controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , fell to the lowest in more than
three weeks after its third-largest investor sold a stake for
less than the current share price.  Shares in  South Africa ’s third-biggest bank slid 2.8
percent to close at 134.60 rand in Johannesburg trading, the
lowest intraday level since Sept. 17. The stock was the worst
performer in the six-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index. (JBNKS)   Batho Bonke Capital Ltd., a South African black investor
group, sold 24.6 million shares, equal to about 3.4 percent of
the bank, at 132.50 rand a share. The stake was sold at a 4.3
percent discount to yesterday’s closing price, Morgan Stanley,
which helped manage the sale, said in an e-mailed statement.
That values the stake in the lender at 3.3 billion rand ($381
million).  “Even though it’s small in percentage terms, 24.6 million
shares is not a small amount,” Rhynhardt Roodt, an analyst at
Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management, said before the
pricing of the sale was announced. The decline “will be short
term in nature until the overhang is cleared out,” he said.  Batho Bonke, a collection of community trusts, small black-
owned companies and women’s groups, was founded by former
freedom fighter and politician Tokyo Sexwale. In April 2004, it
bought 73.1 million convertible preference shares in Absa at 2
rand each, giving it a 10 percent stake in the company, part of
a program to boost black participation in South Africa’s
economy. Absa converted those shares to ordinary stock in 2009,
buying back 49.9 percent of them, and leaving Batho Bonke with
half of its original stake.  “Proceeds realized from the equity placement will be used
to settle existing Batho Bonke debt, with the remaining balance
distributed by Batho Bonke to the shareholders” in due course,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  