-- Abu Qatada Asks London Judges to Block Extradition to Jordan
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-10-10T12:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/abu-qatada-asks-london-judges-to-block-extradition-to-jordan-1-.html
Abu Qatada, an Islamic cleric
accused of having links to the al-Qaeda terrorist group, asked a
U.K. judge to block his extradition to Jordan.  The 51-year-old terror suspect, whose real name is Omar
Othman, began an eight-day case at the Special Immigration
Appeals Commission in  London  today to avoid facing trial for
terror-related offenses in Jordan.  The latest hearing follows a series of attempts to avoid
deportation by Abu Qatada, whose lawyers say he has been subject
to the longest period of administrative detention in recent
English history. Two U.K. judges last week refused to block the
extradition of another cleric, 54-year-old Abu Hamza, to the
U.S. after eight years of legal wrangling, part of which
included a U.K. prison sentence for encouraging followers to
kill Jews and other non-Muslims.  Abu Qatada, who denies links to al-Qaeda, was briefly
released from U.K. custody in February after the Strasbourg,
France-based European Court of Human Rights ruled his right to a
fair trial may be violated by his deportation. The U.K.
subsequently said it received assurances from  Jordan  he would
receive a fair, civilian trial and British police re-arrested
him April 17.  The human rights court refused in May to hear an appeal by
Abu Qatada against the U.K. deportation order on separate
grounds that he may face torture in Jordan.  He was also denied bail by a London court in May. The judge
in that case ruled security resources would be in high demand
during the Olympic Games and releasing Abu Qatada would place an
unnecessary burden on police. His lawyers then failed in July to
convince a London court to review the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  