-- Maersk Drops as Investor Day Gets Bad Reviews: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-10-10T09:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/maersk-drops-as-investor-day-gets-bad-reviews-copenhagen-mover.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , Denmark’s
biggest company, fell to the lowest price in three weeks in
Copenhagen trading after its capital markets day sparked concern
over future profitability at its oil division.  Maersk  fell  as much as 1.9 percent, extending losses from
yesterday when the stock dropped 2.1 percent. The shares
retreated 1.7 percent to 40,960 kroner at 10:22 a.m. in the
Danish capital, heading for the lowest closing price since Sept.
14.  Maersk yesterday hosted the first capital markets day in
its 108-year history, presenting investment and growth plans for
its terminal unit and the oil division. The Copenhagen-based
company said it had proved and probable oil reserves of 1.38
billion barrels at the end of 2011, that capital expenditure
will increase to as much as $5 billion a year and that its
return on invested capital will decline during the expansion
phase.  “The news didn’t excite us,” Jacob Pedersen, an analyst
with Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa,  Denmark , said in a note today.
“Oil reserves were lower than expected and the return on
invested capital suggest that in the coming years, earnings will
be lower than what investors have become used to.”  The investor meeting “made us somewhat more uncertain on
long-term production targets, capex and the ROIC within the oil
division,” Danske Markets said today in a note to clients.
“The company gave less than expected information on execution
of the oil projects.”  DNB Markets today cut its  price estimate  on the Maersk
share to 53,000 kroner from 54,000 kroner citing a lower
production forecast and higher spending estimate for the oil
division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  