-- Affirmative Action at Colleges Questioned by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-10T18:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/affirmative-action-at-colleges-questioned-by-high-court.html
Affirmative action came under attack
at the U.S. Supreme Court as Chief Justice John Roberts took the
lead in questioning whether universities should continue to give
special preference to racial minorities.  During arguments today in  Washington , the court’s
Republican-appointed majority scrutinized the University of
Texas’s admissions program, which uses race as a consideration
in admitting as much as one quarter of each class.  “What you’re saying is that what counts is race above
all,” Justice Anthony Kennedy, the likely swing vote, told the
lawyer defending the plan. “You want underprivileged of a
certain race and privileged of a certain race.”  At stake are policies that have been a fixture on U.S.
campuses since the 1960s. All but a handful of the nation’s
selective colleges and professional schools consider race as
they seek to ensure a diverse student body. A ruling against
Texas would raise new legal questions about those programs --
and perhaps even wipe them out. The court will rule by June.  Roberts, who once described racial classifications as “a
sordid business,” signaled he would support a broad ruling. He
repeatedly voiced discomfort with the idea of identifying
students by racial group.  “Should someone who is one-quarter Hispanic check the
Hispanic box or some different box?” he asked.  Ruling Jeopardized  The  Texas  case may undermine or overturn a 2003 Supreme
Court decision that reaffirmed the right of universities to
consider race in admissions as a means of ensuring campus
diversity. The court’s composition has changed since then, most
notably through the retirement of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor,
who wrote the 5-4 ruling.  O’Connor, who was in the audience today, was succeeded by
Justice Samuel Alito, a skeptic of racial preferences.  Bert Rein, the lawyer challenging the Texas program on
behalf of a rejected white applicant, stopped short of directly
asking the court to overturn its 2003 ruling. The logic behind
that stance was questioned by Justices Sonia Sotomayor and
Stephen Breyer, who said they saw little difference between the
Texas policy and the University of Michigan Law School plan
upheld in 2003.  Class Rank  The 2003 decision, Grutter v. Bollinger, said colleges and
graduate schools could consider race as long as they do so
through a broad review of a student’s application and don’t
mechanistically award extra points to every minority.  “You don’t want to overrule Grutter,” said Sotomayor, the
court’s first Hispanic justice. “You just want to gut it.”  A central question in the Texas case is whether
universities can adequately diversify without resorting to
racial preferences. The University of Texas admits three-
quarters of its freshman class each year on the basis of high
school class rank -- the “top 10 percent rule.”  That system, the product of a 1997 state law, ensures a
significant number of minorities because it guarantees slots to
students at predominantly Hispanic and black schools.  The university considers race only in admitting the rest of
the class. Rein today said that’s unnecessary, given the success
of the class-rank method.  “Race should have been a last resort,” he argued. “It
was a first resort.”  Rejected Applicant  Rein’s client, Abigail Noel Fisher, applied unsuccessfully
to Texas in 2008 and later enrolled at Louisiana State
University. A graduate of a Houston-area public high school, she
says she was passed over by UT in favor of minority classmates
with lower grades and fewer extracurricular activities.  Texas has support in the case from some of the nation’s
most powerful institutions. Fifty-nine companies -- including
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., (WMT)  Gap Inc.,  General
Electric Co. (GE) , Pfizer Inc., Shell Oil Co. and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  --
filed a  brief  saying they rely on universities to prepare a
racially diverse workforce.  Those corporations are in the unusual position of arguing
alongside the Obama administration, which has  cast  affirmative
action as a national security issue. The administration says
race-conscious admissions, both at the country’s military
academies and at universities with Reserve Officer Training
Corps programs, help ensure a diverse officer corps.  “The core of our interest is in ensuring that the nation’s
universities produce graduates who are going to be effective
citizens and effective leaders in an increasingly diverse
society, and effective competitors in diverse global markets,”
said U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the
administration’s top Supreme Court lawyer.  ‘Modest Factor’  Texas says its program is a model of the type of plan the
high court approved in the Grutter ruling. The university’s
lawyer, Gregory Garre, said race was “one modest factor among
many.”  Garre’s contentions drew support from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, as well as Sotomayor and Breyer.  “This program certainly is no more aggressive than the one
in Grutter,” Ginsburg said. “It’s in fact more modest.”  Alito faulted the Texas program for potentially giving a
preference to the minority child of two corporate lawyers. The
plan helps Hispanics and blacks “who come from privileged
backgrounds,” he said.  Justice Elena Kagan isn’t taking part in the case. She was
the Obama administration’s top courtroom lawyer when the
administration filed a brief at the appeals court level.  Kennedy now stands as the court’s swing vote on racial
issues. He dissented in 2003, saying the University of Michigan
Law School policy at issue in that case was akin to a quota.  Although Kennedy directed the bulk of his questions at the
lawyers defending affirmative action, he also balked at Rein’s
contention that Texas’s policy is unconstitutional because it
adds only a handful of minority students to the school.  “If it’s so few, then what’s the problem?” Kennedy asked.  The case is Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, 11-
345.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  