-- Africa Seen at Risk of Social Unrest From Food Shortages
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/africa-seen-at-risk-of-social-unrest-from-food-shortages.html
African countries are most at risk
of social unrest and famine stemming from food shortages and
rising prices, according to risk-advisory firm Maplecroft.  Africa  accounts for 39 of the 59 most at-risk countries in
Maplecroft’s Food Security Risk Index and has nine of the 11
nations in the “extreme risk” category, the Bath, England-
based company said in a statement today.  About 75 percent of the continent’s states are at “high”
or “extreme risk.” Global food prices tracked by the United
Nations climbed 1.4 percent in September to the highest level in
six months as the worst U.S. drought since 1956 sparked rallies
in soybeans and corn.  “Food price forecasts for 2013 provide a worrying
picture,” Helen Hodge, Maplecroft’s head of maps and indexes,
said in the statement. “Although a food crisis has not emerged
yet, there is potential for food-related upheaval across the
most vulnerable regions, including sub-Saharan Africa.”  African countries at “extreme risk” include Somalia and
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as Burundi,  Chad ,
 Ethiopia , Eritrea, South Sudan, Comoros and Sierra Leone,
according to Maplecroft.  High food costs last year contributed to civil unrest
across the Middle East and North Africa, toppling governments in
Tunisia and  Egypt . The U.S. State Department estimates that
surging food prices triggered more than 60 riots worldwide from
2007 to 2009.  “The drivers of the ‘Arab Awakening’ were varied and
complex and included long-standing public anger at high levels
of governmental corruption and oppressive tactics against
populations and political opposition,” said Alyson Warhurst,
chief executive officer at Maplecroft. “When these factors
combine with food insecurity, sparked by rising global prices,
it can create an environment for social unrest.”  Maplecroft evaluated the availability, access and stability
of food supplies in 197 countries, as well as the nutritional
and health status of populations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  