-- Lagarde Signals IMF Role in Europe Rescues May Not Need Cash
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-10-10T11:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/lagarde-signals-imf-role-in-bailouts-may-not-need-cash-correct-.html
The International Monetary Fund
doesn’t need to lend money to Spain to help the country tackle
its fiscal crisis, Managing Director Christine Lagarde indicated
in an interview today.  “Some people say unless you have skin in the game, meaning
money, you are not really respected, you are not heard,”
Lagarde said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen
in Sendai,  Japan . “I am not so focused on that as I am on the
monitoring. I think we would rather act in our framework, use
one of the tools that is frequently used, but as I said we can
be flexible.”  The fund is helping monitor a 100 billion-euro ($128.8
billion) bailout of Spanish banks and is co-financing rescue
packages for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . While the European
Central Bank has said the IMF should be involved in overseeing
the economic programs of countries asking the central bank to
buy their bonds, the fund’s exact role has not yet been defined.  Spain has been reluctant to ask for a bailout from  Europe ’s
rescue mechanism, which comes with economic measures attached.  The IMF said this week it sees a one-in-six chance of
global economic growth slipping below 2 percent. Whether Europe
can deal “proactively” with its debt crisis will in part
determine the severity of any slowdown, the fund said in its
World Economic Outlook report. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slipped 0.3 percent at 7:22 a.m. in New York today on signs
 China  is yet to reverse its slowdown.   Fiscal Discipline  Europe needs to build on efforts including improvements in
fiscal discipline, a firewall fund, and efforts to formulate a
banking union, Lagarde said.  Nearly three years after the euro-zone crisis erupted,
finance ministers from the 17-nation bloc this week started a
500 billion-euro permanent bailout fund known as the European
Stability Mechanism that they say will be a financial backstop
to prevent future crises.  “It was good cause for celebration,” said Lagarde. “We
are seeing yields coming down, probably because investors are
seeing that there is a European Stability Mechanism that can now
operate.”  The ECB’s offer in August to buy bonds of fiscally
struggling countries has driven down interest rates in Spain and
 Italy  and bought European governments time to address the root
causes of the crisis.  European Bonds  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was little changed at
5.11 percent at 11:25 a.m. in  Rome , after it topped 7 percent
last year at the peak of the crisis. Spanish 10-year yields were
near 6 percent.  The ESM replaces the European Financial Stability Facility,
which has committed 192 billion euros of its 440 billion euros
to Ireland, Portugal and Greece. The two funds will run in
parallel until the EFSF is phased out in mid-2013.  Lagarde said it’s wrong to assume that efforts to help
Greece are failing, with the nation drawing “much, much
closer” to settling on expenditure cuts and revenue gains
needed to close a fiscal deficit. While labor costs need to fall
further, the country has made gains in competitiveness, she
said.  Europe is not the only concern for the 188 IMF member
nations convening in  Tokyo  for the fund’s annual meeting.
Central bankers from Japan and Switzerland expressed discomfort
with the value of their currencies, and the  Philippines  said
U.S. Federal Reserve  decisions are complicating monetary
policy.  Lagarde was in Sendai, a city in the region hit hardest by
last year’s earthquake, where she toured the area ravaged by the
tsunami and attended a forum on disaster risk management.  “It’s a mixture of both sorrow and huge admiration for
what they’re doing,” she told reporters after hearing about
reconstruction efforts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  