-- Alex Karras, Football Star Who Tackled Hollywood, Dies at 77
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-10-10T16:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/alex-karras-football-star-who-made-hit-in-hollywood-dies-at-77.html
Alex Karras, who followed one
successful career in professional football with another in
movies and television, play-punching a horse in one of the
signature madcap scenes of “Blazing Saddles,” has died. He was
77.  He died today at his residence in Los Angeles surrounded by
family members, according to a  statement  from their
representatives distributed by the Detroit Lions, his former
team. Karras was recently released from a California hospital
after having kidney failure to spend his final days at home, the
Associated Press reported yesterday. He also had heart disease,
dementia and stomach cancer, according to the statement.  Karras was part of the mass concussion lawsuit more than
3,000 former players have filed against the National Football
League.  In pulling off the transition from football to acting,
Karras helped pave a career path followed by O.J. Simpson, Fred
Dryer, Bubba Smith and other players. Though he portrayed his
share of heavies, Karras, a 250-pound defensive lineman during
his days with the Lions, also pulled off comedic roles in films
including “ Victor/Victoria ” (1982) and, from 1983 to 1989, as
the adoptive father of Webster Long (played by Emmanuel Lewis)
in the ABC series “Webster.”  Early Dream  “Before I was a football player, I wanted to be an
actor,” he told the Detroit Free Press in 1994. “My dad was an
actor, and I used to sit in the theater in the front row and
fantasize about being an actor.”  After his father’s death when he was a boy, he said, “my
whole family had to change what their intentions were,” and his
became football, the sport his older brothers had pushed him
into. “I went through that thinking, knowing, that eventually I
would go back to what I really wanted to do.”  Karras played 12 seasons with the Lions from 1958 to 1970,
missing the 1963 season after NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle
suspended him and Paul Hornung of the Green Bay Packers for
betting on other teams’ games. He was “one of the fiercest
members” of the Lions’ defensive unit of the 1960s who “used
his stocky build to bull rush offensive lines,” the team  says 
on its website.  He was named to the Pro Bowl in 1961, 1962, 1963 and 1966.
The Pro Football Hall of Fame included him on its  All-Decade
Team  of the 1960s.  ‘Paper Lion’  Karras began to pursue acting during the waning years of
his football career, playing himself in the film adaptation of
George Plimpton’s “Paper Lion,” an account of Plimpton’s
experience in training camp with the 1963 Lions.  In “Blazing Saddles” (1974), Mel Brooks’ sendup of
westerns, the 6-foot-2 Karras played Mongo, the fearsome, dim-
witted thug who enters town on a giant bull with “yes” and
“no” passing instructions on its rear end. Challenged by
another rider -- “Hey, you can’t park that animal over there”
-- Mongo walks over and punches the rider’s horse to the ground.  After retirement, he provided color commentary on ABC’s
“Monday Night Football” for three seasons, from 1974 through
1976.  In “Victor/Victoria,” which was nominated for seven
Academy Awards, Karras won notice for his portrayal of a gay
bodyguard alongside Julie Andrews, Robert Preston and James
Garner. Vincent Canby, in his  review  for the  New York  Times,
said Karras “comes out of the closet as a fine comic actor.”  Leaving Football  “Webster” paired Karras with his real-life wife, Susan
Clark, as the white adoptive parents of a black child, played by
Lewis, whose biological parents were killed in a car crash.
Karras played a retired football star, George Papadopoulos, who
had been a teammate of the biological father.  Karras told People magazine in 1979 that show business had
helped him leave football fully behind.  “People say, ‘What did you think of that quarterback
yesterday?’ and I don’t know who they’re talking about,” he
 said .  Alexander George Karras was born on July 15, 1935, in Gary,
 Indiana , the son of a physician. He was the fourth of six
children, according to the People article.  As a defensive lineman at the University of  Iowa , he was
part of a team that won the Rose Bowl on New Year’s Day, 1957,
beating Oregon State. He won the 1957 Outland Trophy, as the
best collegiate interior lineman in the U.S., and finished
second to running back  John David Crow  of Texas A&M in voting
for the Heisman Trophy.  Pro Wrestler  The Lions selected him with the 10th overall pick of the
1958 draft. He began his NFL career after a few months as a
professional wrestler, a calling he returned to during his 11-
month suspension from the NFL in 1963.  He met  Clark , who would become his second wife, on the set
of “Babe” (1975), a television movie about the female Olympian
and golfer Babe Didrickson.  His other films included “Porky’s” (1982) and “Against
All Odds” (1984).  Karras had a daughter with Clark, whom he married in 1980.
His first marriage, to the former Joan Jurgensen, produced five
children before ending in divorce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  