-- Allianz Says Asset Management Inflows Remain ‘Strong’
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-10-10T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/allianz-says-asset-management-inflows-remain-strong-.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, said inflows at Pacific Investment Management Co. and
its other asset managers remain “strong” amid the  European
debt crisis .  Net inflows “were strong last year and continue to be
strong to-date,” Jay Ralph, the Munich-based insurer’s
management board member responsible for asset management, said
in an interview in  London . “The current market environment is
better than we forecasted last year.”  Allianz reported third-party net inflows of 23.5 billion
euros ($30.4 billion) in the first quarter and 18.6 billion
euros in the second. That brought total assets under management
to 1.75 trillion euros, with more than 80 percent of that
accounted for by Pimco, led by Mohamed El-Erian and  Bill Gross .  Asset management’s contribution to Allianz’s operating
profit almost tripled to 27 percent over the past five years and
was 635 million euros in the second quarter. The insurer has
said it plans to grow the asset management unit’s operating
profit, excluding currency movements, by 5 percent to 10 percent
a year “over a full cycle.”  “In terms of profitability, the Allianz asset management
and  life insurance  segments are roughly the same size,” Ralph,
53, said. The units are “complementary to one another” as life
insurance suffers in a declining interest rate environment,
while Pimco benefits, he said.  Bond Appeal  While Ralph doesn’t expect rising interest rates “in the
near future,” he said Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest
bond fund, should still attract net inflows should that happen.  “Structural reasons will prevent a significant shift away
from fixed income into equities,” Ralph said. Solvency II, new
risk-based regulations for insurers in Europe, “penalizes
holding equities within insurance balance sheets,” he said.  An aging population will also move from riskier equity
oriented asset allocations to portfolios containing a larger
share of fixed income securities, he said.  Bill Gross’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  attracted $2.8 billion in
September, the ninth straight month of net deposits into the
mutual fund. Pimco’s flagship fund has gathered $12.1 billion in
new cash for the year through Sept. 30, bringing assets to $278
billion, according to Morningstar Inc.  “The main driver for operating profit in asset management
is scale,” Ralph said. “The amount of assets under management
is very much related to your  investment performance  -- the
better your performance, the better your profitability. We’ve
seen this with Pimco.”  Boutique Players  Pimco, which had 1.43 trillion euros in assets under
management at the end of June, was separated from the insurer’s
other managers last September to give the  Newport Beach ,
California-based unit more independence.  In the current markets, boutique asset managers “can be
successful if they have a strong focus,” Ralph said. “Mid-size
firms are likely to lose share to boutiques and large firms.”  Investors require better visibility to judge the
implications of Europe’s debt crisis, according to Ralph, who
joined Allianz in Zurich in 1997.  “We’d like more certainty around how investments in
private securities will be treated in the case of a debt
restructuring,” he said. “Will private investors be treated in
the same way as public creditors and emergency funds? Clarity on
this issue is important for fixed income investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  