-- Ambassador Died in Smoke While Agents Searched for Him
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ambassador-died-in-smoke-while-agents-searched-for-him.html
On the last day of his life, U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens retired to his room in the American
diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya at about 9 p.m. after a
quiet day.  Forty minutes later, security agents heard gunfire and
explosions near the front gate of the compound, which recently
had been reinforced with nine-foot walls and concrete Jersey
barriers, two State Department officials told reporters
yesterday.  Their narrative of what happened on the night of Sept. 11
is the first detailed account of how Stevens died, and it
contradicts the Obama administration’s initial contention that
the attack began as a spontaneous protest over an anti-Islamic
video clip. The officials also offered the first detailed
description of the compound’s and Stevens’ security, which are
the focus of a  hearing  today by the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee.  U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice told
television news programs on Sept. 16 that intelligence at that
point showed the attack started as “a spontaneous, not
premeditated response” to demonstrations in  Egypt  over a “very
offensive video.” Then it “seems to have been hijacked, let us
say, by some individual clusters of extremists,” she said.  The officials who described the attack yesterday, though,
said the State Department never concluded that it began as a
protest over the video. There were no protests at or near the
compound that day, they said, speaking on condition of anonymity
while the incident remains under investigation.  Sudden Attack  While the account is certain to add fuel to the partisan
battle over preparations for and response to the attack by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration, it also is a vivid
description of the final hours of one of the nation’s most
highly regarded diplomats and three other Americans.  The attack came suddenly, the two officials said. The
post’s security cameras showed a large number of armed men
storming the compound, which is about three football fields long
and 100 yards wide, said the officials, who’ve reviewed reports
of the assault.  The attackers immediately set fire to the building known as
the barracks, which housed the compound’s Libyan guards. Then
they penetrated the building where Stevens was staying during a
visit to Benghazi from Tripoli, the Libyan capital. It contained
a protected “safe haven” walled off by a metal grill with
locks, the officials said.  Safe Haven  The attackers looked through the grill and saw nothing.
They couldn’t break the locks to enter the safe haven, and
though no one got in, a security agent with Stevens was prepared
to shoot anyone who did.  Instead, the attackers poured diesel fuel in and around the
building and set it on fire, according to the two officials.  Stevens was trapped in the burning building as it quickly
filled with smoke. By the time the intruders left, the officials
said, it was difficult to see or breathe. The ambassador, along
with Sean Smith, a foreign-service information officer, and the
security agent moved to a bathroom with a window in an attempt
to get air.  The three men were on the bathroom floor, desperate for
air, when they decided they needed to leave the building. The
security agent later told State Department officials that he
wasn’t able to see three feet in front of him.  With dozens of armed attackers still at the compound, the
agent led Stevens and Smith to a bedroom that had a window exit
as more shooting and explosions could be heard outside and
tracer bullets pierced the night.  Missing Persons  The agent, barely able to breathe, escaped through the
bedroom window, only to discover that Stevens and Smith were no
longer with him.  The agent re-entered the building several times in an
attempt to find the two men. He never did. He finally staggered
up a ladder to the roof, where he radioed other security agents
for help, though he could barely speak, the two officials said.  The other agents, scattered at two different structures in
the compound, drove to the ambassador’s building in an armored
vehicle and made repeated attempts to feel their way through the
smoke and fire to find Stevens and Smith.  When they found Smith, the information officer was dead.
The ambassador was still missing.  Security at the compound consisted of five diplomatic
security special agents and four Libyans who were members of the
Feb. 17 Brigades, a militia assisting the Libyan government, the
two officials said.  Reinforcements Arrive  Then a so-called quick reaction security team, housed in an
annex about 1.2 miles (1.9 kilometers) from the compound,
arrived.  As the additional agents tried to secure the building’s
perimeter, they also made repeated attempts to find Stevens. One
agent took off his shirt, dipped it into the compound’s swimming
pool, and put it back on before heading into the smoke-filled
building, the two officials said.  Fearing for their safety, the agents decided they had to
evacuate the compound and get to the annex. They piled into the
armored vehicle with Smith’s corpse and made their way out the
main gate, the two officials said.  With traffic clogging the road, the vehicle was going about
15 miles an hour when a group of men met them and signaled for
them to turn. The armored vehicle then was attacked with AK-47
rifle fire and hand grenades. The vehicle kept rolling with two
flat tires.  Firing Positions  It eventually reached the annex, where agents took up
firing positions on the roof. The annex then took intermittent
fire from AK-47s and rocket-propelled grenades for several
hours, the officials said.  Reinforcements from Tripoli, some 400 miles away, who had
been called when the attack began, then arrived and made their
way to the annex.  At about 4 a.m., the two officials said, the annex took
mortar fire. Some rounds landed on the roof, killing two agents
and severely wounding another. Tyrone S. Woods and Glen A.
Doherty, two former Navy SEALs working as security personnel,
were the other Americans killed in Benghazi.  The remaining agents then decided to evacuate the annex and
made their way to the Benghazi airport, where they were
evacuated on two flights.  The two officials said yesterday they still don’t know how
Stevens, 52, made it to the Benghazi Medical Center, where he
was pronounced dead. He was brought to the city’s largest
hospital in a private car driven by unknown Libyan civilians
some time after 1 a.m. on Sept. 12, hospital director Dr. Fathi
al Jehani said in an interview with Bloomberg.  Dialed Phone  Hospital staff members informed the embassy of his death
after they picked his mobile phone out of his pocket and dialed
numbers on it, the two State Department officials said.  The House committee, led by Republican Representative
Darrell Issa of  California , will examine the State Department’s
account of the attack today. In an Oct. 2 letter to Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton, he said “the U.S. mission in Libya made
repeated requests for increased security in Benghazi” and
“were denied these resources by officials in Washington.”  The committee staff yesterday released a redacted e-mail
message from Eric Nordstrom, a regional security officer who was
based in Libya, who objected to what he described as a reduction
in security personnel at the consulate.  In the e-mail, Nordstrom said the security situation in
Libya was “not an environment where post should be directed to
‘normalize’ operations and reduce security resources in
accordance with an artificial time table.”  ‘Clear Disconnect’  The State Department, in an earlier statement, said it had
“maintained a constant level of security capability” at the
consulate.  “There was a clear disconnect between what security
officials on the ground felt they needed and what officials in
 Washington  would approve,” Issa said in a statement yesterday.  The State Department officials suggested yesterday that no
amount of security typically provided for a consulate would have
prevented the Benghazi attack, which they described as
unprecedented in recent diplomatic history.  The administration has retreated from Rice’s initial
description of the attack as a product of a demonstration
against the anti-Muslim video clip, which was seconded by White
House press secretary Jay Carney and State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.  On Sept. 19, Matthew Olsen, Director of the National
Counterterrorism Center, called the assault “a terrorist
attack,” and two days later Clinton and Carney said the same
thing.  ‘Organized Attack’  Finally, in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 28, Shawn
Turner, director of public affairs for the Director of National
Intelligence, said: “As we learned more about the attack, we
revised our initial assessment to reflect new information
indicating that it was a deliberate and organized terrorist
attack carried out by extremists.”  The attack is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and a separate State Department panel.  Speaking yesterday at  Geoint , an annual conference of
intelligence officials in  Orlando ,  Florida , sponsored by the
National Geospatial Intelligence Foundation, Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper said the U.S. had no
specific tactical warning of the attack. American eavesdropping
and reconnaissance agencies didn’t overhear or observe the
attackers discussing their plans, he said.  The Libya attack and the shifting accounts of it have
become fodder in the presidential campaign. Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  said in a foreign policy
address on Oct. 8 that the incident “cannot be blamed on a
reprehensible video insulting Islam, despite the
administration’s attempts to convince us of that for so long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  