-- Amtrak Targeted by Romney for U.S. Aid Cut Claims Record
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-10-10T14:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/amtrak-targeted-by-romney-for-u-s-aid-cut-claims-record.html
Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad, said it carried the most passengers in its
41-year history, with ridership up 3.5 percent in the year ended
Sept. 30.  The Washington-based railroad carried 31.2 million
passengers as ticket revenue rose 6.8 percent to $2 billion, it
said today in an e-mailed statement. Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  has pledged if elected to  end  U.S. taxpayer
support for the railroad, which was about $1.4 billion for
fiscal 2012.  “People are riding  Amtrak  trains in record numbers across
the country because there is an undeniable demand to travel by
rail,” Chief Executive Officer Joe Boardman said in the
statement. “Ridership will continue to grow because of key
investments made by Amtrak and our federal and state partners to
improve on-time performance, reliability, capacity and train
speeds.”  From October through July, Amtrak  lost  $1.05 billion, more
than the $970 million loss it had forecast for that period.  Romney, who says he wants to  balance  the U.S. budget
without raising taxes or curbing spending on retirees, has said
Amtrak aid would be one of the cuts he would make.  House
Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee Chairman  John Mica ,
a Florida Republican, has held a series of hearings this year
highlighting what he says is mismanagement and excessive federal
spending on Amtrak.  Federal Subsidies  U.S. taxpayers have provided subsidies of $50.97 per Amtrak
ticket sold for the past five years, Mica said at a hearing last
month.  Amtrak says it covers 85 percent of its operating costs
from ticket revenue. Taxpayers cover its capital and debt costs.
The railroad, created to relieve freight carriers of money-
losing passenger operations, has never made an annual profit.  The Northeast Corridor, the only place Amtrak gets enough
revenue to cover operating costs, had a 4.8 percent increase in
ridership to a record of about 11.4 million passengers.
Ridership on regional trains in the corridor between Washington
and  Boston  rose 6.6 percent, outpacing the 0.5 percent increase
in passengers on the higher-speed Acelas covering the same
route.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  