-- Man Group Rises on BlackRock Bid Newspaper Report: London Mover
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-10T15:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/man-group-rises-on-blackrock-bid-newspaper-report-london-mover.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge fund manager, rose to the highest price in
five months after the  Daily Mail  reported  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  may buy
the company.  The hedge fund manager’s biggest shareholder may head a
group of bidders in a 140 pence a share offer for Man Group, the
Daily Mail  reported  today, without saying where it got the
information. The stock climbed as much as 6.7 percent to 96
pence, the highest since May 3 in intraday trading. The shares
closed up 3.8 percent at 93.4 pence in London, valuing the
company at about 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion).  David Waller, a spokesman for London-based Man Group, and
Emma Phillips, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock,
declined to comment on the report.  Man Group’s assets under management fell to $52.7 billion
at the end of June from $71 billion a year earlier as its
biggest hedge fund, the $19.5 billion AHL computerized trading
system, underperformed rivals and the European sovereign debt
crisis hurt sales. The firm agreed to buy hedge fund of funds
manager FRM Holdings Ltd. in May, adding $8 billion in assets.  An acquisition of Man Group by BlackRock or another company
is “unlikely,” Peter Lenardos, an RBS Capital Markets analyst,
wrote in a note to clients today. BlackRock’s Man Group shares
aren’t a “strategic stake” because its underling investment
funds hold the stock, he wrote.  “We do not see the logic of acquiring a company whose
funds, in our opinion, are underperforming key benchmarks and
are experiencing net outflows,” said Lenardos, who has a
sector-perform rating on Man Group. “Further, we continue to
believe that AHL is priced above competitors despite having
weaker performance.”  The stock has fallen 26 percent this year and is trading at
about 0.73 times its book value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firm dropped out of the FTSE 100 Index this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  