-- Market-Abuse Jail, Money Fund Risks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-10T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/market-abuse-jail-money-fund-risks-compliance.html
European Union lawmakers backed
punishments for market abusers, including jail time, in a bid to
prevent any repeat of the scandal engulfing Libor and other
interbank lending rates.  Members of the  European Parliament ’s economic and monetary affairs committee called for courts to be able to impose prison
terms on people found guilty of egregious cases of insider
dealing and market manipulation. The lawmakers also backed the
use of fines and other administrative sanctions against traders
who unsuccessfully try to rig the market.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $360 trillion of securities, was shaken following  Barclays
Plc’s (BARC)  admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
Libor and other interbank lending rates to the top of the
political agenda.  European Union  Financial Services Commissioner   Michel
Barnier  last year proposed the upgrade to the bloc’s sanctions
against market abuse. He updated the plans in July to ensure
that they would cover abuse of Libor and other benchmarks.  Barnier has called for the law to be approved this year to
boost confidence following the Libor revelations.  The measures must be agreed on by the  parliament  and by a
weighted majority of the region’s national governments before
they can take effect. Yesterday’s vote sets out the assembly’s
negotiation position on the draft law.  Compliance Policy  Money-Market Funds Should Have Risk Limitations, IOSCO Says  Money-market funds should have limits imposed on the
riskiness of their investments and should conduct regular stress
tests, a global body of markets regulators said.  “Funds should not take direct or indirect exposures to
equities or commodities,” the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions  said in a report on its website
yesterday. The funds, which invest in short-term debt, should
hold buffers of liquid assets to prevent runs, IOSCO said.  While reform steps have been taken, “These funds may still
present vulnerabilities which could have broader consequences
for the financial system,” IOSCO said in the report.  Regulators have pressed to make money funds safer since the
September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund, which triggered an industrywide run and helped freeze
credit markets. The crisis calmed only after the  U.S. Treasury 
guaranteed shareholders against losses.  Money-market funds have about $4.7 trillion under
management and make up a significant part of the so-called
shadow-banking industry. The recommendations from IOSCO include
increased disclosure to investors of how funds value their
investments and how they would act in times of financial stress.  Regulators should be able to stop outflows in “exceptional
situations,” which “may have implications for the broader
financial system,” according to the report.  Yesterday’s report was backed by all members of IOSCO aside
from a “majority of the Commissioners of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission,” IOSCO said in the statement.  Mary Schapiro , chairman of the a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, gave up on a plan in August to strengthen
regulation of the funds after three of the agency’s five
commissioners told her they wouldn’t vote to issue it for public
comment.  EU Banking Plan Founders on Criticism From Non-Euro Nations  European efforts to pave the way for direct bank bailouts
have foundered because of concerns that current plans to build a
euro-area bank supervisor would hurt nations outside the common
currency.  New proposals are more explicit about how the  European
Central Bank  should coordinate with national supervisors once
joint oversight is in place, according to a document prepared by
the Cypriot presidency of the European Union and obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The compromise Cypriot text would require the ECB to share
information with local authorities and coordinate closely on
issues that could involve the prospect of closing a bank. It
says non-euro nations who choose to join the bank oversight
regime could leave upon request at any time.  These concessions aren’t enough to reassure countries
outside the 17-nation euro area that their interests will be
protected, ministers from Denmark and Sweden said yesterday.  Finance ministers in Luxembourg acknowledged that the EU is
unlikely to launch the new oversight regime by the start of 2013
as initially hoped.  For more, click here.  ECB Weighs Options to Give Non-Euro Nations More Voice  European Central Bank official Ignazio Angeloni said that
options are being weighed to give nations outside the euro area
more of a voice in supervisory decision making, if they agree to
sign up for shared oversight of lenders.  Angeloni made the remarks during an event in Brussels at
the European Parliament.  Among the options being considered is the inclusion of
 voting rights  on the planned supervisory board at the ECB.  Compliance Action  Finra Says Firm Reviewing Cancellations After Sudden Swings  A firm that reported equity  trades  away from prevailing
market prices early yesterday is studying them to see if they
should be voided, according to the Financial Industry Regulatory
Association.  The transactions were sent to data feeds over the
Finra/Nasdaq Trade Reporting Facility, a conduit for equity
prices from off-exchange venues such as dark pools. The firm,
which Finra didn’t identify, is “reviewing the trades to
determine whether corrections or cancellations” are warranted,
according to a statement from Finra spokeswoman  Nancy Condon .  While most of the shares that were bought and sold in
America changed hands on three main markets until the late
1990s, trading now is fragmented across more than 50 public and
private venues as well as among brokers who match orders through
a process known as internalization. About 140 stocks quoted on
the Finra facility swung over a one-hour period starting around
10 a.m. in New York, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prices rose and fell abruptly as isolated trades carried
out away from equity exchanges spurred concern about computer
errors. Some of the trades have been canceled.  The stock swings are the latest incident to draw attention
to the electronic infrastructure of U.S. markets. Regulators are
studying ways to prevent electronic mishaps after a programming
error almost sent Knight Capital Group Inc. into bankruptcy in
August.  Yesterday’s anomalies differed from the Aug. 1 Knight
incident because Knight’s orders landed on exchanges and were
executed against tens of thousands of shares. Yesterday’s were
confined to venues that report prices through a facility
overseen by Finra and in most cases resulted in only hundreds of
shares changing hands, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined
to comment. Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc., declined to comment.  Financial Watchdog Relaxes Capital Rule to Spur U.K. Lending  The  Financial Services Authority  relaxed the amount of
funds U.K. banks must keep in reserve, in an effort to spur
lending and stimulate credit growth.  “No bank will be required to hold the additional” capital
reserves that would have been needed previously for an increase
in lending, the FSA said in a Sept. 27 statement on its website.  “There are prudential and financial stability benefits to
taking proportionate action to enable firms to support the
supply of credit to the economy,” the FSA said.  U.K. lenders including Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays Plc rose in London trading.  The relaxation in capital rules will apply to all U.K.
banks, whether or not they participate in the Bank of England’s
Funding for Lending plan, which provides 60 billion pounds ($96
billion) backing for new loans, the FSA said.  Liam Parker, a spokesman for the FSA in London, declined to
comment today.  Total Raises Accuracy Concern About Oil Price Reporting Agencies  Total SA (FP) , France’s largest oil company, said it is
concerned that inconsistency and a reliance on judgment calls
hinders the accuracy of price reporting agencies in reflecting
the state of the oil market.  Totsa, the Geneva-based trading arm of Total, made the
remarks in an Aug. 24  letter  to the  International Organization
of Securities Commissions , which was published on IOSCO’s
website on Oct. 5.  The company said that excluding market participants from
the assessment process, or “boxing,” by price reporting
agencies, can have “significant economic consequences both on
the prices assessed in the market and on the company
concerned.”  IOSCO was appointed by the Group of 20 nations in November
to investigate the role played by price reporting agencies in
oil markets and published its final report on Oct. 5. The
report, which called for the agencies to adopt “robust”
controls to protect the reliability of the benchmarks, stopped
short of recommending new rules for traders or trading
companies.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts and Argus in providing energy markets news and
information.  Courts  Trading-Limit Appeal May Get CFTC Vote as Soon as This Week  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission may decide as
soon as this week to appeal a judge’s ruling against trading
limits for oil, natural gas and other commodities, according to
two people briefed on the matter.  The five-member commission plans to vote following a
recommendation from the agency’s general counsel’s office to
appeal the ruling, according to the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the schedule is private. A U.S.
District Court ruling Sept. 28 found that the CFTC failed to
assess whether the limits imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act were
necessary and appropriate.  The decision blocked rules scheduled to take effect Oct. 12
that were challenged by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association and International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc.  Steven Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Bart Chilton, one of three Democrats on the commission, has
urged the agency to appeal the ruling.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Alcoa Settles Aluminium Bahrain Lawsuit for $447 Million  Aluminium Bahrain BSC said  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, agreed to pay $447 million to settle a
racketeering lawsuit that claimed it overcharged for materials
after bribing senior company officials and the government in
Bahrain.  The settlement will be realized in a combination of cash
and a long-term alumina sales agreement, Aluminium Bahrain,
known as Alba, said in a statement received by e-mail yesterday.
The settlement, which included no admission of liability,
resulted in the release of all claims against Alcoa and related
defendants, Alba said.  Alcoa said yesterday in a statement that it agreed to pay
Alba $85 million in cash in two installments. The company also
said in the statement that the settlement with Alba represents
the best possible outcome and avoids the time and expense of
complex litigation.  The U.S. Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange
Commission have been investigating the allegations since 2008 to
determine whether Alcoa or anyone else violated the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co. BSC, the investment arm of
Bahrain’s government, owns 69.4 percent of Alba, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Interviews  EU’s Barnier Says Bank Oversight Plan Needs Improvement  European Union Financial Services  Commissioner Michel
Barnier,  Economic and Monetary Affairs  Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
and Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta spoke at a news conference
in Luxembourg on proposals for a financial transaction tax and
common bank oversight.  Cypriot Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Watchdog Cites Report as Proof He’s Not a Security Threat  David Weber , a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
internal watchdog who was put on leave after co-workers accused
him of being a security threat, asked to be reinstated after an
independent review indicated the claims were unsubstantiated.  Weber took over as chief investigator of the SEC’s
inspector general’s office last year and was put on leave in
May.  Weber stepped into the fray in March when he reported to
the SEC commissioners that H. David Kotz, the agency’s former
inspector general, may have had a personal relationship that
tainted reports on the agency’s failure to catch the  Bernard
Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford Ponzi schemes.  A number of Weber’s co-workers submitted complaints that he
was creating a hostile work environment. The SEC used an
external security consultant to review whether Weber was a
threat and then placed him on administrative leave.  An outside review generated by Weber’s complaints found
that Kotz appeared to have conflicts of interest in two matters,
and didn’t unearth any evidence to indicate that Weber’s conduct
raised security concerns, according to the probe’s final report.  Weber’s attorney, Cary J. Hansel, said his client is
prepared to file a lawsuit alleging the agency retaliated
against him for reporting the issues.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, didn’t respond to a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment.  Bowles Vies for King’s Job to Break Bank of England From Past  European lawmaker  Sharon Bowles  said that diplomacy and
knowledge of banking regulation are strengths she can offer to
support her candidacy to become the first female governor in the
Bank of England’s 318-year history.  Bowles, 59, said in an interview in Brussels yesterday that
she put in her application to replace Mervyn King on Oct. 7, the
day before Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
deadline. Bowles is chairwoman of the European Parliament’s
 Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee  and a member of the
Liberal Democrats, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition
partners.  The deadline for candidates was Oct. 8 at 8:30 a.m. in
London. Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill ,
former U.K. civil service chief Gus O’Donnell and former Bank of
England policy maker DeAnne Julius have all said they didn’t
submit applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 