-- Armstrong’s Entire Cycling Career Tainted by Doping, USADA Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/armstrong-evidence-of-doping-is-overwhelming-usada-says-1-.html
Lance Armstrong  used banned
substances throughout his cycling career, the  U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency  said in evidence that it used two months ago to strip him
of his record seven Tour de  France  titles.  Armstrong forced teammates to dope under the threat of
dismissal from his squad, USADA said in a 202-page  summary  of
its case against him yesterday.  Armstrong used the banned drugs erythropoietin, or EPO, and
testosterone, according to  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based
USADA, and provided EPO to teammates and administered
testosterone on at least one occasion. Armstrong transfused
blood in every Tour de France from 2001 through 2005, his former
teammate George Hincapie said. He won all those races.  “USADA found proof beyond a reasonable doubt that Lance
Armstrong engaged in serial cheating through the use,
administration and trafficking of performance-enhancing drugs
and methods,” USADA concluded. “So ends one of the most sordid
chapters in sports history.”  Armstrong paid $1 million to Michele Ferrari, a physician
who played a “major role” in his doping program, USADA said,
and there were signs the rider still used blood doping in 2009
and 2010, according to Christopher Gore, head of physiology at
the Australian Institute of Sport.  Armstrong, who survived testicular cancer that spread to
his lungs and brain before winning his first  Tour de France  in
1999, has repeatedly denied doping, saying he has never failed a
drug test.  Charity Plans  Armstrong said via Twitter last night that he’s focused on
Oct. 18-21 plans to mark the  15th anniversary  of his cancer
foundation. The Livestrong charity has raised more than $470
million since 1997 to fight cancer, according to its website.  “What am I doing tonight?” Armstrong wrote. “Hanging
with my family, unaffected.”  The USADA decision is “a taxpayer-funded tabloid piece
rehashing old, disproved, unreliable allegations based largely
on axe-grinders, serial perjurers, coerced testimony, sweetheart
deals and threat-induced stories,” Armstrong’s lawyer Timothy
Herman said yesterday.  Armstrong, 41, was banned for life from competitive cycling
and all other Olympic-related sports and stripped of his Tour de
France titles on Aug. 23 after opting not to fight USADA’s
allegations.  Sponsors’ Backing  Armstrong has endorsement deals with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Trek
Bicycle Corp.,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s Michelob Ultra beer,
 Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley unit and  RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , as well
as smaller companies such as FRS Co. and Honey Stinger, which
make energy and nutrition products.  Paul Chibe, vice president of U.S. marketing for Anheuser-
Busch, said in an e-mailed statement that the company’s
“current relationship with Lance remains unchanged.”  Brian Strong, a spokesman for Nike Inc., reiterated a
previous statement that the sporting goods company “plans to
continue to support Lance and the Lance Armstrong Foundation.”  Len Zanni, marketing director for Honey Stinger, said in an
e-mail that the company’s relationship with Armstrong and his
foundation wouldn’t change. Armstrong is a part-owner of Honey
Stinger.  FRS Co. declined to comment, spokeswoman Carli LaForgia
said in an e-mail. Costanza Assereto, a spokesman for Luxottica,
didn’t respond to e-mails. Eric Bjorling, a spokesman for Trek,
didn’t answer an e-mail or voice message seeking comment.  Zy Richardson, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Postal Service,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  1,000 Pages  USADA said in an e-mailed statement by chief executive
officer Travis Tygart that it had sent more than 1,000 pages of
evidence against Armstrong and the team to the International
Cycling Union, or UCI, the  World Anti-Doping Agency  and the
World Triathlon Corp.  The UCI, WADA and the triathlon corporation have the right
to appeal USADA’s findings to the Court of Arbitration for Sport,
the top tribunal for athletic disputes. Armstrong switched to
triathlon after retiring from cycling.  The UCI will examine the USADA report “to consider issues
of appeal and recognition, jurisdiction and statute of
limitation,” it said in a statement. UCI has 21 days to appeal
to CAS.  The U.S. Postal team conducted “the most sophisticated,
professionalized and successful doping program that sport has
ever seen,” Tygart said.  Sworn Testimony  Evidence includes sworn testimony from 26 people, including
15 riders with knowledge of the doping activities, Tygart said.  Hincapie, Armstrong’s teammate for each of his seven
consecutive Tour de France victories through 2005, was among
those interviewed. Other teammates included Frankie Andreu,
Michael Barry, Tom Danielson,  Tyler Hamilton ,  Floyd Landis , Levi Leipheimer, Stephen Swart, Christian Vande Velde,  Jonathan Vaughters , and David Zabriskie.  Hamilton was twice banned for doping and stripped of a 2004
Olympic gold medal. Landis was stripped of his 2006 Tour de
France win for doping.  Tygart said any active cyclist in the group had been
suspended and disqualified “appropriately in line with the
rules.”  In addition to the eyewitness testimony of Hamilton, who
was invited to share EPO in Armstrong’s refrigerator, and the
admissions of Kristin Armstrong, Lance’s ex-wife, Hincapie
testified that he “was aware that Lance Armstrong was using EPO
in 1999.”  Doping Officials  Hincapie told investigators that Armstrong dropped out of a
2000 race in  Spain  just after taking testosterone, when Hincapie
texted his teammate to tell him that drug-testing officials were
at his hotel.  Hincapie  posted a statement  on his website yesterday saying
he used performance-enhancing drugs prior to riding “clean”
for the past six years. He never had been publicly linked with
the use of performance enhancers.  “Early in my professional career, it became clear to me
that, given the widespread use of performance-enhancing drugs by
cyclists at the top of the profession, it was not possible to
compete at the highest level without them,” Hincapie said. “I
deeply regret that choice.”  Tainted Results  Of the 21 riders to finish in the top three at the Tour de
France from 1999 through 2005, 20 have been “tied to likely
doping” through admissions, sanctions, public investigations or
because they exceeded UCI’s hematocrit threshold, USADA said in
its summary, formally called a “reasoned decision.”  Of 45 podium finishers from 1996 to 2010, 36 were tainted
by doping, the agency said.  The report also accused Armstrong of attempting to procure
false affidavits, prevent witnesses from testifying and
retaliate against those who did.  In August 2010, Armstrong asked former teammates and others
to sign affidavits that there was no systematic doping on the
Postal Service team, the report said, citing Armstrong e-mails
and testimony of Michael Barry, who retired this year. Barry
yesterday admitted on his website to doping while a member of
the U.S. Postal team from 2002-06.  Armstrong also asked Hincapie to remain in  Europe  to avoid
or delay testifying, intimidated other riders or tried to punish
them for speaking out against him, the report said.  Armstrong, three doctors and two former officials from the
U.S. Postal team were notified by USADA in June that they had
been accused of using and trafficking in performance-enhancing
drugs.  Before the August ban, UCI supported Armstrong’s argument
that USADA didn’t have jurisdiction over his drug tests or to
take the disciplinary actions it did against him. The Swiss-
based UCI asked a U.S. judge for a neutral and independent body
to oversee any doping case.  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks in Austin,  Texas , dismissed
Armstrong’s lawsuit seeking to block USADA’s investigation on
Aug. 20, while saying he was troubled by the drug agency’s
efforts to target the cyclist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  