-- Hasbro Reboots Furby Toy for an IPad-Obsessed Generation
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/hasbro-reboots-furby-toy-for-an-ipad-obsessed-generation.html
In early 2011,  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  Chief
Executive Officer Brian Goldner convened a team of designers,
engineers and marketers to figure out the Next Big Toy.  They asked themselves a simple question: “What’s the most
alive thing a toy can do?” After eight months of prototyping
and kid focus groups, they had their answer: Reboot Furby, the
cuddly robot that seems to develop a personality as you play and
was one of Hasbro’s biggest-ever hits.  In resurrecting a plaything that had its heyday when  Bill
Clinton  was president, Hasbro is betting the toy will appeal to
adults who played with Furby as kids as well as tech-obsessed
children this holiday season.  Still, a retro toy from the 1990s will be hard to market as
a true innovation, said  Sean McGowan , an analyst for Needham &
Co. And at $60 -- double the original’s price -- it may be a
tough sell for shoppers recovering from the recession.  “I don’t want to denigrate the technical innovation,”
said McGowan, who is based in New York. “In terms of the basic
toy, yes it’s probably better, but it’s the same.”  The Furby reboot is one of the most expensive and complex
product-development projects in the Pawtucket, Rhode Island-
based company’s history. The largest U.S. toy sellers have also
invested in its success.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
Toys “R” Us Inc. all put Furby on their lists of hot toys, a
sign they’re dedicating plenty of shelf space to it.  Declining Revenue  Hasbro could use a hit after revenue  declined  7.6 percent
to $1.46 billion during the first half of this year and is
projected by analysts to be little changed in the quarter ended
Sept. 30. The toymaker traded at a premium on a price-to-sales
basis to the 80 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer
Discretionary Index from early 2003 through late 2011. It peaked
at a premium of more than 100 percent in 2008. At $37.57 through
yesterday, it now trades at a discount of 1.6 percent.  In part, the company’s sagging sales reflect an industry
that’s being transformed by the surging popularity of mobile
devices. As more kids of all ages turn to tablets such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad for play, the more Hasbro and competitors such as
 Mattel Inc. (MAT)  need to invest in innovation, McGowan said.  Hasbro’s innovation is “pointed in the right direction,
and they are certainly taking it seriously,” McGowan said.
“There just needs to be a lot more, and that’s true for the
entire industry.”  The new Furby is the first of more than 20 products the
company plans to bring to life with technology, said Kenny
Davis, the marketing director of new brand franchises, including
Furby.  Puffball Return  After years of contemplating a return of the puffball that
sold more than 40 million units in the late 1990s, Hasbro
indulged because advancements in computing power and robotics
had become cheap enough for a substantial improvement to be
affordable.  “It’s certainly something we couldn’t have done in years
past,” said Davis, who was part of the innovation group. “I
wonder if we could have done it a year earlier.”  Bringing back Furby was also a chance to leverage a built-
in audience, a trend seen across toys as well as entertainment.
Hasbro estimated that in 2000, when it stopped making Furby,
half of girls and a third of boys ages 6 to 12 in the U.S. had
one.  While the new Furby resembles its predecessor with a face
that looks like Gizmo, the good character in 1984’s
“Gremlins,” its innards feature an upgraded system of sensors
and computer circuits. That and eyes made from liquid-crystal
displays will bring Furby to life in new ways, according to
Hasbro, and convince parents, teenagers and even shoppers in
their 20s to shell out $60.  Customized Experience  The original Furby had regimented programming that created
the illusion of a customized experience. Play with it enough and
it unveiled the same sounds and movements as it eventually
migrated from speaking Furbish, its native tongue, to English.
At the peak of its popularity, the toy generated more than $500
million in annual sales and was every bit as big a hit as Sesame
Street’s Tickle Me Elmo, according to McGowan.  “It was a hold-your-breath, hope-you-get-it toy,” said
McGowan. “Nothing had been done like that before.”  The new version has a computerized brain that will alter
its behavior depending on how it’s treated, according to Hasbro.
For example, if you pet it nicely and play music for it, it may
act more fun-loving. Shake it upside down, and it could become
ornery. Furbies can also interact when in the same room by
sending out and reading inaudible tones from each other.  Mobile Devices  “With the older one, everyone basically had the same
Furby,” said Kris Paulson, design manager of integrated play
who worked on Furby. “This one really adapts to who is playing
with it.”  Furby also works with mobile devices, the fastest-growing
part of the computer market. A free application for Apple’s iOS
operating software and one for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android later this
year allows users to translate what Furby is saying and feed him
everything from coffee to a dirty sock. Depending on what is
chosen, responses could be a burp or other rude noises.  Hasbro’s biggest challenge besides price may be conveying
in marketing Furby’s technological bona fides, McGowan said.
Hasbro put Furby in the kind of packaging typically used to sell
consumer electronics -- a small trapezoidal box with no plastic
window or hole to give shoppers a sneak peek.  “‘We envisioned Furby as not a toy, and this packaging
really reinforces that,’’ Paulson said  Retro Toy  A national television campaign will focus on today’s kids.
Hasbro will try to sell Furby as a retro toy via Facebook and
 Twitter  to shoppers in their 20s, who were kids when the toy
debuted in 1998. The Furby Facebook page already has 200,000
likes. Hasbro also is planning to extend the brand by licensing
Furby to apparel and stationery makers.  While it’s unlikely Furby will be the phenomenon it was
more than a decade ago, it doesn’t have to replicate that to be
considered a success, McGowan said. The re-imagined Furby needs
to sell well enough to demonstrate that Hasbro’s move into
technology is working, he said.  ‘‘If it sells well, even if it doesn’t have a second year,
it just underscores that the company was able to do it,”
McGowan says. “If it doesn’t, then it leaves a hole, and leaves
you wondering what will happen with the next such item.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  