-- Stocks Drop With Metals as Alcoa Fuels Growth Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-10-10T21:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/asian-stocks-drop-with-euro-on-china-growth-concern-oil-falls.html
Global stocks  fell for a third day
and metals retreated as  Alcoa (AA)  Inc.’s reduced aluminum-demand
forecast fueled concern that Chinese growth is slowing.
Treasuries erased losses as a $21 billion auction drew a lower-
than-forecast yield, while oil reversed earlier gains.  The MSCI All-Country World Index slipped 0.6 percent at 4
p.m. in New York and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down
0.6 percent at 1,432.63, its lowest level in a month. Aluminum
slid more than 2 percent, while oil tumbled 1.2 percent after
rallying 1.4 percent earlier. Ten-year yields, which  climbed  to
as high as 1.75 percent before the auction, were down three
basis points at 1.68 percent.  Energy and raw-material producers  led losses  in the  S&P 500 
after Alcoa said China’s slowing growth will cut global demand
for aluminum, while Chevron Corp. said profit fell
“substantially” from the previous quarter. The  International
Monetary Fund  said European banks may need to shrink assets if
policy makers fall short of pledges to stem the fiscal crisis.
Spain’s debt rating was cut to one level above junk by S&P,
which cited mounting economic and political risks.  “It’s going to be an imbalanced earnings season,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based fund manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $138 billion in
client assets, said in a telephone interview. “But the overall
theme that will be echoed from management will be of a more
conservative nature, which could throw a wet blanket on the
recent market rally.”  Growing ‘Modestly’  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has fallen 2.3 percent from an almost five-year
high reached on Sept. 14 after the  Federal Reserve  announced
plans to buy $40 billion in mortgage securities a month in an
attempt to boost growth.  Benchmark equity indexes remained lower today after the Fed
said that the  U.S. economy  was expanding “modestly” last
month, supported by improvements in housing and auto sales, even
as the labor market showed little change.  “ Consumer spending  was generally reported to be flat to up
slightly since the last report,” the Fed said in its Beige Book
business survey, which is based on accounts from the 12 district
Fed banks. Conditions in manufacturing were “somewhat
improved,” according to the report, which provides anecdotal
evidence on the health of the economy two weeks before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets in Washington on Oct. 23-24.  Market Movers  Alcoa, the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to report results for last quarter, lost 4.7 percent.
Alcoa reduced its forecast for global aluminum-consumption
growth this year by one percentage point to 6 percent,
overshadowing earnings and sales that beat analysts’ estimates.
Chevron retreated after saying production slowed because of
Hurricane Isaac.  FedEx Corp. advanced after setting a goal to boost profit
by $1.7 billion. Yum! Brands Inc. and Costco Wholesale Corp.
rallied after profit beat analyst estimates and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  rose to a record after saying its back-to-school sales were
“very strong.”  Third-quarter profits and sales for the S&P 500 probably
fell in unison for the first time in three years, according to
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings at S&P 500
companies probably slipped 1.7 percent last quarter, snapping a
three-year streak of growth, as declines of more than 21 percent
in energy and commodity company profits overshadow growth in
income at banks.  Copper and aluminum demand in China will get support from
construction until at least the middle of next year, and then
the wave is “set to crash by 2014,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analyst  Max Layton  said in a report.  Metal Prices  Aluminum fell 2.2 percent to a one-month low of $2,008 a
metric ton in London. Lead dropped 2.4 percent and nickel and
zinc declined at least 1.4 percent. West Texas Intermediate oil
reversed earlier gains, losing 1.2 percent to $91.25 a barrel
after surging 3.4 percent yesterday amid conflict between Turkey
and Syria.  Gasoline at the pump in California fell from a record as
Valero Energy Corp. began making a cheaper blend of fuel at
refineries near San Francisco and  Los Angeles . Regular gasoline
at the pump slid to $4.666 a gallon today from the all-time peak
of $4.671 a gallon, according to data from AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization.  Thirty-year bond rates decreased four basis points to 2.88
percent, while two-year yields were little changed at 0.26
percent.  Treasury Auction  Today’s $21 billion auction of 10-year notes had a bid-to-
cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, of 3.26 versus 2.85 in
September and an average of 3.11 for the prior 10 sales.
Benchmark  10-year yields  declined from the highest level in more
than two weeks as Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ,
struggling to contain the country’s deficit, met in Paris with
French President  Francois Hollande .  Spain was lowered two levels to BBB- from BBB+, New
York-based S&P said in a statement after the close of U.S.
markets. S&P assigned a negative outlook on the nation’s debt.
The downgrade comes after Spain announced a fifth austerity
package in less than a year and published details of stress
tests of its banks. Rajoy is weighing a second bailout amid a
deepening recession.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
reduced his holdings of Treasuries for a third consecutive month
to the lowest level since last October on concern record  U.S.
debt  will lead to inflation.  Fund Holdings  The proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $278 billion Total Return
Fund dropped to 20 percent of assets in September from 21
percent the prior month, according to data released on the
Newport Beach, California-based company’s website. Mortgages
remained his largest holding at 49 percent. Pimco doesn’t
comment directly on monthly changes in its mutual funds.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost more than 0.5 percent,
extending this week’s slump to almost 2 percent. Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV slipped 1.2 percent after a report that the U.S. may
block its $20 billion takeover of Grupo Modelo SAB. BAE Systems
Plc fell 1.4 percent after abandoning plans to merge with
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. Imagination
Technologies Group Plc lost 9.4 percent as analysts recommended
selling the shares.  In European bond markets, 10-year Spanish yields decreased
two basis points to 5.80 percent and rates on Italy’s debt were
little changed at 5.11 percent.  The yen strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers, erasing
earlier declines triggered when Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said his government will act against any
disorderly gains in the currency.  ‘Disorderly Moves’  “We have to observe the market closely to see whether
there are excessive or disorderly moves” in the  currency
market , Noda said in an interview with  Bloomberg News  at his
office in Tokyo. The yen’s strength is a “serious problem,” is
out of step with Japan’s economic performance and “when
necessary, we will take decisive action,” he said.  The yen strengthened 3 percent over the past six months,
the best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
slipped 0.4 percent and the euro weakened 2.3 percent in the
same period.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.5 percent to the
lowest in two weeks, on concern the debt crisis in Europe will
hurt exporters’ earnings. South Korea’s KOSPI slumped 1.6
percent as Samsung Electronics Co. dropped 3.4 percent, the
biggest laggard by index points. The Shanghai Composite Index in
China rose 0.2 percent.  Chinese wholesale auto deliveries, including multipurpose
and sport-utility vehicles, fell 0.3 percent to 1.32 million
units last month, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said in a statement. That compared with the 1.35
million average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Shanahan in London at 
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  