-- Aussie Touches One-Week High as Job Gains Top Forecasts
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-11T05:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/aussie-drops-before-jobs-report-after-spain-rating-cut.html
Australia ’s dollar touched the
highest level in more than a week after a report showed more
people found work last month than predicted.  The so-called Aussie climbed versus all of its major
counterparts, even after the jobless rate rose to the highest
level since 2010. Demand for the Australian currency and its New
Zealand counterpart was tempered after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
 Spain ’s credit rating to one level above junk, adding to concern
the euro area’s debt crisis is deepening. The  New Zealand dollar 
remained lower versus the yen after a manufacturing gauge
indicated a contraction last month.  “The fact that we still have jobs created, particularly in
the full-time sector, should limit the fallout for the Aussie,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “But given that the  unemployment rate  is
trending higher, we’d still want to be selling into rallies in
the currency.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0277 as of
4:55 p.m. in Sydney, after earlier touching $1.0287, the
strongest since Oct. 2. It climbed 0.2 percent to 80.18 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, bought 81.77
U.S. cents from 81.63 yesterday. It was little changed from
yesterday at 63.79 yen, having fallen 1 percent over the past
four days.  The yield on Australia’s  10-year note  was at 3.03 percent
after earlier declining as much as eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3 percent.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, was little
changed at 2.625 percent.  Job Creation  The number of people  employed  in Australia rose by 14,500
in September, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That
compares with the median estimate for an increase of 5,000 in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The jobless rate rose to
5.4 percent, the highest since April 2010, from 5.1 percent as
more people sought employment.  S&P announced in a statement yesterday its decision to cut
Spain’s credit score two levels to BBB-. The ratings company
assigned a negative outlook to the nation’s long-term rating and
said there were “significant risks to Spain’s economic growth
and budgetary performance.”  Long Positions  “We’re starting to see risk appetite come under pressure
anyway this week and the downgrade from S&P simply reinforced
that risk-off tone,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at
Bank of New Zealand in Wellington. “Given that the speculators
community is quite long on commodity currencies, this trend for
a lower kiwi and Aussie on position trimming has got further to
run.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a gain in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a decline -- so-called net longs -- was
63,743 in the period ended Oct. 2, according to figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission. That
compares with 89,562 a week earlier, the most since April 2011.
Net longs for  New Zealand’s currency  climbed to 21,381, the
highest since February.  In New Zealand, a manufacturing gauge was at 48.2 in
September, indicating contraction for a third-straight month,
according to a report today. The index is compiled by  Bank of
New Zealand  Ltd. and Business NZ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  