-- AVX Corp. to Pay $366 Million in Settlement With EPA
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-10T22:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/avx-corp-to-pay-366-million-in-settlement-with-epa.html
AVX Corp. (AVX) , a maker of electronic
components, agreed to pay $366 million to settle a U.S. lawsuit
over continuing cleanup of a  Massachusetts  harbor contaminated
40 years ago with hazardous waste by the company’s predecessor.  The cleanup of the New Bedford harbor Superfund site in New
Bedford, Massachusetts, will be complete in five to seven years
as a result of the settlement, the U.S. Justice Department said
in an e-mail.  AVX’s corporate predecessor, Aerovox Corp., operated a
plant on the shore of the harbor from the 1940s to the 1970s
that discharged hazardous substances, including polychlorinated
biphenyls, known as PCBs, the agency said. In 1983 the site was
included in the Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund
Program, which cleans up the U.S.’s most hazardous toxic sites.  Aerovox “produced liquid filled capacitors adjacent to the
harbor,” AVX said in an e-mail. “Subsequent owners of the
facility are dissolved or in bankruptcy. AVX itself never
produced this type of capacitor, nor does it do so today.”  AVX, a Greenville, South Carolina-based affiliate of
 Japan ’s Kyocera Group, previously paid $66 million for cleanup
costs and natural resource damages at the harbor site as a
result of a 1992 settlement with the U.S. and Massachusetts that
could be reopened for renegotiation. AVX agrees to pay $366.25
million plus interest to settle its remaining liabilities for
cleanup at the harbor site, the Justice Department said.  A consent decree eliminates the government’s right to
reopen the settlement, AVX said in an e-mail. The settlement is
subject to a 30-day public comment period and court approval.  The case is U.S. v AVX,  83-3882, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  