-- Lawmakers Question U.S. Abound Loan Despite Quality Issues
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-10-10T21:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/lawmakers-question-u-s-loans-to-abound-despite-quality-issues.html
House Republicans  want more
information about a $400 million loan guarantee from the U.S.
Energy Department to Abound Solar Inc., citing reports that
significant “technological difficulties” with the company’s
solar panels were known before the aid was approved.  Representative  Fred Upton  of  Michigan , the chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, and two other Republicans
on the panel wrote Energy Secretary Steven Chu seeking documents
his department used to review the application from Abound, which
later went bankrupt. In the letter, Upton suggests Energy
Department officials should have known about problems with the
Loveland, Colorado-based company’s solar panels prior to issuing
the guarantee, which was part of the same program that financed
Solyndra LLC. The Fremont, California, company also later
failed.  An engineering report given to the department two months
before it closed on the guarantee indicates that “Abound’s
panels were already experiencing significant efficiency and
technological difficulties,” the letter states.  One customer reported “major performance shortfalls” with
Abound’s panels, the letter states, quoting the engineering
report given the Energy Department.  The letter, which was dated today, continues Republican
criticism of the $16 billion clean-energy loan program that was
funded by the 2009 economic stimulus. Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  has said President  Barack Obama  erred in
directing the money to risky renewable-energy projects.  Administration Response  Administration officials have defended the program, saying
the failure rate has been lower than anticipated by Congress.  Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman, referred a
request for comment about the investigation to an earlier blog
posting on the Department’s website that cited allegations
Chinese companies were unfairly undercutting market prices for
solar panels, putting additional pressure on U.S. manufacturers.  “In such an intense competition and with the price
declining 47 percent last year alone, not every company, nor
every investment, will be a success -- but America will be
stronger and more competitive if we continue to support and
build a thriving solar industry here at home,” LaVera wrote in
the June 28 post.  In an e-mail, LaVera also said the department had already
provided the committee engineering and market analyses of
Abound’s loan application.  Taxpayer Losses  Abound borrowed about $70 million from the U.S. before the
Energy Department stopped payments. The Energy Department has
said taxpayers may lose $40 million to $60 million on the loan
after Abound’s assets are sold and a bankruptcy proceeding
concludes.  The company stopped operations in June, prompting more
criticism from Republicans who had said Solyndra’s earlier
failure after receiving a $535 million loan guarantee showed the
problems of trying to pick “winners and losers” in the market.  Republican and Democrat lawmakers from  Indiana  also
supported Abound’s loan, as the company sought to build one of
its plants in the state.  Craig Witsoe, Abound’s chief executive officer when it
closed, blamed “aggressive price-cutting from Chinese
competitors” for the company’s collapse. Besides the $70
million from the U.S., Abound also attracted about $300 million
in private investment.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee refused to release
the engineering report allegedly showing early technical
difficulties with Abound’s solar panels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  