-- Axius Fraud Conspirator Pleads Guilty in Stock-Price Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-10T19:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/axius-fraud-conspirator-pleads-guilty-in-stock-price-case.html
A financial professional accused of
helping  Axius Inc. (AXIU) ’s chief executive officer try to manipulate
the company’s stock price pleaded guilty to conspiracy in
federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.  Jean-Pierre Neuhaus and Axius CEO Roland Kaufman, both
Swiss citizens, are alleged to have tried to artificially
inflate the value of the Dubai-based company’s stock with help
from someone they believed was in contact with corrupt  stock
brokers . Neuhaus pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy
before U.S. District Judge John Gleeson today.  The defendants thought the person, who was actually an
undercover U.S. agent, would direct the brokers to buy Axius
shares in exchange for kickbacks of as much as 28 percent,
according to court filings submitted by the  Justice Department .  “I made false representations to people in order to buy
and sell Axius stock so I would get a commission,” Neuhaus said
while standing before Gleeson in khaki jailhouse garb and
speaking in heavily accented English.  His lawyer, Johanna Zapp, declined to comment after the
hearing. His sentencing date is scheduled for Nov. 30.  Axius described itself as a “business incubator” and
holding company in a report filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in February. At the time auditors told the
company it may not be able to continue as a going concern
because of recurring losses and cash shortages, according to the
report.  ‘Personal Reasons’  Company representatives didn’t immediately respond to a
message left at a Dubai phone number listed in Axius SEC
filings. The company’s chief financial officer John Figliolini
resigned for “personal reasons” according to an Oct. 1 report
submitted with the agency. Operations of a subsidiary of Axius,
 Dr. Jules Nabet Cosmetics Inc. , were discontinued in September
“because of lack of financial resources,” according to the
report.  Neuhaus is being held in federal custody. Kaufman is free
on a $2.5 million bond, according to court records. A lawyer for
Kaufman, Eric Snyder, didn’t immediately respond to a call
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Neuhaus, 12-cr-00439, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  