-- Maybe President Romney Wouldn’t Be So Bad
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/maybe-president-romney-wouldn-t-be-so-bad.html
Now, don’t get me wrong. I’m not
hoping for this or expecting it, but maybe it wouldn’t be the
end of the world if Mitt Romney became president.  Never in my life have I supported a Republican for
president, and I don’t intend to start now. I’m voting for
Obama, and I urge you to do the same.  I don’t even really understand the intense disappointment
many liberals seem to feel about the president’s first term. For
heaven’s sake, with the Affordable Care Act, he crossed off what
had been the top item on the liberal “to do” list for decades.
He also reformed regulation of the financial industry in ways
that even Romney partly approves of, or says he does.  President  Barack Obama  navigated us through the biggest
economic crisis since the Great Depression in a way that (in my
opinion) deserves a B+. He didn’t get us into any wars, and
there were no major terrorist episodes on his watch. That, to
me, seems like a pretty good record.  True, Obama added $4 trillion to the national debt. But
that was a conscious exercise in Keynesian demand stimulation,
not a careless waste of taxpayer dollars. You can argue that it
was a mistake. But a smaller deficit -- i.e., a smaller stimulus
-- would hardly have created more jobs.  Obama has also been a disappointment to some liberals for
his failure to continue inspiring them after the thrill of his
election had passed. At the same time, he has disappointed
others by his surprising lack of interest in the details of
legislation. He is not a policy wonk. He gave Democrats in
Congress more or less carte blanche to come up with a health-
care reform plan. In other areas -- such as, say, debate
preparation -- he has displayed very little of the Harvard Law
Review obsession with minutiae that we expected and many
liberals like.  None of this is close to being enough to make me vote for
Romney. But I’m not quite feeling that fear of disaster for the
country that has colored and energized my opinion of the
Republican candidates in most of the presidential elections of
my voting life: Nixon, Reagan, Bush Senior, Dole, Bush Junior.
(Ford and McCain were well worth voting against, but not
completely unthinkable. Some liberals didn’t mind the first Bush
much. I’m not one of them.)  Whether Romney belongs on the unthinkable list depends on
how big a liar he is: The bigger the liar, the more acceptable
he would be. Not that I approve of lies by politicians. (And not
that any politician is waiting for my approval before lying.)
But worse than all the flops he’s flipped and phony posturing
he’s engaged in would be if he actually won and then tried to
govern as the conservative zealot he has pretended to be for
most of this campaign.  If he has been telling the truth about his beliefs and
intentions for the past year or so, he’s plainly unacceptable.
But if he has been faking it -- if he’s actually the classic
moderate Republican business man we suspect and not the
conservative zealot he plays on TV -- then it wouldn’t be the
end of the world if he won.  “Not the end of the world” is not much of an endorsement,
and not meant to be. And even this depends on Romney taking out
that Etch A Sketch and reinventing himself yet again (first from
moderate businessman to conservative zealot, then from
conservative zealot back to moderate businessman). For reasons
both political and psychological, it surely must be hard for
anyone, including  Mitt Romney , to perform a double flip-flop of
his entire public persona.  He may feel he has to prove that he wasn’t bluffing in his
position on abortion and other social issues. But he already is
reverting to a more moderate stance, or trying to, on economic
issues and taxes. His tax plan, he says now, might involve a
ceiling on deductions for the rich that is lower than his
ceiling on deductions for the middle class.  How would a moderate Romney govern? The former  management
consultant  might see governing as a series of concrete problems
to be solved. And, ideology aside, he might even be good at it.
It might be a good time for Democrats to be out of office and
able to rest and rethink. In fact, it might be a good time for
anybody to be out of office, if the economy tanks or terrorists
attack or the weather offers an especially copious banquet of
fires, floods, droughts and tornadoes. In short, maybe a
President Romney wouldn’t be so terrible.  (Pause for reflection.)  No, it would be pretty terrible. Vote for Obama.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Facebook, the SEC and
companies planning to go public  and on improving the  U.S.
electricity grid ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things Democrats won’t
tell you ;  Ezra Klein  on  one campaign without policy and one
without vision ;  Michael Lewis  on  children of Wall Street
employees  as bonuses shrink;  Amity Shlaes  and Matthew Denhart on
 how one word can help candidates  win debates; Camille Paglia on
 Jackson Pollock ,  American art pioneer .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 