-- Bee-Killing Asian Hornet to Be Declared Invasive Pest in France
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-10T15:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/bee-killing-asian-hornet-to-be-declared-invasive-pest-in-france.html
The Asian hornet, a bee-killing
predator first seen in  France  in 2004, will be declared an
invasive and harmful exotic, allowing the government to set up
country-wide pest control programs.  The species, whose scientific name is Vespa velutina, is a
major cause of damage to honey bees, contributing to the colony
disappearance observed in past years, the Agriculture and
Environment Ministries wrote in a joint  statement  today.  The hornet may have come to  Europe  in pottery from  China 
imported by a plant breeder in France’s southwest, according to
the Paris-based National Museum of Natural History’s website.
The insect has  spread  at a pace of about 100 kilometers (62
miles) a year since 2004, and in 2011 had invaded about half the
country as well as expanded to Spain and  Portugal  and possibly
 Belgium , museum data shows.  “Faced with the importance and the urgency of the
situation, the two ministers have put in place an accelerated
procedure to assure a classification as an invasive exotic
species and a harmful species by the end of the year,” the
ministries wrote in a statement.  Vespa velutina  is the only hornet that has been
accidentally introduced in Europe, according to a fact sheet
published by the museum. The Asian hornet is not considered
aggressive to humans, and nests can be observed from a distance
of 4 to 5 meters (13 to 16 feet) without any risk, according to
the data.  An Asian hornet will hover in front of a bee hive and
capture gatherer bees, killing them with its jaws, the museum
said. The predator will then cut off the bee’s head, legs, wings
and abdomen, taking the corpse to its nest to feed hornet
larvae, according to the museum.  The government decision will open for public consultation
tomorrow for a 15-day period, the ministries wrote. Classifying
the Asian hornet as an invasive exotic species and a health risk
allows for setting up compulsory control programs at a national
and local level, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  