-- BHP Beats Banks in Record Bond-Sale Homecoming: Australia Credit
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-10T00:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/bhp-beats-banks-in-record-bond-sale-homecoming-australia-credit.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  borrowed more
cheaply than higher-rated Australian banks as the world’s
biggest mining company returned to its home bond market for the
first time in more than a decade.  The miner sold A$1 billion ($1.02 billion) of five-year
bonds yesterday in  Australia ’s largest-ever single issue of non-
financial corporate notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. BHP
paid 90 basis points more than swap rates, the data show. The
premium for Westpac Banking Corp.’s A$725 million of February
2017 debt, rated a level higher, was quoted at 104 basis points.  “The sale will help to fill a yawning gap for domestic
investors starved of non-financial corporate bonds,” said Mark Bayley, a Sydney-based credit strategist with advisory company
Aquasia Ltd. “The fact that BHP can price inside major banks
highlights this demand.”  Investor appetite helped Melbourne-based BHP narrow its
sale premium from the 95 basis points initially offered. Debt
issued by companies outside the financial services industry
accounted for less than 15 percent of the A$85.7 billion of
notes sold in Australia this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The company, Australia’s biggest by  market value , is
delaying projects estimated at $68 billion by Deutsche Bank AG
as the nation’s record resources boom peaks.  Project Delays  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  reiterated in
August BHP’s commitment to maintain its credit rating, and
delayed plans to approve major projects including the Olympic
Dam expansion in the state of  South Australia , which would have
created the world’s largest uranium mine.  The bond sale also came after prices for iron ore, BHP’s
biggest  earner , rose to the highest in more than a month. Iron
ore with 62 percent ferrous content at the Chinese port of
Tianjin jumped 6 percent to $110.40 a ton on Oct. 8, the highest
close since Aug. 16, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  BHP had $28.9 billion of outstanding bonds in U.S. dollars,
euros and British pounds before yesterday’s sale, the  data  show.
The miner has an A+ credit rating from Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings, the fifth-highest grade, and the equivalent A1
from Moody’s Investors Service. The nation’s four largest banks
hold AA- debt grades from S&P.  Fiona Hadley, a spokeswoman for BHP, declined to comment on
the Australian dollar bond sale and its pricing, according to an
e-mailed response to a query from  Bloomberg News .  Spreads Narrowing  Investors bid for more than A$1.8 billion of the notes,
with about 80 percent of the securities snapped up by domestic
buyers and the rest sold offshore, according to  Paul White ,
global head of debt syndicate at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., joint lead manager on the transaction along with
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  “This transaction was a must have for any large Australian
dollar investor,” he said. “The response was the strongest we
have seen in this market and sets the benchmark for corporate
issuance going forward.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian dollar-
denominated industrial debt instead of sovereign securities fell
23 basis points in September to 212, the biggest monthly drop in
almost three years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Spreads on similar debt globally narrowed 10 to 148,
the data show, as central bank stimulus in the world’s biggest
economies prompted renewed appetite for riskier assets.  ‘Stable Margins’  “The domestic investor base will likely view the defensive
characteristics of BHP’s credit as an attractive place to invest
after the strong rally we have seen,” said Ben Byrne, a Sydney-
based credit markets analyst at Citigroup Inc. “We are of the
view BHP will maintain its credit ratings, even in a plausible
downside scenario for commodity prices. The diversity of BHP’s
portfolio of assets is superior to that of its peers, providing
higher and more stable margins.”  BHP, the world’s third-biggest shipper of  iron ore  and
biggest shipper of coking coal, owns mines, smelters, ports and
railroads in Australia, where 52 percent of its long-term assets
and 42 percent of its employees are  located , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company, which traces its local
history to a silver, lead and zinc mine set up in the 1880s in
Broken Hill, about 1,160 kilometers (721 miles) west of Sydney,
is known colloquially as “The Big Australian.”  Rio Tinto Group, Australia’s second-biggest mining company
by market value, announced plans yesterday to cut jobs and delay
decisions on projects because it expects slower growth in  China ,
its largest customer.  Mining Investment  BHP is still spending on new projects as it seeks to boost
iron ore production to 220 million metric tons annually from 174
million tons in the most recent financial year. While it shelved
a plan to build an outer harbor at  Port Hedland  in  Western
Australia , estimated by Credit Suisse Group AG to cost about $22
billion, the miner in August received government approval to
build two new berths at the existing inner harbor.  “We are adjusting our rate of forward capital deployment
in order to live within our means” over a five-year period,
Kloppers said Aug. 22 in a conference call after BHP reported
that net income dropped to $5.5 billion in the six months ended
June 30 from $13.1 billion a year earlier.  The company has also approved spending of $6.2 billion to
develop coal mines and port facilities in Australia, according
to its exploration and development report.  Aussie Dollar  “A lot of that spending will be in Australian dollars and
they generate U.S. dollar revenue,”  Glyn Lawcock , head of
resources research for UBS AG in Sydney, said by phone. “While
they’ve got an Australian-dollar capital bill, such as the iron
ore expansion they’re spending money on at the moment,” it
makes sense to borrow in the local currency, he said.  Australia’s dollar has gained 45 percent since the end of
2008, curtailing growth in the country’s tourism and retailing
industries. The so-called Aussie bought $1.0185 as of 11:20 a.m.
in Sydney.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  noted the
 exchange rate  had remained “higher than might have been
expected” given lower commodity prices and a weakening global
outlook, when he cut the nation’s  benchmark interest rate  to
3.25 percent from 3.5 percent last week.  RBA Outlook  There’s a 78 percent chance he will lower the rate again
next month,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Benchmark 10-year government bond yields declined 1.2 basis
points to 3.06 percent, or 135 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries.  The Australian government plans to sell 16 1/2-year
securities today, its longest-dated offering in at least two
decades, according to the federal funding arm.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
that gauges perceptions of corporate bond risk rose 1.1 basis
points to 155 basis points yesterday in  New York , according to
CMA prices.  Contracts on BHP tumbled to 87 basis points yesterday from
111 basis points on June 29, according to data provider CMA. A
decline reflects improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Iron ore, Australia’s biggest export by value, has
 rebounded  27 percent since falling to a three-year low on Sept.
5, after China announced new spending plans for subways and
roads to boost economic growth.  The steelmaking ingredient was BHP’s biggest income earner
during fiscal 2012, supplying 31 percent of revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The miner, while acknowledging
the slowdown in Chinese steel demand growth, says its “belief
in the longer term attractiveness of the iron ore market remains
unchanged,” according to an Oct. 8 e-mail.  Largest Sales  BHP priced the equivalent of $5.4 billion of notes
denominated in euros and British pounds on Sept. 19 in its
biggest-ever bond sale, driving offerings abroad by Australian
issuers to a record $18.8 billion last month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Origin Energy Ltd.’s A$900 million of floating-rate notes
due in 2071 and callable in 2016 is the next largest line of
Australian-dollar non-financial corporate debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian issuers including  Sydney Airport  and Transurban
Group have priced larger bond sales comprising more than one
line of notes, the data show.  “Whilst we are typically not participants in this credit
sector, BHP’s unchanged long term strategy and its long standing
commitment to a solid ’A’ band credit rating make ‘The Big
Australian’ worthy of consideration,” said Greg Stock, who
helps manage A$4.5 billion at Perpetual Ltd. “The tenor is
preferred to some longer offshore deals and the relative value
appears fair. It is no surprise that the deal has been well
received by investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net . 