-- BlackRock’s Fink Says Banks Would Get Boost From Resolution Plan
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-10T08:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/blackrock-s-fink-says-banks-would-get-boost-from-resolution-plan.html
BlackRock Inc.’s (BLK)  Laurence D. Fink
said policy makers should plan a global bank resolution system
that would respond to deteriorations in capital sooner.  “We spend too much time worrying about bank capital,”
Fink, chairman and chief executive officer of the world’s
largest asset manager, said today at an International Monetary
Fund event in  Tokyo . “As an investor of bank stocks, and we’re
the largest investor in banks in the world, if we had a stronger
process in which banks’ capital was restored over a very short
period of time, I actually think banks would trade at a higher
PE.”  The price-to-earnings ratio for the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Financials
Index is 16.1 times, down from about 23 times at the end of
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  sub-index  has
been the best performer among the benchmark’s 10 industry groups
this year, rising 18 percent.  European Union leaders in June embarked on plans to build a
common supervisor as a step toward offering direct bank bailouts
from the euro-area’s firewall fund. All 27 EU nations must
approve the oversight proposal for it to move forward, and non-
euro area nations have said they need more assurance their
voices won’t be drowned out.  More time should be spent on resolving an even small
deterioration in capital, Fink said.  “Resolution globally should be stronger, much more
transparent and granular,” he said. “If we had a strong
resolute process, that if in every country there is this
resolution process of any sporadic reduction in capital, we
would have a much stronger sovereign risk situation.”  Weaker Euro  Fink, who co-founded New York-based BlackRock in 1988 and
built it into a $3.56 trillion manager, has been urging
investors to get out of cash and low-yielding bonds. The
 European Central Bank ’s plan to purchase  government bonds  in
Outright Monetary Transactions has been a positive and the
policy will “stabilize” tensions in the region, Fink said.  On the euro-zone crisis, Fink said it will take seven to
nine years of countries navigating competitiveness and growth.  The euro region needs a weaker euro and to accept higher
inflation, he added.  “We need a weaker euro and we’re going to have to accept
in the eurozone maybe 3 percent inflation, maybe 4 percent
inflation” to make this work, Fink said. “A lower euro is
going to be important.”  Investor concerns have accelerated debt crises since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. as financial markets
overrun government efforts to boost bank and sovereign finances,
he said.  Cash in System  “Fear of a problem is now an accelerant,” Fink said.
“How we navigate problems today is so very different than how
we navigated problems prior to  Lehman Brothers  and I don’t
believe politicians fully understand this accelerant component
of the market.”  Investor expectations that policy makers will get it right
could also become a boost to their efforts, he said.  “There’s so much cash in the system in which investors
need to put money to work, that could transform itself into a
very positive accelerant,” Fink said.  The strength of a nation’s banks is central to a nation’s
sovereign risk, Fink said in the panel discussion today.  “To have strong, sound public finance depends on a strong,
sound banking system,” he said. “We have to resolve now these
crises together with the banks and the sovereign risk, they are
so interconnected. I think Europe has been much slower than the
U.S.”  Fink said in a CNBC interview on Oct. 4 he’d be speechless
if asked to become  Treasury Secretary , without answering whether
he’d say yes or no.  David Rubenstein , co-founder of the buyout
firm  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , said in an interview last month that
Fink;  Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of U.S. President  Barack
Obama ’s budget-deficit commission; and White House chief of
staff Jack Lew would be credible candidates for the post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  