-- BNP Paribas Said to Cut About 15 Research Analyst Jobs in Asia
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-10-10T00:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/bnp-paribas-said-to-cut-about-15-research-analyst-jobs-in-asia.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest
bank, cut about 15 equity research jobs in  Asia  in the last
month including Jim Hung, the head of research in Taiwan, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Wee Siang Ng, a Singapore-based banks analyst, and Jakarta-
based Tjandra Lienandjaja, Helmy Kristanto and Julianto Wongso
were among those who lost their jobs, said the people, who asked
not to be identified as they aren’t authorized to speak to the
press.  BNP Paribas said last November it planned to eliminate
about 1,400 jobs at its corporate- and investment-banking unit,
or 6.5 percent of the division’s staff, with most reductions
aimed at the capital-markets and structured-finance businesses.
It had completed 70 percent of the division’s planned job cuts
by the end of May, the Paris-based bank said in a June 13
presentation published on its website.  “This is not part of the 1,400 job cuts announced
earlier,” said Christian Beydon, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at
BNP Paribas. “It relates to the adaption of our business to
suit clients’ needs in Asia,” he said, referring to a press
release issued on Sept. 27 announcing the appointment of Lee Cook as head of cash equity for Asia-Pacific and  emerging
markets  in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa .  The bank’s coverage will focus on greater coordination
across and between regional equity analyst teams, and on
companies with deeper liquidity and larger market
capitalization, he said.  Hung did not respond to a voice message left on his office
phone and the person at the switchboard at BNP Paribas’s Taipei
office said Hung did not work at the bank. Ng could not be
reached on his extension at BNP Paribas’s Singapore office. A
person who picked up the phone at the Jakarta office said that
Lienandjaja, Kristanto and Wongso left the company at the end of
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  