-- Brain Stem-Cell Implants Help Children With Rare Illness
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/brain-stem-cell-implants-help-children-with-rare-illness.html
Four boys with a rare and often
fatal brain disease were implanted with stem cells that began
fixing damage that impeded their ability to walk, talk and eat,
a trial found.  The findings, published today in the journal Science
Translational Medicine, are from the first stage of human tests
funded by  StemCells Inc. (STEM) , a Newark, California-based company.  The children have a genetic disorder called Pelizaeus-
Merzbacher, in which the brain can’t make  myelin , the fatty
insulation for nerve cells that helps conduct brain signals. The
children all had evidence of myelin growth a year later. The
increased abilities shown by three of the boys in the University
of California San Francisco study may bode well for other
diseases caused by a lack of myelin insulation, including
multiple sclerosis and cerebral palsy, the authors wrote.  “Those were severely impaired children,” said  Stephen
Back , a professor of pediatrics and neurology at  Portland ’s
Oregon Health & Science University, in a telephone interview.
“The fact that they showed any neurological improvement is very
encouraging.”  Back did work in mice that preceded today’s work in humans,
which he wasn’t directly involved in. His study, published
simultaneously, showed that the animals with no myelin at all
grew some after being implanted with human stem cells.  Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease  causes the degeneration of the
nervous system, and there is no cure or standard treatment.
People with the illness experience a loss of coordination,
thinking and motor abilities. It’s one of several disorders
linked to genes that control myelin production.  The incidence of the disease is 1 in 200,000 to 500,000
people, according to today’s study of the boys.  Fetal Cells  The boys were between the ages of 1 and 6. They were given
purified neural stem cells from a fetal brain, which was then
grown in culture. The stem cells were inserted into the frontal
lobe, using brain imaging as a guide. The boys’ brains were
scanned 24 to 48 hours after surgery to assess safety.  The children were on drugs to suppress their immune systems
and prevent their bodies from rejecting the stem cells for nine
months. Side effects included rashes, diarrhea and fever. One
boy had fluid collect under his scalp, which later vanished on
its own. A second subject had some bleeding in the brain after
the surgery, which was “without clinical consequence,”
according to the paper.  Speaking, Walking  One of the boys developed the ability to take steps with
assistance and began to speak single words. Another started
eating solid food on his own. A third began to walk without the
assistance of a walker and began eating on his own.  “They weren’t walking independently, they were being feed
with feeding tubes, some had tubes for breathing” before being
given the stem cells, Back said.  All of the boys will be monitored for another four years in
a separate study. Because myelin can’t be directly studied in
the living brain, Back’s work in mice was necessary to show how
to measure it on MRIs.  StemCells , which is also investigating spinal cord
injuries, is the first and only company to complete U.S.
clinical trials using human neural stem cells. The company uses
“adult” cells that are pre-programmed to become the organ in
which they are found, unlike embryonic cells and induced
pluripotent stem cells, which can become any part of the body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 