-- Brazilian Real Protected Against Fed Policy, Mantega Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-10-10T18:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/brazil-s-real-guarded-against-u-s-monetary-policy-mantega-says.html
The Brazilian real is well-placed to
resist the latest round of U.S. monetary stimulus due to “lines
of defense” erected by the government, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The currency won’t strengthen as much in response to the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of quantitative easing, or
QE3, as it did during the first two rounds, due to a tax on
financial transactions known as the IOF, and the country’s
 record-low interest rates , Mantega said.  “Gradually, there will be an entry of dollars,” Mantega
said in an interview in Tokyo, where he is attending a meeting
of the  International Monetary Fund . “I don’t think that a lot
will enter, because the Brazilian economy is protected,
defended, with measures such as the IOF.”  The real has declined 0.9 percent since QE3 was announced
on Sept. 13, and has weakened 22 percent since the central bank
began cutting rates in August 2011, the biggest fall of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Analysts are split almost
evenly on whether central bank President Alexandre Tombini will
today cut the benchmark Selic rate for a 10th straight meeting,
to 7.25 percent, or leave it unchanged.  Brazil would prefer to see the U.S. stimulate its economy
through increased fiscal spending rather than monetary easing,
Mantega said.  “The policy has two legs,” he said. “The monetary leg is
very long, and the fiscal leg is short, so they move with a
limp.”  Record Low  Brazil has reduced its benchmark rate by five percentage
points since August 2011, to a record low 7.5 percent, to try to
revive the slowest growth among the major  emerging markets  that
make up the so-called BRIC nations. President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
government has also imposed barriers on capital inflows and
purchased dollars in the spot and futures markets to weaken the
real and help the country’s manufacturers.  The government remains concerned by its  trade deficit with
the U.S. , which was traditionally a surplus, Mantega said.
Brazil will prevent an appreciation of the real even if
inflation picks up, Mantega said.  “The government doesn’t use the  exchange rate  to control
inflation,” Mantega said. “I don’t see a tendency for price
increases in the Brazilian economy, but if there were one the
central bank would take the necessary steps.”  The weak global economy will exert a deflationary impact on
Brazil next year, while government tax cuts also help curb price
increases, Mantega said.  Faster Inflation  Annual inflation  in  Brazil  accelerated in September for a
third straight month. Prices as measured by the IPCA price index
rose 5.28 percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
February.  Inflation has remained above the mid-point of the central
bank’s target for the last two years, and analysts in the latest
central bank survey forecast that it will end 2013 at 5.44
percent. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus
two percentage points.  The economy will expand about 2 percent this year, and by 4
percent to 4.5 percent in 2013, Mantega said. It can grow half a
point faster than that without generating inflation, he added.
The economy’s year-on-year growth in the second quarter was 0.49
percent, slower than that of Russia, India and  China , the other
BRIC countries.  The government has complemented Tombini’s rate cuts with a
series of stimulus measures, such as increasing subsidized
lending by national development bank BNDES, reducing bank
reserve requirements, and pressuring commercial banks to cut
rates on consumer loans.  Falling Spread  Mantega said the spread on consumer loans will continue to
fall because of competition as state-controlled banks cut their
rates.  “The reduction of the spreads, and the rates charged by
banks, which are very high, is as important as the reduction in
the Selic,” Mantega said. “This spread needs to fall. It has
already fallen, but it could fall more to stimulate the economy
more.”  The average  interest rate  on consumer loans was 35.6
percent in August, the lowest since 1994, the central bank said
Sept. 26.  Markets, Fed  Investors’ inflation projections have risen 43 basis
points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 5.68 percent since the
start of September, based on the yield gap between inflation-
linked notes due in 2015 and similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds,
a gauge known as the break-even rate.  Brazil’s Bovespa index has fallen 5.8 percent in dollar
terms this year, the worst performance among major stock markets
in the Americas after  Argentina ’s Merval Index.  Thirty-eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
central bank will hold rates today, while 35 predict a quarter-
point cut.  As policy makers gather in  Tokyo  for the IMF meetings,
central bankers from Japan and  Switzerland  expressed concern
about the value of their currencies, and the Fed again drew fire
from emerging markets for propelling their currencies higher,
prompting a riposte from Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen .  Asked about such worries, Yellen said in Tokyo that if the
Fed succeeded in rallying the  U.S. economy , then the whole world
would win. Yellen said the Fed is not the main factor and
governments have tools of their own to protect their economies.  “It’s not the intention of the U.S. and Fed to make this
more difficult,” Yellen said. “On balance, stronger U.S.
growth is beneficial for the entire global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 