-- Brazil Signals Interest Rates to Stay at Record for Long Period
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-10-11T03:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/brazil-cuts-rate-to-record-low-amid-focus-on-fueling-growth-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
will keep borrowing costs at a record low for an extended period
as President Dilma Rousseff’s administration struggles to revive
the economy amid slowing global growth.  In a split decision yesterday, the bank’s eight-member
board cut the Selic rate by a quarter point to 7.25 percent, as
forecast by 35 of 73 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank
said keeping monetary conditions stable for a “sufficiently
prolonged period” was the best strategy for balancing inflation
risks stemming from a recovery in domestic activity with
continued “complexity” in the global economy. Three dissenting
members favored leaving borrowing costs unchanged.  Economists were divided going into yesterday’s meeting,
with some highlighting the need to keep a lid on inflation that
quickened in September for a third month. Still, traders boosted
bets on a final rate cut after board member Luiz Awazu Pereira
last week compared the current global slowdown to  Japan ’s lost
decade following the collapse of its asset bubble in 1990.  “Rates will stay at the current level for a long time, and
a long time means at least a year,”  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Banco Espirito Santo Investment bank, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . Prior to the decision, Santos
had expected the bank to begin raising rates by August 2013.  Uncertain Recovery  Spillover from  Europe ’s debt crisis and the need for fiscal
consolidation in rich nations is sounding alarms throughout
 emerging markets , which have seen their growth outlook dim in
recent weeks. The  Bank of Korea  today lowered its benchmark rate
for a second time this year, to 2.75 percent from 3 percent,
after the  International Monetary Fund  reduced its forecast for
global growth this year to 3.3 percent.  A frenzy of policy action by Rousseff’s administration
aimed at reviving Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy -- the slowest-
growing among major emerging markets -- has so far yielded mixed
results.  While tax breaks are spurring record car sales and helping
lift  consumer confidence , industrial output in August fell short
of economists’ forecasts. The central bank last month cut to 1.6
percent from 2.5 percent its forecast for growth this year,
falling in line with private estimates that Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  as recently as June ridiculed as a “joke.”  “Domestically, there are signs of recovery, but nothing
guaranteed,” Enestor Dos Santos, senior economist for Brazil at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said in a telephone
interview from  Madrid  before yesterday’s decision.  Rousseff Celebrates  To pump up the economy, policy makers led by bank President
Alexandre Tombini have cut rates 525 basis points since August
2011, more than any Group of 20 nation. The extra stimulus is
being cheered by Rousseff, who has made reducing some of the
world’s highest borrowing costs a popular battle cry.  While yesterday’s statement suggests the easing cycle has
ended, officials remain focused on growth even as price
increases are forecast by economists to stay above the
government’s 4.5 percent target until at least 2014.  Inflation quickened in September for the third straight
month, to 5.28 percent, as  food and beverage costs  jumped the
most since December 2010. The bank yesterday reiterated that
inflation will fall to the target in a non-linear fashion.  Growth Trumps Inflation  Carlos Hamilton, the bank’s economic policy director and
one of yesterday’s dissenters, said last month that inflation is
unlikely to converge to the bank’s goal until the third quarter
of 2013 because combating the price spike would dampen growth.  Brazil’s government has “shown that they have a priority
on growth and that growth remains weak,” Bret Rosen, Latin
America strategist at Standard Chartered Bank, said in a
telephone interview from  New York  before yesterday’s decision.
“As long as you don’t see inflation spike toward 6 percent, I
think that they’re OK continuing with interest rate cuts.”  Some of Brazil’s biggest companies have seen demand slacken
as a result of the slowdown.  Vale SA (VALE3)  said last week that it’s
halting production of iron-ore pellets at three facilities, and
a preliminary accord between  Ternium SA (TX)  and billionaire  Eike Batista ’s logistics unit  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  to build a steel mill
expired on Sept. 30 without a deal.  Before yesterday’s decision, traders in the interest-rate
futures market were betting the bank would begin raising the
Selic as early as April 2013, trading in swap rates indicates .  Policy Action  Pereira’s comments last week that the world may be heading
to a “post-bubble Japanese outcome” followed remarks by
Tombini that Europe’s debt crisis still lacks a solution and
that a fragile global economy should remain disinflationary for
the medium term.  “Directors gave a lot more weight to the external backdrop
rather than the clearly less inflation-friendly domestic
dynamics,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs & Co.,
wrote in a report yesterday.  Ramos said that in tandem with the bias in favor of lower
rate, policy makers may use other tools to control the expansion
of credit and perhaps let the real strengthen to anchor prices.
The real has declined 8.6 percent in 2012, the biggest drop
among the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts, as the central
bank has stepped up purchases of dollars to aid exporters.  Mantega, in an interview yesterday from Japan, said
measures to dissuade capital inflows have so far proven
effective in shielding Brazil’s economy from the yield-seeking
liquidity unleashed by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of
quantitative easing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  