-- California Cities Face Downgrade on Debt, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/california-cities-face-downgrade-on-debt-moody-s-says.html
The debt of 30  California  cities,
including Oakland, Fresno and  Sacramento , has been placed under
review for downgrades because of economic pressures in the
state, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The examinations may affect $14.3 billion in lease-backed
and general-obligation debt issued by the municipalities, the
New York-based company said yesterday in a statement.  “California cities operate under more rigid revenue-
raising constraints than cities in many other parts of the
country,” Eric Hoffmann, who heads Moody’s California local
government ratings team, said in a statement. “Combined with
steeply rising costs, these constraints mean that these cities
will likely recover more slowly than their peers nationally,
even if the state’s economic recovery tracks the nation’s.”  Communities in California have struggled to stay afloat by
cutting staff and services to make up for a drop in sales and
property tax revenue in the wake of the recession. Stockton, San
Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes have gone into  bankruptcy court 
since June.  Moody’s said it identified the credits as part of a broader
review started in August of 95 rated cities in California.  The general-obligation bond ratings of  Los Angeles , now
Aa3, fourth-highest, and  San Francisco , Aa2, third-highest, are
on review for upgrades, Moody’s said.  Cities with debt under review for downgrades include Azusa,
Berkeley, Colma, Danville, Downey, Fresno, Glendale,  Huntington
Beach , Inglewood,  Long Beach ,  Los Gatos , Martinez, Monterey,
Oakland, Oceanside, Palmdale, Petaluma, Rancho Mirage, Redondo
Beach, Sacramento, San Leandro,  Santa Ana ,  Santa Barbara ,  Santa
Clara ,  Santa Maria ,  Santa Monica ,  Santa Rosa , Sunnyvale,
Torrance and Woodland, Moody’s said.  In addition, the pension-obligation bonds of several
issuers were downgraded, Moody’s said, including Downey, Fresno,
Oakland, Oceanside, San Leandro and Santa Rosa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  