-- California Gasoline Falls From Record as Refiners Switch
-- B y   J o s h u a   F a l k   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-10-10T21:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/california-gasoline-falls-from-record-as-refiners-switch-fuel.html
Gasoline at the pump in California
fell from a record as refiners including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and
 Phillips 66 (PSX)  began making a cheaper blend of fuel after receiving
permission from the state.  Regular gasoline at the pump slid to $4.666 a gallon today
from the all-time peak of $4.671 yesterday, according to data
from AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization. Prices
jumped 50 cents last week as refineries reduced output and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  shut a pipeline because of contamination.  Gasoline inventories rose 4.9 percent last week, the
California Energy Commission announced today.  “Street prices are leveling off,” Bob van der Valk, an
independent petroleum industry analyst in Terry, Montana, said
by phone today. “The good news is it’s not going to get to 5
bucks a gallon on average in California.”  Phillips 66 is producing gasoline with a higher vapor
pressure at its California refineries,  Rich Johnson , a Houston-
based company spokesman, said today in an e-mail. Valero is also
making the cheaper blend at its two plants in the state,  Bill Day , a San Antonio-based spokesman for the company, said
yesterday by e-mail.  Adding Butane  The California Air Resources Board granted refineries
permission on Oct. 7 to make gasoline with a higher vapor
pressure, allowing them to produce more of the fuel by adding
butane to the mix.  “You can add more light gasoline blendstocks” and
increase output by 2 percent to 5 percent under the rules, said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  The recent price surge in California was the largest
single-state weekly increase since Hurricane Ike in 2008 and the
largest for California on record, according to  Michael Green , a
spokesman for AAA.  Wholesale gasoline plummeted. California-blend gasoline, or
Carbob, on the spot market, declined 22.44 cents to $3.2993 a
gallon in Los Angeles at 4:06 p.m. New York time, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The same 85.5-octane blend fell 22.44 cents
to $3.2193 in San Francisco.  Retail prices began to skyrocket after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
150,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Torrance, near Los Angeles,
reduced production Oct. 1 after a power failure. That followed a
fire that knocked out a crude-processing unit at Chevron’s plant
in Richmond, near San Francisco, in August and the September
shutdown of a Chevron pipeline that delivers crude to Northern
California because of contamination.  Exxon’s plant resumed normal operations Oct. 5, Gesuina Paras, a Torrance-based spokeswoman for the refinery, said by e-
mail. The refinery plans to flare gases through Oct. 31.  The Richmond crude unit won’t resume production in 2012,
Chevron said in a third-quarter interim update late yesterday.
The plant is producing transportation fuels at reduced rates.  Chevron’s Kettleman-Los Medanos oil pipeline remains
closed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Falk in  New York  at 
 jfalk19@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  