-- Cambridge University Sells First Bonds as Investor Demand Surges
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-10T16:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/cambridge-university-sells-first-bonds-as-investor-demand-surges.html
Cambridge University , the 800-year-
old alma mater of  Isaac Newton  and Stephen Hawking, sold its
first bonds, tapping investor demand that let  Portugal Telecom
SGPS SA (PTC)  issue its first benchmark notes since 2011.  “I like its rarity value, it will become a museum piece,”
Louis Gargour, chief investment officer at London-based hedge
fund LNG Capital LLP, said of the university’s offering. “There
will be more demand than supply for this deal.”  The school’s 350 million-pound ($560 million) issue of 40-
year top-rated senior securities was priced to yield 60 basis
points more than U.K. government debt, or about 3.86 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread compares
with 109 basis points on 30-year notes of De Montfort
University, the only other U.K. college to sell bonds this year.  Demand for debt allowed three Portuguese companies to issue
bonds in the past month, even as euro-area leaders struggle to
contain Europe’s debt crisis. Investors are accepting more risk
for lower returns in an environment of record-low  interest
rates ,  Suki Mann , a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
wrote in a note today.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the debt of 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit
ratings rose four basis points to 554. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings rose one
basis point to 133.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers was little changed at 185 and the
subordinated index held at 324. A basis point on a contract
protecting 10 million euros ($12.9 million) of debt for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Low Rates  Cambridge University ’s bond allows it to enhance its
research, teaching and accommodation facilities so it can remain
“among the forefront of global universities,” Leszek Borysiewicz, vice chancellor, said in a phone interview.
Cambridge is ranked second in the  QS World University Rankings 
behind  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  The school received investor orders for the bonds that were
four times more than the university raised, according to Andrew
Reid, the university’s director of finance.  “We’ve been very encouraged by the investor interest in
what Cambridge is doing,” Reid said in an interview. “It
seemed a sensible time for us to lock in interest rates at
historically low levels.”  HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc managed the deal for the university.  Funding Precedent  “Investors predominantly came from the U.K. but also from
 Europe  and  Asia ,” said Russell Maybury, head of corporate debt
capital markets for the U.K. and Ireland at RBS. “It’s an
excellent precedent. Other universities in the U.K. will be
looking at this now and may see bonds as an attractive form of
funding.”  Portugal Telecom sold 750 million euros of bonds due April
2018 at a yield of 6 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It’s the third Portuguese company in a month to sell debt after
 Energias de Portugal SA  and Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal SA.  EDP broke a 20-month deadlock as the first Portuguese
company to sell benchmark bonds since January 2011. Credit-
default swaps insuring Portugal debt fell 371 basis points since
July to 477. The contracts rose 15 basis points today.  Peugeot Plunge  Securities of Banque PSA Finance SA, the financing unit of
PSA Peugeot Citroen, dropped after the carmaker was downgraded
one level to Ba3 by Moody’s, which cited slumping car sales in
Europe. The lender’s notes made up six of today’s biggest price
fallers in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Non-Financial
Corporates index.  Fiat SpA’s debt rating was also cut one level to Ba3,
pushing the carmaker’s 7.75 percent bonds due 2016 down 1.2
cents to 102.1 cents on the euro, the biggest one-day decline
since July 23, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Norddeutsche Landesbank, a German state-owned lender that
survived the financial crisis without aid, is selling Europe’s
first dollar covered bond in three months to take advantage of
investor appetite for safety.  NordLB offered $1 billion of three-year, top-rated notes
backed by public-sector loans at a yield spread of 50 to 52
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, said a banker on
the deal, who asked not to be named because the deal is private.
It’s the first covered bond from a European bank since
Muenchener Hypotekenbank sold $500 million of 1.125 percent
three-year notes on July 5, according to UniCredit SpA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  