-- Cameron’s Whip Loses Party Support After Insulting Police
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/cameron-s-whip-loses-party-support-in-wake-of-insulting-police.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
came under renewed pressure to fire Chief Whip Andrew Mitchell
for abusing police officers last month, after five Conservative
lawmakers called for him to go.  Mitchell’s Cabinet-level position puts him in charge of
Tory party discipline, ensuring lawmakers don’t rebel on
government votes. He was appointed last month with a brief to
restore loyalty to the Conservative parliamentary party, the
most rebellious of any in the House of Commons since at least
the Second World War.  The five lawmakers, who declined to comment publicly
because it’s an internal party issue, said during the Tories’
annual conference in Birmingham, central  England , that Mitchell
now lacks the authority to tell them to behave. As Parliament
returns next week, Cameron needs to regain control of his
parliamentarians.  “The chief whip was facing major problems, whoever it
was,”  Philip Cowley , the author of a book on parliamentary
revolts and professor of politics at Nottingham University, said
by telephone. “There’s the frequency with which members of
Parliament rebel, their frustration about their career
prospects, and about the direction of the government.”  Cameron has refused to fire Mitchell, who apologized after
the Sun newspaper reported on Sept. 21 that he swore at police
officers guarding the prime minister’s London residence after
they stopped him riding his bicycle through the main gates,
telling them they were “plebs” and should “learn their
place.”  Police Deaths  The incident came a day after two policewomen were shot
dead answering an emergency call in Manchester, northern
England, and as Cameron’s coalition government axes thousands of
police jobs to tackle the  budget deficit .  Mitchell has apologized for the outburst, while refusing to
say what he told the officers. Cameron and other ministers have
said a line should be drawn under the incident. The police have
decided to take no further action.  A trade trip Cameron took to  New York  and  Brazil  last month
was dominated by questions about Mitchell’s fate. Cameron said
the matter had been “damaging” for the Conservatives.  Cameron can take some comfort from focus groups that show
the incident isn’t at the front of the public mind, according to
Rick Nye of pollsters Populus Ltd.  “They don’t mention the affair spontaneously but recall
the row if prompted,” Nye said in an interview. “They think
most politicians -- not just Tories -- probably secretly share
his sentiments. When shown the alleged words, ‘know your place’
is more damaging than swearing or ‘plebs.’”  Hissed and Booed  While he had his leader’s support, Mitchell decided not to
attend the party conference, the only Conservative member of the
Cabinet not to do so. At one fringe event during the gathering,
activists hissed and booed as a video containing a clip of
Mitchell was aired, though some applauded.  Mitchell, who was moved to chief whip from his role as
international development secretary in an overhaul of Cameron’s
Cabinet on Sept. 4, denied using the words attributed to him by
the Sun. “Pleb” is an abbreviation of the word “plebeian,”
an insult directed at one’s perceived inferior.  “I have apologized to the police officer involved on the
gate and he’s accepted my apology and I hope very much that we
can draw a line under it there” he told reporters in  London  on
Sept. 24. “I didn’t show the police the amount of respect I
should have done. We should all respect the police, they do an
incredibly difficult job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham, England at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Birmingham, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  