-- Cameron Asks Tories to Stay Course, Expecting Voters to Turn Off
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-10T13:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/cameron-asks-tories-to-stay-course-expecting-voters-to-turn-off.html
David Cameron  told his Conservative
Party to stick with him through tough economic times and
unpopularity in a speech aides said they expected the wider
electorate to ignore.  Halfway through his five-year term, the prime minister
addressed his party’s annual conference in Birmingham, central
 England , today, with the Tories lagging the opposition Labour
Party in opinion polls and after the  International Monetary Fund 
again downgraded its forecasts for the U.K. economy.  Cameron offered no changes of course and no new policies.
He gave a speech light on jokes, in contrast to those in recent
days of the two most prominent challengers for his job, Labour
Party leader  Ed Miliband  and a fellow Tory,  London  Mayor  Boris Johnson . The premier’s message was that Britain’s economic
situation in 2010 had been worse than he’d realized and would
take longer to fix.  “Electorally it is not the kind of speech that is going to
turn anything around,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at
Queen Mary University of London, who was in the hall. “No one
is going to remember it next year or even next week. If you say
you’ve made the tough decisions and if the essence of your
strategy is staying the course, that precludes drawing any
rabbits out of hats.”  With the next election not due until 2015, the
Conservatives’ goal for their annual conference was simply for
it to pass off without incident, according to two people
responsible for the party’s strategy.  Staying Away  The party’s chief whip,  Andrew Mitchell , who’s responsible
for discipline in the House of Commons, stayed away from
Birmingham, amid continuing calls for his resignation over an
altercation with police outside Cameron’s Downing Street office.  Johnson protested his loyalty to Cameron in two speeches to
activists and told the  BBC  he’d welcome an end to talk of a
leadership challenge.  Cameron’s party had 33 percent support, 12 points behind
Labour, according to the latest regular  YouGov Plc poll 
published today. YouGov, which gave no margin of error,
questioned 1,899 adults Oct. 8 and yesterday.  At times today, as when Cameron’s voice cracked when he
talked about his severely disabled first son, Ivan, who died in
2009, or his father Ian, who died in 2010, the tone was somber.  ‘The Truth’  The prime minister skipped his usual off-script
introductory jokes, going straight into a list of the economic
challenges his government had faced since taking office. “I
know you are asking whether the plan is working,” he said.
“And here’s the truth: the damage was worse than we thought,
and it’s taking longer than we hoped. The world economy --
especially in the euro zone -- has been much weaker than
expected in the past two years.”  He argued that his mission wasn’t to change what the Tories
stood for, rather to change how they were perceived, “to show
the  Conservative party  is for everyone: north or south, black or
white, straight or gay.”  He was applauded as he reminded his audience of how he’d
rejected joining the European Union’s fiscal compact last year,
before going on to attack some of the EU’s members as “fat,
sclerotic, over-regulated, spending money on unaffordable
welfare systems, huge pension bills, unreformed public
services.” He questioned his fellow leaders’ priorities,
adding, “I am not going to stand here as prime minister and
allow this country to join the slide.”  Gove’s View  Education Secretary Michael Gove said afterward that the
party will respond well to the speech. “Conservatives will say
‘yes,’ but they will realize that within the family of
Conservativism he is a centrist,” he said in an interview. “He
is not someone who is driven by a sense of rage. It would have
been premature to say tomorrow is going to be a golden day.”  Johnson and Miliband both got brief mentions. The London
mayor, treated like a rock star on his arrival at the
conference, was “the man who put a smile on our faces, the
zinger on the zip wire.”  Miliband, in his speech to the  Labour Party  conference in
Manchester last week, argued that he stood for “one nation”
politics and emphasized that unlike Cameron, he came from
immigrant roots and attended a state school.  “I don’t have a hard-luck story,” Cameron said to
laughter. “My dad was a stockbroker. We don’t preach about one
nation but practise class war. We just get behind people who
want to get on in life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  