-- Canadian Dollar Falls on China Slowdown as Earnings Crimp
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-10T21:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/canadian-dollar-falls-against-most-peers-on-china-slowdown.html
The Canadian dollar fell for a
second day against its U.S. counterpart on concern slowing
Chinese growth will hurt demand for commodities such as oil and
gold.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened against a majority of its
most-traded peers after  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  reduced its forecast for
aluminum exports to  China , the world’s biggest consumer of
metals and energy. Energy and raw-material producers led losses
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Canada derives about half
its export revenue from raw materials.  “On a day when equities are taking it on the chin, rates
are probably going to stay better bid and the  U.S. dollar  will
strengthen against the Canadian dollar as a result,” Ian Pollick, a fixed-income strategist in Toronto at Royal  Bank of
Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said in a phone interview.  Canada’s currency closed 0.4 percent lower at 98.18 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0185.  The precious metals component of Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials fell as much as 0.4 percent, with
lead and aluminum declining as much as 2.4 percent. The  S&P 500 
Index of stocks dropped 0.6 percent.  Third-quarter profits and sales for the  S&P 500 (SPX)  probably
fell in unison for the first time in three years, according to
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Jitters  Earnings at S&P 500 companies probably slipped 1.7 percent
last quarter as declines of more than 21 percent in energy and
commodity company profits overshadow growth in income at banks.
Shares of Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer and the
first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report
results for last quarter, lost 4.7 percent even after posting
earnings and sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  China’s economic expansion will slow to 7.7 percent this
year from 9.3 percent in 2011, according to the median forecast
of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This is the market jittery ahead of earnings season,”
 Greg Anderson , the North American head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “We’re likely to see that choppiness continue. We
still think the Canadian dollar is a safer trade relative to”
other commodity-driven currencies, including the Australian and
New Zealand dollars.  Bond Sales  Canadian government  bonds  were little changed, with the
yield on the 10-year benchmark note at 1.8 percent. The price of
2.75 percent note maturing in June 2022 was C$108.34.  The Bank of Canada sold C$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) in
three-year bonds today, with an average yield of 1.282 percent.  The total bid was C$7.87 billion, for a bid-to-cover ratio
of 2.92, measuring the level of bids versus the amount of debt
for sale. The last sale of this note maturity on Aug. 29 was
C$2.9 billion and yielded 1.278 percent with a bid-to-cover
ratio of 2.73.  Canada ’s dollar has gained 2.4 percent this year against
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
1.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  