-- Giants Beat Reds to Force MLB Decider; Cardinals Top Nationals
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-11T00:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/carpenter-pitches-cardinals-to-defeat-of-nationals-in-mlb-series.html
Angel Pagan , Gregor Blanco and Pablo Sandoval hit home runs as the  San Francisco Giants  won 8-3 to
force a decisive fifth game against the Cincinnati Reds in their
National League Division Series.  The Giants lost the first two games at home in the Major
League Baseball playoff series before taking two straight in
Cincinnati, the site of Game 5.  The winner will play the  St. Louis Cardinals  or the
Washington Nationals for a spot in the  World Series . The
defending champion Cardinals defeated the Nationals 8-0 today to
take a 2-1 lead in that series.  In the American League, the  New York  Yankees host the
 Baltimore Orioles  tonight with their series tied 1-1. The
visiting Detroit Tigers lead the Oakland Athletics 2-1 and will
try for the second straight night to finish off their series.  The Yankees began today as 17-5 favorites to win the World
Series, with the Reds at 18-5 and the Tigers at 4-1, according
to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Nationals are listed at
21-4, meaning a winning $100 wager would return a $525 profit.
They’re followed by the Cardinals at 15-2, the Orioles at 12-1,
the Athletics at 13-1 and the Giants at 16-1.  Pete Kozma hit a three-run home run as the Cardinals won in
Washington, the first postseason game in the nation’s capital
since 1933. Game 4 is set for tomorrow in Washington.  Cardinals starting pitcher  Chris Carpenter  allowed seven
hits in 5 2/3 innings for the win, his first since Game 7 of
last year’s World Series.  “I’m just real excited to have this opportunity,” said
Carpenter, who missed most of the season after having surgery to
correct nerve damage in his shoulder. “I’m in my fourth spring-
training start, but I’m doing it under the lights in the
postseason.”  Carpenter’s Season  Carpenter, 37, who went 0-2 this season while being limited
to 17 innings, became the first starting pitcher in major league
history to win a playoff game following a season in which his
team was winless when he pitched. The Cardinals lost all three
of his 2012 starts.  Carpenter, a three-time All-Star, was the 2005 NL Cy Young
Award winner as the league’s best pitcher. He got the win as the
Cardinals defeated the  Texas Rangers  in the final game of the
2011 World Series.  “It’s unreal, he’s a monster, he’s just a warrior out
there,” Cardinals third baseman David Freese said in a radio
interview. “He’s not all the way back, and that’s impressive.
He’s not throwing as hard. He just got it done tonight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  