-- Chamber, Oil Trade Groups Sue SEC on Foreign Payment Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-11T16:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/chamber-oil-trade-groups-sue-sec-on-foreign-payment-rule.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and two
oil industry trade groups brought a court challenge to the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s rule requiring public
companies to disclose payments of more than $100,000 made to
foreign governments for commercial development projects.  The groups, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court
in  Washington , said the regulation violates the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution and that the commission failed to
properly consider the rule’s effects on competition. The rule
will cost U.S. companies more than the $1 billion estimated by
the commission, the groups said.  “The costs will actually be far greater, as U.S. oil and
mining companies are forced to allow competitors access to
sensitive commercial information, and to abandon projects to
foreign state-owned companies in countries that forbid the
disclosures,” the groups said in the complaint.  The regulation stems from the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
reform law, which ordered the agency to implement rules
requiring that 1,100 oil, gas and mining companies report
payments made to U.S. and foreign governments.  The trade groups say the SEC “grossly misinterpreted”
Congress’s directive by requiring each public company to file a
report on the commission’s online database detailing each
payment made to a foreign government.  ‘Trade Secrets’  A compilation of payments would’ve served the purposes of
the law “without further burdening U.S. companies or revealing
trade secrets or pricing strategies to consumers,” according to
the complaint.  “While we are still reviewing the suit, we believe our
legal interpretation and economic analysis are sound and we look
forward to defending the rule that Congress directed us to
write,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The groups filed second lawsuit yesterday challenging the
same rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington. According
to the filing, the groups said the district court lawsuit was
brought “in an abundance of caution” given the appeals court
may not have jurisdiction to consider the case first.  The rules were backed by billionaires Bill Gates and  George Soros , who wrote letters to the commission arguing that
transparency will help investors assess risk.  The case is being handled by Eugene Scalia, the son of
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and a partner at Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington. It’s the third challenge to a
Dodd-Frank rule by Scalia.  Last month, a federal judge in Washington blocked a
Commodity Futures Trading Commission derivatives speculation
rule that Scalia brought suit against. Last year, he won a case
over an SEC regulation that would have made it easier for
shareholders to nominate corporate directors.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 