-- Chase Rocks in New Jersey; ’70s Paris; Whore’s Love: Film
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/chase-rocks-in-new-jersey-70s-paris-whore-s-love-film.html
A quiet high-school senior from the
 New Jersey  suburbs joins a band and discovers his inner Dylan,
as well as his outer Dylan in the form of a frizzy Afro and gray
suede Cuban-heeled boots.  David Chase’s aimless “ Not Fade Away ,” which had its world
premiere Saturday in the  New York Film Festival , follows that
band from the early 1960s to the end of the decade.  At its center is Douglas (John Magaro), who’s drafted,
somewhat reluctantly, as drummer and backup vocalist. To
everyone’s surprise, including his own, he turns out to be a
better singer than Eugene (Jack Huston), the band’s frontman and
hotshot guitarist.  The preening Eugene doesn’t expect nondescript little
Douglas, of all people, to challenge his leadership.  (The tensions in the group parallel those that fractured
the  Rolling Stones , who serve as a point of reference
throughout. Douglas makes his solo debut with “Time Is On My
Side” -- an odd choice since, without the backup harmony, it’s
practically a different song.)  Bruce Springsteen  “Not Fade Away” is a first feature, but writer and director
Chase is no novice. The creator of “ The Sopranos ” has done more
to put New Jersey on the map than anyone since Springsteen.  Local boosters probably won’t be any happier with Chase’s
version of their state this time around than they were with his
Mafia clan. His Jersey suburbs aren’t a place where garages
nurture a thousand bands but a culturally deprived Nowheresville
that sucks oxygen from the soul: Leave or perish.  Witness Douglas’s mother (Molly Price), a self-pitying
harpy, and his father ( James Gandolfini ), an embittered bigot
who glares murderously at his long-haired son. Douglas glares
back, mouths off and doesn’t seem much bothered by the news that
the old man has cancer.  Despite references to  Vietnam ,  Martin Luther King  and LSD
and a ton of period detail and familiar music, “Not Fade Away”
misses both the ebullience of the era and its paranoia. Instead
it feels like now -- bland and hopeless.  Loose Fit  Maybe the need to compress everything into two hours
stymied a writer-director accustomed to the expansiveness of
series TV. Practically any episode of “The Sopranos” was
structured more rigorously than “Not Fade Away.”  The film succumbs to anachronisms of tone (Douglas’s sister
insists on “African-American” and “gay” as politically correct
terms years too early), uncertain characterization (the boys in
the band are never very distinctive) and a drifting plot.  Like Douglas, the movie seems to have no real idea of where
it wants to go. The only reason it doesn’t fade away is that
it’s pale to begin with.  “Not Fade Away,” from Paramount Vantage, is scheduled to
open on Dec. 21. Rating: **1/2  Beautiful Boy  The radicalized Parisian students in Olivier Assayas’s
“ Something in the Air ” have no idea what a paradise they’re
living in -- of political debate, of creative freedom and of
carefree finances.  Contemporary kids will probably find them as alien as
courtiers from the age of Louis XIV.  This valentine to the early ’70s captures its era much more
alertly than “Not Fade Away” does. The picture recalls a time in
the director’s own life when, like Gilles (Clement Metayer), the
beautiful boy it’s built around, he was being pulled one way by
extremist politics and another by art.  It’s because art won that Assayas can re-create the
textures of the period -- its rock and roll, its tie dye, its
Maoist nuttiness -- with so much conviction and love.  “Something in the Air,” from Sundance Selects, is scheduled
to open next spring. Rating: ****  Young Prostitute  A young prostitute (Rin Takanashi) is sent out to service
an elderly scholar (Tadashi Okuno). He’s kind to her, but even
though she’s sweet (if not terribly bright), she’s too tired to
pretend she wants to be there.  Talking at cross purposes, they’re both funny and sad. When
her impassioned and volatile boyfriend (Ryo Kase) appears, he
adds menace to the mix.  No one would guess that in “ Like Someone in Love ” the
renowned Iranian director  Abbas Kiarostami  is working in  Japan 
for the first time.  His little tragicomedy plays out without comment. He never
tells the audience what to feel, and this lack of judgment
passing is wonderfully humane.  Though the movie is about a whore, a john and a brute, it’s
impossible to draw a line from those crude words to these
complex, fallible people.  “Like Someone in Love,” from Sundance Selects, is scheduled
to open next spring. Rating: ****1/2  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on London theater and
 Amanda Gordon  on N.Y. Scene.  To contact the writer of this column:  Craig Seligman  at
 cseligman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 