-- Chavez Win Spurs Exodus as Venezuelans Foresee Economic Woes
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-10-10T14:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/chavez-victory-spurs-exodus-as-venezuelans-foresee-economic-woes.html
Juan Ibarra, a 35-year-old surgeon
from Caracas, is preparing to emigrate after Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  won another six-year term on Oct. 7.  “I don’t want to go but on balance every day my profession
is at risk from the government,” Ibarra, who worries Chavez may
extend state control over clinics and regulate doctors’
salaries, said in an Oct. 8 phone interview. “I don’t have any
other option but to pack my bags and have them ready.”  Chavez, who has seized more than 1,000 companies or their
assets since first elected in 1998, may now be emboldened by his
victory to push for more takeovers and price controls that have
scared off investors, said Bret Rosen, a Latin American debt
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank. He will also devalue the
currency to boost revenue from oil sales and pay for a pre-
election spending spree, fueling inflation, Rosen said.  “I have a hard time thinking there’s going to be
moderation in the months ahead,” Rosen said in an interview
from  New York . “Growth will slow next year after the government
spent like crazy to buy the election.  Venezuela  has to devalue
to close the deficit since the weakened private sector is in no
position to soften the landing.”  Ibarra isn’t alone in contemplating departure. Traffic to
 MeQuieroIr.com , a Venezuelan website that provides information
to people looking to emigrate, tripled to 180,000 visits the day
after Chavez won by a  11-percentage-point margin , said company
director Esther Bermudez. Most inquiries come from middle-class
professionals, she said.  Ibarra, who said he’s looking to move his family to the
U.S., estimated it would take him seven years to reach the same
level of pay he enjoys in Venezuela.  Investor Pessimism  Investors share Ibarra’s pessimism over the future of
Venezuela under Chavez. The government’s benchmark bonds plunged
the most since October 2008 yesterday in the first full day of
trading in U.S. bond markets after a holiday on Oct. 8.  The yield on the bonds due in 2027 rose 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage points, to 11.16 percent, at 9:53 a.m. today in
Caracas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s
price fell 0.35 cents on the dollar to 86.27 cents.  Foreign investment in South America’s largest oil producer
has already tumbled,  dropping 58 percent  to an average of $1.05
billion a year between 2006 and 2011 from the previous six
years, the  United Nations  Latin American unit, or ECLAC, said in
a  report  on May 3. Investment would have fallen further if
companies were allowed to take their profits out of the country
in the past few years, it said.  Investment Freeze  Another six years of Chavez’s rule will lead to a virtual
freeze in foreign investment, with banks and food retailers the
next in line to face possible seizure, said Juan Pablo Fuentes,
an analyst at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania .  “From the point of view of private investment this isn’t
good news,” said Fuentes. “The margin of victory gives Chavez
consent by the country to continue on the path toward an economy
with more state intervention.”  Companies already operating in Venezuela could scale back
their operations to reduce exposure to adverse economic
policies, said  Alberto Ramos , senior economist at Goldman Sachs
& Co. in New York.  Companies including Procter & Gamble Co,  Colgate-Palmolive
Co. (CL)  and Johnson & Johnson have had to slash prices on products
such as toothpaste, toilet paper and bleach after Chavez set
price caps on 19 consumer care products in April to slow
inflation. Chavez, who says that the price caps are necessary to
combat what he’s called “capitalist speculation,” threatened
to nationalize any companies that doesn’t comply.  Divestment  “We’ll probably see divestment and a bunch of corporates
taking very defensive measures in order to reduce their
footprint on the ground,” Ramos said in a phone interview from
New York.  Investors are also faced with the prospect that Venezuela
will weaken the official rate of the bolivar by a minimum of 28
percent to at least 6 per dollar by the first quarter of next
year for the third time in as many years, according to estimates
by Moody’s Analytics, Bank of America, Nomura Securities
International Inc. and Bulltick Capital Markets.  Devaluing the bolivar will fuel inflation of as much as 48
percent and could lead Venezuela’s economy to contract by 3.6
percent next year, according to  Francisco Rodriguez , senior
Andean economist at Bank of America Corp. Chavez said Sept. 11
that he had no plans to devalue the currency.  Spending Cuts  While annual  inflation  slowed for a 10th consecutive month
to 18 percent in September, it’s still the highest among 102
economies tracked by Bloomberg after Belarus,  Iran  and
 Argentina .  Chavez will also be compelled to cut expenditures after
fiscal spending leaped 41 percent in real terms in the 12 months
through August from the year earlier, according to Hernan Yellati, head of research and strategy at BanTrust & Co. in
Miami. That spending spree helped the economy grow 5.4 percent
in the second quarter.  Robust  economic growth  and increased spending on social
projects helped Chavez to victory. The  poverty rate  fell to 31.6
percent at the end of 2011 from about 50 percent when Chavez
took office. Extreme poverty declined to 8.5 percent from about
20 percent over the same period. Venezuela has the lowest level
of inequality in  Latin America  and the Caribbean, according to
the United Nations.  Chavez Denial  Chavez yesterday dismissed the predictions of economic
troubles ahead.  “Now they’re saying that the economy is going to sink with
Chavez’s victory,” he said in comments broadcast on state
television. “Our economy is one of the fastest growing in the
region and we have some very positive indicators on growth.”  Some analysts say that while Venezuela’s economy will slow
in 2013, the downturn won’t be as gloomy as most are projecting.
According to the International Monetary Fund’s  World Economic
Outlook , Venezuela’s economy will grow 3.3 percent next year,
while inflation will accelerate to 28.8 percent.  Rising oil revenue may also benefit the government. Oil
futures reached their highest level in eight days yesterday.
November-delivery crude oil rose $3.06 to $92.39 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Oct.
1. Prices have gained 20 cents this month, following an 8.5
percent advance in the third quarter.  While Chavez said in a press conference last month that
some Venezuelans may decide to leave the country if he was re-
elected, he called on them to stay.  Rising Crime  Chavez’s appeal may fall on deaf ears. Rising crime,
political persecution, and narrowing career prospects are
driving middle class Venezuelans out of the country.
MeQuieroIr.com’s Bermudez said an estimated 1 million of
Venezuela’s 29 million population have gone abroad in the past
11 years, mostly to the U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia .  Things have gotten so bad that many people are moving to
neighboring  Colombia , where a war with communist guerillas
pushed the  murder rate  to 71.8 per 100,000 in 1996. Now,
Colombia’s  Defense Ministry  calculates the murder rate at 32 per
100,000, while Venezuela’s is about 67, according to the
Venezuela Violence Observatory, a Caracas-based NGO that tracks
crime. Colombia attracted $13.4 billion in foreign direct
investment last year.  Blacklisted  Concepcion Espejo, a 40-year-old oil industry engineer from
Caracas, said she and her husband Miguel Febrero, 50, a lawyer
who worked for state petrochemical company Pequiven SA, were
blacklisted from working in the oil industry after signing a
petition to force a recall vote on Chavez in 2004.  Chavez’s re-election was the final straw for Espejo, who
cited limited work opportunities, rising crime and deteriorating
education as reasons to move with her husband and two sons to
Colombia by the middle of next year.  “We were already pretty limited in our professional
prospects here in Venezuela,” Espejo said in a phone interview.
“The idea is to go temporarily, allowing for the fact that
things could change here, although we’ve been learning that that
kind of thing doesn’t happen in the short-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 