-- Cheap Shippers No Bargain in Japan on Capacity: Chart
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-10-10T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/cheap-shippers-no-bargain-in-japan-on-capacity-chart-of-the-day.html
Japan’s shipping lines, the cheapest
shares among the Topix Index’s 33 industry groups, aren’t yet a
good buy because overcapacity concurrent with a slowdown in the
Chinese economy will damp earnings, according to Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd. and Diam Co.  The  CHART OF THE DAY (TPMART)  compares the price-to-book ratios of
the 1,672-member Topix Index, the broadest measure of Japanese
shares, and Topix Marine Transportation Index. The lower panel
shows that the number of bulk and container vessels worldwide
expanded by about 33 percent since 2007 while the Baltic Dry 
Index, a gauge of bulk-shipping rates, has dropped to near a 
four-year low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The nine-company shipping measure, which includes Nippon
Yusen K.K. and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., closed at 185.32
yesterday, down more than 90 percent since Oct. 15, 2007, when
near-record transport rates prompted a surge of new-vessel
orders. That’s more than double the decline of an equivalent
gauge in  South Korea . With most of those ships having entered
service, fees and earnings will stay low, said Daiwa SB
Investments’ Masayuki Kubota.  “I don’t deny the possibility of a technical rebound, but
because of the global vessel oversupply, I don’t think investors
should aggressively buy Japanese shipping shares,” said Kubota,
who manages about $1.8 billion. “Even if  China ’s economy gets
better, the shipping lines will be the last to benefit.”  Slowing economic expansion in China and the U.S. as well as
a deepening debt crisis in  Europe  have reduced cargo demand. The
Baltic Dry Index has plunged by half this year as China’s
economic growth fell to a three-year low, prompting fewer iron-
ore and coal shipments.  “Stay away from shipping shares for a while as
there’s a risk companies will cut their earnings projections,”
said Kuninobu Takeuchi, Tokyo-based executive portfolio manager
at Diam Co., which manages about 10 trillion yen ($128 billion).
“ China’s economy  is basically bearish and shipping shares are
closely related to indexes affected by that country. Shipping
companies may perform well in three to four years, but for the
next six months, it’s a different story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  