-- Chiasson Seeks to Show E-Mails Involving Newman, Lawyers
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-10T00:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/chiasson-seeks-to-show-e-mails-involving-newman-lawyers.html
Lawyers for former Diamondback
Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman  said their
client should be tried separately from Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson because of e-mails Chiasson seeks to
introduce at trial.  Newman was among the recipients of hundreds of e-mails that
Chiasson wants to show to jurors, which would be “highly
prejudicial,” Stephen Fishbein and John Nathanson, Newman’s
lawyers, said today in papers filed in U.S. District Court in
 Manhattan .  Newman and Chiasson are scheduled to go on trial Oct. 29
before U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, charged with being
part of what Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called a
“criminal club” of friends and associates who traded on
illegal tips. The men allegedly reaped almost $62 million from
 insider trading  in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Eight people have been charged in the case and six have
pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges. Jon Horvath, a former
technology analyst at a unit of Steven Cohen’s $14 billion hedge
fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, who was charged with the two men,
pleaded guilty on Sept. 28 to passing nonpublic information to
his portfolio manager and is cooperating with the U.S.  ‘Large Number’  Chiasson seeks to introduce as part of his defense several
hundred e-mails, including some from former Diamondback analyst
Jesse Tortora, who has pleaded guilty and also is cooperating,
to Newman about “company specific information,” Newman’s
lawyers said. Chiasson’s name doesn’t appear on most of the e-
mails, they said.  “In other words, Mr. Chiasson is proposing to put in
evidence a very large number of communications about various
stocks and sources of information that the government itself
will not address in its case,” Fishbein and Nathanson said.  If the judge doesn’t grant a separate trial, Newman’s
lawyers ask that Chiasson be barred from entering the e-mails as
evidence.  Prosecutors said in court after Chiasson’s arrest on Jan.
18 that he used illegal tips to win a $53 million bet on Dell
trades for his Level Global fund.  Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail sent after business hours seeking comment on
Newman’s request.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  