-- China Money Rate Drops for Second Day as Central Bank Adds Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-10T03:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/china-money-rate-drops-for-second-day-as-central-bank-adds-funds.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped
for a second day on speculation cash supply will increase as the
central bank adds funds to the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for seven- and 14-
day reverse repurchase contracts today, a sign it will offer
such securities in an auction tomorrow, according to a trader
required to bid at the sales. The monetary authority injected a
total of 265 billion  yuan  ($42 billion) via reverse repos
yesterday, the second-biggest amount for a single day since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2004. Financial markets
in China opened this week after a weeklong holiday.  “The PBOC’s sustained, big capital injections have helped
ease a cash shortage,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in
Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest
lender. “Cash supply is also rebounding because the holiday has
passed.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 60 basis points to 3.16 percent as
of 10:57 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.19 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.41 percent government bond due March
2019 dropped one basis point to 3.37 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank is unlikely to cut banks’ reserve
requirements before the Chinese Communist Party’s 18th congress
starting Nov. 8, according to China Merchant Bank’s Liu. The
PBOC has lowered the reserve ratio three times since November to
free up funds for lending.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  