-- China Economy to Improve After Leadership Change, BlackRock Says
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-10-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/china-economy-to-improve-after-leadership-change-blackrock-says.html
China ’s economic growth is poised to
recover after the country’s once-in-a-decade leadership
transition, bolstering the outlook for stocks across Asia, said
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager.  Vice President Xi Jinping is forecast to succeed President
Hu Jintao as head of the ruling Communist Party at a congress
that starts Nov. 8 in Beijing.  “Once we get through the leadership change, both in the
U.S. and also in this part of the world, I think we’re going to
see a much healthier base from which we can have growth within
the expectations of China,” said  Mark McCombe , BlackRock’s
Asia-Pacific chairman, during Bloomberg Television’s Titans At
The Table program which aired yesterday.  BlackRock joins Citigroup Inc. in saying policies to boost
 China’s growth , which was the slowest in three years in the
second quarter, will be clearer after the leadership change.
Other analysts, including Haitong Securities Co.’s Chen Ruiming
and Bank of Communications Co.’s Hao Hong, say China will
struggle to reverse the slowdown.  China’s economy grew 7.6 percent in the April-June quarter
as the  European debt crisis  sapped demand for exports and a
campaign to rein in home prices eroded domestic consumption. The
economy may expand 7.7 percent this year, according to the
median forecast of 45 economists in a Bloomberg survey, which
would be the slowest annual rate since 1999.  Investor Confidence  Investor confidence will rebound as the nation’s new
leaders take steps to focus on domestic consumption as a driver
of growth,  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-based chairman of global
markets for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in the same
Bloomberg TV program.  The government has said it aims to reduce China’s reliance
on investment and exports for growth and boost the role of
consumption in the economy. McCombe, who is based in Hong Kong,
said that focus on consumption will benefit health-care and
education stocks.  China’s economic recovery will boost stock markets and also
help “with foreign investment dollars coming into the region,”
he said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 6.9 percent this year
through Oct. 9, trailing the 11 percent gain for the MSCI World
Index. The Asian benchmark trades at 12.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.2 times for the MSCI World.  “A lot of the Asian equities are actually inexpensive
relative to their long-term growth potential,” Ulrich said on
the same program.  Deepening Slowdown  At the same time, data for the past two months point to a
deepening slowdown in China after manufacturing contracted in
September, imports unexpectedly fell in August and industrial
companies’ profits dropped for a fifth month.  The People’s Bank of China has also refrained from
introducing further easing measures since interest-rate cuts in
June and July and a reduction in reserve requirements for
lenders in May, amid concern more liquidity will boost property
prices and inflation.  “In the next 12 months, I am not that optimistic as the
economy hasn’t stabilized,” Chen Li, UBS AG’s head of China
equity strategy, said in a phone interview from  Shanghai  on
Sept. 27. “The transition of leadership will have some impact.
With new leaders, there will be some change to policies and this
is what investors are concerned about.”  The International Monetary Fund cut its global growth
forecasts this week as the euro area’s debt crisis deepens. The
world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the slowest since
the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, compared with
July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.
Washington-based IMF now sees “alarmingly high” risks of a
steeper slowdown, it said in its World Economic Outlook report.  “We had seen a deceleration in the macro economy, as well
as corporate earnings” in China, Ulrich said. “So that’s
confidence temporarily lost. Hopefully confidence will be
regained some time in the coming months as the Chinese new
leadership takes over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  