-- Japan Calls China PBOC Chief Skipping IMF Meeting ‘Regrettable’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-10T09:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/china-imf-group-led-by-no-2-officials-amid-tensions-with-japan.html
A decision by the Chinese central
bank chief and finance minister not to attend International
Monetary Fund meetings in  Tokyo  this week is “regrettable,”
Japan’s finance minister said, as tensions lingered over an
island dispute.  “We will take a wide view on communication with  China ,”
Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said today after he was informed
that his Chinese counterpart Xie Xuren and  People’s Bank of
China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wouldn’t attend. He called China-
Japan economic relations “very important.”  The Chinese move follows Japan’s decision last month to buy
the islands from their private owner, a purchase that sparked
protests in China and clouded a $340 billion  trade relationship .
The protests occurred as China, which begins a leadership
transition next month, has been more forceful in making its
territorial claims across the region.  “It’s a signal that the dispute is very serious to China,
and that it will impact relations with Japan in all areas,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “China is becoming more
assertive with the historical territorial issues.”  Yi Gang, a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China,
and Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  will lead the country’s
delegation, the Xinhua News Agency reported last night. The
Chinese central bank didn’t immediately respond to faxed
questions today seeking comment, and calls to the Chinese
finance ministry’s news department went unanswered.  China’s four biggest state-owned banks have said they won’t
go to the Oct. 9-14 meetings, which will be attended by about
10,000 participants, according to Xinhua. Zhou’s name was
earlier listed on schedules to speak at IMF and  Institute of
International Finance  events in Tokyo.  Japanese Stocks  Japanese stocks fell today, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  recording its biggest two-day loss since July 23, after
carmakers’ sales in China dropped, adding to concern that the
dispute is weighing on corporate earnings.  The Nikkei dropped 2 percent to 8,596.23 in Tokyo, with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  falling 1.9 percent after reporting its
biggest drop in China sales since at least 2008.  The Chinese decision is the latest sign that the tension
from the territorial dispute between the two countries hasn’t
been contained. Japan’s move to buy the islands sparked the
worst crisis in bilateral relations since 2005.  An NHK poll published today showed 44 percent of Japanese
respondents think the government should prioritize improving
relations with China, while 41 percent think it should take a
tougher stance. The telephone survey, conducted Oct. 6-9,
obtained 1,056 responses and didn’t give a margin of error.  Taiwan Claim  Celebrating  Taiwan ’s National Day holiday today, President
Ma Ying-jeou reiterated his government’s claim on the islands,
saying in a speech that it will protect its fishing rights in
the area. At least 50 Taiwanese fishing boats were in the area
around the islands, called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in
Chinese, in late September under escort from patrol boats before
returning home because of a typhoon.  “From a historical, geographical or international law
perspective, the Diaoyu Islands belong to Taiwan,” Ma said in
the speech. “Taiwan’s fleets will continue to protect fishermen
fishing in the area.”  Ma, whose approval rating fell to a low of 15 percent in
July, vowed that month never to “concede a single inch” of
territory to Japan after a Taiwanese coast guard vessel
escorting activists with Chinese flags collided with a Japanese
ship near the islands.  Japanese Compromise  Japan may acknowledge China’s claims the islands, while
maintaining that they are Japanese territory,  Kyodo News 
reported today, citing unidentified people close to the
situation. The report said the plan would allow Japan to
compromise a little with China.  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said today
the Kyodo report didn’t represent an official position, adding
that the government acknowledges a diplomatic problem with China
over the islands.  Japan is “entirely responsible” for the “gravely
difficult situation” between the two countries, Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing in Beijing today.
“The pressing task is for japan to see reality, recognize the
controversy, correct wrongdoing, and return to dialogue and
negotiation and the track to resolving conflicts over the Diaoyu
Islands.”  The crisis may cause the Japanese economy to contract this
quarter and hasten a current account slide, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chinese Banks  The decision not to attend the talks by Chinese banks,
which have become the world’s most profitable with the help of
government bailouts, indicates that the fallout of the
territorial dispute is spreading from industries such as tourism
and automobiles to financials.  “The political significance of their action is greater
than its economic significance,” said Chen Xingyu, an analyst
at Phillip Securities Research in  Shanghai . “It’s just a way of
the government making clear its stance and it is ready to use
other supplementary measures to assert itself against  Japan . Any
impact on the banks’ businesses is likely to be very small.”  The China crisis may inflict more economic damage on
Japan’s automakers than last year’s tsunami, according to the
China Passenger Car Association. Their share will fall to 22
percent this year from 23 percent in 2011, according to the
group.  Along with Toyota, Nissan Motor Co. yesterday reported its
biggest drops in China sales since at least 2008 while Honda
Motor Co.’s sales were the lowest since May 2011, according to
monthly data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  