-- China Piped Gas Imperils $100 Billion LNG Plans: Energy Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-10T13:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/china-piped-gas-imperils-100-billion-lng-plans-energy-markets.html
China  is importing more natural gas
by pipeline than sea for the first time, highlighting the risk
to planned LNG projects costing at least $100 billion as buyers
seek cheaper supplies.  The country, which accounted for almost a quarter of  Asia ’s
gas use last year, increased shipments from  Turkmenistan , the
provider of almost all its piped supplies, by 55 percent to 9.85
million metric tons in the first eight months of the year,
customs data show. Liquefied natural gas purchases from nations
including  Australia  and Qatar advanced 23 percent to 9.08
million tons and cost about 3 percent more than pipeline
imports, even before the cost of regasification.  China’s bill for LNG, gas cooled to a liquid and
transported by tanker, has surged in the past four years as it
feeds its booming economy and cuts reliance on more-polluting
coal for power generation. The growing dependence on cheaper
supplies by pipeline is threatening the viability of LNG
projects planned by companies from Exxon Mobil Corp. to  Woodside (WPL) 
Petroleum Ltd. that are waiting for investment approval,
according to CLSA Ltd., a Hong Kong-based broker partly owned by
France’s Credit Agricole SA.  “We don’t think LNG will grow to be as big as many people
are thinking,” Simon Powell, the head of Asian oil and gas
research at CLSA, said by e-mail. “LNG prices are still too
high to compete in China. Piped gas imports are way bigger.”  China accounted for 22 percent of Asia-Pacific gas
consumption last year and 4 percent of global demand, according
to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The nation spent
$5.4 billion, or an average $547 a ton, for supplies from
Turkmenistan in the year through August, Chinese customs data
show. It paid $5.1 billion, or $562 a ton, for LNG.  Rising Price  China’s spending on LNG has surged as prices and volumes
have climbed. The bill in 2008 was $942 million and the average
price paid was $282 a ton. This year’s price is equivalent to
$10.81 per million British thermal units, or about three times
as much as benchmark U.S. gas futures, which were at $3.459
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cargoes from
Qatar, China’s biggest and most expensive supplier, cost $19.33
per million Btu.  “China imported more pipeline gas as some of its LNG
contracts, such as those from Qatar, are relatively expensive,”
Ricki Wang, a natural gas analyst with C1 Energy, a Shanghai-
based commodity researcher, said by phone.  The country may curb plans to expand its terminals for
receiving seaborne LNG and converting it back to gaseous form,
while weaker-than-expected demand and “bloated” production
capability beyond 2016 mean some LNG projects, particularly in
Australia, may get shelved or canceled, according to Powell.  Investment Decisions  China has 29 billion cubic meters a year of LNG-receiving
capacity in operation and 26 billion under construction,
according to the  International Energy Agency . Global LNG
production capacity will increase by 81 million tons, or 27
percent, through 2017 and a further 143 million tons is awaiting
a final  investment decision , CLSA estimated in a July 20 report.  Companies may decide within 18 months whether to proceed
with more than $100 billion of LNG projects in Australia. Final
decisions are expected for Woodside’s Browse and Sunrise
projects, Exxon Mobil and BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Scarborough gas
field, and Hess Corp.’s Equus project,  Martin Ferguson ,
Australia’s natural resources minister, said in a Sept. 21
interview in Tokyo.  The Browse project in  Western Australia  will cost about
A$44 billion ($45 billion), Deutsche Bank AG estimated in June.
Woodside and its partners plan to make a decision in the first
half of next year, Chief Executive  Peter Coleman  said in an Aug.
22 presentation. The company is “updating the costs,
uncertainties and challenges” of the Sunrise project near East
Timor, he said. Daniel Clery, a spokesman for Woodside in Perth,
declined to comment further when contacted by Bloomberg Oct. 4.  Increasing Demand  Antonios Papaspiropoulos, a spokesman for BHP in Melbourne,
declined to comment on China’s demand for pipeline gas or the
status of plans for Scarborough off Western Australia.  Arrow Energy Ltd., owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
 PetroChina Co. (857) , said in March that it planned to decide in late
2013 whether to develop an LNG export facility on Queensland
state’s  Curtis Island . Deutsche Bank estimates the project may
cost more than $20 billion.  “Australia is a good place to do business, but the
international competitiveness of the LNG sector is being
challenged by factors like the high Australian dollar and high
labor costs,” Paul Zennaro, a Melbourne-based spokesman for
Shell, said by e-mail yesterday. The company will develop the
nation’s gas resources and invest around $30 billion over the
next five years, he said, without specifying the projects.  Replacing Nuclear  LNG purchases may still retake the lead over piped gas
imports as China’s demand increases, according to the IEA. The
nation’s gas consumption will double from last year to 273
billion cubic meters by 2017, the Paris-based agency said in its
first Medium-Term Gas Market Report on June 5. Imports will be
85 billion cubic meters by 2015, including 47 billion in LNG and
35 billion via pipeline, it said.  LNG demand will also be boosted by Japan, the world’s
biggest buyer of the fuel, as it switches to thermal power from
nuclear, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The bank raised
its forecast for the country’s LNG use for electricity
generation this year and next in a Sept. 13 report, citing a
slowdown in the approval process for stress tests on reactors
before they can resume operations.  ‘Range of Options’  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors remain shut more than 18
months after an earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and
shattered public confidence in the safety of atomic power. The
country’s utilities  imported  5.31 million tons of LNG in August,
a record for that month, the Federation of Electric Power Cos.
said Sept. 14. Japan accounted for 18 percent of Asia-Pacific
gas demand last year, according to BP.  “I don’t necessarily see imports as a direct threat to LNG
in all cases,” said  Gavin Thompson , the Beijing-based head of
Asia-Pacific gas research for Wood Mackenzie Ltd., an energy
consultant. “China isn’t the only LNG market that is driving
demand, so new projects will be looking at a range of options.
All serious LNG project developers are undertaking their own
assessment of the risks to LNG demand in China, but they are
also considering the upside.”  LNG prices still need to fall to $9 to $11 per million Btu
to spur demand from buyers in China and India, Shigeru Muraki,
the chief executive officer of Tokyo Gas Co.’s energy-solutions
unit, said at a conference in London on Oct. 8.  Pipeline Construction  Japan and India will begin a joint study on how they can
reduce costs for imports of the fuel, Shinichi Kihara, director
for international energy strategy office at the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry, told reporters at bilateral energy
talks in Tokyo today.  China is extending its pipeline network to allow the
Turkmen gas to be delivered to the more heavily populated
provinces in the south and east, with talks under way to
increase the imports to 65 billion cubic meters a year,
according to the IEA.  Uzbekistan started exporting an unspecified volume of piped
gas to China in August, the  Associated Press  reported Sept. 13,
citing the country’s UzA state news agency. A link from Myanmar
with a capacity of 12 billion cubic meters a year under
construction by China National Petroleum Corp. may start in
2013. Kazakhstan is building a line that may supply China after
2013. Piped gas from Russia may boost supplies if the nations
can resolve a decade-long disagreement on price.  Shale Gas  LNG suppliers in the Asia-Pacific region may also face
competition in coming years from shale-gas deposits in China and
exports of the fuel from  North America , according to CLSA and
Mirae Asset Securities Ltd.  While China doesn’t produce shale gas commercially yet, it
aims to supply 6.5 billion cubic meters annually by 2015 and as
much as 100 billion a year by the end of the decade, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in March. The
nation will hold its second auction for exploration licenses on
Oct. 25.  Cheniere Energy Inc., the first company to win approval to
export gas from the continental U.S., agreed in January to sell
LNG to Korea Gas Corp. from as early as 2017 based on prices at
the  Henry Hub  in  Louisiana , the delivery point for  New York 
futures. The deal made buyers reluctant to sign contracts based
on the higher oil-linked prices that are typical in Asia, David
Calvert, a manager at Houston-based Apache Corp.’s Kitimat LNG
venture, said at an energy conference in Calgary on Oct. 2.  Export Licenses  Cheniere’s Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana is one of as
many as 12 projects that have applied for an LNG export license.
An Energy Department report assessing the economic impact of
overseas sales on domestic energy use before further permits are
issued has been delayed until late this year.  “If politics allow the U.S. to export more LNG from the
shale gas production boom, China and the rest of northern Asia
could benefit from much cheaper gas than what they’re paying
now,”  Gordon Kwan , the head of regional energy research for
Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by e-mail. “The
availability of extra gas from countries in Central Asia and
Southeast Asia will cut demand for offshore LNG.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  