-- Cigarette Makers Wage Final Battle to Tame Russian Bill
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-10-11T15:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/cigarette-makers-wage-final-battle-to-tame-russian-smoking-bill.html
Cigarette makers including  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  are
fighting a last-ditch battle against a smoking crackdown in
Russia, with three weeks left to change the government’s mind.  Russia should scale back the proposal that would ban
smoking in public places, tobacco sponsorship and cigarette
sales in kiosks,  Alexander Shokhin , head of the Union of
Industrialists, a lobby group for big business, said yesterday.
Government legal advisers in August reversed their original
approval of the anti-tobacco bill, recommending changes to the
planned measures.  While cigarette producers and the business sector support
steps to cut tobacco-related health damage, “it’s another
question how exactly to proceed and which measures are effective
and which aren’t,” Shokhin said in Moscow. “In several
countries, a total ban has had the opposite effect.”  President  Vladimir Putin  wants to curb smoking and alcohol
consumption to stem the country’s population decline. Thirty-
nine percent of the 143 million people in Russia, the world’s
largest tobacco market behind  China , are habitual smokers,
according to the  World Health Organization . That compares with
28 percent in China and 27 percent in the U.S.  Advertising, Sponsorship  The government is due to submit the  bill  to lawmakers by
Nov. 1, outlawing all cigarette advertising and sponsorship
immediately, with the bans on kiosk sales and smoking in public
places taking effect Jan. 1, 2015. It will resist pressure to
weaken the proposal, said Alexei Levchenko, an aide to Russian
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets, who’s responsible for
health and social affairs.  “There won’t be any fundamental relaxation of these
measures, though some language may be adjusted,” Levchenko said
yesterday by phone after Shokhin’s organization met ministers
responsible for the law the day before.  Smoking-related diseases kill 23 percent of Russian men and
cause economic damages equal to 6.3 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the Health Ministry, which says the law
may save 200,000 lives a year and cut smoking in half.  Market Share  Philip Morris, the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company and BAT,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette maker, generate
about a third of global sales in eastern Europe, Africa and the
 Middle East .  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  relies on the region
encompassing Russia, the other ex-Soviet states excluding the
Baltic countries, the former Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania,
Croatia and Mongolia for 46 percent of global sales volumes,
according to its website.  Tokyo-based Japan Tobacco, whose brands include Camel and
Winston and is  Asia ’s largest listed cigarette producer by
market value, has about 37 percent of the Russian cigarette
market. It is followed by 26 percent for Marlboro-maker Philip
Morris, 21 percent for BAT and 9 percent for London-based
 Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , according to the companies.  Japan Tobacco shares advanced 3.6 percent today in Tokyo
trading, the biggest one-day increase since Aug. 16, as the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6 percent. BAT gained 0.6
percent and  Imperial Tobacco  Group Plc rose 0.8 percent in
London.  Philip Morris  increased as much as 1.2 percent in  New
York  trading.  Higher Tax  BAT and Imperial, the maker of Davidoff cigarettes, fell
the most in about a month in London trading on Oct. 8 after
Russian health regulators suggested raising cigarette taxes
almost eightfold.  The Health Ministry proposed raising the tax to 4,000
rubles ($129) per 1,000 cigarettes by the end of 2015 from 510
rubles this year, according to a letter dated Sept. 22 from
Minister Veronika Skvortsov to Golodets obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  The move escalates Russia’s anti-smoking efforts as excise
taxes were scheduled to increase about 40 percent a year between
now and the end of 2014 under current government policy. A pack
of Marlboros now sells for about $2 in Russia.  The tax increase, if it becomes law, may push Russian
cigarette consumption down by as much as 20 percent in 2015,
according to  Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at Berenberg Bank,
compared with his current estimate for an annual decline of 1-2
percent.  Nomura analyst  David Hayes  on Oct. 8 downgraded his outlook
for the tobacco industry to bearish from neutral, citing the
risk of underperformance after three years of outperformance. He
cut his recommendation for Imperial Tobacco to reduce from
neutral, while maintaining a buy rating on BAT shares.  Plain Packaging  Governments from Europe to Asia have toughened restrictions
on smoking. China aims to completely ban cigarette advertising
and sponsorship and raise tobacco taxes, the country’s Health
Ministry said in August.  Australia  this year became the first country to require
cigarettes to be sold in plain packaging without any company
logos.  New Zealand  and the U.K. are among countries whose
governments have indicated interest in implementing similar
action, which takes effect in Australia Dec. 1.  Russia should continue to allow smoking in bars and
restaurants in specially isolated zones as well as tobacco
sponsorship and cigarette sales in kiosks, according to Shokhin,
a senior member of the ruling United Russia party. He wrote a
letter to Golodets last month urging her to reconsider the anti-
smoking legislation.  ‘Constitutional Principles’  The Institute of Law and Comparative Jurisprudence, a
government agency charged with vetting legislation whose board
of trustees is headed by the speaker of the lower house of
parliament,  Sergei Naryshkin , in August criticized the anti-
tobacco law.  The institute, which last year gave its stamp of approval
to the bill, said in a new  assessment  that “many aspects of the
legislation don’t correspond to constitutional principles of
fairness, proportionality and adequacy.” The same government
body accepted a contract by Philip Morris to report on the legal
aspects of planned warning labels on packs of cigarettes.  Among aspects of the bill criticized by the institute were
the planned ban on tobacco sponsorship and advertising and
restrictions on the sale and display of cigarettes.  The tobacco companies’ efforts to overturn the anti-smoking
legislation are “worrying because they have hired some very
expensive lobbyists,” said Dmitry Yanin, head of the Moscow-
based International Conference of Consumer Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  