-- Columbia Journalism’s Dean Lemann to Step Down
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-10T21:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/columbia-journalism-s-dean-lemann-to-step-down.html
Nicholas Lemann , an author and
longtime contributor to the New Yorker magazine, will step down
as dean of Columbia University’s Journalism School after a
decade in the post, saying that deans shouldn’t serve as
“lifetime rulers” of their schools.  Lemann (pronounced Lemon) said he’ll leave in June 2013, at
the end of the academic year, after completing his second five-
year appointment. Columbia University President Lee Bollinger
will lead the search for a successor, the school said in a
statement.  Under Lemann’s stewardship, the New York-based school hired
20 full-time faculty members; built a student center; completed
its first capital fundraising campaign; and created new
initiatives in investigative reporting, digital journalism,
business and science reporting, and executive leadership for
news organizations.  “I would give myself a pretty good grade,” Lemann said in
an interview. He came to the school in 2003 with ambitious plans
to remake the teaching of journalism into a more intellectual
pursuit, proposing the school’s one-year Master of Science
degree become a two-year Master of Arts with journalism skills
crammed into the first summer’s studies.  The MA program is now a stand-alone one-year program,
allowing mid-career journalists to specialize in studying
politics, business and economics, health and science, or arts
and culture. Fifty-six students are enrolled in the MA program
this year, while the MS has 256 full-time and 70 part-time
students.  Tuition Costs  Cost was a major factor limiting changes, Lemann said, with
tuition and living expenses for the one-year MS degree totaling
$81,222 for the 2013-2014 school year. In comparison, the
University of Missouri’s one-year graduate program costs  total
$30,326.  “At no time has this school been a heads-up,  rational
economic decision for people who go there,” Lemann said.  As the only journalism school in the Ivy League, and one of
the few one-year graduate programs at Columbia, “We offer the
cheapest degree in any graduate school in the Ivy league,” he
said.  Digital Media  The rise of digital media also took Lemann, once a reporter
at the  Washington Post  and then a book writer and national
correspondent for  The Atlantic , by surprise.  “I would do a mea culpa on not seeing that more clearly in
2003,” he said.  Students are now taught technical skills across the
spectrum, from basic reporting and writing to classes in website
design and TV camera work, as well as journalism ethics, the
history of the craft and the basics of business and economic
reporting.  Preparing students for careers in the new journalism has
left Lemann optimistic about the future of newsgathering, and he
warns against “extrapolating” from the declining fortunes of
the largest U.S. newspapers.  “I don’t accept the idea that all changes are for the
worst and that these changes are properly understood as simply
decline,” he said, noting that a whole new sector of news
websites, stewarded by Columbia graduates, are drawing readers
and becoming viable businesses.  “Nick has been a truly great dean,” Bollinger said in an
interview. “I’m very very proud of what he’s accomplished.”  Lemann’s Legacy  Bollinger said Lehman has accomplished the goal of beefing
up scholarship at the journalism school through the hiring of
faculty and interdisciplinary programs. The new dean will have
to build on that success, while negotiating the challenge of the
Internet to traditional newspapers and magazines, he said.  Next year, the journalism school will reorganize its
offerings along three main themes, a change Lemann hopes will be
part of his legacy to the school: the written word, pictures and
sound and audience and engagement. The last is meant to cover
social media, a category that barely existed as news when Lemann
began at Columbia 10 years ago.  Lemann’s greatest single fundraising success was the gift
from the estate of Helen Gurley Brown, former editor of
Cosmopolitan magazine, of $18 million in January to fund
fellowships, endow a professorship and create a modern newsroom
on campus. Brown died in August at the age of 90.  Under Lemann, the  Columbia Journalism Review , which the
school publishes, began a daily online edition, as well as
publishing six times a year in print. The journalism school was
founded by Joseph Pulitzer in 1912. Columbia University
administers the  Pulitzer Prizes .  Lemann has published books including “Redemption: The Last
Battle of the Civil War”; “The Big Test: The Secret History of
the American Meritocracy”; and “The Promised Land: The Great
Black Migration and How It Changed America.”  He said he plans to take a year’s sabbatical, and will
write a book, though he hasn’t yet picked a subject. He’ll also
continue to write for the New Yorker -- paid by the article --
and will teach a course at Columbia on the art and science of
interviewing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  