-- Constancio Says 2014 Start of ECB Supervision Would Be Easier
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-10T06:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/constancio-says-2014-start-of-ecb-supervision-would-be-easier.html
European Central Bank Vice President
Vitor Constancio comments on ECB interest rates, the bond-
purchase program called Outright Monetary Transactions, and the
ECB’s new supervisory tasks.  He spoke in an interview in  Tokyo  today.  On seniority:  “We will keep what we said. We will be, with regard to the
OMT program, treated as any other investor. No seniority. We
will be involved. It’s our word. I don’t think that you find
central banks reneging their word. It was a solid declaration.”  On implementation:  “After a country is in a position to benefit from the
program, we will consider the degree of impairment of the
transmission mechanism of the country and then we will take a
decision to start intervening. And then we will do it during a
period of time that will exclude only when the country is
subject to a review of compliance to the program. The day-to-day
or week-to-week strategy is something we will decide in the
moment because it depends on the developments in the markets. We
will look into a small set of variables to decide the terms of
our concrete interventions. We have worked out all the details
inside to have a proper way to reach the decision every day.
It’s going to be the executive board of the ECB that takes the
responsibility for that. We look at more things, like
volatility. So it’s a composite way of looking at it.”  On IMF recommendations for ECB policy:  “The IMF has traditionally said things about countries and
economic areas. It’s not new and needs to be expected. It’s part
of the role of the IMF in general.”  On deflation risks:  “I don’t see risks of deflation. Our internal analysis
doesn’t show that. There were times when we were perhaps more
concerned. But that was at the peak of the crisis. But there is
no deep recession as it was the case then. We are always
observing the data and try to see into the future.”  On rates:  “The rates are appropriate, as we have discussed in the
past two meetings. Clearly we didn’t see the need to move them
now. But we are data dependent. We don’t precommit. We want to
keep our hands free. I’m not saying it won’t happen but right
now it was appropriate. And it is my opinion that we did the
correct decision.”  On progress in crisis fight:  “We are making progress and things have improved. Things
are encouraging but we need to keep the strategy. Countries need
to continue and at the European level we need the continuous
implementation of what was promised in the last summit in June.
It shows that  member states  want to deepen integration in
several aspects and that’s a very important guarantee about the
long-term future of monetary union.”  On the effectiveness of OMT:  “We concluded that neither side can do it alone. We
couldn’t do it alone just by having our leg of the program
implemented if countries aren’t complying with adjustment. And
we would fail in the end. It will not be efficient. We want this
to be as efficient as possible and for that we need the two
components our program and the countries complying. That makes
it totally compatible. The answer is about efficiency of the
program. Our program is there to try to help them. Efficiency
could be destroyed by an effect of moral hazard. If by starting
to do our program, then countries relax, spreads would go up
later on.”  On bank resolution:  “Resolution should be there because one of the things that
was recognized in the crisis is that in particular for cross-
border banks, my thinking is that this is more necessary for big
cross-border banks -- we had bad experiences of cross-border
banks. We need that. One of the lessons of the crisis for the
big banks you have to eliminate is the idea of too big to fail.
We must have resolution laws in place that are clear that show
to investors that even big banks can be resolved and in  Europe 
as those banks are cross-border we need really the European
level of resolution. That is what is more urgent. It should not
come long after the start of supervision.”  On supervision:  “Supervision will not start in January. In January
hopefully the council regulation will enter into force -- then
we’ll have to do a lot of operations and preparations before we
can actually start supervising at the EU level. We have to
discuss and approve manuals of supervisory standards,
guidelines, prepare for decentralization, how this will work, it
will take a lot of time. In the proposal of the Commission we
would start supervising the big banks on July 1. Well, it could
be feasible but demanding because we have to hire a lot of
people, that takes time, to build up the teams. It’s demanding
in July, if it happens by the end of the year it is still OK. In
a way it is more feasible. In some ways it would be easier to
start January 2014, to coincide with CRD IV -- it’s not
essential, but it would help. Deposit insurance is something
that can wait. In some ways one can say that as fiscal union
progresses it is not so necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Tokyo at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Tokyo at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  