-- Croatia’s Judiciary Reform Still Needed Ahead of 2013 EU Entry
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-10-10T09:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/croatia-s-judiciary-reform-still-needed-ahead-of-2013-eu-entry.html
Croatia  needs to make improvements
to its judicial system, competition and human-rights policies
before its planned European Union entry in July 2013, the
European Commission said.  “Further efforts” are necessary in judicial efficiency as
well as justice, freedom and security, the commission, the
bloc’s executive arm in Brussels, said in a report today.  The Adriatic Sea nation is set to become the 28th member of
the world’s largest trading bloc after six years of talks and
nine years after the last enlargement of the bloc, which
included its former Yugoslav partner  Slovenia .  Croatia, which is struggling to pull itself out of a
recession, is expected to receive hundreds of millions of euros
from EU funds for regional and infrastructure development.  “It is essential that Croatia sharpens its focus to ensure
that its preparations are completed on time,” the commission
said in the report, adding that a final assessment on the
country will be presented in Spring 2013.  Croatia has completed talks on policy areas including
agriculture, environmental protection, fisheries and trade. It
improved competition by selling state-subsidized, unprofitable
shipyards and started reforms in education, government
administration and health care.  Croatian authorities in the past year investigated hundreds
of corruption cases, targeting government officials and ruling-
party members, including former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who
on trial for abuse of power and corruption.  Croatia also had to overcome the effects of the Balkan wars
during the breakup of  Yugoslavia  that devastated the region’s
economy and led to the creation of the United Nations
 International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia  in  The
Hague .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  