-- Bain Capital Buys Apex Tool Group for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2012-10-10T12:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/danaher-to-sell-apex-tool-group-for-1-6-billion-to-bain-capital.html
Bain Capital LLC agreed to buy Apex
Tool Group LLC, the maker of Craftsman hand tools, from  Danaher
Corp. (DHR)  and Cooper Industries Plc for about $1.6 billion in its
largest deal so far this year.  Danaher expects the sale to the Boston-based private-equity
firm to generate after-tax net proceeds of about $650 million
and be completed in the first half of 2013, the two companies
said today in a statement. Danaher, based in  Washington , and
Houston-based Cooper each own 50 percent of Apex.  The acquisition of Apex is the largest this year for Bain,
which has participated in announced deals worth $4.7 billion in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apex, based in
Sparks,  Maryland , describes itself as one of the world’s largest
makers of hand and power tools. It has dozens of its own brands,
including GearWrench ratchets, and makes some of the tools sold
by Sears.  Danaher and  Cooper (CBE)  join United Technologies Corp. and
DuPont Co. in selling major divisions to private-equity buyers
this year. Danaher, which generated $16.1 billion in revenue
last year, formed Apex with Cooper in 2010 by combining their
tool businesses and naming Steve Breitzka, previously the head
of the Danaher tool unit, chief executive officer.  Lead Bidder  Apex had net income of $134 million on sales of $1.46
billion last year, according to a Cooper regulatory filing. Apex
employs 7,600 people, according to its website.  Bain emerged as the lead bidder for Apex and was
considering a purchase of the unit for $1.5 billion to $1.8
billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month,
asking not to be identified because the talks were private.  Bain’s second-biggest deal this year was the purchase of a
50 percent stake of Japan’s Jupiter Shop Channel Co., worth more
than $1 billion, according to the data.  Bain, which was co-founded in 1984 by Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , is raising a $6 billion
buyout fund. Bain Capital Fund XI, which follows the firm’s 2008
pool of about $10 billion, aims to gather initial commitments by
February, according to an e-mail sent to prospective investors,
a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Apex on the sale,
according to today’s statement.  Danaher’s products include dental and  laboratory equipment ,
while Cooper makes electrical products and tools.  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  in
May agreed to buy Cooper in an $11.8 billion transaction to
expand its power-management business and tap more into a U.S.
housing recovery. The deal is scheduled to close by the end of
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  