-- Dear Lance Armstrong: Please Confess. We'll Forgive You.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-10-10T20:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/dear-lance-armstrong-please-confess-we-ll-forgive-you-.html
Please, Lance. Just admit it. We will forgive you. Your lawyer is already questioning the latest findings of the  U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency,  dismissing   its report  “a one-sided  hatchet job.” Call him off.
There’s no room for plausible deniability anymore. It’s time  for you to come
clean -- personally, publicly and unambiguously. This is no longer a battle over guilt or  innocence, and a confession of
guilt isn't the same thing as "losing"  to some other cyclist  (or, in this
case, a self-righteous, quasi-governmental  agency). This is about securing your
legacy  by telling the truth. I have  defended you  before. You are a hero not just because you pedaled up a
lot of steep hills on a bike, but also because you inspired millions by beating
Stage 4 cancer and raising some half a billion dollars for cancer research and
treatment. For all of that, we have come to be that much more invested  in who you are
as a person. Some people, many people, have already written you off.  I think
you can still be remembered as something more than a doper, a liar or  even a
cyclist -- that your work as a philanthropist can turn all of the rest into just
background noise. You told us in August, when you  announced that you were
giving up your  fight against the USADA, that you were  “finished with this
nonsense.”  Not quite. What you need to do now is take responsibility for what
you have done. And for  what you haven’t said. Don’t pull a Robert McNamara and wait until the end of your life to admit you
were wrong. Don’t pull a  Bill Clinton  and hedge with evasive  language. Say it
loud, and say it clear. This will be  cathartic for everyone, including you and
us. People understand that honesty is a virtue, and that all heroes have their
flaws. Given everything you’ve been through, it might be an overstatement to  say
that it will be the hardest thing you’ve ever done. But it may well be the
smartest. (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.  Follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .