-- Democrats Keep Voter Registration Lead in 4 Key States
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/democrats-keep-voter-registration-lead-in-4-battleground-states.html
Democrats hold the registration
advantage over Republicans in four of six battleground states
that will play a key role in the presidential election, even as
Republicans and independents have recorded larger net gains
since late 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Democrats have the edge over Republicans in  Florida ,  Iowa ,
 Nevada  and North Carolina. In  Colorado  and New Hampshire,
Republicans outnumber Democrats, according to the analysis of
state data. Three other battlegrounds -- Ohio, Virginia and
 Wisconsin  -- don’t report registration statistics by party.  “We have largely preserved the huge gains we built in 2007
and 2008 and increased our advantage in some areas, out-
registering Republicans in every single battleground state in
each of the past three months,” said Adam Fetcher, a spokesman
for President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign.  The number of people signing up as independents is growing
faster than those for either party as national polls show
dissatisfaction with both sides.  Independent voters collectively grew by about 764,000 in
the six states reviewed. Republicans have added almost 195,000
voters in those states since the 2008 presidential election --
boosted in part by a competitive primary campaign this year in
which  Mitt Romney  emerged as the nominee -- while Democrats saw
a net decline of about 258,000.  Rich Beeson , Romney’s political director, said Bloomberg’s
findings are “further confirmation” that voters are eager to
make a change in the White House.  Deadlines  Voter registration is taking on greater urgency for both
Obama and Romney as they seek to sign up supporters ahead of a
series of state deadlines this month, including those that
expired this week in Florida, Ohio and Colorado and on Oct. 12
in North Carolina.  Democrats have traditionally placed greater emphasis on
expanding the electorate through registration because many of
their supporters, including students and minorities, have a
lower rate of registration and are more geographically mobile,
meaning they need to update address information.  “A large number of voters register in the final days, and
we know from current data and past experience that the
Democratic advantage is increasing every single week in every
battleground state,” Fetcher said.  Evaporating Intensity  Beeson said in a statement that Obama’s campaign “is
seeing the intensity and excitement of 2008 evaporate in the
reality of a $16 trillion debt, runaway spending and a stagnant
economy.”  Alan Abramowitz , a political science professor who studies
party affiliation and voting behavior at Emory University in
Atlanta, said Democrats registered so many new voters amid a
historic election four years ago that it’s been difficult to
generate that same level of excitement.  “The last presidential election in 2008 was sort of a high
point for the Democrats in some of these states and they have
fallen back some since then,” he said.  The growth of independent voters is adding more volatility
to U.S. elections, as evidenced by wide swings in their support
for Democrats and Republicans in recent elections that
determined control of the U.S. House. In 2006, independents
backed Democrats by an 18-percentage-point  margin  nationwide,
giving the party a House majority for the first time since 1994.
Just four years later, they backed Republicans over Democrats in
House races by a 19-point  margin  as control of the chamber again
changed hands.  Independent Voters  In 2008, when independents represented 29 percent of the
total electorate, Obama won 52 percent of their vote on his way
to the White House, according to national  exit polls . Senator
John McCain of  Arizona , that year’s Republican nominee,
collected 44 percent.  Abramowitz cautioned against putting too much weight on the
growth of independents, saying most, when pressed, more closely
relate to one of the two major parties.  “They don’t want to register as a Republican or Democrat
for some reason, but if you talk to them or look at their
attitudes, most of them are clearly not independents,” he said.  Polls are a better predictor of the election’s outcome
because not all registered voters cast a ballot and people
routinely vote across party lines, Abramowitz said.  Higher voter registration also doesn’t automatically
translate to higher turnout. In the 1996 presidential election,
registration went up and turnout down, while the opposite
happened four years later with higher turnout amid lower
registration,  according to  American University’s Center for the
Study of the American Electorate in  Washington .  Registration Purging  The registration statistics also should be treated with
some skepticism, the center says, because some states do a
better job than others of purging the names of people who have
died or moved away.  Republican efforts to register voters in some battleground
states were stymied late last month after party officials in
Florida, Colorado, Nevada, North Carolina and  Virginia  fired a
company contracted to register additional voters for the party.
The action came after Florida officials started an investigation
into alleged voter fraud involving the company.  Social Networking  Both the president and first lady Michelle Obama have used
their Twitter accounts in recent days to  encourage  registration,
while Romney and the Republican National Committee are using
Facebook and other social networking applications to prod his
supporters to get registered.  New voters, especially among minority and youth
populations, helped Obama win four years ago and his re-election
effort is actively recruiting voters, especially in Hispanic and
black neighborhoods where the incumbent is more popular.
Increased voter turnout typically bodes well for Democrats, who
tend to make it to the polls less reliably than Republicans.  The data compiled by Bloomberg included both active and
inactive voters in the states where that distinction was made in
the data because some states don’t provide such a breakdown and
because inactive voters can be quickly restored to active
status. It used the most current data available, which ranged
from August to early October.  -- Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Don Frederick  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  