-- Denying Dollars to Holders Echoes ’02 Seizure: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-10-10T16:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/denying-dollars-to-holders-echoes-02-seizure-argentina-credit.html
A move by a soybean-growing province
in northern  Argentina  to pay its dollar debt in pesos is raising
the specter that holders of the nation’s $19 billion of local
U.S. currency bonds won’t get their money back.  The yield on Argentina’s 2017 dollar bonds sold under local
law jumped by the most in three months yesterday, rising 0.61
percentage point to 11.9 percent, after Chaco province said
currency restrictions prevented it from obtaining dollars to
make payments due last week. The gap over similar-maturity
 government securities  issued overseas and covered by U.S. courts
widened to 3.54 percentage points at 1:00 p.m. in Buenos Aires,
the most on a closing basis since Sept. 13.  Chaco’s failure to honor its obligations reignited concern
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s push to de-dollarize
the economy may compel issuers of foreign-currency bonds to pay
debt in pesos, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.’s  Boris Segura .
The gap between local-law and foreign-law sovereign notes will
grow to at least 4 percentage points, the widest since June,
when speculation peaked that Fernandez would convert foreign-
currency contracts into pesos, he said. Argentina also converted
deposits into pesos after its $95 billion default in 2001.  “They’re forcing a pesofication,” Segura, a Latin America
strategist at Nomura, said in a telephone interview from New
York. “It looks like unofficially the central bank’s policy is
going to be to not give you dollars to pay local-law, dollar-
denominated debt.”  Fernandez’s Moves  Since her re-election a year ago, Fernandez has banned most
currency purchases, made insurers bring foreign investments back
into the country and forced exporters to repatriate revenue as
she tries to stem capital outflows and reduce the use of dollars
in  South America ’s second-largest economy.  Chaco said in an Oct. 5  filing  with the national securities
regulator that it deposited 1.2 million pesos ($255,000) with
the nation’s main clearing house to pay interest and
amortization on dollar-denominated bonds due in 2015 and 2023.
The province said it wasn’t able to make the payment in dollars
because of the “current foreign exchange regulations.”  Officials at Chaco’s finance ministry didn’t return
telephone calls seeking comment.  All bonds issued under local legislation must be paid in
pesos, Chaco’s Governor Jorge Capitanich said in a news
conference today, according to newspaper Ambito Financiero.  Currency Rules  Rules introduced by the central bank in July don’t allow
for the purchase of the U.S. currency to pay local owners of
domestic-law dollar-denominated bonds, according to a central
bank official who asked not to be identified because of bank
policy. Issuers can buy dollars to pay international investors,
he said, adding that all of Chaco’s debt is owned locally.  The province’s use of pesos is “a worrisome development,”
Casey Reckman, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in an
Oct. 8 report to clients. “It is not clear that the government
considered the implications that this will have in the market.
Nevertheless, this is a very negative signal. We expect
investors to respond accordingly.”  The yield on Chaco’s $22.2 million of bonds due in 2023
rose 42 basis points, or 0.42 percentage point, to 10.9 percent
yesterday, the biggest jump since Aug. 8, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield on its $10 million of 2015 bonds
climbed 22 basis points to 9.9 percent. Argentine financial
markets were closed for a national holiday Oct. 8.  Buenos Aires  Buenos Aires  province’s international bonds due 2015
plunged today after Vice Governor Gabriel Mariotto said that he
supports the actions taken by Chaco. Yields surged 230 basis
points to a two-month high of 20.18 percent.  “What happened with Chaco is very good,” Mariotto said
today in an interview with Buenos Aires-based Radio La Red.
“The precedent set by Chaco is very important.”  Argentina’s provinces of Formosa and Tucuman are analyzing
how to treat their dollar-denominated bonds issued under local
law and may follow Chaco in making interest payments with pesos,
Ambito Financiero reported today, citing people it didn’t
identify.  Investors are overreacting to Chaco’s “selective default”
as it’s no indication the government has a broader plan to
convert all dollar contracts into pesos, which occurred after
Argentina’s default in late 2001, according to Sebastian Vargas,
an economist at Barclays Plc.  Dollar Reserves  Fernandez has ready access to dollars from the central
bank, which she has used to pay overseas debt since 2010. Making
payments in pesos instead of dollars would only send investors
to the unofficial foreign exchange market to purchase the U.S.
currency, Vargas said.  “Today, it’s not on the government’s agenda to pay a
federal local-law bond in pesos,” Vargas said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “The only thing that does is generate
pressure in the parallel market.”  The peso in the so-called blue-chip swap, which investors
use to acquire dollars by buying assets locally in pesos and
selling them abroad in the U.S. currency, has weakened 26
percent this year to 6.3979 per dollar. In the official market,
the peso has dropped 8.8 percent to 4.7137 per dollar.  Vargas said he recommends investors buy government local-
law bonds, known as bonars and bodens.  Bodens due in 2015 dropped 2.02 cents yesterday to 90.65
cents on the dollar while bonars due in 2013 fell 2.2 cents to
98.14 cents on the dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Default Swaps  The  average yield  on Argentina’s dollar bonds jumped 42
basis points yesterday to 10.87 percent, the highest in  emerging
markets  after Belize and  Venezuela , according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI global index.  Warrants tied to Argentina’s economy fell 0.35 cent to
11.85 cents today.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  dropped 4
basis points to 884 basis points, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of Argentine five-year credit-default swaps jumped
60 basis points to 1,035 basis points, the highest on a closing
basis since Sept. 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash if a government or company fails to comply
with debt agreements.  About $250 million of debt sold by other Argentine
provinces may be affected by the same currency restrictions as
Chaco, Vladimir Werning, an analyst at JPMorgan in New York,
wrote in a report published Oct. 9.  “I just worry that it’s part of that slippery slope,”
 Andrew Feltus , who co-manages about $10 billion of high-yield
debt at Pioneer Investment Management Inc., said in a telephone
interview from  Boston . “You can never remove the possibility
that they won’t do something much more aggressive. That could be
anything from pesofication to outright default.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  