-- Developing Asia Passes Euro Area in Global GDP: Chart of the Day
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-10T23:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/developing-asia-passes-euro-area-in-global-gdp-chart-of-the-day.html
Developing Asian nations, including
 China  and India, are passing the euro area as a share of the
global economy, according to International Monetary Fund data.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that Asia’s 27 developing
countries account for 17.9 percent of world gross domestic
product this year, compared with 16.9 percent for the 17-nation
euro area. Ten years ago the European group made up 20.8 percent
of the total and the Asian countries 8 percent.  “This reflects a trend that has been around for several
years, and the euro-area crisis has just accelerated it,”
Domenico Lombardi, a former IMF executive board member and now a
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington , said
in an interview. “It really highlights the need for euro-area
economies to move forward on an ambitious agenda of structural
reforms.”  Lombardi was speaking from Tokyo, where the IMF’s 188
member nations are meeting this week as low growth in the
richest economies hurts developing countries from China to
 Brazil . The IMF cut global forecasts in its Oct. 9 World
Economic Outlook and warned of even slower expansion unless
officials in the U.S. and  Europe  address threats to their
economies.  Developing Asia’s share of world GDP will reach 22.2
percent in 2017, according to the IMF report. China alone will
have 14.3 percent, almost matching the entire euro area.  The seven so-called major advanced economies, which include
the U.S., Germany and  Japan , account for 47.4 percent of global
output this year and are projected to fall to 43.5 percent in
2017. In 2002, the seven countries accounted for 64.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  