-- Did Chinese IPhone Workers Really Go on Strike?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-10-10T19:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/did-chinese-iphone-workers-really-go-on-strike-.html
If 4,000 people go on strike at an
iPhone factory in  China , will anybody know it? That’s the
question at the heart of an ongoing puzzle over whether, in
fact, iPhone 5 production was shut down by a labor action in the
northern Chinese city of Zhengzhou on Friday.  For most of the world, the news broke on Oct. 5 when  China
Labor Watch , an  influential  New York-based workers’ rights group
issued a  press release claiming  a strike had occurred at a plant
producing iPhone 5s that “according to workers, involved three
to four thousand production workers.”  News organizations worldwide, eager for anything iPhone-
related, rushed to report the press release, and by the end of
the weekend the event was international news, with some analysts
going so far to blame the alleged strike  for a 2.21 percent
decline  in Apple’s stock price on Monday.  As the story grew, journalists and bloggers who tried to
confirm the event found themselves forced to rely on China Labor
Watch’s word. Meanwhile, Foxconn, Apple’s primary contractor and
the owner of the factory where the alleged strike occurred,
denied that anything more than  several isolated incidents 
between workers and quality control personnel had occurred and
insisted that iPhone 5 production would not be delayed.  The lack of additional information is highly unusual: In
contemporary China, it’s  the rare brawl  that isn’t recorded by
somebody’s smartphone, while large-scale unrest is either
accompanied or followed by  a virtual data dump  of accounts,
photos and films. To be sure, Foxconn restricts the ability of
its employees to carry phones into factories, but there’s no
question that many Foxconn employees not only have smartphones
(a brief perusal of Foxconn employees who tweet to Sina Weibo
proves it), but also  use them .  A search for the origins of China Labor Watch’s report
reveals that at least one person recorded the Oct. 5 events. His
real name is unknown, but on Sina Weibo, China’s leading
microblogging service, he goes by the handle Ye Fudao -- a name
that can be roughly translated as “The Wild Husband’s
Cleaver.” His brief Weibo profile describes him as a second-
generation migrant laborer originally from Hubei province who
works at Foxconn. He does not attract much interest: As of
Wednesday afternoon he had a mere 767 followers.  In the 15 months that Ye has been tweeting to Sina Weibo,
he’s shown a talent for unearthing information and images from
worker unrest at both the Foxconn Zhengzhou plant and the
company’s equally large factory at Taiyuan (which also
manufactures Apple products). Even a perfunctory reading of his
tweets suggests somebody who, if not a Foxconn employee himself,
is definitely aware of the frustrations of being one. On Sept.
28, a few days before a national eight-day holiday that Foxconn
workers in Zhengzhou were not given (rather, they worked
overtime for triple pay), he  tweeted :  “No holiday for National Day!! Endless pressure! Damn the
exterior problems of the iPhone 5 that’s stressing everybody
out! Endless customer complaints from around the world, only
daily reprimands push us to finish this work!”  It was an early and prophetic warning that quality problems
with the iPhone -- and the measures to deal with them -- were
 ratcheting up tensions  in the Foxconn Zhengzhou plant. A few
days later, on Oct. 5, some of that tension allegedly broke. At
9:52 a.m., Ye  tweeted  from his ZTE smartphone:  “Right now ... the OQC [on-site quality control] responsible
for the production of the iPhone 5 have been collectively on
strike for days, and a few production lines for iPhone 5 in some
areas have been paralyzed. Due to the iPhone 5’s current design
flaws, the managers and Apple customers are making stricter
quality demands, for example, related to scratches on the
aluminum casing (frame and back cover), and indentation
standards of 0.02mm. With these demands, we absolutely cannot
produce iPhone 5s that meet the standards! Workers are under
tremendous pressure each day, with no rest during the holiday!”  At 8:26 p.m. that evening, Ye  tweeted  a grainy photo of
what appears to be a line-up of Foxconn workers waiting at a bus
stop. Ye didn’t appear concerned that the photo would be
connected to his alias: Like all photos posted to Sina Weibo,
his account address is printed in the lower right-hand corner.
Below the image was the following text:  “A preliminary explanation for today’s quality control
personnel strike: Some time ago a conflict broke out between K
 production line  staff and quality control, leading to fights and
the smashing up of quality control’s CA room, with many
employees injured and hospitalized. It didn’t end there. K line
once again got into a similar situation, and again quality
control got a beating. Yesterday, there were once again physical
threats between the L line and quality control. This was
reported to senior managers, who ignored the seriousness of the
problem. As a result, today’s day and night shifts have decided
to stop production, the production line is paralyzed…”  Ye’s two tweets from Oct. 5 have since been retweeted 332
and 216 times, respectively. That’s a big number by Ye’s modest
standards, but almost comically modest by Sina Weibo standards,
and certainly not the kind of interest that drives international
headlines and moves stock prices. Then again, most Sina Weibo
users don’t gain the attention of U.S.-based labor-rights
organizations with tremendous credibility in the media.  On Oct.5, after the second of Ye’s tweets, China Labor
Watch issued its press release, with the headline, “3000 to
4000 workers strike at Foxconn’s China factory.” Ye’s photo of
workers gathered at a bus stop was atop the release. China Labor
Watch blacked out Ye’s contact details from the lower right-hand
of the photo, though added a caption below the photo reading,
“Ye Fudao/worker for Foxconn ZhengZhou.”  Even a cursory reading of the press release suggests that
Ye’s contribution to it -- willing or unwilling -- extended
beyond the photo. In fact, the third paragraph of the four-
paragraph press release appears to have come directly from Ye’s
8:26 p.m. tweet. However, rather than credit Ye and his tweet
for the information, China Labor Watch appends “according to
workers” to the front of it, leaving the very distinct
impression that the information was culled from multiple
sources. The third paragraph, as translated by China Labor
Watch, reads:  “That quality control inspectors would also strike is of no
surprise. According to workers, there was a fight between
workers and quality control inspectors in area K that led to the
damage in inspection room CA, the injury of some people, and the
hospitalization of others. After this, another similar incident
occurred in area K, once again leading to quality control
inspectors getting beat up. Yesterday, inspectors in area L
received physical threats. When inspectors reported these issues
to factory management, the management simply ignored and turned
their back on the issue. For these reasons, all day and night
shift inspectors carried out a work stoppage today that
paralyzed the production lines.”  These are not the only similarities between Ye’s tweets and
China Labor Watch’s press release. The second paragraph bears
striking similarities to Ye’s 9:52 a.m. tweet. The first
paragraph of the four-paragraph press release merely summarizes
the information in the other three, while adding that 3,000 to
4,000 workers allegedly participated in the strike.  Predictably, the English-language news reports --  some of
which  conceded that the strike could not be confirmed -- quickly
bounced into the Chinese news media, which was then at the tail-
end of an eight-day holiday and thus not in much mind to do
independent reporting.  As a result, in China, too, the early reports of the strike
were largely reported off the China Labor Watch press release
(some Chinese media later reported  other  accounts, some  sourced
directly from Foxconn ), or sourced to “foreign media.” For
example, a strike-related  story posted  to the  Sina Finance
portal  turns out to be just a soft re-write, followed by a
mention of an earlier strike. A Sina Weibo  tweet  directing
readers to the story has been forwarded -- that is, retweeted --
more than 7,500 times since Saturday morning. Nobody seems to
have noted the obvious similarities between Ye’s tweets and
China Labor Watch’s press release, or the credibility issues
that they raise.  Yesterday, I reached out to  Li Qiang  of China Labor Watch
to obtain their side of the story. Li explained to me that the
organization had other sources for its information in the press
release while conceding that China Labor Watch used Ye’s tweets
(with Ye’s authorization, Li noted). He defended attribution of
“workers” to Ye’s words in an email:  “Also, as I mentioned before, since we confirmed with several
other workers before releasing it, the ’workers’ is not a wrong
way of saying. The most important of all, I obtained the consent
from our source to use the his/her words in our press release.
He/She agreed that we could use the words oversea, but demanded
to be anonymous and that we could only mention the Pinyin of the
username.”  By “Pinyin of the username,” Li is referring to the
Romanization of Ye Fudao in the photo credit at the top of the
press release. But if Ye Fudao can be credited for taking a
photo, why could he not also be credited with writing much of
China Labor Watch’s press release? In his emails to me, Li
mentioned the need to protect Ye from those who might fire him.
That’s certainly reasonable, but if that’s the goal then it
seems logical to remove his name from the photo credit. My own
suspicion, unconfirmed, is that Li and China Labor Watch are
quite aware that news organizations are far more likely to quote
a press release written by rights group with multiple sources in
China than they are to cite a tweet from an anonymous
microblogger in China with fewer than 800 followers.  Finally, I asked Li to explain the methods or source for
China Labor Watch’s contention that 3,000 to 4,000 workers went
on strike at Foxconn. This was the one major point in the press
release on which Ye had not commented. Li Qiang’s answer --
noting a discrepancy between people “absent from work” versus
“at strike” -- that the number “was confirmed several times
from our first-hand information” was not particularly
illuminating. He also referred me to a confusing Oct. 8 update
to the original press release in which China Labor Watch appears
to claim that the number includes workers who were unable to
continue working due to the work-stoppage actions of others.  In any event, my attempts to reach Ye have been
unsuccessful. On Wednesday morning, he abruptly announced on
Sina Weibo that he’s no longer updating  his account . He didn’t
say why. However, over the last couple of days Ye has been quite
clear that he’s unhappy with the news coverage born from his
tweets, and perhaps that fact lends a hint. Early on Saturday
afternoon, Oct. 6, he  denounced  those in the press who had
exaggerated the Foxconn Zhengzhou incident, and those who would
compare it to a more recent, violent episode at the Foxconn
Taiyuan facility:  “Statement: The tweet I sent out yesterday about the Zhengzhou
Foxconn strike did not offer a detailed description, and was
only accompanied by a picture. In addition, yesterday’s strike
was free from mass violence and conflicts, it was merely quality
control people who refused to work, and they’ve already resumed
production today. Other people and media have released news and
photos that have nothing to do with this event. Please do not
confuse one thing with another, or mix up photos of the Taiyuan
Foxconn strike with this one!”  That evening he logged into his account to  vent  his
frustration with the coverage a second time:  “Yesterday’s Zhengzhou Foxconn strike was free from violence
and gang fights! Rather, quality control units of three small
factories organized nonviolent, noncooperation strikes! To
express their displeasure at the company’s overlooking of
conflicts, to protest the ambivalence about employee needs and
the high-pressure work environment! Foxconn does have many
problems, I myself have written down a few matters relating to
work and life there. But certain media have exaggerated facts,
and used pictures from the Taiyuan Foxconn brawl to illustrate
this event. This is immoral and violates media ethics!”  So, what really happened?  Foxconn  denies  outright that
there was a strike, instead claiming that its factory suffered a
series of confrontations between production and quality control
staff. Ye’s limited account of what happened seems to lend more
credibility to the company than to China Labor Watch’s release.  In the end, the fact that such a poorly sourced story has
become a major news event tells us much more about how Foxconn
and Apple are covered in the press than they do about conditions
in the factories. Neither company should be viewed as a victim,
but neither should their critics be granted a waiver on having
to prove the truth of their claims.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this blog post: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Zara Kessler at
 zkessler@bloomberg.net  