-- Disney Seeks Reversal of $319 Million ‘Millionaire’ Loss
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-10T19:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/disney-seeks-reversal-of-319-million-millionaire-loss.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network and
Buena Vista Television units asked a federal appeals court to
overturn a $319 million judgment won two years ago by the U.K.
creators of “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.”  A lawyer for ABC and Buena Vista argued their case today
before a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  meeting
in  Pasadena , California. The Disney units claim the judge who
oversaw the trial allowed the jury to adopt a flawed reading of
the contract with Celador International Ltd., entitling the
creators to a share of ABC’s profits.  “This case never should have gone to the jury,”  Seth Waxman , a lawyer representing the Disney units, said at today’s
hearing.  ABC and  Buena Vista  said in their appeal that the judge
overseeing the trial committed a “cascading series of errors”
that allowed the jury to interpret the contract to mean that
Celador was entitled to a 50 percent share of both ABC’s and
Buena Vista’s profits, rather than just Buena Vista’s.  Closely held Celador sued in 2004, claiming Buena Vista and
ABC “through a complex web of self-dealing transactions”
allowed ABC to keep the advertising revenue and pay Buena Vista
only a licensing fee equal to the cost of producing the show.
That kept Buena Vista from earning a profit from “Millionaire”
that it would have had to share with the creators, Celador said.  Jury Verdict  A jury in Riverside,  California , in July 2010 agreed that
the Disney units breached the contract and awarded Celador $269
million in damages, to which U.S. District Judge Virginia A. Phillips added $50 million in pre-judgment interest.  U.S. Circuit Judge Andrew Kleinfeld today questioned
Celador’s lawyer, Robin Meadow, on the company’s claim that it
was harmed because ABC paid Buena Vista a fee per episode of
“Millionaire” that equaled the production cost, or about
$825,000, rather than as much as $3 million to a producer
unaffiliated with Disney.  “What I don’t get is why ABC can’t do that,” Kleinfeld
said. “It’s an economy of scale that Disney has. Why can’t they
use an internal company and do it cheap?”  The judge also asked what evidence Celador provided at
trial that Buena Vista didn’t get from the network what it
should have gotten. The license fee ABC paid Buena Vista was
kept artificially low, Meadow said.  “License fees are based on success, revenue is based on
success,” he said. “They flow together.”  Syndication, Merchandising  ABC and Buena Vista said in their appeal that it’s industry
practice for the producer, Buena Vista, to get a licensing fee
from the network that is equal to the cost of producing a game
show. The producer makes a profit, if any, from syndicating the
show to local television stations and from other sources,
including merchandising, according to the Disney units.  Celador, under the 1999 agreement that gave ABC and Buena
Vista the North American rights to “Millionaire,” was entitled
to an up-front option payment and guaranteed fees for each
episode, according to the Disney units.  The U.K. company also would receive 50 percent of Buena
Vista’s revenue from the show, after certain deductions
including Buena Vista’s normal distribution fees, costs and an
overhead charge equal to about 10 percent of the production
costs, according to the appeal brief.  The overhead charge meant Buena Vista had a deficit from
the show after its initial run on ABC, when “Millionaire”
aired as often as every night during two-week special events.
ABC canceled the show in 2002, and Buena Vista has since
produced a version of “Millionaire” for syndication, according
to the appeal by the Disney units.  ‘Slumdog Millionaire’  The show’s “performance in syndication has not matched its
network success,” ABC and Buena Vista said. “The show has
earned a profit, but the margin has been too low to cover the
distribution fee for syndication specified in the rights
agreement, let alone make up the deficit.”  “Millionaire” was first broadcast in the U.K. in 1998 and
has been carried in 106 countries, including  Australia ,  India ,
 Japan ,  Germany  and  Russia , according to the creators. The show
also was featured in the movie “ Slumdog Millionaire ,” which
was co-produced by Celador and won eight Oscars in 2009.  Celador said in its response to ABC and Buena Vista’s
appeal that it specifically wanted to make a deal directly with
ABC, not with a producer, and that the agreement it made
included 50 percent of the network’s profits from the show.  “After the rights agreement had been signed, defendants
entered into a mind-boggling succession of agreements that
shuffled ‘Millionaire’ rights and obligations among various
Disney-affiliated entities,” Celador said. The goal was “to
ensure that ‘Millionaire’ never would earn network-run broadcast
profits for Celador to share,” Celador said.  Network Promises  The U.K. company said that, if the appeals court reverses
the jury verdict, it should also overturn the judge’s ruling
that ABC can’t be held liable for fraud. Celador alleges that
ABC induced it into making a deal by making promises the network
didn’t intend to fulfill.  Phillips found that the alleged fraudulent
misrepresentations were “too vague, conclusory and of the
nature of opinion to be actionable,” according to Celador’s
cross-appeal.  The case is Celador v. ABC, 11-55014 and 11-55172, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 