-- Draghi Hasn’t Exhausted ECB Ammunition Yet, Gonzalez-Paramo Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-10-10T07:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/draghi-hasn-t-exhausted-ecb-ammunition-yet-gonzalez-paramo-says.html
The  European Central Bank  hasn’t run
out of ammunition to battle an economic slump after cutting
 interest rates  to a record low and announcing bond purchases,
former Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said.  The central bank could offer more long-term loans like the
three-year operations it introduced last year or ease collateral
rules to feed more liquidity into the European economy,
Gonzalez-Paramo said in an interview at IESE Business School in
Madrid, where he joined the faculty after stepping down from the
ECB in May. It could even buy bonds in a quantitative-easing
program similar to those pursued by the  Federal Reserve  and the
 Bank of England , he said.  “If the screens were to tell you we were approaching
deflation, the ECB could expand its balance sheet,” Gonzalez-
Paramo said. “This is hypothetical, but there’s nothing that
prevents the ECB from executing some QE-type” program.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  in July pledged to do “whatever
it takes” to preserve the monetary union, which has been
battered by a three-year debt crisis triggered by Greece’s
hidden budget shortfall. Draghi said in September that the
Frankfurt-based bank may buy the bonds of nations that submit to
the conditions of a European Union rescue loan to lower yields.  Spanish Yields  Investors’ attention has focused on whether Spain will
trigger the program.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who meets his French
counterpart Francois Holland in Paris today, has said he is
still weighing up whether his country needs a bailout since the
ECB’s safety net has already offered investors some reassurance
and lowered borrowing costs.  Since Draghi’s pledge, the yield on Spain’s 10-year bond
has fallen from above 7.6 percent to 5.88 percent today.  For Spain “the key is to keep the market open,” Gonzalez-
Paramo said. “Credibility of the budget is essential.”  Rajoy is struggling to meet his EU commitments for reducing
the country’s budget deficit. The  International Monetary Fund 
this week forecast that he’ll miss his targets for the next
three years.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn ,
who polices deficit obligations, raised questions about the 2013
budget, which assumes the economy will shrink by 0.5 percent
next year compared with the IMF’s forecast of a 1.3 percent
contraction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  