-- Dripping Originality, Pollock Lifts American Art
-- B y   C a m i l l e   P a g l i a
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/dripping-originality-pollock-lifts-american-art.html
It might be wise to admit that there
is more bad than good abstract art, which has been compromised
over the decades by a host of inept imitations. All the more
reason to celebrate the masterworks in this difficult genre.  Jackson Pollock  was the first superstar of American art,
which had always been overshadowed by  Europe . After World War
II, he became a symbol of the transfer of the world capital of
art from Paris to New York, following two centuries of French
dominance. Born on a sheep ranch in  Wyoming , Pollock seemed to
embody the brash independence of the American frontier.  While his family did have pioneer roots -- his mother was
born in an Iowa log cabin -- the young Pollock was no paragon of
virility. Timid and clumsy, he avoided sports and played with
girls. It was only after he moved to  Manhattan  and fell under
the spell of his teacher, the macho muralist Thomas Hart Benton,
that Pollock became the iconic cowboy painter.  Originally, Pollock wanted to be a sculptor and dreamed of
rivaling Michelangelo. As a student at New York’s Art Students
League, Pollock began painting naturalistically but was
frustrated and embarrassed by his difficulties with drawing. His
large hands shook, and his right index finger was mutilated from
a childhood accident with an ax. He experimented with Benton’s
social realism, then adopted the theatrical primitivism of
Mexican muralist Jose Orozco. But the real revolution for him
was Picasso. Pollock had no interest in cubism until he saw
Picasso’s “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” and “Guernica” at a 1939-
1940 retrospective at the Museum of  Modern Art . He was
galvanized by Picasso’s big, bold forms, shallow cubist space
and ambivalent vision of mythic woman, which complemented
Pollock’s engagement in therapy with  Carl Jung ’s archetypal
psychology.  Inner Life  Out of his competitive zeal for Picasso came the first
works to win Pollock attention -- ominous paintings of shadowy,
totemic figures executed in a cryptic, semiabstract style.
Pollock’s reputation for violence began early: He had always
been a nasty binge drinker (acquaintances said he had a Jekyll-
and-Hyde personality), but now his pictures veered toward the
grotesque. An untitled 1938-40 painting, later called “Naked Man
with Knife,” shows a muscle-bound assailant grappling with a
contorted victim in what could be a ritual sacrifice; the
composition is choked and churning, a writhing mass of blood-
brown knots of flesh.  This stunning emotional turbulence was the “expressionism”
in Pollock’s new style -- a welling up of anguish from the
artist’s tortured inner life. The modern artist works “from
within,” Pollock insisted, “expressing his feelings rather than
illustrating.”  Even as his style became increasingly abstract, Pollock
still began every painting with a figure, which he then
concealed. “I choose to veil the imagery,” he stated. Traces of
those figures receded and eventually disappeared.  The transition can be seen in “Mural,” a gigantic painting
(nearly 20 feet long by eight feet high) that he did in 1943 for
the  New York  town house of heiress and art dealer Peggy
Guggenheim. A procession of black stick figures can be detected
marching amid undulating slashes, which unfriendly critics
labeled “glorified wallpaper” and “baked macaroni.”
“Mural,” which Pollock said he painted in a single night, was
executed in his epochal “all-over” style: The surface is treated
uniformly, edge to edge; no part of the painting is more
important than any other.  Alternative Paints  During the summer of 1947, he invented his signature “drip”
style, which would transform contemporary art. Unrolling sheets
of coarse sailcloth on the floor of his small barn-studio, he
used sticks or hardened brushes to toss and spatter paint at the
canvas. He used cheap commercial materials -- house paint,
industrial enamels, silver radiator paint -- and no longer
touched the canvas at all, except to step on it.  By dramatically expanding the size of his canvases and
working on the floor, Pollock freed painting from the easel.
Walking around the canvas and improvising from all four sides,
Pollock said he could “literally be in the painting,” an
experience he compared to “the method of the Indian sand-painter
of the West.” He never made final decisions about the direction
or positioning of his paintings until he had studied them for
weeks.  A sensational 1949 profile in Life magazine made Pollock
famous overnight. The mocking headline asked, “Is he the
greatest living painter in the  United States ?” Clad in dungarees
and dangling a cigarette from his lips, he was photographed with
arms pugnaciously folded as he leaned against a squiggly
painting that looked preposterously chaotic to most readers. The
article helped create the stereotype of the abstract painter as
grubby weirdo that would become a scare staple of 1950s American
movies and TV.  During the three-year period of his classic drip paintings,
Pollock stayed sober. However, in 1950, after being filmed
working outside on plate glass, he started drinking again, and
the day ended in fiasco and farce: He overturned the dining-
room table, spilling 12 roast-beef dinners to the floor.  Restlessly changing his style, Pollock began using turkey-
basting syringes to pour black paint on raw white canvas -- the
“soak-stain” technique perfected by Helen Frankenthaler. But his
once prodigious output pitifully diminished, while his drunken
scenes multiplied, often at the rowdy Cedar Tavern, where he
manhandled women and tore the toilet door off the wall. Ankle
breaks made his weight balloon, and he looked ravaged and
paralyzed. Few members of the art world were surprised by his
tragic death at age 44.  Inimitable Art  Pollock the man may have sunk into squalor and disgrace,
but he left behind an immense body of stunningly original work,
ranging from nightmarish apparitions of suffering and dread to
dazzling tableaux of sublime beauty. No one has been able to
duplicate the intricate skeins of soaring paint in Pollock’s
greatest drip paintings. His whirling lines hover in a strange,
unidentifiable zone between his very shallow background and the
rough surface, thickly layered with pigment and sometimes
embedded with actual objects -- keys, tacks, cigarette butts,
bottle caps. Because of this incremental encrustation (each
swatch of paint had to dry before the next was applied),
Pollock’s textured pictures have the shadowed concreteness of
sculpture -- the genre toward which he had first aspired.  A small untitled picture now called “ Green Silver ,”
executed on paper over canvas with enamel and aluminum paint,
captures the exhilarating verve of Pollock’s most refined drip
style. Its luminous loops, curls and splashes have a charming
playfulness. Against an aquamarine background swoop calligraphic
spurts of muted color and spidery sky. The picture is a weather
system and mental universe, a neurological map crisscrossed by
image and impulse. There is no solitude or alienation here.
“Green Silver” is an ecstatic jabber of chance spills, bursts
and skidding phrases.  Films of Pollock at work in his barn show neither violence
nor frenzy in his creative process. He methodically flicked and
flung his arcing paint with composure. His dipping and bobbing
movements were dancelike, activating his arm, shoulder and torso
rather than the painter’s usual wrist and fingers, always his
weakest point as a student.  “My concern is with the rhythms of nature,” he declared.
These hypnotic pulses, which he said he explicitly invoked like
a tribal shaman, brought him a contemplative serenity that can
also be felt by the viewer of his best pictures. A visitor to a
1950 Pollock show said that it was like “walking into a meteor
shower.” In front of a large Pollock drip painting, we don’t
know where to look; there is no story or focal point. The
pictures seem alive, like magical, vibrating entities. His
paintings are a heaving primal landscape into which humans have
not been born, and yet they project the infinite vistas of warp-
speed time travel, the new frontier of the space age.  (Camille Paglia, university professor of humanities and
media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, is
the author of “Sexual Personae,” “Sex, Art and American Culture”
and “Vamps & Tramps,” among other books. This is the last in a
series of four excerpts from her new book, “ Glittering Images: A
Journey Through Art from Egypt to Star Wars ,” which will be
published by Pantheon Books on Oct. 16. The opinions expressed
are her own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Facebook, the SEC and
companies planning to go public  and on improving the  U.S.
electricity grid ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things Democrats won’t
tell you ;  Michael Kinsley  on  coming to terms with a President
Romney ;  Ezra Klein  on  one campaign without policy and one
without vision ;  Michael Lewis  on  children of Wall Street
employees  as bonuses shrink;  Amity Shlaes  and Matthew Denhart on
 how one word can help candidates  win debates.  To contact the writer of this article:
Camille Paglia at  ask_camille@salon.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 