-- Dubai Losing Billions as Insecure Expats Send Money Abroad
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-10-11T10:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/dubai-losing-billions-as-insecure-expats-send-earnings-abroad.html
Even after 40 years of living in
Dubai, Wissam Haroun says his status there isn’t secure enough
to invest his savings locally. The emirate’s rulers have an $11
billion reason to make him feel more at home.  “My long term investments here tend to be limited,”
because of rules including caps on residency visas, said Haroun,
a Syrian who founded Haroun Multimedia FZ LLC, a Dubai-based
entertainment and technology company. A pension plan would
address the needs of those looking for increased stability, he
said. “I would seriously consider investing.”  Most of Dubai’s 2 million people are foreign nationals, and
they send 40 percent of their salaries home, according to the
 World Bank . A pension plan that embraced them -- like the one
offered in  Singapore , another expatriate haven -- would help
lower borrowing costs for an emirate that ran up $113 billion in
debt then almost defaulted in 2009 after a property crash.  The system is under scrutiny by Dubai authorities, who
asked the World Bank to examine options for handling expatriate
savings. Dubai’s Department of Economic Development declined to
respond to questions about what it’s planning.  “I would consider the absence of pension funds to be one
of the biggest drawbacks that we have,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive officer of Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., A
Dubai investment bank. “It’s one of the reasons why it’s
difficult to sustain local currency debt” and equity markets.  Lower Costs  Companies and governments in the U.A.E. have turned to
international markets for all their $11 billion of bonds sold
this year, with none denominated in dirhams according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While Dubai’s benchmark  stock index  has
risen 21 percent this year, it’s still down about 60 percent
since October 2008, when the global crisis tightened liquidity
and property prices began to tumble.  A  pension plan  would “potentially lower borrowing costs”
and help companies and the government obtain financing, said
Nick Stadtmiller, head of fixed-income research at Dubai-based
bank Emirates NBD, in a phone interview.  Foreigners working in the  United Arab Emirates  sent 41.2
billion dirhams ($11 billion) out of the country last year, up
6.2 percent from 2010 and more than double the 2004 level.
Expatriates can’t get permanent residency and are given a
limited period to quit the country after leaving their jobs.  Dubai bond yields surged after November 2009 when
government companies announced delays in debt repayments. Even
now, it pays more for credit than Gulf peers.  ‘Trickles Out’  Dubai sold 10-year debt in April to yield 6.45 percent.
That’s more expensive than similar bonds sold by Bahrain in
June, though Bahrain has been racked by sectarian violence since
last year while Dubai has been spared the wave of Arab unrest.  Dubai’s government has $29 billion of directly held
outstanding debt, including interest payments, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That doesn’t count money owed by the
state-owned enterprises such as Dubai World and Nakheel PJSC
which rescheduled debts after the crisis.  The high remittances make it hard for Dubai to apply
stimulus when needed, because “cash spent by the government
trickles out of the economy, not down through it,” said Liz Martins, senior economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai.  Aided by a bailout from neighboring  Abu Dhabi , Dubai is
rebounding from the crash.  House prices  reached a 2 1/2-year
high in August. The $80 billion economy will grow about 4
percent this year, up from 3 percent in 2011, the government
forecast last month.  Still, Dubai depends on imported talent and needs to take
the initiative to retain it, said Jean-Michel Saliba, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . Cracks
appeared in the system during the financial crisis, he said.  ‘Work, Leave’  The growth in expatriate residents slowed to 4 percent in
2009, less than half the annual average of 10 percent in the
previous four years.  “People come to work and leave, they don’t have any
benefits or anything holding them there,” Saliba said. “They
have no rights.”  A pension plan for expatriates is on Dubai’s agenda, state
newspaper  Emarat Alyoum  said in September, citing Ali Ibrahim, a
senior official at the Department of  Economic Development .  The World Bank  proposes  three options: retirement savings
accounts; mobility savings, offering jobless expatriates monthly
payments until they find work and allowing them to extend visas;
or improvements to the current system, in which workers leaving
their jobs get a lump sum based on length of employment.  Singapore has a Central Provident Fund, a mandatory savings
scheme for citizens and foreigners with permanent residencies,
offering above-market  interest rates . “That money gets funneled
back into the economy,” offering cheap, long-term funding for
projects, Mashreq’s Hussain said.  Tomorrow Insecure  Steps in that direction from Dubai would improve Karthik
Balasubramaniam’s peace of mind.  “I feel insecure because I don’t know if tomorrow I’m
going to have a job, and then I’ll only have a few weeks to sort
out my investments before I have to leave the country,” said
Balasubramaniam, 30, an Indian national who works at a media
design company and has lived in Dubai for four years. He sends
money to  India  every month.  “If I felt secure here, I’d want to keep my money in
Dubai,” Balasubramaniam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  