-- Dufry Bets on Mediterranean Tourism With Folli-Follie Unit
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-10-10T16:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/dufry-to-buy-51-stake-in-folli-follie-greek-travel-retail-unit.html
Dufry AG (DUFN) , the operator of Hudson
News stores in airports, agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in
Folli-Follie Group’s travel retail business as it bets on the
resilience of Greek tourism amid a troubled local economy.  Dufry will pay 200.5 million euros ($258 million) for
the stake, which it will finance by selling shares for about
250 million euros, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement. The purchase is expected to provide a
“mid-single-digit” boost to earnings per share next year.  The Folli-Follie unit operates 111 shops in Greece,
according to Dufry, which has more than 1,200 outlets in
airports, cruise terminals and other travel locations. The Swiss
company said the purchase will probably close in early 2013 and
it has an option to buy the remaining 49 percent in four years.  “The deal is accretive from year one and not expensive,”
Marco Baccaglio, an  analyst  at Cheuvreux in Milan, wrote in a
research note. Still, “operations are risky, based in  Greece ,
and the rights issue might put a cap on the stock valuation.”  Dufry will also fund the acquisition with 335 million euros
of loans. The five-year non-recourse financing from six banks
will pay interest at 575 basis points more than the euro
interbank offered rate, Dufry said on its website. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Dufry  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 114.70 Swiss francs at the
close of trading. The stock has gained 33 percent this year.  ‘Great Asset’  “In the short term, there’s uncertainty because it’s
Greece and the share issue is disappointing,” said Jon Cox,
head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.
“But it isn’t particularly expensive and in the long term it’s
a great asset because you can bet that tourists will still be
going there.”  The unit of Athens-based  Folli-Follie (FFGRP)  had revenue of 291
million euros last year, with 80 percent from international
travellers. Dufry’s sales amounted to 2.64 billion Swiss francs
($2.81 billion) in 2011.  “It represents another big step forward in our strategy to
consolidate the fragmented travel retail industry with focus on
tourist destinations and  emerging markets ,” Julian Diaz,
Dufry’s chief executive officer, said in the statement. “The
 tourism industry  in Greece has proven to be highly resilient
during a difficult period for the local economy,” Dufry said.  Dufry said Sept. 24 it was in advanced talks to buy the
stake. The company will have “shareholder structuring” costs
of 28 million euros from the transaction, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  