-- Dynasty REIT Seeking Up to $851 Million in Singapore IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-10-11T03:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/dynasty-reit-seeking-up-to-851-million-in-singapore-ipo.html
Dynasty Real Estate Investment
Trust, an investor in Chinese property backed by billionaire  Li
Ka-shing , is seeking as much as 5.4 billion  yuan  ($851 million)
in Singapore’s first dual-currency initial public offering.  Dynasty REIT, which is managed by Singapore-based  ARA Asset
Management Ltd. (ARA) , will have units denominated in both yuan and
Singapore dollars, according to a prospectus filed with the
Monetary Authority of Singapore yesterday. The company is
attempting the city-state’s biggest IPO this year.  Li’s  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust (87001) , until now the
only stock denominated in yuan outside mainland  China , has
dropped 23 percent since its April 2011 IPO. The yuan fell 2.9
percent against the Singapore dollar in the past year as China’s
economy cooled, denting demand for Chinese-currency assets.  “The weaker economic numbers out of China indicate that
the yuan may not appreciate that much,” said Lee King Fuei, a
Singapore-based fund manager at  Schroders Plc. (SDR)  “These kind of
dual currency structures might make sense for retail investors
who have very specific preferences on their currency exposure.
For institutions, it might not make any difference.”  Dynasty plans to offer as many as 901.3 million units at
4.40 yuan to 4.70 yuan apiece to the public. Gross proceeds from
the offering will be about 5.4 billion yuan, including units
sold to ARA and so-called cornerstone investors, the  prospectus 
shows.  Yuan Deposits  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong declined in August to the lowest
level since May 2011 as weakened expectations for yuan
appreciation offset new rules allowing non-residents to purchase
the Chinese currency. Singapore doesn’t publish the size of its
yuan deposits.  At $851 million, the IPO will be  Singapore ’s largest since
Li’s Hutchison Port Holdings Trust raised $5.5 billion in March
2011. Singapore has this year ceded its position as Southeast
Asia’s foremost IPO fundraising market to Kuala Lumpur, which
accounts for three of Asia’s four largest deals in 2012.  Religare Health Trust, backed by the assets of Indian
hospital operator Fortis Healthcare Ltd., is raising about $416
million in a Singapore IPO, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Dynasty REIT, backed by commercial properties in the
Shanghai, Nanjing and Dalian, will invest in commercial real
estate properties in China, according to the sales document.
Standard Chartered Plc, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and Macquarie
Group Ltd. are managing the offering.  Yuan Listings  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  has allowed securities including
stocks and exchange-traded funds to be listed in two currencies
since April. Hutchison Port Holdings’s IPO was denominated in
the U.S. currency, and the shares started trading in both U.S.
and Singapore dollars on April 2 of this year.  The bourse said in July it plans to start listing
securities denominated in the Chinese currency as it seeks to
boost its position as an offshore yuan center.  In Hong Kong, Meilan International Holdings Ltd., a Chinese
chemical producer, plans to raise more than $100 million in what
may be the city’s first dual-currency IPO, two people familiar
with the matter said in August.  Depositors in Singapore hold about 60 billion yuan, the
Straits Times newspaper reported in June, citing Ong Chong Tee,
deputy managing director at the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Savings in Hong Kong fell 1.9 percent from the previous month to
552 billion yuan, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said on Sept.
28. That’s down from a record 627 billion yuan at the end of
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  