-- EADS-BAE Failure Shows Road to United EU Ends in Berlin
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-10-11T07:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/eads-bae-failure-shows-road-to-integrated-eu-runs-through-berlin.html
In effectively scuttling the planned
merger between European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) , Germany demonstrated the road to European
integration runs through Berlin.  As Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government has shown in
almost three years of managing the euro-area financial crisis,
the interests of German taxpayers trump strategic designs --even
in defense, where German spending is about half of Britain’s as
a share of its economy.  “It highlights a lack of ’smart politics’, which is a key
condition for ’smart defense,’” said Henrik Heidenkamp, a
German research fellow at the  Royal United Services Institute , a
London-based independent security-research group. “Politicians,
at least in Germany, do not perceive their European defense
industrial base as a strategic element of their security and
defense posture but first and foremost as a subject of national
economic influence.”  France  and Britain were unable to overcome German concerns
about being marginalized in the merged company whose operations
would have been run out of Toulouse, France, and London,
shutting out Munich, people familiar with the matter said. After
the companies abandoned the talks yesterday, BAE Chief Executive
Officer Ian King said there was more “understanding” with
France than Germany.  Letter to Employees  In a letter to employees, EADS’s chief executive  Tom Enders , a German, said he “never expected to find such
opposition against the deal, in particular not in Berlin.” He
applauded “strong efforts” by the French and U.K. governments
to reach agreement.  German Deputy Economy Minister Peter Hintze said the
failure of the talks between EADS and BAE were in Germany’s
interest, Spiegel magazine reported.  “I think that Germany’s industrial interests are best
protected in this form of having a strong production chain from
research, development to industrial production,” Hintze was
quoted by Spiegel as saying. A ministry spokesman declined to
comment on the report.  Two German officials asking not to be named pushed back at
assertions that Berlin torpedoed the deal. The U.K. rejected
France’s demand to keep open an option to increase its stake
above 9 percent, they said. Germany was open to the option, as
long as it maintained parity with France, they said.  EADS (EAD)  shares climbed 0.5 percent to 27.62 euros at 9:14 a.m.
in Paris, extending yesterday’s 5.3 percent gain. BAE rose 0.5
percent to 322.5 pence after falling 1.4 percent yesterday.  ‘Sad Failure’  Germany is the European Union’s most populous country and
its largest economy. On military matters, it lags nuclear-armed
Britain and France, in both conventional hardware and force
projection. France and Britain led NATO’s 2011 air campaign to
overthrow  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya . Germany sat it out.  “This sad failure shows you how much national rivalries
still account for in  Europe ,” said Philippe Moreau-Defarges, a
researcher at the Paris-based French Institute of International
Affairs. “But it’s also a clash between an Anglo-French outlook
that is more open to the world, and a German view that is more
turned inward to the continent.”  According to the Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute,  Germany  spent $43.5 billion or 1.4 percent of its
economy on its military in 2011. The U.K. and France each spent
$58 billion. That amounted to 2.3 percent of the French economy
and 2.6 percent of Britain’s.  France and Britain are also working together to develop the
next generation of aircraft carriers and drones.  10-Year Project  “The German government, compared to the French and the
British governments, is always uncoordinated,” said Charles Grant, director of the London-based Centre for European Reform.
“You have different ministries, different parties with their
own agenda and a structurally weak leadership in the sense that
the chancellery doesn’t have the power over the system that the
Elysee has or the British government has. And Merkel has not
been a great visionary leader.”  The failure of the planned merger announced Sept. 12
follows stalled efforts to increase military cooperation in
Europe. A 10-year-old project to create a rapid reaction force
is still incomplete. European forces in  Afghanistan  each operate
under different rules of engagement.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , in a parting shot
before leaving office in June 2011, said NATO risks “collective
military irrelevance” unless Europe contributed more to the
alliance’s operations.  European Malaise  “The entire malaise of European foreign policy is
encapsulated in this decision,” said  Jan Techau , director of
the European Center of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace in Brussels and former researcher at the NATO Defense
College in  Rome .  The two companies had offered the governments special
shares that gave them some veto rights. France, which owns a 15
percent direct stake in EADS, would have kept a holding of about
9 percent. Germany was granted permission for an equal stake,
even as Enders sought to limit state involvement.  Just as the companies were announcing the collapse of their
talks, French President  Francois Hollande  and Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  were complaining about what they saw as
German foot dragging on another issue -- bank regulation.  They were asked about attempts by German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  to keep Germany’s regional banks out of the
control of the prospective supervisor under the  European Central
Bank .  “The regulator must be credible, and to be credible it
must have a wide field to cover,” Hollande said -- “even
modest banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  