-- EADS-BAE Pull Plug on Merger Amid Government Opposition
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-10-10T16:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/eads-bae-pull-plug-on-merger-plan-after-governments-deny-backing.html
  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  abandoned their planned merger on
government resistance, leaving in tatters their aspiration to
create the world’s largest aerospace and defense company.  The two companies said they terminated the deal because the
“interests of the parties’ government stakeholders cannot be
adequately reconciled with each other or with the objectives”
of the merger. The deal crumbled just hours before a deadline
expired to formalize the agreement or win more time.  Germany  became a major stumbling block on the path to an
accord, and BAE Chief Executive OfficerIan King said there was
more understanding with  France  and the U.K. BAE Chairman Dick Olver said he would not revisit merger talks with EADS unless
government positions changed significantly, and that the company
will not look elsewhere for a new partner.  “It is, of course, a pity we didn’t succeed but I’m glad
we tried,” EADS CEO  Tom Enders  said in a statement.  The attempt to build an equal to  Boeing Co. (BA)  exposed the
divisions in  Europe , with Germany keen to preserve a balance of
power with France and the U.K. wary to check political meddling
at the hands of the French. The breakdown blocks BAE’s path to a
civil aviation business in times of shrinking defense budgets,
and marks the second failure in a decade for EADS to combine
aerospace assets from Europe’s three largest economies.  Management Team  BAE will focus on executing the existing strategy, Olver
said, with no  management team changes  planned. Enders himself
foreshadowed the possible collapse of the deal in an employee
newsletter released yesterday, as it became clear that German
opposition to the deal had hardened.  “If we fail, it will not be because the two companies
couldn’t agree. It will be because others couldn’t get their act
together and provide the necessary prerequisites for the
combination,” Enders was cited as saying.  EADS, based in Toulouse in southern France, and London-
based BAE first said on Sept. 12 that they were exploring a
merger, after  Bloomberg News  reported the two sides were in
talks. Even if they two companies had won government backing,
they still faced investors and a U.S. review. King said the fact
that he was working against a “leak” and was unable to lay out
the full merits of the merger complicated matters.  Unsettled Investors  The proposed merger had  unsettled investors  from the start,
with EADS losing more than 11 percent since the plan became
public. The stock rose 1.38 euros, or 5.3 percent, to 27.48
euros today after talks ended. BAE dropped 4.5 pence, or 1.4
percent, to 320.9 pence in  London .  The German government had sought a token center of command
and  job guarantees  to give it equal status with the other
states, people close to the talks said. France owns a direct 15
percent stake in EADS, while German interests are represented by
 Daimler AG. (DAI)  Germany maintained a resistance even after the
British and French governments agreed to allow Germany to hold 9
percent of the combined company, on a par with France.  As talks intensified, there was growing concern that
Germany would be left outside a Franco-British axis. Upon
becoming CEO of EADS in June, Enders had bundled headquarters to
Toulouse in France, the home of planemaker Airbus SAS, its
biggest unit.  The move marginalized Munich as one of two operating
headquarters and formerly the base for the chief financial
officer. London would become the center for defense operations 
in the event of a merger, leaving Germany without any 
headquarters to call its own.  Incredibly Shortsighted  “It’s incredibly shortsighted,” said Michel Merluzeau, an
aviation consultant at G2 Solutions in Kirkland,  Washington .
“European governments are still very focused on national
interests, national programs. How can anyone plan for additional
EU defense integration with such a territorial mindset?”  EADS and BAE spent more than six months putting together
the merger plan. Initial talks between Enders and King focused
on how to more effectively structure the Eurofighter joint
venture after their Typhoon bid lost a multi-billion dollar
competition in  India  to the  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  Rafale.  “The merger would have produced a combined business that
would have been a greater force for competition and growth
across both the commercial aerospace and defense sectors and
which would have delivered tangible benefits to all
stakeholders,” the companies said in the joint release.  Contentious Split  By June, those talks evolved into merger discussions and in
July the companies agreed the 60-40  ownership  split. That
distribution quickly came under siege from lawmakers
particularly in Germany, who questioned the relationship and
demanded that EADS hold closer to 70 percent of the group.  The collapse of the talks doesn’t change much in the short
term for EADS, whose Airbus business promises strong growth,
said Zafar Khan, an analyst at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in London.
BAE, on the other hand, may face the issue of a break-up, he
said.  “For BAE, the strategy has failed,” Zafar said today in
an interview before the collapse was announced. “In agreeing to
merging with EADS they’ve really admitted this failure and if
the deal doesn’t happen they don’t have a great deal of options
they can pursue.  The merger’s failure marks the second time that Enders
finds himself on the losing end of an effort to combine
Germany’s defense and aerospace industry with the U.K.’s.  No Backing  In 1998, Enders was head of strategy for Deutsche Aerospace
when the business sought to merge with BAE-forerunner British
Aerospace. As talks unfolded, GEC Marconi was put on the market
and British Aerospace merged with the U.K. defense electronics
business. Jilted Deutsche Aerospace then pursued a merger with
French aerospace entities to form EADS in 2000.  Governments’ failure to agree to merger terms and again
sink a deal puts into question the future of Enders, who has
been pushing for years to end German and French government
involvement in EADS, which dates back to the firm’s creation in
2000. Instead, Enders remains saddled with both governments and
an EADS Chairman in Arnaud Lagardere who opposed the deal.  France maintains a 22.5 percent shareholding, 15 percent
directly and 7.5 percent through publishing firm  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ,
with German interests represented through carmaker Daimler’s
22.5 percent holding. Both Daimler and Lagardere have said they
want to eventually pare their holdings to focus on their main
assets, with Daimler promising shareholders a sale this year.  Balancing Act  Combining EADS and BAE would have allowed EADS to  balance 
out its Airbus SAS civil aviation business with more defense
assets, while BAE would have gained access to the civil business
at a time when governments are slashing defense budgets. EADS
would have also enlarged its U.S. defense business, which has
made few inroads into the Department on Defense, while BAE is
the Pentagon’s fourth-largest contractor.  In the end, EADS and BAE failed to overcome national
political interests. Opposition also came from financial
investors, with BAE’s largest shareholder,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,
questioning the logic of the deal and voicing concern that more
state involvement would jeopardize BAE’s standing in the U.S.  Enders said last month that he didn’t want to go on much
longer without a firm commitment because he needed to reinforce
his message of the merger’s merits with investors. In the
absence of a broader consent, he pulled the plug today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  