-- EBay, Amazon Sales Signal Tempered Holiday Spending
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-10-10T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ebay-amazon-sales-signal-tempered-holiday-spending.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  sales
growth slowed in September, signaling that consumers may not
increase holiday spending as much as expected, said  Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group.  EBay’s comparable sales rose 21 percent in September from a
year earlier, less than August’s 24 percent growth,
ChannelAdvisor Corp. said  yesterday  on its website. Amazon’s
growth rate fell to 37 percent last month from 41 percent in
August, the Morrisville, North Carolina-based company said.
Comparable sales measure revenue for merchants who have used the
site for at least a year.  “This holiday season could start off slow,” Leung, based
in San Francisco, said yesterday. “September is a preview. The
confidence level has gone down a little bit, looking at this
data.”  New advertising options from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that let merchants
include more product information in search ads -- such as prices
and images -- may be adding to the decline, Leung said. The ads
could be filtering buyers to the direct sellers doing the
advertising instead of e-commerce companies such as Amazon and
EBay. Consumers also may be paring back spending as they prepare
for the holidays, he said.  EBay, based in  San Jose , California, rose 1.2 percent to
$46.76 today at the close in New York, while Amazon, based in
Seattle, dropped 2.4 percent to $244.99.  Online Storefront  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, is
increasingly adding third-party sellers to its site and, at the
same time, wooing customers with its proprietary Kindle e-
readers. Those sales contributed to total e-commerce spending
that rose  15 percent  in the second quarter from a year earlier,
according to research firm  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   EBay is moving away from auctions and focusing more on
fixed-priced sales to drive growth. Auctions declined 17 percent
in September from the previous year, while fixed-price sales
rose 24 percent, according to ChannelAdvisor. ChannelAdvisor’s
software helps third-party sellers manage online sales on e-
commerce sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  