-- ECB Rejects IMF Call for Lower Rates Citing Broken Transmission
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-10-10T09:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ecb-rejects-imf-call-for-lower-rates-citing-broken-transmission.html
European Central Bank officials
rebutted calls by the International Monetary for lower interest
rates, citing a broken transmission channel and the absence of
deflationary risks.  “I’m not saying it won’t happen but right now” interest
rates “are appropriate,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
said in an interview in  Tokyo  today. “I don’t see risks of
deflation. Our internal analysis doesn’t show that.”  The IMF said yesterday the ECB has “ample justification”
for keeping interest rates low or cutting them further amid
risks of falling prices. While the Frankfurt-based ECB reduced
its  benchmark interest rate  to a historic low of 0.75 percent on
July 5 and took its deposit rate to zero, President  Mario Draghi 
signaled last week that further easing may have only a limited
effect on the economy.  “The precise point of the policy rate at the moment is
less important than the transmission of our policy,” ECB
Governing Council member  Christian Noyer  told reporters in Tokyo
today. “For us the major problem is first, fix the transmission
problem. Once we fix the transmission problem, we shall see if
the rates are appropriate, but it’s not really the major issue
at the moment.”  Unlimited Support  The ECB decided to design a new bond-purchase program,
dubbed Outright Monetary Transactions, “because we cannot
accept that monetary policy is totally blocked” by distorted
bond markets, Noyer said.  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA economists including Bruce Kasman
have “removed all further rate cuts from our forecast,” they
said in a research note dated Oct. 5. “To the extent that its
OMT program significantly improves the regional transmission
mechanism,” the ECB “feels less pressure to cut rates,” they
said.  Policy makers have in the past weeks worked on details of
the new plan that pledges unlimited support to debt-strapped
nations if they sign up to economic reforms as part of a bailout
from  Europe ’s rescue fund. The program has helped alleviate
market tensions and provides a “fully effective backstop” to
prevent a euro breakup, Draghi said yesterday.  Constancio said the ECB has “worked out all the details”
and is ready to implement the program.  Two Components  “We want this to be as efficient as possible and for that
we need the two components -- our program and the countries
complying,” he said. “We couldn’t do it alone just by having
our leg of the program implemented.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who meets his French
counterpart  Francois Hollande  in Paris today, has said he is
still weighing up whether his country needs a bailout since the
ECB’s safety net has already offered investors some reassurance
and lowered borrowing costs.  Since Draghi’s pledge to do whatever it takes to save the
euro, the yield on  Spain ’s 10-year bond has fallen from above
7.6 percent to 5.88 percent today.  Rajoy is struggling to meet his EU commitments for reducing
the country’s budget deficit. The IMF this week forecast that
Spain will miss its targets for the next three years.  “Fiscal consolidation can’t work if it isn’t accompanied
by changes in the structure of the economy,” ECB Governing
Council member Ignazio Visco said during a panel discussion in
Tokyo today. “You have to convince investors that what you’re
doing on the structural side is going to work.”  Euro Breakup  Speculation about a euro breakup is founded exclusively on
investor concern about the credibility of governments’ reform
efforts, Visco said.  The ECB’s insistence on conditionality for bond purchases
today won praise from officials attending the IMF’s annual
meetings in Tokyo.  The structure of the ECB’s OMT program is “exactly
right,” the lender’s No. 2 official,  David Lipton , said during
a panel discussion. Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief
executive officer of BlackRock Inc., said the policy will
“stabilize” tensions in the region.  Constancio said the ECB will keep its word on renouncing
seniority in any future debt restructurings that involve bonds
purchased under the new program.  “We will be, with regard to the OMT program, treated as
any other investor,” Constancio said. “It’s our word. I don’t
think that you find central banks reneging on their word.”  With the decision to accept losses in the future, the ECB
wanted to “eradicate fear” that other countries will follow
 Greece  in restructuring its debt, Noyer said.  “There was the strong belief that Greece was a unique case
and there would not be another restructuring in the  euro zone ,”
he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Tokyo at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  