-- El Towers Predicts Full-Year Earnings Will Exceed Target
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-10-10T15:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/el-towers-predicts-full-year-earnings-will-exceed-target.html
EI Towers SpA (EIT)  is set to beat
business-plan targets this year as the broadcasting tower
company controlled by  Mediaset SpA (MS)  benefits from the transition
to digital technology and long-term deals give it stable income
during a recession.  “We expect 2012 to be in line with the first half, ahead
of our targets,” Co-Chief Executive Officer Guido Barbieri said
in an interview in Milan yesterday. “This performance also
reflects the nature of our business, which is very predictable
and not related to the economic cycle, allowing us to do well
even during downturns.”  EI Towers said in July that first-half core revenue rose
7.8 percent from the pro-forma results of a year earlier to
116.5 million euros ($150 million) and earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization jumped 21 percent on that
basis to 46.4 million euros. That compares with the company’s
forecasts of average annual growth of 4 percent for sales and 11
percent for Ebitda through 2016, according to Barbieri.  Telecom Italia Media SpA (TME) , the TV unit of Telecom Italia
SpA, renewed its contract with EI Towers for 12 years in April.
EI Towers, based near Milan, will benefit from the transition to
digital audio broadcasting, so-called value-added services such
as network planning and signal management for new clients, as
well as the auction of new digital TV frequencies in  Italy , said
Barbieri. The bidding is expected in coming months, he said.  “Some of the frequencies will be reserved for new
entrants, which presumably won’t have the broadcasting
infrastructure and become potential new clients for us,”
Barbieri said.  EI Towers shares rose 0.4 percent to 19.44 euros at the
close of trading in Milan.  Silvio Berlusconi  EI Towers, which said in July that 2012 Ebitda could beat
its original target, is scheduled to report third-quarter
results on Oct. 31. Barbieri said the business plan will
probably be updated by mid-2013.  The company was created this year from the combination of
Digital Multimedia Technologies SpA and the spinoff of the
infrastructure business of Mediaset’s Elettronica Industriale as
Italy was completing the switch from analogue television to
digital terrestrial TV. Elettronica Industriale owns 65 percent
of EI Towers, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Broadcaster Mediaset, controlled by former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi , is EI Towers’ biggest client.  Italy’s economy, which contracted for a fourth straight
quarter in the three months through June, isn’t affecting the
company as contracts are for the long term and include an
adjustment for inflation, Barbieri said.  Stock Outlook  The  stock  gained 3 percent this year before today, giving
the company a market value of 547 million euros. The business is
the only one of its type with a stock listing in  Europe ,
according to Barbieri. U.S. peers include  Crown Castle
International Corp. (CCI)  and  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , which gained 43
percent and 19 percent respectively this year before today.  “We need some time to explain to investors that the
fundamentals of our business are completely in line with the
ones of the U.S. peers,” Barbieri said. As the company delivers
on its business plan “the share price will benefit.”  The company has about 2,700 tower sites, mainly in the TV
broadcasting business, which represents 90 percent of yearly
revenue. It also has 400 mobile telecommunications towers, and
that number is predicted to rise to about 500 at the end of 2016
on increased demand for coverage with long-term evolution, or
LTE, technology, Barbieri said.  The company, which had debt of 210 million euros at the end
of June, may consider refinancing opportunities next year as
bank facilities mature between 2013 and 2014, the Co-CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  