-- Emanuel Wants 457 More Cops to Fight Chicago Murder Rate
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-10T17:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/emanuel-proposes-hiring-457-police-to-combat-chicago-murders.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  proposed
hiring of 457 police officers as the third-most-populous U.S.
city grapples with a 28 percent spike in homicides.  “When homicides are up, even if overall crime is down
significantly, our residents will not feel truly safe, and we
must work even harder to stop the violence,” Emanuel, 52, said
today in remarks released by his office before he presented his
budget proposal to the City Council. “Violent crime continues
to rip through too many of our neighborhoods, victimizing the
community, and stealing our children’s sense of safety along
with their childhood.”  The bolstering of the 12,500-officer force is part of
Emanuel’s $8.3 billion spending plan for 2013 that eliminates a
$298 million deficit and holds the line on taxes. It also ends a
business tax for each worker employed.  Emanuel said next year’s budget shortfall would be closed
with $67 million in cuts, $42 million in projected revenue
growth, $40 million in debt refinancing, and $20 million in
unspecified dimissals, among other reductions.  The biggest financial threat to Chicago -- an estimated $15
billion unfunded pension liability -- is beyond the control of
the city because changes in the retirement funds would have to
be approved by Illinois lawmakers in Springfield, the capital.  ‘For Naught’  Emanuel cautioned in his address to the City Council that
without a pension overhaul in the legislature, it will be hard
to avoid a 150 percent property-tax increase or “dramatic”
cuts to services in future budgets. He said that within four
years, 22 percent of the budget, or $1.2 billion, will be
devoted to pension obligations.  “If we do not come to terms with our past and fix the
crisis surrounding our pension payments, our work will be for
naught,” he said. “The residents of  Chicago  elected us to tell
the hard truths so that we can make the tough decisions.”  State lawmakers are expected to address the Chicago and
Illinois pension shortfalls after Christmas, Senate President
John Cullerton said last month.  Illinois has the nation’s weakest pension-funding ratio.
The state, which has an unfunded retirement gap of $83 billion,
was downgraded in January by Moody’s Investors Service, which
cited “severe pension under-funding.”  Cops on Streets  Chicago’s homicide rate jumped 28 percent through the first
nine months of the year. Chicago police reported 406 homicides
as of Sept. 30, up from 317 during the same period in 2011,
according to department records. Emanuel and police officials
have blamed gang activity for the increase.  Aldermen are pushing for more than the 457 recruits that
Emanuel proposed today.  “Everybody would like the see more police, but can the
city afford it? That’s the question,” said Alderman Ed Burke,
chairman of the Finance Committee. “I think most experts would
say you can never have too many police, but you have to deal
with the reality of the situation.”  Emanuel, who formerly worked as a mergers and acquisitions
adviser in the Chicago office of Wasserstein Perella & Co., took
office in May 2011. He inherited a city that lost 6.9 percent of
its residents from 2000 to 2010 and faced a $600 million  budget
deficit .  Chicago’s  public schools , which Emanuel also runs, have a
separate deficit projected to be about $1 billion in 2013.
Teachers in the district went on strike for the first time in 25
years on Sept. 10. The walkout lasted seven days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  