-- Emerging Stocks Head for Two-Week Low on Europe Concerns
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-10T21:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/emerging-stocks-drop-to-two-week-low-on-europe-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks slid to the
lowest level in two weeks, led by technology companies, on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing global growth will hurt
exporters’ earnings.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  lost 0.5 percent to 992.09,
the weakest close since Sept. 26. Technology companies sank the
most among 10 industry groups.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais  slumped to the lowest in a month in Sao Paulo while
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  fell the most since August in  Seoul ,
pacing declines by exporters. Russia’s Micex gauge retreated for
a third day and South Korea’s Kospi slid to the lowest in a
month.  European banks may need to sell as much as $4.5 trillion in
assets through 2013 if policy makers fall short on pledges to
stem the fiscal crisis, according to a report from the
International Monetary Fund, which cut its 2012 global growth
forecast yesterday to 3.3 percent. The projection compares with
a $3.8 trillion estimate in April. China’s economic expansion
slowed in the second quarter to 7.6 percent, as trade and
manufacturing decelerated.  The IMF report was “an official reminder” that global
growth is faltering, Marc Chandler, the global head of currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said by phone from
New York today. “The IMF downward revisions to growth forecast,
the pessimism that’s still near about Europe in a recession,
China slowing -- those are still baked in the cake, and it
weighs on sentiment.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, slid 0.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.9 percent.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 30 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average, according to data compiled by the World Trade
Organization.  Growth Forecast  Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is struggling to
contain the country’s deficit as he met with French President
Francois Hollande in Paris.  The IMF also lowered growth forecasts for emerging markets,
where it said domestic factors add to external constraints.
India’s economy may grow 4.9 percent this year and 6 percent
next year, lower than previous forecasts of 6.2 percent and 6.6
percent respectively. China’s estimate was cut by 0.2 percentage
point each year to 7.8 percent in 2012 and 8.2 percent in 2013.  “Markets are suffering from chronic lack of conviction at
present,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading in
London, said by e-mail.  Brazilian steelmaker Usiminas fell 7.2 percent while Vale
SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, dropped 1.2 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index lost 0.8 percent as OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest natural-gas producer, declined 1.2 percent,
retreating for a third day.  South Korea Index  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index sank 1.6 percent, the steepest
drop since Sept. 5. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  slumped 0.9
percent.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  slipped 1.6 percent in Mumbai,
its biggest drop in three weeks, as Indian oil refiners sank
after the government released revenue loss estimates for the
industry.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  declined 2.5 percent. Indian
refiners may lose 420 billion rupees ($7.9 billion) in the
second quarter, Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi said yesterday in
New Delhi.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
climbed 0.7 percent to the highest since May 15.  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co. (489)  jumped 4.9 percent in Hong Kong, the most since Sept.
7 and leading Chinese carmakers higher after the China
Securities Journal said the nation may expand rural vehicle
subsidies, citing unidentified people.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., added 4.2 percent.  Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. (2238)  surged 4.5 percent.  Currencies  Seventeen of 25 emerging-market currencies weakened against
the dollar, with the Mexican peso leading the losses.  India’s rupee declined for the fourth day, dropping 0.6
percent to 53.0588 per dollar in Mumbai.  South Korea’s government bond yields fell to record lows as
economists forecast the central bank will reduce interest rates
tomorrow for a second time this year to spur growth. The won
fell 0.4 percent, retreating from an 11-month high.  Samsung Electronics, which got about 19 percent of its
sales from Europe in 2011 and counts China as its biggest
market, dropped 3.4 percent.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  declined 2.3 percent.  Tech Stocks  A  gauge  of technology companies dropped 1.4 percent, the
biggest slide in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   The MSCI’s developing-nations measure has climbed 8.3
percent this year, trailing a 10 percent increase by the  MSCI
World Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index trades at 11.4 times
estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 297, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  