-- England Players Face Bans Under New Conduct Code: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-10T05:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/england-players-face-bans-under-new-conduct-code-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Code of Conduct  England players have been told they could be suspended
without appeal for breaching a new code of conduct that may come
into effect as early as next month, the  Daily Express reported .  Roy Hodgson ’s squad will have to agree to a document which
gives the Football Association wide-ranging powers to act if
their behavior is not up to standard, the newspaper added.  “If someone transgresses in a way that brings the
integrity of the team or themselves or the organization into
question, we have the ability to warn them,” Club England
managing director Adrian Bevington was cited as saying by the
newspaper. “Or, if we deem it appropriate, under significant
circumstances, to suspend them from England.”  Bolton Vacancy  Alan Curbishley and Phil Brown have emerged as a potential
partnership for the managerial vacancy at  Bolton Wanderers  after
the club fired  Owen Coyle , the  Independent reported .  Curbishley is ready to get back into management after a
four-year absence and may do so alongside Brown, who spent five
years as a player at Bolton and worked as assistant there under
 Sam Allardyce  and Colin Todd, the newspaper added.  Former Wolverhampton Wanderers manager  Mick McCarthy , and
ex-Manchester United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer are the two
leading contenders to replace Coyle, the  Daily Mail reported .  Blackburn Shortlist  Blackburn Rovers  will draw up a shortlist of potential
managers tomorrow having received dozens of applications for the
job vacated by  Steve Kean  last month, the  Guardian reported .  Alan Shearer , who helped Blackburn win the Premier League
title in 1995, has had no contact with club owner Venky’s even
though he’s expressed an interest in the job, the paper added.  Remy Return  Chelsea is ready to make a second move to sign Marseille
striker Loic Remy in January, the  Express reported .  The Blues, who failed with a bid of 15 million pounds ($24
million) for the French national team forward on Aug. 31, had
scouts watch him in Marseille’s 2-2 draw against Paris Saint-
Germain three days go, the Express added.  One-Year Offer  Midfielder  Frank Lampard  and defender Ashley Cole will not
be given new long-term contracts by Chelsea, the  Sun reported .  Chelsea is only prepared to offer the players one-year
deals even if it means losing them as free agents at the end of
this season, the Sun said. Lampard, 34, and Cole, 31, can open
talks with new clubs from Jan. 1, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  