-- Wyoming Water Tests in Line With EPA Finding on Fracking
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-10-11T21:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/epa-says-test-of-wyoming-water-consistent-with-prior-results-1-.html
Tests of drinking water near a
natural-gas drilling site in  Wyoming  back up findings that
established the first link by the federal government between
hydraulic fracturing and tainted water, the Environmental
Protection Agency said.  The EPA yesterday issued its follow-up analyses of two test
wells it drilled in Pavillion and of five residents’ water
wells, saying the pollutants it found were “consistent” with
the results last year used to establish that connection to
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  Water quality in Pavillion, Wyoming, has attracted national
attention since the EPA’s draft report in December showed that
fracking may have contaminated homeowners’ water.  “If it’s possible here, then it’s possible elsewhere as
well, and that’s why the gas industry and some state governments
are fighting tooth and nail to question the results,” Alan
Septoff, research director for Earthworks, a Washington-based
environmental group, said in an interview. “Once that precedent
is set,” it could increase pressure for more government
regulation, he said.  In fracking, millions of gallons of water with chemicals
and sand are shot underground to break apart underground rock
and free trapped gas or oil. The technology has helped the U.S.
cut dependence on imported fuels, lower power bills and cut
state unemployment from  Pennsylvania  to North Dakota.  Scientific Evidence  Critics have said it endangers water supplies, while the
industry maintains that no confirmed case of such contamination
has ever been demonstrated scientifically. If the Pavillion
results hold up to further scrutiny, they could refute that
contention.  “EPA has provided no sound scientific evidence that
drilling has impacted domestic drinking-water wells in the
area,” Doug Hock, a spokesman for  Encana Corp. (ECA) , the company
that leases the natural-gas field there, said in an e-mail.
“Encana didn’t put the hydrocarbons there; nature did.”  The EPA conducted the latest tests after Calgary-based
Encana and Wyoming state officials criticized the EPA’s initial
testing methods and preliminary conclusions.  The results from the test wells show similar levels of
methane, benzene and glycol contamination as the earlier EPA
tests, said Wilma Subra, who has her own testing company and
works with residents in Pavillion concerned about the health
effects of their water. “The results confirm what was found
before,” she said.  Encana,  Canada ’s largest natural-gas producer, owns 140
natural-gas wells in an area of cattle and hay farms outside of
Pavillion, about 230 miles (370 kilometers) northeast of Salt
Lake City. The company says that contaminants found in water
wells are naturally occurring, and that the two test wells the
EPA drilled in 2010 were improperly constructed.  Encana provides water to about 20 area households.  The gas wells in Pavillion are different than those drilled
in most areas of Pennsylvania, where residents also have
complained about tainted water from fracking. The wells in the
Wyoming town don’t go as deep and aren’t separated from the
aquifer by thousands of feet of rock.  “This is an outcome that does not apply to shale
formations” in Pennsylvania,  Ohio  and elsewhere, Terry Engelder, a professor of geosciences at Pennsylvania State
University, said in an interview. “This is a very unique
situation.”  Also yesterday, the EPA pushed back until Jan. 15 its
deadline for public comment on the preliminary report and the
newly released follow-up data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  