-- Here Are Five Things the Democrats Won’t Tell You
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/here-are-five-things-the-democrats-won-t-tell-you.html
Election campaigns are about
promises: the more grandiose, the better.  Who can forget President  Barack Obama ’s  June 2008 speech ,
telling a rapt audience that future generations would look back
at his victory in the Democratic primaries as “the moment when
the rise of the oceans began to slow, and our planet began to
heal”?  If only he had substituted “deficit” for “oceans.”  Candidates love to promise the moon -- at minimum, a  colony 
on it -- and the stars. Years ago, they could avoid mentioning
the cost. Nowadays, the U.S. is in such a deep fiscal hole that
a candidate would appear to be out of touch if he didn’t invoke
“shared sacrifice” or pay lip service to reducing the  deficit .  Yet that is where they draw the line and limit the
specifics. Which is why I’m here to tell you five things the
2012 Democrats don’t want you to know. (Next week, it’s the
Republicans’ turn.)  No. 1: The president doesn’t create jobs.  “Pass this bill now,” Obama exhorted a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8, 2011, in a nationally televised address. He
was referring to his proposed  American Jobs Act , which he said
would put people back to work by paying businesses -- giving
them a tax break -- to hire new workers.  Now that makes sense! Neither the Republican-controlled
House nor the Democratic-controlled Senate had much interest in
what was dubbed “son of stimulus.”  Experts were quick to crank up their models and pump out
 estimates . The bill would create 1.3 million jobs by the end of
2012 at a cost of only $450 billion, or $346,153 per job. Far
simpler just to cut a check to those folks.  If the government could create jobs, the U.S. would be at
 full employment  all the time. That doesn’t mean the occupant of
the Oval Office has no influence. The president creates an
environment for job creation by encouraging entrepreneurship and
working with Congress to craft a favorable tax and regulatory
backdrop. Bashing business, be it insurance companies, banks or
oil producers, for short-term gain isn’t the way to win friends
and influence people. And it’s hardly an inducement for the
private sector.  No. 2: Middle-class taxes are going up.  Unless the U.S. generates a lot more wealthy Americans --
unless we can “grow the rich,” so to speak -- raising taxes on
upper-income earners won’t solve the deficit problem. The  top 10 
percent already pay 70 percent of the federal income tax. The
Buffett rule, which would impose a minimum 30 percent tax rate
on millionaires, would  raise less than $50 billion  over 11
years, according to Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation.
(That assumes the Bush tax cuts expire and the alternative
minimum tax isn’t indexed for inflation.)  Even Obama’s proposed  2013 budget , which limits the rate of
itemized deductions, would raise $520 billion of revenue over 10
years, according to the committee’s estimates.  Given the federal government’s predilection for spending
every dime that comes in (and more), the awful truth is that the
government will have to trickle down the income ladder to scoop
up the revenue needed to reduce the deficit.  It’s true that the recession and subpar recovery depleted
the Treasury’s coffers.  Tax receipts  as a share of gross
domestic product plummeted to a six-decade low of 15.1 percent
in 2009 and 2010 and are inching back slowly.  The government needs to raise additional revenue: It can
enact higher  tax rates  or eliminate loopholes (preferable).
 Federal outlays  peaked at 25.2 percent of GDP in 2009 before
dipping to 24.1 percent in the following two years. That gap is
unsustainable and will have to be plugged with both spending
cuts and revenue increases that ensnare the middle class.  No. 3: “Forward” is really backward.  The Obama campaign adopted “Forward” as its slogan for
the 2012 election and features it prominently at events. As a
rallying cry, it’s not much better than backward.  “Forward” was a favorite term of Marxists. Think Lenin’s
“Spring Forward” and Mao’s “Great Leap Forward.” When Lenin
started his own underground newspaper in 1905, he called it
 Vperyod  (Forward). “Forward” is still popular nomenclature for
socialist publications.  Someone on Team Obama either doesn’t know history or has a
warped sense of humor. If the president’s advisers were looking
to counter the accusation that Obama is a socialist, invoking
Lenin was a bad choice.  No. 4: Medicare, not Granny, is going over the cliff.  Forget the back-and-forth accusations about which party
plans to raid Medicare to the tune of $716 billion and deprive
seniors of their due. Democrats still want us to believe
 Medicare  as we know it can be preserved. It can’t. It has been
running a cash-flow deficit since 2008 and will go broke in
2024. Medicare can be reformed, retooled or revamped, but it
can’t continue in its present state.  Like health care for the non-elderly, Medicare’s costs are
being exacerbated by the fee-for-service structure. Just
recently we learned that electronic health records, an
initiative subsidized by the government, are making it easier for
providers to  overbill for services . Oops. Hospitals received $1
billion more in Medicare reimbursements in 2010 than in 2005
just by jiggering billing codes, according to a recent New York
Times expose.  Health-care reform without a change to the fee structure is
folly. That applies to Medicare as we know it and to Medicare
2.0.  No. 5: A Volt in every driveway?  The 23 million unemployed and underemployed Americans must
be wondering about all the fuss over a $40,000 plug-in hybrid
car. Hoping to turn that fuss into sales, General Motors cut the
sticker price on its Chevy Volt by 25 percent.  With an array of government  subsidies and tax credits  for
GM and its suppliers -- and even a hefty tax credit for buyers -
- the Volt has literally been willed into existence. With the
nation awash in cheap natural gas, it seems like an odd time to
throw money at an electric car. We really can live without a
Volt in every driveway.  I could go on, but confronting five truths in a single
sitting is probably more than the Democrats can handle.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Facebook, the SEC and
companies planning to go public  and on improving the  U.S.
electricity grid ; Michael Kinsley on  coming to terms with a
President Romney ; Ezra Klein on  one campaign without policy and
one without vision ; Michael Lewis on  children of Wall Street
employees  as bonuses shrink; Amity Shlaes and Matthew Denhart on
 how one word can help candidates  win debates; Camille Paglia on
Jackson Pollock,  American art pioneer .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 