-- Ethiopian Builder Sees Revenue Doubling on Infrastructure Spend
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-10-10T09:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ethiopian-builder-sees-revenue-doubling-on-infrastructure-spend.html
Sur Construction Plc , a construction
company with ties to Ethiopia’s ruling party, expects to almost
double revenue this year as the state boosts investment in
infrastructure, General Manager Tadesse Yemane Hailu said.  The Horn of  Africa  nation, the continent’s second-most
populous country, plans to spend 144 billion birr ($7.9 billion)
in the current fiscal year that ends on July 7 on industries
including transport, telecommunications, energy and housing in
the third year of a five-year industrialization plan. Revenue
may grow to 2.3 billion birr from 1.3 billion birr last year as
the state invests in projects including the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam, set to be Africa’s biggest hydropower plant.  The five-year plan presents “a very huge opportunity for
the construction sector,” Tadesse said in an interview
yesterday in the capital, Addis Ababa, where the company is
based. “There will be many big dam projects.”  Sur is part of the  Endowment Fund for Rehabilitation of
Tigray  group, or EFFORT, which has Azeb Mesfin, widow of former
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, as its chief executive officer.
EFFORT, which has interests in cement, trucking and textiles,
was established in 1995 by amalgamating companies the Tigray
People’s Liberation Front, or TPLF, acquired during a 17-year
insurgency. The TPLF is one four members of the ruling Ethiopian
Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front that has led the
government since overthrowing Mengistu Hailemariam’s military
regime in 1991.  Profit Surges  Sur’s pretax profit increased to 203 million birr last year
from 125 million birr a year earlier, mainly because of
contracts from the state-owned Sugar Corp. and Metals and
Engineering Corp. to work on a sugar plant at Welkite in the
 Ethiopia ’s northern Tigray region, Tadesse said. It expects to
pay 61 million birr in tax on last year’s profits, according to
an unaudited financial statement provided by the company.  The cash will be channeled into EFFORT’s manufacturing
ventures including a new iron-ore mining project, cement-
producer Mesebo Building Materials Production, Mesfin Industrial
Engineering and Almeda Textile Factory, Tadesse said.  EFFORT also plans to turn its waterworks business into its
“biggest wing” and to move into railway construction, while
starting operations in neighboring  South Sudan , he said.  EFFORT companies aren’t subject to public oversight and
receive “help” from government officials, while profits fund
political activity, said Negasso Gidada, former Ethiopian
president and now head of the opposition Unity for Democracy and
Justice party.  “They have an advantage over other private firms,” he
said in a phone interview from  Addis Ababa .  Ethiopia operates a mixed economy that encourages foreign
investment, excluding banks, while state companies monopolize
industries including telecommunications and power generation.
Sur competes on equal terms and has “zero favors” from the
government, Tadesse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  