-- EU Cuts Duties on Chinese Screws to Maximum 74.1% After WTO Case
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-10T14:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/eu-cuts-duties-on-chinese-screws-to-maximum-74-1-after-wto-case.html
The European Union cut tariffs on
screws and bolts from  China  to take account of a World Trade
Organization ruling against elements of the EU decision to apply
the levies.  The EU reduced the duties on Chinese iron or steel
fasteners to a maximum 74.1 percent from as high as 85 percent
after China won a WTO dispute over the trade protection. The
taxes punish Chinese exporters including  Gem-Year Industrial Co. (601002) 
for selling the fasteners -- used for everything from automotive
parts to furniture -- in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a
practice known as dumping.  The EU imposed the  anti-dumping duties  for five years in
January 2009 to curb competition for European fastener
manufacturers such as  Italy ’s Fontana Luigi SpA, prompting the
Chinese government to complain to the WTO. In December 2010, the
Geneva-based global trade arbiter ruled against aspects of the
European measures and gave the EU specific remedies.  The revised duties, published today in the  EU Official
Journal , range from 22.9 percent to 74.1 percent, depending on
the Chinese company. The original levies ranged from 26.5
percent to 85 percent.  Separately  today , the EU threatened to renew five-year
anti-dumping duties on industrial salts from China to protect
German manufacturers while letting similar levies against the
U.S. and  Taiwan  lapse.  The EU began a review of whether to re-impose the duties as
high as 71.8 percent on imports from China of peroxosulfates,
used to treat water and metals. The levies against China will
stay in place during the probe, which can last as long as 15
months.  The EU let expire after five years anti-dumping duties on
U.S. peroxosulfate makers including  DuPont Co. (DD)  as well as
Taiwanese producers. Those rates were 10.6 percent against
DuPont, 39 percent against  FMC Corp. (FMC)  and any other U.S.
exporters, and 22.6 percent against manufacturers in Taiwan.  Other industries that use peroxosulfates, which are also
known as persulfates, include electronics, paper, textiles and
cosmetics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  