-- Leu Gains as Romania’s Inflation Quickens More Than Forecast
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-10-10T14:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/leu-gains-as-romania-s-inflation-quickens-more-than-forecast.html
The leu strengthened as Romanian
inflation quickened more than forecast in September, fueling
bets the central bank may tighten its monetary policy stance.  The currency gained 0.2 percent to 4.5688 per euro at 5:35
p.m. in Bucharest, after weakening 0.2 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 2018 euro-
denominated bonds fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
points, to a record low of 4.59 percent.  The  inflation  rate rose to 5.3 percent in September as food
and energy prices climbed. The median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Romania ’s central bank capped lending at
its one-week repo auction to 6 billion lei ($1.7 billion) on
Oct. 8, after providing funding in line with bids since Sept. 3,
to support the leu.  The inflation rate surpassing the market consensus “may
have underpinned some leu firming,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-
based economist at ING Bank Romania, wrote in a note today.
“Market participants are possibly pricing in a more restrictive
stance for the central bank in the near run.”  The last time Banca Nationala a Romaniei stemmed repo
lending was on Aug. 6 and it followed through with lower limits
for the rest of the month, which in turn led to the currency
gaining 2.6 percent in August.  The leu weakened 0.4 percent on Oct. 5 -- a day before the
decision to limit funding -- to the lowest in more than two
months.  “We still expect the depreciation trend to continue,
possibly past 4.60 per euro in the coming weeks, but the
weakening could slow a bit given the recent inflation
surprise,” Tantaru said.  The central bank’s target for inflation in 2012 ranges from
2 percent to 4 percent. The next interest rate-setting meeting
is scheduled for Nov. 2.  The bank shouldn’t be in a hurry to increase interest rates
as the surprise pickup in inflation is temporary, Lucian Croitoru, a monetary policy adviser to Governor Mugur Isarescu,
said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  