-- EU May Back Delay on Bank-Liquidity Rule Detail in Basel Law
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-10T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/eu-may-back-delay-on-bank-liquidity-rule-detail-in-basel-law-1-.html
The European Commission is urging
legislators to postpone their demands for detailed rules on bank
liquidity amid concerns they might increase market pressure on
lenders and cut interbank lending.  The commission has made the proposal to help broker a deal
on the European Union’s implementation of global bank rules
before a January deadline. European Parliament members have so
far insisted on inserting precise liquidity rules in the law to
apply the standards -- a prospect that has raised concerns among
governments and central banks.  A less detailed approach in the draft law would have
“major advantages,” according to the note drawn up by
commission officials for lawmakers working on the dossier, and
obtained by  Bloomberg News . It’s “less risky, less susceptible
to harmful pressure from the markets and rating agencies.”  The EU has struggled to agree on how to implement the
revised global rulebook for banks, which was drawn up by
regulators in the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  In addition to the liquidity rule, EU officials are also
working on compromise plans for curbs on banker bonuses and on
requirements for banks deemed too big to fail, as parliament
lawmakers and governments seek to strike a deal on the plans.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
yesterday that an accord is possible by the end of this month.  Funding Squeeze  The liquidity standard, called a liquidity coverage ratio,
or LCR, is scheduled to apply from 2015, and would require banks
to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day funding
squeeze. Lenders would be expected to report on how well they
measure up to the rule before it becomes mandatory.  Leaving out details on the LCR at this stage will allow the
EU to take into account any changes to the standard at
international level, according to the commission document, which
points out that the Basel committee is reviewing the measure.  This approach may also prevent the draft standard from
harming banks’ lending to businesses and each other, according
to the document.  The commission note has been circulated to governments and
lawmakers ahead of an EU negotiation meeting on the rules
tomorrow in Brussels -- the latest in a series of attempts to
broker a compromise on the draft law.  Up-Front Detail  A lack of up-front detail on the LCR won’t prevent
regulators from being able to properly assess the health of
their banks, according to the document.  The European Banking Authority will be able to set detailed
reporting requirements for lenders, who would be expected to
provide data on their liquidity on a monthly basis, the
commission said in the compromise plan.  Details of another ratio, scheduled to take effect in 2018,
should also be stripped out of the draft law, according to the
document. That measure would force banks to seek stable sources
of funding.  Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for EU Financial Services
Commissioner Michel Barnier, declined to immediately comment on
the document.  Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker leading the work on the
measures for the parliament’s Green group, said he was sent the
commission note this week. He declined to comment on its
content.  Banks have cautioned that the Basel liquidity measure may
force them to scale back loans to businesses if left unchanged.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has also criticized
the proposed standard, saying it discourages banks from lending
to each other.  The Basel committee, which brings together regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China , is aiming to
complete a review of the LCR by the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  