-- EU Says Will Take Into Account Iceland’s Expectations in Talks
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-10-10T09:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/eu-says-will-take-into-account-iceland-s-expectations-in-talks.html
The European Union said it will take
heed of Iceland’s expectations and specific needs as talks on
the island potentially joining the bloc progress.  “The Commission is confident that the EU will be able to
present a package for the negotiations which takes Iceland’s
specificities and expectations into account, within the agreed
framework for the accession negotiations, while fully
safeguarding the principles and acquis of the union,” the
executive body said today in its annual enlargement report in
Brussels. “This will also allow, in due course, for a fully
informed decision of the Icelandic people.”  Iceland, which is emerging from a 2008 economic collapse,
started EU-entry talks in July 2010 and may vote on accession
late next year, according to Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson. Of a total of 35 negotiating chapters for
membership, Iceland has opened 18 and completed 10.  Today’s report “confirms a number of challenges” in areas
such as financial services, agriculture and rural development,
environment and fisheries, among others, the commission said.  Iceland will hold elections in May and skepticism over
entering the bloc has grown as the economy expands and
unemployment has eased to below 5 percent from a post-crisis of
more than 9 percent. Of the 63 lawmakers in the Reykjavik-based
Althingi, 39 were opposed continuing talks on joining the EU and
may push the body to address dropping membership preparations,
newspaper Morgunbladid reported in August, citing a tally.  “Iceland should be able to cope with competitive pressures
and market forces within the Union over the medium term,
provided that it continues to address current structural
weaknesses through appropriate macroeconomic policies and
structural reforms,” the commission said.  The body also said that Iceland needs to address gaps on
monetary policy, including “strengthening of the independence
of the central bank,” according to today’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 