-- European Stocks Decline for a Third Day; AB InBev Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-10T16:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/european-stock-futures-drop-as-imf-sees-bank-asset-sales.html
European stocks  declined for a third
day as investors speculated that economic fundamentals don’t
justify current stock valuations and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  cut its forecast
for global aluminum demand.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV slipped 1.2 percent after a report
that the U.S. may block its $20 billion takeover of Grupo Modelo
SAB.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  fell after abandoning plans to merge with
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Imagination
Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  lost 9.4 percent as analysts recommended
selling the shares.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 0.6 percent to 268.71 at
the close of trading, the lowest level since Sept. 28. The
benchmark gauge has still surged 15 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 as the  European Central Bank  unveiled an unlimited
bond-purchase plan and the  Federal Reserve  started a third round
of quantitative easing.  “We are probably in the upper range in terms of equity
indices and it is difficult to see the catalysts for further
upside,” said Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at Saxo Bank
A/S in Copenhagen. “The recent rally was not based on changes
in the underlying economic expectations and as such something
has to give.”  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 11.9 times the estimated
earnings of its companies, higher than its five-year average of
11.5, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge last month
reached a price multiple of 12.3, the highest since 2010.  Alcoa Outlook  Alcoa, the largest American aluminum producer, kicked off
the U.S. earnings season by cutting its forecast for global
consumption of the metal by 1 percentage point on slowing
Chinese demand. The company reported third-quarter profit and
sales that exceeded estimates.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global
growth forecasts and warned of even slower expansion if European
officials don’t address threats to their economies.  The IMF today said European banks may need to sell as much
as $4.5 trillion of assets through 2013 if policy makers fail to
implement fiscal tightening or set up a single supervisory
system in time.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 0.6 percent, while
 Germany ’s DAX retreated 0.4 percent and  France ’s CAC 40 declined
0.5 percent.  AB InBev  AB InBev (ABI)  dropped 1.2 percent to 67.31 euros after The
Capitol Forum reported that the  U.S. Department of Justice  may
want to block the company’s purchase of  Mexico ’s Modelo, which
brews Corona beer. The department may not approve the deal in
its current form, the  news service  that tracks antitrust events
said.  BAE fell 1.4 percent to 320.9 pence after the arms company
and EADS confirmed they are no longer pursuing a merger. It had
become clear that the interests of the “government
stakeholders” could not be adequately reconciled, the two
companies said. EADS jumped 5.3 percent to 27.48 euros.  Imagination Technologies tumbled 9.4 percent to 455.5 pence
for the biggest decline in the Stoxx 600. Credit Suisse Group AG
started coverage of the U.K. chip designer with an underperform
rating, similar to a sell recommendation.  Elsewhere,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the world’s third-largest
advertising company, declined 2.6 percent to 43.16 euros after
Exane BNP Paribas said third-quarter revenue growth may miss
forecasts as the advertisement market worsened since July.  Capita Plc (CPI)  fell 1.8 percent to 727 pence.  RBC Capital
Markets  downgraded the supplier of services for the British army
to sector perform, a recommendation similar to hold, from
outperform, a rating equivalent to buy.  Bankia Rebounds  Bankia SA (BKIA)  paced advancing shares, climbing 4 percent to
1.02 euros, the first advance in 13 days. Bankia said it sold
126 million euros of written-off car loans to Norway’s Aktiv
Kapital. Since July, the bank has sold 926 million euros of
soured loans.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  rose 3.8 percent to 93.4 pence, the highest
price in five months, after the  Daily Mail  reported BlackRock
Inc. may buy the company. The firm may head a group of bidders
in a 140 pence-a-share offer, the Daily Mail reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Separately, RBC analyst Peter Lenardos said he doesn’t find
speculation of a bid for Man Group credible.  “It is possible but remains unlikely,” he wrote. “We do
not see the logic of acquiring a company whose funds are
underperforming key benchmarks and are experiencing net
outflows.”  RBS, Lloyds  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  advanced 2.1 percent to
262.7 pence after agreeing to sell two buildings in Frankfurt
and Berlin to Axa Investment Managers SA in the biggest German
commercial real estate transaction this year, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The properties are valued at about 790 million euros,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
government-aided bank, gained 4 percent to 38.48 pence. U.S.
investment firms Lone Star Funds and Kennedy-Wilson Holdings
Inc. are among remaining bidders for parts of about 2 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) of mainly Irish real estate loans Lloyds
Banking Group Plc is selling, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Lloyds decided two years ago to close and run down the
Irish unit it acquired two years earlier as part of its 2008
takeover of HBOS Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  