-- Facebook’s SEC Letters Can Only Help Investors Before IPO
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-10T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/facebook-s-sec-letters-can-only-help-investors-before-ipo.html
Is there a good reason important
information about newly public companies is disclosed only one
month after the shares have been sold to investors?  The U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  seems to think
there is. It is a view that does a disservice to investors.  As  Bloomberg News  reported, the SEC released a cache of
correspondence between the agency and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  on June 15,
20 business days after the company went public in a ballyhooed
initial public offering. The letters depict a management team
that lacked experience, was intent on withholding useful
performance metrics and was reluctant to cooperate with the
agency’s demands for fuller disclosure. Considering the dismal
performance of the stock since the IPO -- down 48 percent -- it
seems reasonable to conclude that some investors might not have
thrown in their lot with  Mark Zuckerberg  & Co. had they seen the
letters before the offering.  A little background. The SEC reviews many corporate
filings, such as prospectuses for acquisitions or secondary
share sales, and often writes letters seeking more information
or clarification. The agency gives extra attention to companies
selling stock to the public for the first time, as Facebook did
on May 17.  Public Touts  To that end, the SEC pressed the company to reveal some of
the metrics it planned to use to tout its shares to the public.
In one exchange, it asked what percent of new users accessed
Facebook solely with mobile devices. The answer, it turned out,
was almost half, a significant point in that Facebook had
already said it found it hard to “generate any meaningful
revenue” from mobile users. (Not surprisingly, the issue of
mobile usage and revenue generation was a subject of a
shareholder  suit  after the IPO against Facebook and its main
investment bank, Morgan Stanley.)  Other issues cited in the letters included Zuckerberg’s
control of the company, the importance of game company  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  to Facebook’s prospects, the company’s use of customers’
personal information and Facebook’s reluctance to provide
figures on average revenue generated by so-called active monthly
users.  One can see how a quick spin through this correspondence
might come in handy to people thinking of buying shares in
Facebook. And let’s not pick on Facebook -- one can also imagine
how the pre-filing exchange between, say, the SEC and  Groupon
Inc. (GRPN)  might have prompted investors to question some of that
company’s enthusiastic growth projections or its predilection
for unorthodox accounting methods. Since it went public, Groupon
stock has lost 74 percent of its value.  Releasing Letters  Indeed, the SEC doesn’t dispute the utility of the letters.
It was the agency, after all, that decided to release letters 20
business days after an offering had been cleared. (Previously,
letters were made public only through Freedom of Information Act
requests.)  So why can’t the SEC take the next step and release the
letters before an offering? The agency says such a move might
confuse investors because they would have too much information
to absorb too late in the process. This was the reason  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s IPO was delayed by a few days in August 2004: Playboy
magazine published an interview with founders  Larry Page  and
 Sergey Brin  just before the planned share sale.  But withholding information contained in the letters until
after an IPO isn’t the answer. It seems perfectly reasonable to
have companies attach the letters as exhibits to the final
registration statement that describes the terms of an IPO.  New companies need room and capital to grow. The role of
regulatory agencies isn’t to hinder that growth but to ensure
clarity and transparency in markets. If a company decides to ask
the public to help finance its expansion, then that company has
a simple obligation: to let investors know what they are buying,
warts and all.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 