-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Says 2.25% Inflation Isn’t Trigger
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-10-10T20:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-2-25-inflation-isn-t-trigger.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the U.S. central bank
shouldn’t automatically raise  interest rates  from the current
record low near zero when the outlook for inflation rises above
2.25 percent.  “The committee’s decision in this context would hinge on a
delicate cost-benefit calculation that would weigh the inflation
increases against the employment gains,” Kocherlakota said in
reference to the policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee .  Kocherlakota, in prepared remarks given in Great Falls,
 Montana , today, repeated his call for the Fed to pledge near-
zero  interest rates  until the unemployment rate falls below 5.5
percent, as long as inflation remains below 2.25 percent. Many
members of the FOMC preferred to tie monetary accommodation to
specific economic conditions, minutes of the September 12-13
meeting showed.  “In the same vein, the  unemployment rate  of 5.5 percent
should be viewed as only a threshold to initiate a policy
conversation, not as a trigger for action,” Kocherlakota said
in comments similar to those he gave in Ironwood,  Michigan , on
Sept. 20. He does not vote on policy this year.  Benchmark Rate  After lowering the benchmark interest rate to near zero in
December 2008, the Fed has resorted to a number of
unconventional tools to support the economic recovery. Policy
makers announced a third round of large-scale asset purchases
last month and said they will probably keep rates low through at
least mid-2015, compared with an earlier expectation of late
2014.  Still, Kocherlakota and Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
have argued that the Fed could offer even more stimulus to the
economy if it made its commitment more explicit with specific
numbers. Fed officials worried that offering specific numbers
may lead markets to expect “an automatic policy response,”
minutes of last month’s meeting showed.  September’s jobs report, which showed that the  unemployment
rate  fell to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent even as payroll growth
slowed, highlighted the difficulty of linking policy to volatile
economic indicators -- a concern Kocherlakota today said he was
“sympathetic” to.  Offer Vision  “The goal in this plan is to offer a vision,” the
Minneapolis Fed chief said in response to a question from the
audience. “When the unemployment rate reaches 5.5 percent, the
Fed could take into account a number of other economic
conditions at that point in time and say, boy, things have not
improved even though unemployment is at 5.5 percent.”  That assessment may prompt the Fed to continue to keep its
benchmark rate low, he said. He added that the central bank
retains the option to lower the interest it pays on excess bank
reserves as a way to further bolster the recovery.  Responding to those who have labeled his so-called
“liftoff” proposal from Sept. 20 as either “hawkish” or
“dovish,” Kocherlakota today said his plan is neither because
the FOMC currently sees no tension between its goals of
maximizing employment and maintaining stable prices.  “As long as the committee continues to perceive no tension
between its mandates, it should not begin to raise the fed funds
rate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  