-- Fed's Tarullo Says Money Funds Pose `Key' Systemic Risk
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-10T23:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fed-s-tarullo-says-money-market-funds-pose-key-systemic-risk.html
Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo joined a call for the Securities and Exchange Commission
to tighten oversight of the $2.5 trillion money market fund
industry, which he said puts financial market stability at risk.  “Money market funds remain a major part of the shadow
banking system and a key potential systemic risk even in the
post-crisis financial environment,” Tarullo said in a speech
today at the University of Pennsylvania Law School in
Philadelphia.  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro in August gave up on a plan to
tighten regulation of the funds, an alternative to bank accounts
for individuals and companies, after three of the five
commissioners told her they wouldn’t vote to issue it for public
comment. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged “further
reform” of money market funds in a letter last month to the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of regulators
that includes the SEC and is headed by the Treasury.  Alternatives to tighter money fund regulation by the SEC,
such as having the FSOC designate the funds as systemically
important, or having other regulatory agencies curb the
institutions’ ability to borrow from or invest in money funds
without structural protections, are “decidedly a second-best
alternative” to SEC action, Tarullo said.  ‘Move Forward’  “The protective tools available to the rest of us do not
fit the problem precisely and thus will not regulate at the
least cost to the funds while still mitigating financial risk,”
Tarullo said. “My hope, of course, is that recent indications
that other SEC commissioners are now willing to move forward
with reforms will lead to the SEC adopting first-best measures
in the near-term.”  Lawmakers should weigh capping the size of the largest
financial institutions, because U.S. law permits the biggest
banks to grow large enough that they increase “perceptions of
at least some residual too-big-to-fail quality,” Tarullo told
students and faculty.  “There is, then, a case to be made for specifying an upper
bound,” he said. “With the potentially important consequences
of such an upper bound and of the need to balance different
interests and social goals, it would be most appropriate for
Congress to legislate on the subject.”  The idea “that seems to have the most promise would limit
the non-deposit liabilities of financial firms to a specified
percentage of U.S. gross domestic product,” Tarullo said.  Dodd-Frank Act  Tarullo, 59, has led the Fed’s effort to implement the
Dodd-Frank Act, the biggest overhaul of financial regulation
since the 1930s, and pushed to raise capital standards for the
largest banks, subject them to annual stress tests and boost
scrutiny of their lending and trading practices.  Tarullo previously was a professor at the Georgetown
University Law Center in  Washington  and an aide to President
Bill Clinton. He was nominated by President  Barack Obama  and has
served on the Fed board since January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  