-- Fed Says Economy Grows ‘Modestly’ on Housing, Autos
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-10-10T18:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fed-beige-book-says-economy-grows-modestly-as-housing-improves.html
The  Federal Reserve  said today that
the U.S. economy was expanding “modestly” last month,
supported by improvements in housing and auto sales, even as the
labor market showed little change.  “ Consumer spending  was generally reported to be flat to up
slightly since the last report,” the Fed said in its Beige Book
business survey, which is based on accounts from the 12 district
Fed banks. Conditions in manufacturing were “somewhat
improved,” according to the report, which provides anecdotal
evidence on the health of the economy two weeks before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets in  Washington  on Oct. 23-24.  The Beige Book provides support for Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that economic growth isn’t strong enough to
bring about a quick healing of the labor market. A Labor
Department report last week showed that while the  unemployment
rate  unexpectedly declined in September, payroll growth slowed.  The Fed on Sept. 13 announced a third round of quantitative
easing, with purchases of $40 billion a month of mortgage debt,
and said its benchmark  interest rate  was likely to stay low
through the middle of 2015.  The report’s description of the economy is not as positive
as Beige Books earlier in the year, which used the word
“moderate” to describe the pace of expansion, said  Dana Saporta , U.S. economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .
“In Fed parlance, modest is a step down from moderate,” she
said.  Stocks Decline  Stocks remained lower after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was down 0.7 percent to 1,431.82 at 2:49 p.m.
in New York.  While “employment conditions were little changed since the
last report,” several districts reported shortages of highly
skilled workers, the Beige Book said.  The New York district reported economic activity had
“leveled off” and  Kansas City  indicated “some slowing in the
pace of growth.” The Fed said that “in general, other
districts reported that growth continued at a modest pace.”  The housing market showed “widespread improvement since
the last report,” according to the Fed with all twelve
districts reporting that “existing home sales strengthened, in
some cases substantially.”  The Fed’s previous  Beige Book  report said six districts
reported “modest” growth, while three called it “moderate.”
The Philadelphia and Richmond Feds said growth was slow in most
industries while manufacturing declined. The Boston Fed cited
“some slowdown.”  Jobless Rate  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. fell to 7.8 percent in
September, the lowest since January 2009, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics’ survey of households. A separate
survey of employers showed the economy added 114,000 workers.  Boston,  Cleveland , Atlanta,  Minneapolis  and  Dallas  said
employment was “flat or up slightly, with stagnant demand and
uncertainty related to the upcoming presidential election, U.S.
fiscal policy, and European debt issues cited by some as a
restraining hiring.”  Job openings in the U.S. dropped for a second straight
month in August, indicating companies are reluctant to beef up
payrolls through year-end without faster economic growth, a
Labor Department report showed today.  The number of positions waiting to be filled fell by 32,000
to 3.561 million from a revised 3.593 million the prior month
that was less than previously estimated, the Labor Department
said today in a statement. Hiring increased at the same time
firings rose to a three-month high.  New York  Today’s Beige Book contains information collected on or
before Sept. 28 and summarized by the New York Fed.  The report gives policy makers information on the economy
before some key government reports issued after a longer lag.
For example, the Commerce Department plans to release an
estimate of third quarter growth on Oct. 26, after the FOMC
meeting.  The economic expansion in the second quarter slowed to 1.3
percent, from 2 percent in the first quarter and 4.1 percent in
the fourth quarter of last year.  The  U.S. economy  in recent weeks has shown signs of
strengthening. Manufacturing expanded in September after three
months of contraction, according to the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index. The  index rose  to 51.5 last month
from 49.6 in August, with readings above 50 indicating
expansion.  Total U.S.  auto sales also outpaced  analyst estimates last
month, with vehicles selling at an annualized rate of 14.9
million in September, above an estimated 14.5 million.  Capital Goods  Still, many companies have been reluctant to invest in the
prospect of a stronger expansion. Shipments of nondefense
capital equipment excluding airplanes, a proxy for business
investment, fell 0.9 percent in August after decreasing 1.1
percent in July, according to Commerce Department figures.  A pullback in business investment fanned concerns companies
will begin to pare hiring in anticipation of more than $600
billion in government spending cuts and tax increases, known as
the fiscal cliff, that take effect at the start of 2013 unless
Congress acts.  Labor Department data so far has shown payrolls continuing
to grow even as the  Congressional Budget Office  has warned the
economy will fall into recession if Congress allows the fiscal
squeeze to go ahead.  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  “In the U.S. today, the big question is the economy
generally and the fiscal cliff in particular,” said Arne Sorenson, president and chief executive officer of the Bethesda,
Maryland-based hotel chain Marriott International Inc.  “Despite our just-outside-the-Beltway headquarters, we are
by no means well-positioned to opine on how our leaders in
Washington are likely to deal with these complex issues,” she
said.  The Fed last month cited risks to the economic growth from
the fiscal cliff, a slowdown in global growth or a worsening of
the debt crisis in  Europe .  Still, stocks have rallied as central banks around the
world turned to economic stimulus. As of yesterday, the  S&P 500 
climbed 14.6 percent this year. Fed purchases of housing debt
have helped drive the national average 30-year mortgage to 3.36
percent, the lowest on record in a Freddie Mac index.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  