-- Fed’s Fisher Says Mordant Fiscal Predicament Curbs Growth
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-10-10T22:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fed-s-fisher-says-mordant-fiscal-predicament-curbs-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said the “mordant fiscal predicament”
of the U.S. government is weighing on growth and preventing
companies from hiring.  “The great inhibitor of job creation is the uncertainty
over taxes and spending and regulation that plagues
businesses,” Fisher said in the text of remarks given in
 Washington  today. “Even if businesses do not like the rules
that govern their behavior, knowing those rules with certainty
gives them something to plan around and navigate through.
Presently, they haven’t the foggiest idea what the rules will
be.”  The Fed last month added to its record monetary easing to
try to boost an economy vulnerable to the sovereign debt crisis
in Europe and the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S., the more
than $600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will
kick in automatically at the end of the year unless Congress
acts. The Congressional Budget Office said in an Aug. 22 report
that fiscal tightening of that magnitude could cause a
recession.  The Federal Open Market Committee voted to buy $40 billion
of mortgage bonds a month and extend its horizon for record-low
 interest rates  through at least the middle of 2015.  Too Early  Fisher, who isn’t a voting member of the FOMC this year,
told reporters after his speech that he wasn’t in favor of the
stimulus step and that it’s “too early to know” if the third
round of asset purchases is working to spur growth.  “The fix lies not within the purview of the Federal
Reserve,” Fisher said at the Cato Institute conference,
“ Europe ’s Crisis and the Welfare State: Lessons for the United
States.” “The fix lies solely in the hands of a government
that has the power to shape taxes and spending programs to
incent businesses to go out and hire rather than ball up into a
defensive crouch, or worse, go elsewhere in the world.”  The Fed said today that the U.S. economy was expanding
“modestly” last month, supported by improvements in housing
and  auto sales , even as the labor market showed little change.  “Consumer spending was generally reported to be flat to up
slightly since the last report,” the Fed said in its Beige Book
business survey, which is based on accounts from the 12 district
Fed banks. Conditions in manufacturing were “somewhat
improved,” according to the report, which provides anecdotal
evidence on the health of the economy two weeks before the FOMC
meets in Washington on Oct. 23-24.  Beige Book  The Beige Book provides support for Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s view that economic growth isn’t strong enough to
bring about a quick healing of the labor market. A Labor
Department report last week showed that while the unemployment
rate unexpectedly fell in September, payroll growth slowed.  Fisher told reporters after the speech that he’s skeptical
policy makers will be able to link monetary policy to specific
economic indicators.  “It’s something that merits discussion but will be very
hard to execute,” he said. “Even if I were convinced, which
I’m not, I’m not sure how you come up with a specific number.”  Joblessness  declined  to 7.8 percent in September, the
lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office in January 2009,
from 8.1 percent.  “The private sector and American business community are
poised to expand,” Fisher said. “But they will not do so as
long as we have a government that cannot resist the temptation
to devise a politically convenient patchwork instead of laying
out a convincing, reliable, long-term program that job creators
and consumers can count on and plan around.”  Fed Policy  Fisher said that Fed policy has left American companies
with “money burning a hole in their pockets” and that there’s
“more than enough fuel in reserve to finance a prolonged period
of job creation.” He said he is concerned that the central bank
has “done far more than what was required” and may face
“difficulties” when trying to withdraw its stimulus.  He said in response to audience questions after his speech
that while inflation isn’t presently a problem, the central
bank’s unprecedented monetary easing may lead to rapidly
accelerating prices. The Fed should have a single mandate
focused on price stability, he said.  “I do worry personally -- and I can only speak for myself
-- that if we continue down this path of trying to satisfy the
second part of our mandate we could set the basis for inflation
later on, particularly if we’re not able to manage the exit,”
Fisher said.  Exit Gracefully  The Dallas Fed chief told reporters he’s concerned that the
central bank won’t be able to “exit gracefully” given it’s
“never been in this place before at such size and such
complexity.”  Adding to its long-term bond holdings also increases the
risk the Fed will lose money on its portfolio, Fisher said.  “Will Congress remember if we take a loss on some of our
fixed income holdings?” Fisher said. “We’ve been remitting
over $70 billion a year now for a couple of years. It’s nice to
think they’ll remember,” though “I doubt it. Most congressmen
have the memory of fish, OK, fish have no memory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  