-- FedEx Relies on Express Revamp to Meet $1.7 Billion Goal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-10T20:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fedex-sets-1-7-billion-savings-and-profit-goal-over-three-years.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX) ’s plan to increase
profit $1.7 billion in three years relies heavily on
streamlining its Express unit, where it plans to cut jobs and
replace fuel-guzzling planes.  Express, the company’s largest division, will generate
$1.55 billion of the target, executives said in a meeting with
investors and creditors in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . About $300
million will come from modernizing the air fleet and another
$350 million from changes in the domestic business.  The overhaul reflects FedEx’s view that the move of some
customers to ground, freight and even ocean shipping is
permanent and not a temporary change linked to a slowing
economy. That transition also threatens to affect  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Worldwide Express.  “We look at the world differently now,” said Dave Bronczek, head of the Express unit. “We’re more conservative.
We have a lot more initiatives to conservatively go after our
costs, our network repositioning, so we’re not counting solely
on a global economy for our profitability.”  The division, which uses planes to expedite shipments of
goods from electronics to pharmaceuticals, said more efficient
aircraft such as Boeing Co.’s 757 and 767 models will allow
fewer flights, each carrying more cargo. That means FedEx can
reduce flight hours by the equivalent of 3 percent fewer full-
time jobs.  The Express unit is also retiring about 5,000 older
vehicles, replacing them with newer and more fuel-efficient
models.  ‘Sounds Big’  “The headline number sounds big: $1.7 billion is clearly
an ambitious target,” said  Peter Nesvold , a New York-based
analyst with Jefferies Group Inc. who rates the shares hold.
“However, the timing is longer than expected.”  FedEx rose 5.2 percent to $89.99 at the close of trading in
 New York , the largest gain since December.  The changes will help “deliver the performance to ensure
the near-and long-term success of FedEx,” Chief Executive
Officer Fred Smith said yesterday. “We believe we can do this
even in low-growth environments for global trade and within the
major economies.”  FedEx trimmed its forecast for U.S. economic growth this
year to 2.1 percent from 2.2 percent and reduced the worldwide
expansion forecast for next year to 2.6 percent from 2.7
percent.  Voluntary Buyout  “We’re not assuming that we’ll get much short-term
economic help to hit the targets we’ve laid out today,” said
Michael Ducker, FedEx Express chief operating officer. “We’re
not ruling out a rebound, but we’re not counting on one,
either.”  Companywide, about $1 billion of the profit improvement
will come from job cuts, FedEx said. “Several thousand”
 employees  probably will accept a voluntary buyout announced in
August, which may cost $600 million, the company said.  FedEx has “other levers” it can pull to increase the
cost-reduction effort if the economy deteriorates, Smith said.  “There’s a good chance, as we get up a head of steam, that
we can exceed some of these goals,” he said.  Smith said the company expects to raise its quarterly
dividend, which is now 14 cents a share. Bloomberg analysts
predict an increase of 2 cents a share in June, the start of
FedEx’s next fiscal year.  The company will continue expanding the international side
of its Express business, which Rajesh Subramaniam, senior vice
president of global marketing, said remains the “ crown jewel ”
among the shipper’s companies.  International Shipments  FedEx will also expand its ocean shipping business,
offering a broader range of services, and invest in increasing
air and ground infrastructure in  Europe .  The company expects international economy shipments to
account for a growing percentage of its volume, especially as
long as fuel prices remain high. International priority
shipments also will continue to grow, said Ducker, the FedEx
Express COO.  FedEx will use technology to boost efficiency across its
operations, lowering costs on its highest-value products and
allowing for greater profit margins. It also plans to focus on
areas that have high concentrations of customers who use
primarily priority shipments, including the health-care
industry.  The air-cargo company expects to achieve a significant
portion of its projected cost-saving benefits by fiscal year
2015, said Smith. The 68-year-old, who pioneered the modern air-
freight industry with an idea from one of his college essays,
said he has no plans as of now to retire.  Profit Forecast  FedEx reiterated yesterday the revised full-year  profit
forecast  it gave on Sept. 18. Earnings will be $6.20 to $6.60 a
share for the year ending in May, excluding potential benefits
from cost cuts. The guidance prior to Sept. 18 was for earnings
of $6.90 to $7.40. Net income for FedEx’s last fiscal year was
$2.03 billion.  The forecast reduction was spurred partly by a shift in
shipping methods that has boosted business at FedEx Ground as
customers trade down to three- or four-day shipments, or send
goods by  train, truck or ship , rather than overnight delivery.  “We are operating in the most tepid post-recession
recovery in the modern era,” Bronczek said. “Customers in key
markets have been shipping less, with lower demand for priority
services.”  Quarterly volumes declined through August for FedEx’s
premium services for domestic and international shipments.  Cargo Planes  “We do not think the Express business is going to shrink
to oblivion,” Smith said of the domestic portion of the unit’s
network. “It’s just not going to be a significant growth
business.”  Expense-reduction efforts have been under way since
December, including the deferral of some new jet-freighter
deliveries.  In June, FedEx said it was retiring 24 cargo planes and 43
older engines to match shipping volumes. It also plans to retire
21  Boeing Co. (BA)  727s this fiscal year. Those aircraft will be
replaced with Boeing 767-300 and 757-200 aircraft that burn less
fuel and cost less to fly, FedEx said.  FedEx also ordered 19 767s, to be delivered from fiscal
2015 to 2019, replacing Boeing MD-10s and Airbus SAS A310
models. The twin-engine 767s will be about 30 percent more fuel-
efficient than the three-engine MD-10s, FedEx has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  