-- FIFA Sponsors to Return World Cup Tickets to Avoid Empty Seats
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-10T15:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fifa-sponsors-to-return-world-cup-tickets-to-avoid-empty-seats.html
Soccer’s governing body will ask its
corporate sponsors to return tickets at the next  World Cup  in an
effort to avoid the criticism it received when the event was
staged in  South Africa  in 2010.  FIFA provides tickets for sport’s most-watched event to
official sponsors and broadcasters. At the 2014 tournament,
which will be staged in Brazil, organizers will only hand
tickets over to partners on the day of the game, FIFA marketing
director Thierry Weil said.  “A few days before the game itself they will have to
indicate to us if they're taking the tickets or not,” Weil said
in an interview at the Leaders in Football Conference in  London 
today. “Tickets will only be handed over the day of the game to
the commercial partners. We can reallocate some of the
tickets which will not be used to either other commercial
affiliates or to the public.”  The 2010 World Cup, the first played in South Africa since
the competition was established in 1930, brought $3.7 billion in
sales for FIFA, with $1.1 billion coming from sponsorship and
marketing from partners including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Adidas AG (ADS) ,
and $2.4 billion from television.  South Africa hosted 62 World Cup matches, and 97 percent of
tickets were sold, generating $300 million. Still, many matches
were played in stadiums with empty seats.  “We were surprised about this too,” FIFA’s deputy
General Secretary Markus Kattner said after financial results of
the World Cup were released last year. “We do not know exactly
what the reasons for this are.”  Spare tickets will be given to other partners or sold to
fans through sales counters up until the day before the game,
Weil said.  FIFA has budgeted for revenue of $3.8 billion from Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 