-- First PAC Used $600,000 to Elect Roosevelt, Boost Unions
-- B y   M a u r y   K l e i n
-- 2012-10-10T14:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/first-pac-used-600-000-to-elect-roosevelt-boost-unions.html
In this election, political
action committees and so-called super-PACs have come to
play an outsized role in campaign finance. These
organizations are nothing new, but they have come a long
way from their origins -- particularly when it comes to
their scale and electoral goals.  The first organization to call itself a political
action committee was formed in July 1943 by the Congress of
Industrial Organizations, and it was done to re-elect a
Democratic president and friends of labor.  The new PAC arose largely in response to the Smith-
Connally Act of 1943, which aimed to curb a growing number
of strikes during wartime and to constrain the  labor
movement  itself. The act decreed a 30-day waiting period
between a strike vote and a walkout; allowed the government
to take over munitions plants threatened by labor disputes;
forbade strikes in federally operated facilities; and
restricted monetary contributions to political candidates
by labor unions.  ‘Let’s Become Politicians’  For organized labor, these changes were unsettling.
After all, it wasn’t until 1935 that private-sector unions
legally gained the right to bargain collectively, and their
status remained controversial to many Americans, especially
in wartime.  Franklin D. Roosevelt  had been the most
supportive president organized labor had ever known, but a
coalition of Republicans and conservative southern
Democrats had cut deeply into his base. As attacks on
unions intensified, labor regarded Roosevelt’s re-election
as crucial to its survival.  Devised by Philip Murray, head of the CIO, and Sidney
Hillman, president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
America, the new PAC professed to be nonpartisan, although
everyone knew its mission was to back Roosevelt and other
New Deal candidates. “Let’s quit blaming the politicians
and face the responsibility of full citizenship,” Hillman
told the membership. “Let’s become politicians ourselves.”  Union members responded by giving the PAC a war chest
of $600,000, an amount that hostile newspapers soon
exaggerated. Because the donations were voluntary, and came
from members rather than union treasuries, they didn’t
violate the Smith-Connally Act’s restrictions.  The Democrats had lost heavily in the 1942 elections
partly because voter turnout had been so low. So Hillman
sent an army of canvassers into the field with pamphlets,
leaflets and stickers. Affiliated unions were urged to form
their own local PACs to get out the vote and galvanize
their membership.  Registration of new voters rose throughout the
country, especially in cities. In the spring primaries of
1944, several antilabor candidates were defeated and three
chose not to run again. One of them was Martin Dies of
 Texas , the chairman of the House Un-American Activities
Committee, which investigated the PAC in January 1944. He
withdrew after voter registration climbed sharply in his
district. Kiplinger’s Magazine warned that the “CIO
Political Action Committee (Hillman) must now be recognized
as a major force in elections.”  ‘A Great Campaign’  Conservatives accused the PAC of being dominated by
communists with a collectivist agenda. Time magazine called
the PAC’s attempt to convert at least some of the CIO’s 5
million members into political activists “something unique
in American labor, and in American history. It is the first
sophisticated, thoroughly professional entry of labor into
politics … the most formidable pressure group yet devised
by labor -- a pressure group backed with money, brains and
an army of willing workers.”  Roosevelt won the election after what proved to be an
ugly fight with  New York  Governor Thomas E. Dewey. Opinions
differed sharply over how significant a role the PAC had
played in his victory, but the president didn’t hesitate to
express gratitude for its support.  “It was a great campaign,” Roosevelt wrote to Hillman,
“and nobody knows better than I do how much you contributed
to its success.”  (Maury Klein is a professor of history emeritus at the
University of  Rhode Island  and the author of 16 books on
American history. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Maury Klein at
 maurykl@verizon.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 