-- Fitbit Aims at IPhone Couch Potatoes: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-10-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fitbit-aims-at-iphone-couch-potatoes-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Last year, I looked at a neat little
device called a  Fitbit , designed to encourage you to get off
your keister and be more active.  I generally liked it, except for one thing: It could only
send its data to a personal computer, an anachronism in this era
of the mobile device.  Now there’s a new Fitbit -- two versions, actually -- that
addresses that weakness. Taking advantage of advances in
Bluetooth wireless technology, Fitbit puts data right where it
belongs: on the smartphone in your pocket or purse, no PC
required.  I’ve been trying one of the new Fitbits, the $60 Zip, for
the last couple of weeks. In general, it worked well and was
extremely easy to use, though I ran into significant glitches
with the accompanying software.  Wearable activity trackers have proliferated recently. Many
of them, such as  Nike (NKE) ’s FuelBand and  BodyMedia ’s FIT, are
considerably more expensive, designed for serious fitness buffs,
or both.  Fitbit’s goals are much more modest, and its target
audience is couch potatoes -- people for whom even a relatively
modest amount of extra activity per day can yield significant
benefits.  Tamagotchi Redux  The tiny Zip is half the size of my thumb, weighs about a
quarter of an ounce and resembles a Tamagotchi, the digital toy
that became a fad in the 1990s.  It comes in five colors, ranging from unobtrusive charcoal
to look-at-me magenta, along with a matching rubber-like clip
that allows it to be worn on clothing. (My bright lime test unit
lived mostly in my pocket.)  The device has a simple monochrome screen. You scroll
through its various functions -- primarily steps taken, distance
walked and calories burned -- by simply tapping the display. The
data is automatically fed to a free Fitbit app on your phone.
It’s also uploaded to a website, where you can explore it in
greater detail.  Radio-Shack Run  The original Fitbit was recharged by placing it on a small
base station hooked up to a computer. The Zip, by contrast, uses
a coin-size battery that should last four to six months before
requiring a trip to your neighborhood  Radio Shack. (RSH)   At the moment, Apple’s iPhone 4S and iPhone 5 are the only
phones with the low-power Bluetooth features needed for direct
syncing. You can even set the Fitbit app to automatically update
itself in the background, though be careful of the potential
battery drain on your phone.  Fitbit says it’s working on compatibility for phones
running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. Until then, Android
users as well as owners of older iPhones will need the included
Bluetooth USB adapter to wirelessly sync with a computer.  The idea behind the Zip is simple: By tracking just how
active you’ve been, or haven’t been, you’ll want to do more to
reach your fitness goals.  Surpassing those goals earns you badges and other digital
congratulations. For extra encouragement, you can post your
results on  Facebook (FB)  or Twitter. And you can manually enter
information on what you’ve been eating and doing to create a
fuller picture of your fitness or lack thereof.  Buggy App  The biggest problems I encountered weren’t with the device
itself, but with bugs in the app. If I were manually logging an
activity, for example, I had to enter “AM” for “PM,” and
vice versa. Anything I added was automatically assigned to the
current day, even if I told the app I had actually done it the
day before.  I opened the app once to find all my data missing. After a
moment of panic, I completely shut down and relaunched the app,
and my information magically reappeared. The company says it
recently updated the app to address some problems and is
continuing to work on others.  The Fitbit is also limited in what it tracks. If I wanted
to get credit for my hour on the stationary bike at the gym --
OK, so it was only 50 minutes -- I had to enter it manually into
the app. Ditto for time spent on the exercise machines or doing
crunches.  Otherwise, as far as the Fitbit was concerned, I could have
been sprawled on the sofa sipping a cold one and watching the
 San Francisco 49ers . A new model called the Fitbit One,
currently available for pre-order for $100, will do more, but
only a little: It knows when you’re taking the stairs and gives
you extra credit for it, measures sleep cycles and has an alarm
to wake you when it thinks you will feel most refreshed.  By slipping the PC harness, Fitbit has made an already
ultra-easy device even simpler to use. For anyone even
moderately concerned about the need to get moving, at $60, it’s
almost a no-brainer. Or it will be once they clean up that buggy
app.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 