-- Forint May Extend World’s Best Gain on IMF Aid, Nordea Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-10T15:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/forint-may-extend-world-s-best-gain-on-imf-aid-nordea-says-1-.html
The forint may extend the world’s
biggest rally this year as the government works to obtain aid
from the  International Monetary Fund , Nordea Bank AB said today.  Hungary’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 281.98 per euro by
4:27 p.m. in Budapest, bringing its appreciation this year to 12
percent, the best among more than 100 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds
fell five basis point, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.175
percent, the lowest since Sept. 2011.  Hungary would like to reach an agreement with the IMF even
though the country can finance its debt without financial aid,
government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said in an interview on
public television M1 today. If the pact comes about it would
help stabilize the country’s credit rating after it was cut to
junk,  Frank Gill , an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said in
Vienna today.  “The forint will likely keep gaining against the euro in
the next three months,” Aurelija Augulyte, a Copenhagen-based
analyst at Nordea, wrote in a research report today.  The government, which requested the bailout almost 11
months ago, has yielded to demands from the IMF and EU to scrap
laws which threatened the independence of the central bank.
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  won’t give in to what he says are
demands for “austerity” measures by the IMF, according to
advertisements run in newspapers yesterday.  The negotiations “will likely not be easy as Orban’s
government is not willing to compromise on all IMF conditions,”
Nordea said. “But it is moving forward so far.”  There’s no evidence yet that  Hungary  is making progress
with the IMF and the rating impact of a potential deal would
depend on whether the government complies with aid conditions,
S&P’s Gill said. The Cabinet has “no credible medium-term
fiscal adjustment” plan after budget steps based on one-time
measures in the past two years, he said today.  Fitch reduced Hungary’s rating to BB+ in January, after S&P
in the previous month had assigned the same ranking, the highest
non-investment grade, and Moody’s Investors Service cut it to
Ba1 in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  