-- Fraser Sullivan Founder Tighe Sullivan Dies in Helicopter Crash
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fraser-sullivan-co-founder-tighe-sullivan-dies-in-copter-crash.html
Tighe Sullivan, co-founder of WCAS
Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC, was killed in a
helicopter crash in  Pennsylvania  while returning from a golf
outing. He was 51.  Sullivan, of Darien,  Connecticut , was among three
passengers in a helicopter that went down in a wooded area in
Coolbaugh Township about 8 p.m. on Oct. 9, the Monroe County
coroner’s office said yesterday in a statement. The pilot,
William Ellsworth, 52, of Califon, New Jersey, also died, while
passenger Stephen Barral of Bernardsville, New Jersey, a
fraternity brother of Sullivan’s, survived.  Sullivan started the leveraged-loan firm with John Fraser
in 2005 after leaving  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , where he was a managing
director in high-yield sales. He is survived by his wife,
Callie, and their children, Jessie, 18, Lila, 17, and Tiger, 15,
said Richard Lombard, his father-in-law.  “He was just a wonderful guy,” Lombard said in a
telephone interview. “Full of spirit. An action person.”  Sullivan, an alumnus of Colgate University in Hamilton,  New
York , enjoyed wakeboarding and skiing and coached his son’s
hockey teams, Lombard said. A service will be held at the United
Church of Rowayton in Norwalk, Connecticut, at 1 p.m. on Oct.
14, he said.  3i Group Plc (III) , the U.K’s oldest private-equity firm, said in
August that it was starting a U.S. unit with New York-based WCAS
Fraser Sullivan, which managed about $2.5 billion at the time.
Sullivan was slated to be co-head of the U.S. business when the
transaction was completed, reporting to Jeremy Ghose, chief
executive officer of 3i Debt Management.  Deutsche Bank  “We are all shocked and saddened by this tragic loss,”
Ghose said in a statement. “I know how excited Tighe was to be
part of 3i and, together with John Fraser and his colleagues, we
will continue to build on the foundations he laid and to keep
his memory in our hearts.”  At Deutsche Bank, Sullivan helped market $185 billion of
 junk bonds  and bridge loans, according to a biography on the
WCAS Fraser Sullivan  website . Before joining Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank in 2001, he worked at ING Barings LLC and First
Union Securities Inc., according to  records  maintained by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Sullivan covered a lot of big accounts at Deutsche Bank,
said Michael Herzig, who worked with him there. He had a “big,
energetic, enthusiastic personality,” said Herzig, 44, now a
managing director at THL Credit Senior Loan Strategies, a unit
of private-equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners LP.  ‘People Person’  That popularity on Wall Street helped Sullivan recruit
talented employees when he ventured out on his own, Fraser, the
co-founder, said in a telephone interview. The two met in 1983
when both were working for Chase Manhattan Bank and had talked
about starting a company together since around 2000, he said.  “Tighe’s a people person,” Fraser said. “He was great at
developing relationships with people that ultimately proved
valuable.”  When the helicopter went down, Sullivan was returning from
a golf trip to Pine Valley,  New Jersey , Lombard said. They had
dropped off a passenger in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and were
returning to the New York area when the pilot diverted toward a
local airport to escape bad weather, Chief Harry Lewis of the
Pocono Mountain Regional Police Department said in a statement.
They crashed about a mile from Mt. Pocono Airport, he said.  Police found the wreckage in a heavily wooded area near
Interstate 380 at 2:29 a.m., about 6 1/2 hours after it went
down, according to the coroner. After an initial search failed,
Barral’s mobile phone signal eventually led police to the crash
site, WNEP-TV of Moosic, Pennsylvania, reported on its  website .  Fraternity Brothers  Sullivan and Ellsworth were dead when police arrived, the
coroner said. Barral, who was riding in the helicopter’s back
seat, was taken to Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, according to the coroner.  Ellsworth flew helicopters part-time. He was also a first
officer for American Airlines Inc., based at New York’s
LaGuardia airport, according to Sam Mayer, a spokesman for the
pilots union. He been an American pilot for 19 years, the
airline said in an e-mailed statement.  Sullivan and Barral were both members of the Beta Theta Pi
fraternity at Colgate, Charlie Herzog, a fraternity brother,
said in a telephone interview. Barral graduated in 1984 and
worked on  Wall Street , Herzog said.  ‘Star Personality’  Sullivan was born on March 16, 1961, in Montclair, New
Jersey, his wife said. His mother, Cheryl, made furnishings,
such as curtains, and his father, John, was manager of
operations for retailer B. Altman & Co., she said. Both are
deceased.  After two years at Montclair State College, Sullivan
transferred to Colgate, his father-in-law said. He borrowed from
an acquaintance and sold newspapers to pay tuition and became a
“star personality,” he said. Sullivan joined the economics and
politics clubs and took a turn on the student-run radio station,
 according to  Colgate’s website.  “He was a total Horatio Alger story,” Lombard said.  Three years after he graduated, Sullivan met Callie while
he was in the training program at Chase and she was working as
an art saleswoman, she said. A mutual friend set them up on a
blind date at the Dew Drop Inn, a bar in New York’s  Greenwich
Village , on Dec. 5, 1986, she said.  Lake George  “My friend said that he had red hair and was kind of
obnoxious and liked to drink a lot of beer,” Callie said. “I
said, ‘Why would I want to go out with somebody like that?’ She
said, ‘Because you like a challenge.’  “We fell in love at first sight, that was it,” said
Callie, a former member of the Darien Board of Selectmen.  The couple were married in 1989, and in 2000 they bought a
house on Lake George in upstate New York, which they renovated.
He used one of their boats for wakeboarding there, she said.  “He would spend hours dragging people around the lake,”
Callie said. “He was there every weekend in the summer.”  Sullivan served on Colgate’s alumni council, endowed a
scholarship for his fraternity and received a service award from
the school in 2008, according to the college’s  website . His
daughter Jessie is now a freshman there, Lombard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  