-- Thai Billionaire Faces Hurdle in Fraser & Neave Bid
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-10-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/fraser-neave-gets-s-1-4-billion-offer-for-hospitality-unit.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s $7.3 billion bid to buy  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) 
is under threat after the  Singapore  conglomerate received a
competing offer for one of its businesses.  Singapore-based  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  made a $1.1
billion bid for the company’s serviced apartment business,
Chairman Stephen Riady said in an interview yesterday. An
independent adviser has found Charoen’s offer “not compelling,
though fair,” F&N’s board said in a letter to shareholders.  The outside bid for an F&N business is a setback for
Charoen as he seeks to expand his Thai real-estate and beverage
businesses in  Asia . The billionaire agreed to buy a stake in F&N
in July, setting off a fight for the 129-year-old conglomerate
and assets spanning from soft-drinks to property.  “It creates more awareness of the undervaluation of the
property and could make it harder for the Thais to gain
control,” said Goh Han Peng, analyst at DMG & Partners Research
Pte in Singapore, referring to the bid for the serviced
apartment unit. “The Thais would want majority control of more
than 50 percent of F&N so that they can influence the future of
the conglomerate.”  Charoen’s offer of S$8.88 a share is at the low end of the
adviser’s estimates that value the company at S$8.30 to S$11.22
a share, the board said yesterday. F&N directors who hold shares
currently do not intend to accept the billionaire’s offer, the
board said.  Better Return  F&N shareholders last month agreed to sell its brewing
business to  Heineken NV (HEIA) , while Charoen’s TCC Assets Ltd. on
Sept. 13 made a S$9 billion ($7.3 billion) bid for the 70
percent of the Singapore company he doesn’t already control.  The bid for the apartment assets “shows F&N could yield a
better return for shareholders and sell the assets slowly and
bit by bit by going into different negotiations with different
interested parties,” said Jason Hughes, head of premium client
management at IG Markets in Singapore.  Charoen may have to counter with a higher bid for F&N
because the S$1.4 billion offer for the serviced residence
business “is a premium to the value at which F&N is covering
this property in their books,” according to Jonathan Foster,
Singapore-based director of Global Special Situations at
Religare Capital Markets.  “This gives the board some leverage now to point out that
TCC is fundamentally mis-valuing the rest of the F&N assets,”
he said. “It will be sensible for TCC to raise the offer.”  F&N serviced apartments in Singapore,  China ,  Australia  had
a book value of at least S$776 million as of June 30, based on
Bloomberg calculations from a Oct. 8 company statement.  Serviced Apartments  Jennifer Yu, a spokeswoman for F&N, declined to comment.
Vichate Tantiwanich, Thai Beverage’s spokesman, didn’t answer a
call or respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The hospitality business is part of F&N’s property unit,
which gave the conglomerate about 30 percent of its 2011 revenue
of S$6.3 billion. F&N got 12 percent of sales from soft drinks
last year and 17 percent from dairies, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  F&N rose 0.6 percent to close at S$8.93 in Singapore
yesterday. The stock has been trading above the S$8.88 a share
that Charoen offered in September.  F&N shareholders last month  agreed  to sell the company’s 40
percent stake in Tiger beer maker  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) 
for S$5.6 billion to Heineken. That deal is expected to  close  in
November.  Conglomerate Break-Up  The agreement with Heineken spurred speculation that F&N’s
remaining businesses could attract other bidders, prompting a
break-up of the 129-year-old conglomerate.  Japan ’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  , which has a 15 percent stake
in F&N, has said it is interested in its soft-drink and food
businesses. Hajime Kawasaki, Kirin’s spokesman, declined to
comment.  Overseas Union, a property affiliate of Indonesia-based
Lippo Group, in August said it is seeking acquisitions to almost
double the assets to S$10 billion in as early as three years.  F&N’s serviced apartment business “has global reach and is
a top brand and hospitality is one of our core businesses so
this proposal to Fraser & Neave is in line with our strategic
growth,” plans, Riady, the chairman of Overseas Union, said
yesterday.  F&N said it won’t respond to the offer for the serviced
apartments, citing takeover rules and the business’s value
within the conglomerate’s property division, according to
yesterday’s statement to the Singapore stock exchange.  Charoen’s unlisted business TCC Group has a real-estate
unit. His  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , which sells the Chang brand of
beer, gets almost all its revenue from its home market.  Charoen, 68, was born and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown
district. He bid for the rights to operate distilleries during a
liberalization of the nation’s liquor industry, before expanding
into beer, alcohol, sugar, and packaging businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  