-- LG Electronics Is Said to Make New Google Nexus Phone
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-10-11T07:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/lg-said-to-make-new-google-nexus-phone-to-be-unveiled-this-month.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  is developing a
Nexus smartphone for  Google (GOOG)  Inc., becoming the third
manufacturer to build phones for the U.S. company, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter.  The device, to be shown this month, is based on LG’s
Optimus G model, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the project isn’t public.  For LG, its first Nexus project would deepen a partnership
with Google as the Seoul-based company tries to compete with
Samsung Electronics Co. Google has previously developed phones
with Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)  to help maintain the dominance of its
mobile operating system against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Jinny Lee, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for LG, and Shari Yoder Doherty, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment.  LG’s Optimus G, which went on sale in South Korea last
month, has a 4.7-inch screen and runs on a processor made by
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  for fourth-generation Long Term Evolution, or LTE,
networks offering faster Internet connections.  Technology blogs, including BGR, have posted what they say
are leaked photos of the new Nexus phone with LG’s logo.  LG’s mobile-phone division had an operating  loss  of 56.7
billion won ($51 million) in the second quarter, compared with
Samsung’s operating profit of 4.19 trillion won at its
telecommunications business. LG was No. 5 in global handset
sales that quarter, and Samsung was No. 1, according to Gartner
Inc.  Android, IPhone  Devices running Android controlled 64 percent of the
smartphone market in the second quarter, compared with 19
percent for the iPhone, according to Gartner.  Samsung has sold about 500,000 Nexus S phones in the U.S.
as of June 30, according to court documents filed in  California 
as part of a  patent dispute  with Apple over devices including
the Nexus.  The operator of the most-used search engine unveiled the
Nexus 7 tablet computer, manufactured by Taipei-based Asustek
Computer Inc., in June.  LG, the world’s No. 2 TV maker, has also worked on a set
using Google software.  Google shares rose less than 1 percent to $744.56 at the
close in New York yesterday. LG fell 0.6 percent to 67,200 won
at the close of trading in  Seoul , while the benchmark Kospi
index dropped 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  