-- Gasoline Gains on Speculation Plant Work to Limit Supply
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-10T18:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/gasoline-gains-on-speculation-plant-work-to-limit-supply.html
Gasoline advanced on speculation
that refinery shutdowns and delayed restarts will threaten to
reduce inventory levels.  Futures rose as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said yesterday that a fire-
damaged crude unit at its 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond,
 California , refinery won’t restart this year. On the East Coast,
Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary won’t
restart the fluid catalytic cracker at its Trainer,
Pennsylvania,  refinery  until next week, a person with direct
knowledge of the refinery’s operations said yesterday.  “There may be an underlying sense that our aging refinery
fleet is having issues,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Gasoline for November delivery rose 0.2 cent to $2.9607 a
gallon at 1:39 p.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  East Coast stockpiles  sank to near four-year lows as of
Sept. 28, according to data from the Energy Department.  The Energy Department will probably report tomorrow that
gasoline inventories rose 250,000 barrels last week and
stockpiles of distillates fell 1 million barrels, according to
the median estimate of 11 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg.  Gasoline shipments to the U.S. are poised to decline as
European refineries continue maintenance, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Sixteen tankers were booked for the voyage for
the two weeks to Oct. 24, the median estimate of seven
shipbrokers and traders who specialize in transporting the fuel.
That’s three fewer than last week.  Pump Prices  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.813 yesterday, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization. The average retail price in California
fell 0.5 cent to $4.666 from a yesterday’s record of $4.671 a
gallon, AAA reported. It was the first drop in the state in 12
days.  Heating oil futures gained as gasoil rose 1.8 percent in
London, increasing the incentive to ship diesel fuel from the
U.S. to  Europe .  “Europe continues to draw diesel supplies from the U.S.,
especially right now when there’s a lot of European refineries
undergoing maintenance,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  November-delivery heating oil advanced 1.9 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $3.2222 a gallon on the Nymex, the first increase in
three days. Prices touched $3.2424, the highest intraday level
since Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  