-- George Michael Croons, Rothko, Film Fest: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-12T14:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/george-michael-croons-rothko-film-fest-london-weekend.html
Shakespeare heads for Bollywood.  The Royal Shakespeare Company has boldly transposed “Much
Ado About Nothing” to the courtyard of a large Delhi home.
Besides the exotic set, the production features a feisty
performance from the British-Indian comic actress Meera Syal.  Her sari-clad, marriage-fearing Beatrice displays a rich
palette of gestures and emotions. While the rest of the cast
can’t match her timing and talent, Syal makes it worth the trip.  “Much Ado About Nothing” is at the Noel Coward Theatre,
85-88 St. Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4AU. Information:
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5136.  Saturday  If you’re upset about Tate Modern’s Mark Rothko room
closing after a canvas got vandalized, don’t fret: There are
other Rothko works around.  New York’s Pace Gallery has opened a London branch in the
grandest of surroundings: at the back of the Royal Academy of
Arts. For its first show, Pace pairs Rothko’s late paintings --
superposed blocks of black and gray -- with Japanese
photographer Hiroshi Sugimoto’s hazy seascapes.  The exhibition ends Nov. 17 at the Pace Gallery, 6
Burlington Gardens, London W1S 3ET. Information:
 http://www.pacegallery.com/london  or +44-20-7437-1050.  The Frieze Art Fair is back in Regent’s Park this week,
with a new twin located a short walk away.  Europe ’s biggest living-artists fair runs through Sunday.
You’ll find the usual suspects -- Damien Hirst (dot painting,
drug cabinet), Tracey Emin (lewd embroidery), Richard Prince
(nurse painting) -- and will have to look hard for up-and-coming
contemporary-art gems.  The pre-21st-century Frieze Masters is a breath of fresh
air. Quieter and aimed at a richer, older crowd, it’s full of
visual treats, including a cheek-to-cheek Picasso couple (sold
by Van de Weghe, priced $8.5 million) and Richard Avedon images
from his 1979 “In the American West” series (at Gagosian).  Information:  http://www.friezelondon.com  and
 http://www.friezemasters.com . Frieze London costs 27 pounds
($43.24) to view alone, and 35 pounds when combined with Frieze
Masters.  Saturday Night  George Michael’s concerts now come with strings attached.
The singer has added an orchestra for his “Symphonica” tour.  He runs through some of his hits, with “A Different
Corner” even more a croon than ever, and adds a few torch songs
such as “Love Is a Losing Game” and “Wild Is the Wind.”  The dates are rescheduled from last December, when Michael
canceled because of pneumonia.  Earls Court One, Warwick Road, SW5 9TA, on Oct. 13 and 14.
Information: +44-20-7385-1200,  http://www.eco.co.uk  or
 http://www.georgemichael.com .  While Earl’s Court is no gastronomical destination, a new
French bistro is attracting diners. Garnier belongs to London
restaurant world veteran Eric Garnier, previously co-owner of
the popular Racine. Information: +44-20-7370-4536 or
 http://www.garnier-restaurant-london.co.uk .  Otherwise, you can watch  Russia ’s hottest prima ballerina
play a dying bird.  Natalia Osipova  last year quit the Bolshoi for St.
Petersburg’s  Mikhailovsky Theatre . The ex-gymnast, famous for
her vertiginous leaps, stars in “Swan Lake” at the Royal Opera
House alongside the Cuban prodigy Carlos Acosta.  Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7240-1200.  Sunday  This is the opening weekend of the London Film Festival, a
chance to see films well before their actual release.  The festival opens with Tim Burton’s 3D animation picture
“Frankenweenie,” and later includes the world premiere of
“Crossfire Hurricane” -- celebrating the  Rolling Stones’  first
half-century on the world stage.  The festival, which offers dozens of movies in almost every
language, ends Oct. 21:  http://www.bfi.org.uk/lff .  When in the West End, find time to try the Green Man &
French Horn, St. Martin’s Lane. This is the latest venue of the
team behind Terroirs, Brawn and Soif, known for natural wines
and simple French food. The focus here is the Loire region.
Information: +44-20-7836-2645. (No website.)  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 