-- Gevo, Alnylam, Megaupload, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-10T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/gevo-alnylam-megaupload-google-intellectual-property.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biofuel producer
backed by French  oil company   Total SA (FP)  and specialty-chemicals
maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , received a patent for mechanical systems it
struggled to implement at its Minnesota factory.  Patent 8,283,505, received yesterday, covers Gevo’s
proprietary “platform-separation unit,” which the Englewood,
Colorado-based company said lowers the cost of producing
isobutanol.  Gevo halted isobutanol production Sept. 24 at its Luverne,
Minnesota, plant, which wasn’t meeting goals, and shifted to
ethanol while it adjusts the separation system, according to
General Counsel Brett Lund. When the plant went into operation
in May, the company said it would be making 1 million gallons
(3.8 million liters) a month by the end of the year. It’s
completed about 100,000 gallons of isobutanol since then.  “It wasn’t working at the optimal rate and cost
structure,” Lund said in an interview Oct. 8. “Rather than
making the changes at a big, commercial plant level, it’s much
more efficient, both from a timing and cost perspective, to make
those changes at a smaller, lab scale.”  Gevo processes corn into isobutanol that may be blended
with gasoline or refined into  jet fuel  and specialty chemicals.  The company’s so-called GIFT system, or Gevo integrated
fermentation technology, lets it extract isobutanol in vapor
form during production, which is 16 times more concentrated than
competing systems that distill it from a liquid, Lund said.  “This is the only commercially viable way to separate
isobutanol as it’s produced,” he said. “The difference is in
the cost. When you’re trying to make a fuel or a chemical that
sells for maybe $5 a gallon, you can’t afford a costly
distillation process.” Lund expects the Luverne plant to resume
isobutanol production next year.  Gevo applied for the patent in January 2012 with the
assistance of San Francisco’s Cooley LLP. According to the
database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office , Gevo has  12
issued U.S. patents  and  33 published and pending patent
applications .  Alnylam Says JPO Upheld Key Claims in RNAi Patent  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY) , an early-stage therapeutics
company, said in a statement that the Japanese Patent Office
upheld key claims in a patent opposed by Bio Think-Tank of
 Japan .  The patent, JP4095895, is related to small interfering RNA
and its use in the development and commercialization of RNAi
therapeutics.  Alnylam, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has an
exclusive license to this and related patents for RNAi
therapeutics through an agreement with Max Planck Innovation
GmbH, the licensing agent for the Max Planck Society.  In the U.S., the technology is covered by patents 7,056,704
and 7,078,196. It is also patented in the European Union and
China, the company said in its statement.  Mylan, Shionogi Settle Patent Suit Related to Orapred ODT  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based generics
pharmaceutical company, and Japan’s  Shionogi Pharma Inc. (4507)  settled
a patent dispute related to the coating system used for a
corticosteroid drug.  The companies resolved their dispute over Shionogi’s patent
6,740,341, according to an Oct. 5 filing in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Shionogi, based in  Osaka , sued Mylan in
December 2010 after the generics company filed an abbreviated
application to make a generic form of Orapred ODT.  The drug is used to treat allergies, skin conditions and
some autoimmune disorders.  Settlement terms weren’t disclosed, other than the mention
that there is now a license agreement in place between the two
companies. Mylan said in a statement yesterday that the
settlement is subject to review by the U.S. Justice Department
and the Federal Trade Commission.  The case is Shionogi Pharma Inc. v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 10-cv-01077, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Loses Bid to Dismiss Criminal Copyright Charges  Megaupload Ltd. failed to win dismissal from a criminal
case accusing the  Internet company  and its founder, Kim Dotcom,
of running a massive illegal file-sharing service.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
said in a ruling made public yesterday that the U.S. has
authority to bring copyright-infringement charges against
Megaupload even though it has no offices in the country.  The ruling was a victory for U.S. prosecutors who have
faced legal challenges since shutting down the company’s file-
sharing website and charging Dotcom and six other individuals in
January. A judge in New Zealand in June threw out warrants used
to seize the Internet entrepreneur’s property, delaying Dotcom’s
possible extradition by at least seven months.  O’Grady said the company could seek dismissal again
depending on how the case unfolds. He also said his ruling
“leaves open” argument that the indictment should be dismissed
until the government is able to hand Megaupload its charging
documents in accordance with federal court rules.  William Burck, a lawyer for the company, said Megaupload is
still considering its options.  “Although the judge deferred a final decision on whether
the case should be dismissed permanently until after the
extradition process in New Zealand is completed, he made it
clear that he will consider dismissing the case now on a
temporary basis,” Burck, a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP in Washington, said in an e-mail.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
said, “We’ll let the ruling speak for itself.”  Megaupload and Dotcom, 38, were indicted in what U.S.
prosecutors dubbed a “Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-
sharing website of generating more than $175 million in criminal
proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book and
software files. If convicted, Dotcom faces as long as 20 years
in prison for each of the racketeering and money-laundering
charges in the indictment, with the U.S. seeking his extradition
for a trial in Virginia.  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets in connection with what they said was among the largest
criminal copyright cases ever brought by the U.S.  More than 500 servers leased by Megaupload were located in
Virginia, giving the U.S. jurisdiction to prosecute the company,
the government argued in court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Disney, Fox Seek Ruling Lime Wire Infringed Movies, TV Shows  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and other movie and TV studios asked a
federal judge to rule that the file-sharing website Lime Wire
LLC and its founder, Mark Gorton, induced people to illegal acts
of downloading their shows and films for free.  The companies, which also include  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , Twentieth
Century Fox Film Corp. and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., seek
the same judgment a federal court granted to the  music industry 
against Lime Wire in 2010, according to a court filing in
 Manhattan  Oct. 8.  “Users by the tens of millions were attracted to LimeWire
to access -- for free -- infringing copies of virtually any type
of copyrighted content,” the entertainment companies said in
their motion for summary judgment.  The plaintiffs want U.S. District Judge Harold Baer to find
Lime Wire and Gorton liable for inducement of copyright
infringement without a trial. The movie and TV companies sued in
February.  In May 2010, U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood found Lime Wire
and Gorton liable for inducing copyright infringement of music
recordings. The site was shut down by an October 2010 court
order. Lime Wire settled with the recording industry for $105
million in May 2011 during a trial in Manhattan to determine
damages.  The case is Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v. Lime Wire
LLC, 12-0818, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Some Aussie Racehorse Trademarks to Belong to Racing Authority  Victoria Ltd., the governing authority for thoroughbred
horse racing in Australia’s State of Victoria, decreed that
horse owners who want to register a horse to race in the state
must waive their rights to register the horse’s name
independently as a trademark, the Sydney Morning Herald
 reported .  All trademark applications will be filed by the racing
authority instead, the newspaper reported.  The success of superstar race horse Black Caviar prompted
this move because the racing authority found that the process of
getting permission from her owners to use the horse’s name and
racing for promotional purposes was cumbersome, even given the
owners’ cooperation, according to the Herald.  Rob Hines, chief executive officer of the racing authority,
said that when the trademark rights belong to the industry
rather than individual owners, it removes the need to be asking
permission constantly, the Herald reported.  Using Zulu Synonym for ‘Hot’ Doesn’t Change Infringement Claim  The owner of South Africa’s “hot wings” trademark says a
competitor’s phrase that substitutes “shisa” -- the Zulu word
for “hot” -- is still infringing the trademark, Durban’s
Mercury newspaper  reported .  Golden Fried Chicken, operator of the 200-outlet  Chicken
Licken  restaurant chain, sued in the Durban High Court after
learning that the Big Jo’s chain had been using “hot wings” on
its menus, according to the newspaper.  When Big Jo’s changed the phrase to “shisa wings,” the
infringement continued, counsel for Chicken Licken said while
accusing the rival of trying to piggyback on the fame associated
with the “hot wings” mark, the newspaper reported.  The court issued an order Oct. 8 barring Big Jo’s use of
the phrase, and gave the chain an Oct. 25 deadline to file
opposition to the order being made permanent, according to the
Mercury.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  