-- Giants, A’s Stay Alive in MLB Series; Yankees Play Tonight
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-10T13:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/giants-top-reds-in-10-innings-to-pull-within-2-1-in-mlb-playoffs.html
The  San Francisco Giants  and  Oakland
Athletics  used strong pitching to stay alive in the Major League
Baseball playoffs.  The visiting Giants avoided elimination with a 2-1 win in
10 innings against the  Cincinnati Reds , while the A’s won 2-0 at
home against the  Detroit Tigers . The Reds and Tigers lead those
best-of-five series two games to one, with both Game 4s set for
today in Cincinnati and Oakland.  The other two division series, both tied 1-1, resume today.
The  New York  Yankees host the  Baltimore Orioles , and the
Washington Nationals welcome the  St. Louis Cardinals .  The Giants scored the winning run at Great American Ball
Park in Cincinnati on an error by third baseman Scott Rolen, an
eight-time Gold Glove winner as the best fielder at his
position.  San Francisco  batters had three hits in the game and
struck out 16 times.  “It was do or die for us,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy
told reporters. “We got a break there at the end.”  Giants starter Ryan Vogelsong allowed one run on three hits
in five innings, and the Reds were held to one hit in five
scoreless innings against four San Francisco relief pitchers.  The winner of the Giants-Reds series will face the
Nationals, who had the best record in baseball this season, or
the defending-champion Cardinals for a spot in the  World Series .
Today’s contest is the first postseason baseball game in the
U.S. capital city since 1933.  Four Athletics pitchers held the Tigers to four hits at the
Oakland Coliseum.  ‘Perfect Game’  Brett Anderson allowed two hits and struck out six in six
innings to get the win for the A’s in his first start since he
strained an abdominal muscle on Sept. 19. Ryan Cook, Sean Doolittle and Grant Balfour each added a scoreless inning in
relief for Oakland. Doolittle struck out all three batters he
faced to help extend the series, which has produced a total of
15 runs.  “They played a perfect game,” Tigers manager  Jim Leyland 
said in a news conference. “It was an excellent baseball game,
good pitching. Runs are at a premium so far in this series for
both teams.”  Seth Smith hit a solo homer in the fifth inning after
Yoenis Cespedes had a run-scoring single in the first.  “It was good to get off to a nice start,” A’s manager  Bob Melvin  told reporters. “Even though it was only one run, it set
a nice tone. It gets us to tomorrow.”  The A’s began the season 29th in the major leagues with a
$55 million payroll, compared to fifth-highest Detroit at $132
million, according to USA Today’s annual survey. The Oakland
roster was assembled by General Manager Billy Beane, whose
philosophy of evaluating players was the topic of  Michael Lewis ’s book “Moneyball.” Lewis is a Bloomberg columnist.  Oakland is 1-5 in postseason series since Beane took over
as general manager after the 1997 season, with the lone win
coming against the  Minnesota Twins  in 2006.  Betting Favorites  The Yankees are 17-5 favorites to win the World Series,
with the Reds at 18-5 and the Tigers at 4-1, according to the
Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Nationals are listed at 21-4,
meaning a winning $100 wager would return a $525 profit. They’re
followed by the Cardinals at 15-2, the Orioles at 12-1, the
Athletics at 13-1 and the Giants at 16-1.  Yankees manager Joe Girardi yesterday refused to rule out
dropping  Alex Rodriguez  in the batting order in Game 3 against
the Orioles.  Rodriguez, 37, whose 647 home runs rank fifth on the MLB
career list, has batted third or fourth in the New York lineup
in 120 of 121 starts this season.  Over the last two postseasons, Rodriguez has three hits in
27 at-bats and has struck out 11 times. He’s 1-for-9 with five
strikeouts so far against the Orioles while hitting third.  “We’re going to do whatever it takes to win this three-
game series,” Girardi said yesterday when asked at a news
conference whether Rodriguez might be lowered in the order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  