-- Goldman Profit Will Be Biggest Bank Surprise, ISI Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/goldman-profit-will-be-biggest-bank-surprise-isi-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  probably
will post a third-quarter profit that exceeds  Wall Street 
estimates more than that of any other big bank, according to
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC.  Gains on the firm’s own investments and revenue from
underwriting and trading debt will help New York-based Goldman
Sachs earn $2.70 a share, ISI analysts led by Ed Najarian said
yesterday in a research note. The average  estimate  of 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is $2.27.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , ranked first
and fourth by assets among U.S. banks, are set to kick off the
industry’s third-quarter earnings season tomorrow. Goldman
Sachs, the fifth-largest bank and the one that gets the highest
percentage of revenue from trading, is scheduled for Oct. 16.  “We expect most large banks to beat” earnings-per-share,
or EPS, estimates, Najarian wrote. “The main drivers of EPS
upside should be stronger than expected mortgage origination
revenue and debt capital markets revenue.”  Najarian predicts New York-based JPMorgan will report
earnings per share of $1.20 and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
88 cents, both one cent better than the average  estimate  of
analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. lender,
offer the biggest potential share increases from third-quarter
results, according to Najarian. That’s because both stocks are
valued at 8 to 9 times their estimated “core” annual earnings,
which excludes one-time gains and losses, he wrote. Citigroup
may earn $1.01 a share in the quarter, beating the average
estimate by 4 cents, according to the note.  Goldman Sachs’s stock, which has  climbed  14 percent since
the end of August, already factors in higher profit, Najarian
wrote. If third-quarter profit of $2.70 a share is annualized to
$10.80, the stock is valued at 11.1 times earnings.  JPMorgan’s own bank research team, led by London-based Kian Abouhossein, also published a note yesterday raising its
estimates for third-quarter revenue from investment banking and
fixed-income trading and recommended owning a higher weighting
in banks tied to those activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 