-- Gold Best of Biggest ETFs as Traders Seek Haven: Riskless Return
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/gold-best-of-biggest-etfs-as-traders-seek-haven-riskless-return.html
Exchange-traded funds tracking  gold 
and inflation-protected Treasuries provided the best risk-
adjusted returns of the biggest ETFs in the past five years as
record stimulus by the  Federal Reserve  sent investors searching
for inflation havens.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the SPDR Gold
Trust gained 5.9 percent in the five years ended yesterday when
adjusting for price swings, topping the list of the 10 largest
exchange-traded funds in the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg
show. iShares Barclays US Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities ranks second with a return of 5.8 percent.  “Gold and TIPS are the most liquid way to get exposure to
inflation,” said Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5
billion as chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust in
 Boston . “The volatility in gold and TIPs will remain low going
forward as the ugly head of inflation will emerge, and we will
see a steady increase in gold demand.”  The two ETFs beat funds tracking stocks and corporate bonds
as 10-year expectations for rising consumer prices jumped to the
highest since May 2006, amid three rounds of asset purchases by
the Fed and a record federal debt. While a weak labor market has
held current inflation in check,  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said Oct. 5 the Fed’s open-ended plan
to flood the economy with $40 billion a month will stoke
inflation.  The Gold ETF Volatility Index has tumbled 32 percent this
year, signaling that traders continue to expect the investment
won’t be hampered with big swings.  ‘Reflation’ Bet  Investors have “to make a bet on reflation or deflation
and recognize that the market power currently rests with central
banks,” Gross, who manages the $278 billion Total Return Fund
at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in an interview Oct. 5. “We are betting at Pimco on
reflation.”  Gross has urged investors to buy TIPS and bonds with short
maturities, or real assets such as gold and real estate.  The Fed said last month it would expand holdings of long-
term securities with open-ended purchases of mortgage debt a
month and keep the benchmark interest rate near zero percent
“at least through mid-2015.” The central bank purchased $2.3
trillion in government and housing debt in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 through June 2011.  Ray Dalio , the billionaire investor who runs the world’s
largest hedge fund at Bridgewater Associates LP, has called QE3
the “new interest rate,” a reference to the fact that the
Fed’s benchmark rate is already near zero and the bank is
resorting to asset purchases to market rates lower. All
investors should hold some gold in their portfolios, he said.  Total Returns  SPDR Gold Trust had a total return of 134 percent over the
past five years, the best among the 10 biggest ETFs, and the
third-lowest volatility. The TIPS ETF had the lowest volatility
and the third-highest total return. The  iShares iBoxx Investment
Grade Corporate Bond Fund , second by total return and by
volatility, placed third.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The ranking of the 10 biggest U.S. ETFs by market
capitalization includes funds tracking the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, the Nasdaq Composite Index, emerging-market shares and
corporate bonds.  The jump in demand for gold and TIPS has come even while
most inflation indicators have remained stagnant. U.S. consumer
prices, excluding volatile food and fuel costs, were little
changed for a second month in August, Labor Department figures
show. Gains in the cost of living are likely to stay near the
Fed’s goal of about 2 percent this year and in 2013, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 74 economists.  Inflation Expectations  Inflation averaged 2.2 percent over the past five years.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey are forecasting that consumer
prices will climb 1.9 percent this quarter, accelerating from
1.6 percent in the previous three months, according to the
median of 68 estimates.  Investors initially increased their inflation expectations
after the Fed announced its plan for a third round of asset
purchases. The gap between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS,
widened to 2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17, the highest since
May 2006. The so-called break-even rate, which measures how much
traders anticipate consumer prices will rise over the life of
the debt, has since narrowed to 2.55 percentage points.  Static Demand  Demand to protect against higher long-term bond yields over
the next six months has been static since Bernanke announced the
third round of quantitative easing, Barclays Plc data show.  Investor gold buying may also slow, according to ABN Amro
Bank NV. The bank forecast on Oct. 2 that prices would drop to
$1,700 by the end of the year. That would be a decline of 3.7
percent from gold’s close yesterday of $1,765.  While the U.S. labor market helped keep domestic inflation
pressure in check, the  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.8
percent in September after 43 months of staying above 8 percent.
The surprise decline in the U.S. unemployment rate may give
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign a boost a month
before the election.  Whoever wins the presidency will contend with a budget on a
trajectory characterized as unsustainable by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke . The U.S. may tumble into a recession next
year if Congress fails to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases, International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an
interview with CBS Oct. 1.  Budget Impasse  The U.S. faced an impasse over raising the debt ceiling
last year until Congress approved a plan to head off a default
and Obama signed the legislation on Aug. 2, 2011. The  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  slumped 3.9 percent in the month before the deal, and
Treasuries returned 2.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  In the month leading to the agreement, the SPDR Gold Trust
again placed highest in the riskless return ranking and the TIPs
fund was second. The Vanguard U.S. Total Stock Market fund and
the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY)  did the worst.  Gold’s rally that began in 2001 is the longest since at
least 1920 in  London . The SPDR Gold Trust’s 60-day historical
volatility has fallen 64 percent from a 22-month high on Oct.
26. Central banks increased their holdings of the metal, and may
add close to 500 metric tons this year, according to the London-
based World Gold Council.  Record Hoard  Investors have piled into gold in the past eight years,
hoarding a record 2,582.43 metric  tons  of the metal in global
ETPs as of yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Holdings
have increased every year since the data begins in 2004. U.S.
gold-coin  sales  last month climbed to 68,500 ounces, the highest
since January.  The rising demand will probably mean more price gains for
the metal. Credit Suisse Group AG on Sept. 28 forecast that gold
will reach $1,800 an ounce in three months, and Newmont Mining
Corp. Chief Executive Officer said Sept. 26 that the metal will
touch $2,500 in three years. Billionaire investor  George Soros 
more than doubled his investment in the SPDR Gold Trust to
884,400 shares as of June 30, compared with three months
earlier, the latest government filing showed.  Buy TIPS  Yields for TIPs maturing in one to 20 years are near record
lows, and traders are even paying more than face value to hold
the securities. TIPS are typically less volatile than nominal
Treasury bonds as changes in so-called real yields, which affect
TIPS, are less volatile than changes in nominal yields.  Bond yields have been mostly below the Labor Department’s
consumer-price index since April 2011, resulting in negative
real yields as investors sought the safety of  U.S. government
debt . The fixed payment on TIPS, known as the real yield, was
pushed below zero on TIPS maturing from one through 20 years as
the rise in the CPI was greater than the yield on the notes,
which fell with other Treasury yields.  “The Fed has told us that they are more focused on growth
than they are on inflation and have hinted that they are willing
for inflation to rise even higher,” said Donald Ellenberger,
who oversees about $10 billion as co-head of government and
mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors Inc. in
Pittsburgh.  ‘Inflation Worries’  Neither Obama nor his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney ,
“can do much about the fiscal situation in the near term,”
said Martin Murenbeeld, the chief economist at Toronto-based
DundeeWealth Inc., which manages about C$100 billion ($97
billion) of assets.  “The die is cast in the short run,” Murenbeeld said.
“The  U.S. economy  is not growing rapidly and the accommodative
policy will have to continue. The inflation worries will remain,
and I see both these investments getting bids.”  The yield gap between 10-year notes and TIPS, a signal of
traders’ expectations for  inflation , has risen to 2.55
percentage points after touching a 2012 low of 1.9 percentage
points on Jan. 3. The gauge will rise as high as 2.6 percent by
the end of the year, said Michael Pond, head of global
inflation-linked research in  New York  at Barclays Plc.  “The Fed couldn’t be clearer: they are on hold for a long
time and are now venturing into unchartered waters, as inflation
expectations have never been this high during any of the
previous rounds of QE,”  Mihir Worah , who manages Pimco’s $22
billion Commodity Real Return Strategy Fund from Newport Beach,
 California , said. “They don’t mind higher inflation to drive
growth, and as long as that is the situation, and real  interest
rates  stay low, gold and TIPS will continue to benefit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  