-- Goldman’s Evans Says More Revenue May Come From Emerging Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-10T08:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/goldman-s-evans-sees-less-pain-from-china-economic-rebalancing.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  expects
 emerging markets  to provide a greater share of its revenue once
the global economy recovers, after proving “resilient” in the
current crisis, Vice Chairman J. Michael Evans said.  Emerging markets may contribute growth in all three of the
bank’s basic businesses, Evans said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television from  Seoul  today, listing mergers and
acquisitions, asset management and securities. He declined to
give specific revenue figures.  “We could be in a challenging environment for the
foreseeable future,” Evans said. “If things even get a bit
better in  Europe  and the U.S., we can count on” emerging
markets to contribute more, he said.  Emerging economies have expanded at an average annual pace
of 6.2 percent during the past five years, outstripping
developed markets’ 0.8 percent pace, and will grow 5.3 percent
this year, compared with 1.3 percent, according to data and
forecasts from the International Monetary Fund. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has climbed 8.3 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent gain in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed countries.  Weakness in global markets has made it easier for China to
shift toward an economic-growth model that’s less dependent on
exports and more on domestic demand, said Evans.  The country is responding to the slowdown in the U.S. and
Europe with “significant structural reform,” Evans, who
oversees the New York-based bank’s businesses in emerging
markets, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today
from Seoul.  Growth Model  “It would have been a more painful transition if that
transition was required in a stronger market, particularly in
the Western world,” Evans said. In “the last four or five
years,  China  has had an opportunity to observe that the export-
driven model of growth is no longer a sustainable model.”  President Hu Jintao pledged last month to boost domestic
demand and promote more balanced growth as a slowdown in exports
puts pressure on the world’s  second-largest economy . Spending on
roads, bridges, subways and other public-works projects surged
in 2009 and 2010 as much of a 4 trillion-yuan ($636 billion)
stimulus and an unprecedented expansion in bank lending was
directed toward local government projects.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Owen Thomas in London at 
 othomas17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  