-- Good Viruses Will Fight Acne as 1915 Discovery Is Revived
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/good-viruses-will-fight-acne-as-1915-discovery-is-revived.html
Teens struggling with skin-scarring
acne may soon find relief from an unusual source.  Scientists have used genetic sequencing to identify 11 new
 viruses  with the potential to kill the out-of-control bacteria
that leads to intense breakouts. The findings add to an emerging
body of research that indicates benign-to-human viruses living
naturally in and on the body may also be used to go after bed
sores, leprosy and drug-resistant staph infections.  “Acne could be a superb clinical context for making a
test-case for treatments of other diseases,” said  Graham
Hatfull , a biologist at the  University of Pittsburgh , who co-
authored the study on acne published this month. “It’s a very
attractive prospect.”  The research re-energizes a century-old treatment method
that was abandoned with the rise of  antibiotics  during World War
II. As germs have built up a resistance to those drugs in recent
years, scientists are seeking alternatives and the virus
strategy “is in vogue again,” said  Vincent Fischetti , a
biologist at Rockefeller University in New York who is one of
the pioneers of the revived approach.  The study of the acne-fighting viruses, called
bacteriophages or simply phages,  was published  in the September-
October edition of mBio, the journal of the American Society for
Microbiology.  Side-by-Side  In it, scientists found phages that live side-by-side with
the P. acnes bacteria on the faces of people who don’t get bad
acne, theorizing that the viruses somehow helped to keep it
under control, said Laura Marinelli, the lead author and a
postdoctoral fellow at the  David Geffen School of Medicine  at
the  University of California ,  Los Angeles . The single-celled  P.
acnes  bacteria that resides in pores can grow out of control in
an oily environment.  Once they identified the viruses, the scientists found the
viruses had the ability to kill isolates of the bacteria in lab
dishes, opening the possibility they may one day be the basis
for effective treatments for the  most common skin disorder  in
the U.S., with more than 40 million sufferers.  When the genomes were examined, the researchers learned the
phages that preyed on acne bacteria were “strikingly” similar,
Marinelli said in a telephone interview. That suggests a package
of phages could be created to keep the skin bacteria from
forming resistance to any one of them, she said.  Enzyme Found  The researchers also were able to identify an enzyme used
by the viruses to break down the bacterial cell wall and escape,
their death blow, Marinelli said. That enzyme could become the
basis for a smear-on treatment.  Using genomic sequencing is a new wrinkle in the search for
effective phages, she said, “For every bacterium out there,
there are phages that can kill it. If we do want to develop
these phages as therapies, we want their genomes.”  Viruses  are about 100 times smaller than bacteria. They
cause diseases from HIV to the common cold by breaking through a
cell’s walls, hijacking its reproductive machinery to spread
and, finally, killing the cell when it leaves. That’s what they
do to all cells they invade; when those cells belong to
unfriendly bacteria, viruses become humans’ allies.  Bacteriophages were  separately discovered  by Frederick
Twort in the U.K. in 1915 and Felix d’Herelle in  France  in 1917.
Research into using them to treat bacterial diseases such as
cholera, though, was mostly abandoned after the advent of
antibiotics in the 1940s.  Other Research  Other research into the use of viruses to fight bacteria is
somewhat further along, although all of it is in the earliest
stages. Rockefeller’s Fischetti, for instance, earlier licensed
findings on a virus that may work against infection by the
Staphylococcus aureus bacteria to  ContraFect Corp. , a closely
held Yonkers, New York-based biotechnology company where he is
now a scientific adviser.  ContraFect is using a virus enzyme as a potential treatment
for methicillin-resistant staph infections, or MRSA. The first
round of clinical trials will start in January, Fischetti said
in a telephone interview.  Phage International Inc.,  based in Danville,  California , is
using phages to treat diabetic foot ulcers and bed sores,
including those that are drug-resistant. Its clinics are in
Tbilisi,  Georgia , and Tijuana,  Mexico . The field will continue
to expand, Fischetti said.  New Findings  The research involving acne, which Fischetti wasn’t
involved with, adds knowledge to the field, he said.  By using genetic analysis to identify several similar
phages tied to P. acnes that could be combined in a single
treatment, the study -- which Fischetti labeled “high profile”
-- offers a way around bacteria’s ability to mutate and  resist
treatment , he said.  “Bacteria becomes resistant very quickly, so for these
technologies to work, they need a cocktail” of viruses to work
together, Fischetti said. “There is only one species of
organism that causes acne so the potential of using one or two
phages to control these organisms is probably pretty good.”  Bacteria and the viruses that reproduce in them co-evolved,
Marinelli said. That means some bacteria will naturally be
resistant to phages.  That’s all right in the case of P. acnes, because even
people without acne have them on their skin, she said. Rather,
the idea is simply to reduce the numbers of the bacteria. Also,
as the bacteria evolve and change, so will the phages.  Marinelli and Hatfull previously worked on tools for
manipulating viruses, so scientists can insert or knock out
genes at will, Hatfull said.  That may mean scientists may one day be able to overcome
bacterial resistance by changing the viruses in ways that mirror
the mutations seen in the bacteria.  “Antibiotic resistance is a huge problem,” Marinelli
said. “What I like about phages is that they’re not dead ends.
If you get resistance, you can select for phages that overcome
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  