-- Guangshen Jumps as New Leaders to Stoke Economy: China Ov
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-10T21:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/guangshen-jumps-as-new-leaders-to-stoke-economy-china-ov.html
Chinese stocks in New York rebounded
from a two-week low, led by  Guangshen Railway Co. (GSH) , on prospects
next month’s leadership change will pave the way for more
government measures to stimulate the economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose for the first time this week,
adding 0.4 percent to 92.20 yesterday in New York. Guangshen
Railway surged to a five-month high as its discount to Hong Kong
widened to the most in more than a week.  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  led solar stocks lower after a report showed panel
installations in Germany sank 46 percent in August.  China  will debut its new leadership during the 18th
Communist Party Congress starting Nov. 8. The new team inherits
an economy that grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in the
second quarter as sliding demand from the U.S. and Europe curbed
exports of manufactured goods.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest money manager, said yesterday that the economy will
recover as the new leaders act to boost local consumption.  “When the new government is in place we are expecting
additional stimulus over the next six months that will support
the manufacturing and materials segments of the economy,”
Audrey Kaplan, the New York-based lead manager of the $540
million  Federated InterContinental Fund (RIMAX) , said by phone
yesterday.  Equities of China comprise 8.2 percent of the fund, which
began the year with no Chinese positions, Kaplan said. They
started buying at the end of the first quarter, she said.  ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for the fourth time in
five days, gaining 0.7 percent to $35.26. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  slid 0.6 percent to 1,432.56.  Chinese policy makers have cut  interest rates  and reduced
the amount major banks must keep in reserves twice this year.
The money-market rate dropped for a second day yesterday on
speculation cash supply will increase as the central bank adds
funds to the financial system.  Shenzhen-based Guangshen Railway, which operates trains in
China’s Guangdong province, jumped 4.4 percent to $17.65, the
highest level since May 8. The company’s American depositary
receipts, each representing 50 underlying shares in the company,
traded 1.6 percent  below  its  Hong Kong  stock, the widest since
Sept. 28. The Hong Kong shares jumped 4.5 percent to HK$2.78
yesterday.  Railroad Spending  China plans to invest 2.3 trillion  yuan  ($365 billion) in
railroad infrastructure construction in the five years through
2015, Economic Information Daily reported on Oct. 9, without
saying where it got the information.  “As China focuses more on its domestic economy, they need
to improve efficiencies and move more transport off its highways
and onto its railroads,” Alex Sulzer, who helps manage $1.2
billion, including Chinese equities at Morgan Meighen &
Associates in Toronto, said by phone yesterday. “Guangshen has
been down for so long, this may be a time to take another look
at it.”  China’s railway traffic during an eight-day holiday ended
Oct. 7, the so-called Golden Week, rose 13.4 percent from the
same period a year ago to a record 80.33 million passengers, the
nation’s Railways Ministry  said  on its website yesterday.  Pablo Goldberg, global head of emerging market research at
HSBC Securities Inc., said that the bank has an “overweight”
position in Chinese stocks in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  “We’re hoping for a bottoming of growth in the fourth
quarter,” he said. “We’re expecting the stimulus in China to
start to kick in as they start to deploy a little bit more after
the leadership change.”  TAL Education Group (XRS) , an after-school tutoring service
provider, surged 4.4 percent in a second day of gains to $8.71,
the highest level since Aug. 24.  Shanda Jumps  TAL, based in Beijing, said it will report earnings for the
quarter ended Aug. 21 before U.S. trading starts on Oct. 23. The
company’s profit has beat  analysts’ estimates  for seven
consecutive quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , the third-biggest online games operator
in China, advanced 2.7 percent to $3.77 in New York, the
steepest gain since Sept 28.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , which owns the most-
popular online search engine in China, rebounded 1.5 percent to
$108.13, after a 6.8 percent tumble on Oct. 9.  Yingli, the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module producer, plunged 5.7 percent to $1.66.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
slid 4.8 percent to $4.15, while Suntech Power Holdings Ltd.
lost 2.3 percent to a one-week low of 89 cents.  Solar-panel installations in Germany, Europe’s biggest
power market, dropped 46 percent in August from a year ago, grid
regulator Bundesnetzagentur said yesterday on its website.  The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.2 percent to 2,119.94
yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 14. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies in Hong Kong advanced 0.7
percent to 10,041.11, the strongest since May 15.  Rising Valuations  Companies in the Shanghai gauge traded for 11.6 times their
earnings yesterday, after reaching a multiple of 11.3 on Oct. 8,
the lowest level since at least 1997. Twenty economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predicted the world’s second-largest economy grew
7.4 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, which would be
the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2009.  Delegates from the Communist Party will gather in Beijing
next month, when they are forecast to anoint Vice President  Xi Jinping , 59, and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , 57, as the so-called
fifth generation in charge, to replace President  Hu Jintao  and
Premier  Wen Jiabao .  For stocks to extend gains, the government needs to take
more fiscal measures because monetary policy moves such as rate
increases haven’t been effective, according to Hao Hong, chief
China strategist at Bank of Communications Co. and the only
forecaster among 13 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg at the
start of 2012 to predict declines for equities this year.  Fundamental issues impeding Chinese growth need to be
tackled, including  tax reform  and changes to state-owned
enterprises, said David Cui, Bank of America Corp.’s chief China
strategist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  