-- Gulfstream Managers Blamed for Fatal Crash on Test Flight
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/gulfstream-effort-to-speed-tests-helped-cause-crash-ntsb-says.html
Pressure to speed flight tests of a
new model of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream business jet so
it could win U.S. certification for sale was blamed by a U.S.
safety agency for a crash that killed four employees.  The National Transportation Safety Board yesterday ruled
that Gulfstream management was responsible for the accident that
sent a G650, which costs $65 million and has the longest range
of any private aircraft, sliding off a Roswell,  New Mexico ,
runway in flames on April 2, 2011.  “Two prior close calls should have prompted a yellow flag,
but instead of slowing down to analyze what had happened, the
program continued full speed ahead,”  Deborah Hersman ,
chairwoman of the accident-investigation agency, said at a
hearing in Washington. “This crash was as much an absence of
leadership as it was of lift.”  The twin-engine aircraft was approved last month by the
U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  after changes were made to
ensure safety, the agency said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Gulfstream has 200 orders for the plane, which it
calls the “flagship” of its fleet, and said it expects to
begin deliveries before the end of the year.  Gulfstream, based in Savannah,  Georgia , has taken several
steps to prevent lapses in the future, including beefing up its
safety review board that oversees flight tests, according to the
NTSB.  Obstruction Accusations  Hersman earlier this year accused Gulfstream of
“obstruction” during the board’s investigation.  The company failed to quarantine accident data, lost
evidence including a computer hard drive and withheld results of
an internal safety audit, according to an April 4 letter from
Hersman to Gulfstream President Larry Flynn.  Any failings by Gulfstream employees were inadvertent,
according to a March 30 letter Flynn wrote to Hersman. He said
the FBI was notified about the missing hard drive as soon as it
was discovered and the employee who threw it away was fired.  “We appreciate the NTSB’s commitment to thoroughly
examining this accident and determining the cause,” Flynn said
yesterday after the safety board’s meeting.  He declined to comment further, referring to a company
submission during the investigation in which it said the
accident could have been avoided if issues revealed during tests
had been corrected.  Privileged Passengers  The G650 can fly as far as 8,056 miles (12,962 kilometers)
with eight passengers, the company’s  website  says.  The aircraft was designed to take advantage of the growing
market for private planes that can whisk business people and the
wealthy non-stop between cities in  North America ,  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Asia , Robert Breiling, a safety consultant for
the business-aircraft industry, said in an interview.  The G650 is only slightly cheaper than  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s BBJ, a
version of the 737 designed as a private jet, Breiling said.  The crash occurred during tests simulating an engine
failure. The jet lost lift moments after liftoff and the right
wing dipped.  “Whoa,” both pilots said, according to an NTSB
transcription of a sound recorder in the cockpit.  The wing hit the ground and the jet caught fire. “Ah sorry
guys,” one of the pilots said in the last words recorded.  Inadequate Warning  Gulfstream’s pilots had twice experienced a similar loss of
lift during flight tests,  investigators  found. The firm didn’t
recognize the severity of those incidents -- known as
aerodynamic stalls -- and didn’t bring them up in safety
discussions, according to NTSB records.  Shortly before the accident, engineers had altered the
jet’s stall-warning device so the pilots got no alert that they
were in danger until it was too late, according to NTSB
documents.  A safety manual for flight tests, developed during
production of previous Gulfstream models, was not followed, the
board found.  The NTSB also recommended that the FAA and aircraft
manufacturers consider the Gulfstream accident’s findings during
future flight tests of new aircraft.  The safety board, which has no regulatory power, suggested
that Gulfstream conduct independent audits during future flight-
test programs.  Hersman said Gulfstream made changes to improve safety
after the accident and, as a result, the safety board didn’t
make additional recommendations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  