-- High Frequency Trading of High Concern, ASIC Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/high-frequency-trading-of-high-concern-asic-says.html
Australian regulators are
considering requiring all trading algorithms to have an inbuilt
“kill switch” to immediately disable them if they malfunction,
Australian Securities and Investments Commission Chairman Greg Medcraft said at a conference in Sydney.  ASIC is also mulling a mandate that any trades done through
a dark pool, an off-exchange venue that doesn’t display prices
or the identity of buyers and sellers, have meaningful price
improvement from public platforms, Medcraft said.  Australia ’s
latest consultation paper on electronic trading closed for
comments Sept. 14. Final rules are expected this month.  Electronic trading has come under scrutiny globally after
the practice was blamed for a May 2010 incident that saw the Dow
Jones Industrial Average briefly lose almost 1,000 points in
less than 20 minutes. An algorithm malfunction on Aug. 1 cost
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  $440 million, driving the company to
the brink of bankruptcy. Traditional exchanges worldwide are
losing market share to dark pools and other alternative venues.  “People are still looking for an answer on high-frequency
trading,” Medcraft said. “While I know that some high-
frequency trading provides liquidity, I also know that some
senior bankers and fund managers have privately described it as
providing phantom liquidity. The reason for that is that it’s
phantom because it only stays there for a few seconds, or micro
seconds.”  Lower Threshold  Regulators plan to require any trades through dark pools
obtain a better price than lit, or public, venues by at least
one tick size or that they occur at the midpoint between bids
and offers, Medcraft said. ASIC planned to lower the threshold
for block trades from A$1 million to A$200,000, he said.  In March, 16.4 percent of Australian trading went through
dark pools, with an additional 13.2 percent trading in blocks of
larger than A$1 million away from the exchange, according to
ASIC statistics e-mailed to Bloomberg.  The smaller size of Australia’s market means it’s more
vulnerable to fragmentation and off-exchange trades,  ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,
Australia’s main bourse operator, said on Aug. 6 in response to
the market-structure consultation. ASX lost its monopoly as
Australia’s only public, or lit, venue in October last year with
the entry of Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Chi-X Australia.  Algorithmic trading mishaps haven’t been as prominent in
 Asia  as in the more developed markets. Trading in  India ’s
benchmark Nifty and some stocks stopped for 15 minutes on Oct. 5
after the 50-stock gauge sank 16 percent.  Erroneous Trades  The plunge wasn’t due to a malfunctioning trading program;
it was caused by as many as 59 erroneous trades by a dealer at
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai, the NSE said in
a statement on Oct. 5. The brokerage said Oct. 8 that one of its
dealers “committed a bona fide error.”  Brokers are responsible for minimizing the impact on
markets when their algorithms and systems malfunction, Mark
Steward,  executive director  in the enforcement division of the
Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission said at conference
on Aug. 31. The SFC has issued 18 compliance letters to
electronic trading firms, mostly due to computer algorithms that
have led to price or volume disruptions, he said.  The SFC declined requests from Bloomberg to give more
detail on the trade, citing confidentiality of the parties
involved that were not formally sanctioned.  U.S. regulators are also mulling kill switches, or
automated triggers that would turn off trading at securities
firms when their volume surpassed preset maximums. A group of
exchange and investment professionals recommended the measure in
a  letter  for discussion to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Kill switches that could have stopped orders from
Knight Capital on Aug. 1 may have saved the  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based firm millions of dollars, they said.  “We’ve taken a very constructive approach with how we
analyze the market and are pretty forward thinking” on a global
basis,’’ ASIC’s Medcraft said. “We are stepping up surveillance
efforts, particularly focusing on high-frequency traders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  