-- Lilly, Roche Drugs Chosen for Alzheimer Prevention Trial
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-10-10T20:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/lilly-roche-drugs-chosen-for-alzheimer-prevention-trial.html
Alzheimer’s drugs from  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY)  and Roche Holding AG were selected for a long-term study
that, if successful, may lead to the treatments being used as a
deterrent for people with a family history of the disease.  The experimental medicines will be tested in 160 people
with a mutation that guarantees they will develop Alzheimer’s at
an early age, perhaps as young as 30, the  Washington University 
at  St. Louis  said in a statement today. There is no known cure
for the disease.  If the trial is successful, it may lead to those drugs
being widely used for people who have a family history of the
condition. Lilly’s solanezumab slowed the decline in some
patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease and provided no benefit
to more advanced patients, Indianapolis-based Lilly announced in
August. On Oct. 8, an independent group of scientists confirmed
the findings.  “Trying to prevent Alzheimer’s symptoms from ever
occurring is a new strategy,” said John C. Morris, principal
investigator of the observational portion of the project and a
professor of neurology at the university, in today’s statement.
That will be the goal of the research, he said. Randall Bateman,
a professor of neurology, is the head of the treatment study.  More than 5 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, which is
the most-common type of dementia, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association . Global dementia cases are expected to double within
20 years to as many as 65.7 million people, the Geneva-based
 World Health Organization  said in April.  Leads to Death  The disease leads to progressive  memory loss  over the
course of years, and eventually ends in death.  Lilly declined 3.1 percent to $50.23 at the close of New
York trading.  Roche, based in  Basel , Switzerland, and Lilly agreed to
make their treatments available for the study at no cost, and
will support the trial with grants, the university said. Another
$4.2 million has been given to the investigation from the
Alzheimer’s Association, an advocacy group based in  Chicago .  The trial will be conducted by the university’s unit of the
Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer’s Network, or  DIAN , which is an
international group of scientists who are studying rare genetic
mutations that cause the disease. The information gathered in
these patients may enable better treatment for all dementia
patients.  Roche (ROG) ’s gantenerumab binds to clumps of beta amyloid, a
protein thought to cause the disease. The drug is thought to
help remove the clumps from the brain, and is in a mid-to-late
stage company trial that started in 2010. Solanezumab removes
the beta amyloid before it forms plaques.  Another Lilly drug, called a beta secretase inhibitor, is
in testing by the company and may be included in the university
research as well, according to today’s statement. That drug is
thought to work by reducing the amount of beta amyloid produced
in the brain.  The trial, which may start early next year, will test the
medicines in inherited early-onset Alzheimer’s patients. The
researchers will see if the treatments can prevent the loss of
brain function.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 