-- ING Said Near Pact to Sell Malaysia Unit for $1.7 Billion
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-10-10T14:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ing-said-near-pact-to-sell-malaysia-unit-for-1-7-billion.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , under European Union
orders to sell assets, is near an agreement to sell its
Malaysian insurance business for as much as $1.7 billion to  AIA
Group Ltd. (1299) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Dutch bank is in final negotiations with AIA, the
third-largest Asia-based insurer, and may sign the accord as
soon as tomorrow, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the talks are confidential. Victorina  de Boer , a
spokeswoman for Amsterdam-based ING, and Emerald Ng, a Hong
Kong-based spokeswoman for AIA, declined to comment.  ING is required to sell its insurance and investment-
management businesses before the end of 2013 after getting 10
billion euros ($13 billion) of state aid during the financial
crisis. While executing the imposed divestment program, it’s
also selling banking assets to help speed up repayment of a
remaining 3 billion euros with premiums.  ING’s  shares  rose as much as 0.8 percent in Amsterdam. They
climbed 0.1 percent to 6.40 euros at 4:08 p.m., extending this
year’s gain to 15 percent.  Sale Schedule  In the last six weeks, ING announced an agreement to sell
its Canadian on-line bank for $3.16 billion, its U.K. Internet
business and a 33 percent stake in China Merchants Fund, an
investment management joint venture. The firm also raised about
$3 billion last month by selling 54 million shares of Virgina-
based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)   ING’s Asian insurance and asset-management business had a
combined book value of 6.6 billion euros, the bank said on Sept.
27. The company’s operations in the region include  emerging
markets  such as Malaysia, where rising incomes are fueling
demand, and Japan, which is grappling with deflation and an
aging population.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker has been trying to
revive new business growth after the insurer was hurt during the
global financial crisis because of woes at its bailed-out former
parent  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Tucker said in February
that AIA would pursue acquisitions only when they add value to
investors and were financially viable.  Last month, the company agreed to pay $109 million to buy
92 percent of  Aviva NDB Insurance Plc (CTCE) , Sri Lanka’s second-
largest life insurer, from London-based  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and National
Development Bank.  The purchase of ING’s Malaysian operations would help
increase AIA’s market share in the country to 19 percent,
lifting its ranking to third-largest from fifth, Sally Ng, an
analyst at China International Capital Corp., said in a report
to investors dated yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  