-- ING Agrees to Sell Malaysia Unit to AIA Group
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-10-11T08:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ing-agrees-to-sell-malaysia-unit-to-aia-group.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer, agreed to buy  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s insurance
business in  Malaysia  for about 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion)
in its largest acquisition as a listed company.  The purchase will boost the percentage of profit AIA gets
from Malaysia to 13 percent from 8 percent, it said in a
statement. Separately, AIA said its value of new business rose
22 percent in the third quarter to a record $300 million.  “The deal may add around 5 percent to AIA’s earnings per
share and shift its business to a higher-growth region,” Arjan van Veen, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in an e-mail response to Bloomberg. AIA’s value of new
business growth in the third quarter well exceeded the consensus
analyst estimate of 12 percent, according to van Veen.  AIA Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker has sought to
revive new business growth after the Hong Kong-based insurer was
hurt during the financial crisis because of woes at its bailed-
out former parent  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Tucker today
said the strength of AIA’s balance sheet means it can grow its
existing business as well as buy new assets.  “This is a rare opportunity to acquire a high-quality
company,” Tucker said in a conference call with wire services
reporters today. “It’s an excellent strategic fit for AIA.”  The acquisition will combine ING’s operations, the third-
largest in Malaysia, and AIA’s existing business, the fourth
biggest, to create the No. 1 life insurer in the country,
according to the statement.  Still Looking  AIA has the capability of paying for the acquisition with
any combination of internal cash and debt with the specific mix
to be decided closer to the completion date, Tucker said. AIA,
which has no debt before the acquisition, will remain
financially strong afterwards, he added.  The Malaysian acquisition was both rare in size and quality,
Tucker said, adding AIA will continue to look at acquisitions
that are both strategically and financially compelling.  The purchase includes ING’s life-insurance and employee-
benefits businesses in Malaysia, as well as its 60 percent stake
in ING Public Takaful Ehsan Berhad. The deal values the
operations at 16.9 times 2011 earnings and 2.2 times book value
in the first half of 2012, ING said.  The deal values the Malaysian business at 1.8 times of its
2011 embedded value, Tucker said, declining to give forward-
looking data because of  Hong Kong  stock exchange restrictions.
Embedded value is an actuarial estimate of the economic value of
life insurance business.  ING Gain  AIA, which went public two years ago in Hong Kong’s biggest
initial public offering, ended the day unchanged at HK$29.60 in
Hong Kong trading today, keeping this year’s gains at 22 percent.
ING lost 0.2 percent to 6.38 euros in Amsterdam yesterday.  The transaction, which may be completed in the first
quarter, is expected to lead to a gain of about 780 million
euros, Amsterdam-based ING said.  AIA is in talks with the Malaysian regulator, Tucker said
on the call in answer to a question regarding whether the deal
would meet obstacles in a country which restricts 100 percent
foreign ownership of life insurance companies.  There are no current regulatory hurdles preventing the
acquisition, Ng Keng Hooi, AIA regional CEO in charge of  Taiwan ,
Malaysia,  Singapore ,  China  and Brunei, said during a press
conference in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  Last month, AIA agreed to pay $109 million to buy 92
percent of  Aviva NDB Insurance Plc (CTCE) ,  Sri Lanka ’s second-largest
life insurer, from London-based  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and National
Development Bank.  AIA’s existing Malaysian operations accounted for about 6
percent of new business value in the six months to May 31,
according to a statement on July 27. That will rise to 10
percent if the takeover succeeds, it said today.  Sale Requirement  AIA’s market share will double to 25 percent in the country,
which the insurer described as one of  Southeast Asia ’s most
attractive and fast growing life assurance markets.  Credit Suisse analysts raised AIA’s 12-month price target
to HK$33 from HK$32 and kept the outperform rating for the stock,
citing the acquisition and third-quarter new business trends.  Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan Stanley, Evercore Partners Inc.
and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. advised AIA on the transaction.
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is the legal adviser to the firm, AIA
said in a stock exchange statement today.  AIA received a $1.73 billion 12-month bridge loan from
eight banks to help fund the purchase, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The banks, which will fund the
facility in equal amounts, are Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., BNP Paribas SA, DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Deutsche
Bank, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley
and Standard Chartered Plc, the person said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  ‘Major Step’  ING is required to sell its insurance and investment-
management businesses before the end of 2013 after getting 10
billion euros of state aid during the financial crisis. While
executing the imposed divestment program, it’s also selling
banking assets to help speed up repayment of a remaining 3
billion euros with premiums.  “Today’s announcement is the first major step in the
divestment of our Asian insurance and investment management
businesses and shows that ING continues to make steady progress
in the restructuring of our company,” Chief Executive Officer
Jan Hommen said in a statement.  In the last six weeks, ING announced an agreement to sell
its Canadian online bank for $3.16 billion, its U.K. Internet
business and a 33 percent stake in China Merchants Fund, an
investment management joint venture. The firm also raised about
$3 billion last month by selling 54 million shares of McLean,
Virginia-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)   Earnings Boost  ING’s Asian insurance and asset-management business had a
combined book value of 6.6 billion euros, the bank said on Sept.
27. The company’s operations in the region include  emerging
markets  such as Malaysia, where rising incomes are fueling
demand, and  Japan , which is grappling with deflation and an
aging population.  AIA’s gauge of projected future profitability of new
policies increased to $300 million from $245 million a year
earlier, overcoming depreciating Asian currencies, the insurer
which sells policies in local currencies yet reports earnings in
dollars said in a separate statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange today.  Underlying annualized new premium, the sum of first-year
premiums and 10 percent of single premiums, grew 17 percent to
$696 million, from $594 million a year ago.  New business margin, measured by value of new business as a
percentage of annualized new premium, widened by 11 percentage
points to 42.6 percent, the fourth straight quarter above 40
percent.  “Given the significant improvement in overall margin over
the last 12 months, there’s a concern that margins could be
peaking for AIA,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by Ben Lin wrote
in an Oct. 4 note. “In our recent meetings with investors, some
raised the view that they would like to see the growth
composition shift more toward volume growth and less on margin
expansion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  