-- Mining Bonanza Cools as Goldman Enters Australia’s West Coast
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-10-10T14:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/mining-bonanza-cools-as-goldman-enters-australia-s-west-coast.html
The mining boom that drove record
dealmaking in  Western Australia  last year is sputtering,
depriving investment banks of fees just as  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  set up offices in Perth.  Goldman Sachs opened an office in the state’s capital in
August and hired former  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  banker Peter Watson
for its natural resources team. Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest
lender, will return to Perth in coming months after closing an
office there in 2001, said Sydney-based spokesman Adrian Cox.  The firms’ arrival in the region, home to some of the
world’s biggest mineral and gas deposits, coincides with a drop
in raw material prices that has curtailed mergers and caused
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to scrap multibillion-
dollar projects. As  China ’s and India’s economies slow, slicing
demand for  Australia ’s resources, the “boom in commodity prices
is over,” said Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  on Aug. 23.  “The challenge for the big, integrated banks is that Perth
will always be a cyclical place and we believe it has switched
to the downside in the last six months,” said Justin Mannolini,
a Perth-based managing director at boutique firm Gresham
Advisory Partners Ltd.  Acquisitions involving Australian natural resource
companies have more than halved this year from the same period
in 2011 to A$19.8 billion ($20.2 billion), putting deals on pace
for the slowest year since 2009. Takeovers peaked in 2011 at
almost $60 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Share sales
by such companies have fallen to $4.2 billion from $8.6 billion.  Tinkler’s Failure  One casualty of the commodity slowdown was mining
billionaire  Nathan Tinkler ’s A$5.3 billion bid for  Whitehaven
Coal Ltd. (WHC) , which would have been Australia’s biggest takeover
this year. That deal failed after Tinkler was unable to make a
firm offer by an Aug. 24 deadline, according to Whitehaven.  Tinkler was advised by  UBS AG (UBSN) , which along with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Barclays Plc had pledged to provide A$2.5
billion in loans for the purchase, people familiar with the
matter said June 18.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and Zurich-based
UBS are among international securities firms that established
offices in Perth in the last decade. Macquarie, Australia’s
biggest investment bank, has been in the city for more than 20
years. UBS’s Swiss rival  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  established
permanent staff in its Perth office at the start of this year
and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  has been operating there since 2010.  Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan run their
Western Australia operations from offices in Sydney and
 Melbourne .  Minor Cost  To be sure, the additional cost of setting up shop in Perth
may be small for global banks. Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse,
Bank of America and Lazard each have fewer than 10 investment
banking employees in their offices there, according to people
with knowledge of the firms’ operations who asked not to be
identified.  In a July 16 internal memo announcing its Perth office,
Goldman Sachs called the city a “critical business and
financial center in Australia.” Perth accounts for significant
mergers and fundraising activity, the New-York based bank said.
Goldman Sachs plans to add equity sales, investment research and
wealth management workers in Perth, according to the memo.  Hayley Morris, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the firm’s expansion in Western Australia beyond the
memo. Officials at UBS, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and Bank of
America declined to give further details on expansion plans.  Perth’s Rise  Western Australia became the epicenter of a resources
bonanza as China began stepping up raw-materials purchases for
its soaring economy about 10 years ago. The state, with about a
10th of  Australia’s population , accounted for nearly half of the
country’s exports in the 12 months to June 30. Some 37 percent
of companies listed on Australia’s stock exchange are based
there.  Much of the mining wealth has flowed to Perth, as workers
flocked to the liquid natural gas plants and  iron ore  mines
being constructed more than 800 kilometers north in the
resource-rich Pilbara region. BHP relocated management of its
iron ore unit to a new office in Perth, which opened in August,
while the Australian heads of international  oil companies   Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Chevron Corp. are based there.  Yet the cooling of China’s and India’s economies that
started in early 2010 has hurt prospects of resource companies,
and the investment banks servicing them.  A variety of projects have been put on hold as spot prices
for iron ore, Australia’s biggest commodity export and a raw
material used to make steel, fell 21 percent in 2012, according
to The Steel Index Ltd. The price has rebounded since touching a
three-year low in September.  ‘More Sophisticated’  BHP in August put approvals for about $68 billion of
projects on hold -- including the Olympic Dam copper and uranium
mine, which Deutsche Bank estimated would cost $33 billion to
build. The world’s biggest miner also mothballed the expansion
of an iron ore port in Western Australia and said it would halt
output at the Gregory coking  coal mine  in Queensland state.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron
ore shipper, last month cut its full-year spending forecast by
26 percent, delayed expansion plans and refinanced debt to avoid
breaching terms on previous loans. Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
delayed drilling at its Pluto gas project in Western Australia,
the company said Aug. 22.  Despite the slowdown, Tim Day, head of UBS’s Perth office,
said Australian companies will continue to need the services of
the big banks as cross-border M&A deals increase and they seek
more diverse ways of financing.  “The companies have become more sophisticated in the way
they seek to fund their activities so it’s important to have
links into other areas in the region, including China,” Day
said. UBS was the top-ranked adviser on acquisitions including
Australian companies over the past five years, ahead of
Macquarie and Goldman Sachs.  Staying Power  The question is whether the global banks have the will to
stay through a prolonged slump. Big securities firms have opened
offices in Perth before, only to close them again when business
slowed, said Michael Ashforth, a lawyer who opened the Perth
office of Gresham Advisory in the 1990s and now runs Macquarie’s
business there.  “Perth is still a relatively small town and the number of
companies that will regularly need investment banking services
is likely to remain pretty small,” Ashforth said. “I’m just
not sure the banks would be willing to sustain those costs in
this market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  