-- Blackstone, KKR, Bain Accused of Agreeing Not to Compete
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-10-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/investors-claim-kkr-told-equity-firms-not-to-bid-for-hca.html
Top executives at buyout firms
including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  KKR & Co. (KKR) , Bain Capital Partners
LLC and  Carlyle Group (CG)  LP assured each other in e-mails that they
wouldn’t compete on deals to avoid driving up prices and
angering competitors, according to a now public court complaint.  The correspondence was cited as evidence that the firms
rigged bids in 19 leveraged buyouts and eight other
transactions, including the biggest deals of the leveraged
buyout boom, according to the amended complaint unsealed
yesterday by a federal judge in Boston.  “We would much rather work with you guys than against
you,”  Blackstone President  Tony James  wrote in an e-mail to
KKR co-founder  George Roberts  in reference to the  Freescale
Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL)  buyout, according to the complaint.
“Together we can be unstoppable but in opposition we can cost
each other a lot of money.” According to the complaint, Roberts
replied, “Agreed.”  The disclosures are a setback for the industry’s efforts to
clean up its image, which has come under scrutiny as Bain
Capital co-founder Mitt Romney seeks to become the next U.S.
president. Individuals and pension funds that held shares in
companies including Freescale,  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , Neiman Marcus
Group Inc., Clear Channel Communications Inc. and Aramark
Holdings Corp. sued the private-equity firms and large
investment banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JP
Morgan Chase & Co (JPM)  in 2007 and 2008.  ‘Competes Fiercely’  “KKR competes fiercely to find the best deals and the best
companies for our investors,”  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman for
the New York-based firm, said in an e-mail. “The plaintiffs do
not challenge the perfectly legitimate practice of club deals
but instead make the preposterous claim that the entire private-
equity industry came together under a master plan to decide
which firms would be permitted to acquire any particular public
company.”  There is no evidence of such an arrangement, Huller said.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to comment
on the unsealed complaint.  The financial companies said in court filings that the
plaintiffs didn’t have the right to sue for antitrust violations
that would be subject to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations. They also said the transactions represented
legitimate business practices.  Bidding Clubs  “They neither identify any direct evidence of an actual
agreement among these 17 defendants to fix the market for large
LBOs nor allege circumstantial facts that support the
plausibility of such a conspiracy,” the defendants said in
court filings. “These transactions simply represent the normal
workings of the mergers and acquisition business.”  The firms formed “bidding clubs” that rigged bids,
limited competitive offers and “artificially depressed
prices,” according to the lawsuit. Firms that weren’t part of
the winning bidding clubs would get minority stakes in the
acquired companies or fees as advisers.  “Joint bidding is central to the proper functioning of a
well-regulated capital markets system,” the financial firms
said in court papers.  Bain, the Boston-based private-equity firm co-founded by
Republican presidential candidate Romney, along with KKR and
Merrill Lynch, paid more than $32 billion for hospital operator
HCA Holdings after other firms agreed not to make offers,
according to the complaint. Romney isn’t mentioned in the
complaint. He had left Bain before any of the deals were
completed.  Presidential Campaign  The disclosure of executives’ e-mails comes as the private-
equity industry is already fighting to maintain its image during
the U.S. presidential election. The industry’s lobbying group in
Washington, the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, started
an online campaign this year with testimonials of people who say
private equity has helped the economy and grown their
businesses. Supporters of President Barack Obama, a Democrat,
have said the industry enriches managers at the expense of jobs.  “Private equity has taken a beating, in the sense that the
image has not been wonderful in this campaign,” Carlyle Group
co-founder  David Rubenstein  said in an Oct. 7 interview on
Bloomberg Radio. “The image that has been left around the
country is that private equity destroys jobs and doesn’t do
things that are helpful to the economy, and I think that’s
unfortunate.”  HCA Bid  According to the investors’ complaint, KKR “asked the
industry to step down on HCA.” The investors attributed the
comment to an e-mail from Dan Akerson, then the co-head of
Carlyle Group’s U.S. buyout group.  The plaintiffs claim that KKR and Bain were able to buy HCA
at a “suppressed price.”  KKR’s $32.2 billion leveraged buyout of HCA ranks as the
third-biggest LBO ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
KKR last year sold HCA in an initial public offering that raised
$3.79 billion, at the time the most ever raised by a company
backed by private equity, according to research firm Preqin Ltd.  Freescale, the former semiconductor unit of Motorola Inc.,
was purchased in 2006 by a group of firms including Blackstone,
TPG Capital, Carlyle and Permira in a $17.6 billion deal.  “TPG never colluded to suppress deal prices,”  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based firm,
said in an e-mail. “We competed vigorously for deals that the
firm both won and lost. In instances where we considered, but
did not move forward with a competing bid, it was a decision
based on whether the pursuit and ownership of the asset would be
in the best interest of our limited partners.”  Late Bid  In July 2006 Blackstone submitted an initial bid of $35.50
to $37 for Freescale, according to the complaint. The company
accepted a $38 offer on Sept. 10. That same day firms including
KKR,  Silver Lake  and Bain sent a letter to Freescale offering
$40 to $42 a share, according to the complaint.  Blackstone, reacting to the late bid for Freescale,
threatened to compete with KKR for HCA, according to the
complaint. KKR withdrew from the auction and the Blackstone
group’s bid was accepted.  “To insure that Blackstone could pay back KKR with an
immediate quid pro quo,  Steve Schwarzman  hastily instructed his
team to redesign its Clear Channel offer so it could convince
KKR to partner at a lower price,” according to the complaint.
Schwarzman is Blackstone’s chairman.  Market Freeze  Clear Channel Communications was acquired by Bain and
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP in July 2008 for $17.9 billion, before
credit markets froze and the recession caused a drop in
advertising demand. Clear Channel owns the largest U.S. radio
broadcaster.  To limit the number of bids, investors allege in the
complaint, the companies’ managers were offered incentives
including new equity.  After a company was acquired, the new owners would often
sell bonds to fund a dividend for themselves, allowing the
private equity firms to recoup as much as 35 percent of their
investment quickly and the banks to win fees for the debt sale,
the lawsuit states. Later, the firms would sell the companies in
public stock offerings, reaping more returns and fees.  The original complaint listed seven buyouts in which
collusion allegedly occurred: Freescale, HCA, Aramark, Neiman
Marcus, PanAmSat Corp., SunGard Data Systems Inc. and  Kinder
Morgan. (KMI)   Loews, Vivendi  A judge in 2010 allowed a second phase of discovery, or
fact-gathering, for eight additional transactions, involving
 Loews Corp. (L) ,  NXP Semiconductor (NXPI)  NV,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ,  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH) , Nalco Holding Co., Cablecom, Susquehanna Media and
Warner Music Group. Later in 2010 the judge allowed the
plaintiffs to add other transactions. The amended complaint
lists 19 leveraged buyouts and eight other transactions.  Two lawsuits were consolidated by the judge, who denied
the financial firms’ motion to move the case to federal court in
New York.  The amended complaint was unsealed after U.S. District
Judge Edward Harrington granted a request by the New York Times
to make it public.  Other defendants are  Apollo Global Management LLC, (APO) 
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Thomas H. Lee Partners , Silver
Lake Technology Management and TPG.  The plaintiffs include the Police and Fire Retirement
System of the City of Detroit, a public pension fund, and a
Minnesota-based investor, Kirk Dahl, who owned shares of
Freescale.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners LLC, 07-12388,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ; 