-- Lira Jumps Most in 4 Days as Fitch Says Close to Rating Review
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-10-10T11:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/lira-jumps-most-in-4-days-as-fitch-says-close-to-rating-review.html
The lira headed for the biggest gain
in four days after Fitch Ratings said it was “quite close” to
reviewing the country’s top junk status.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8180 per dollar
by 2:12 p.m. in Istanbul. Bond  yields  were unchanged at 7.63
percent.  Fitch is “quite close” to reviewing Turkey rating,  Paul Rawkins , senior director at Fitch Ratings, said at a conference
in  London  today. Turkey’s budget deficit will come in at 2.3
percent of gross domestic this year and decline to 2.2 percent
in 2013, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said while announcing
the country’s economic plan in Ankara yesterday. This compares
with a shortfall of 5.3 percent in euro area, 5.1 percent in
 Poland  and 3.1 percent in the Czech Republic.  “Markets got excited after the Fitch” comments, Baris Buyukdemir, general manager of Ceros Securities in Istanbul,
said in e-mailed comments. “There will be a decision in the
short term.”  The lira weakened the most in two months last week after
 Turkey  retaliated against shelling by  Syria  that claimed five
lives. Turkey’s top general Necdet Ozel warned of a tougher
response if Syrian shells continue to land in Turkey.  Turkey is a stable story with “strong” public finances,
and Syria conflict is “not having huge impact” on Turkey
budget, Rawkins said. Fitch rates Turkey BB+, one level below
investment grade with a stable outlook.  Moody’s, which rates the country one level below investment
grade, said on Oct. 8 it will assess Turkey’s upgrade if
fragility is reduced. Standard and Poor’s rates the nation BB,
two levels below investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  