-- Iraq Awards CH2M Water-Injection Oil Project, Replacing Exxon
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-10-10T10:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/iraq-awards-ch2m-water-injection-oil-project-replacing-exxon.html
Iraq  awarded CH2M Hill a $170
million consultancy contract for a plan to inject water into
southern oil fields to help further boost crude production,
according to South Oil Co. Director General Dhia Jaafar.  Iraq’s crude production will rise to as much as 6 million
barrels a day in 2015 and 10 million barrels a day by 2020,
Deputy Prime Minister Hussain al-Shahristani said in a news
conference in Baghdad today. That’s a more optimistic outlook
than the International Energy Agency which said yesterday that
Iraq may produce as much as 6.1 million barrels a day by 2020
and 8.3 million barrels a day by 2035.  CH2M Hill replaces  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  for the project to
inject sea water mainly into Rumaila, Zubair and West Qurna oil
fields. Talks with Exxon Mobil, which has angered the central
Iraq government by reaching separate agreements with the semi-
autonomous Kurdish authorities in the north of the country,
didn’t lead to an agreement, Zahra al-Hammadi, head of the
process department at the State Company for Oil Projects, said
in an Oct. 2 interview.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to data from BP. The government is seeking
international expertise and investment to rebuild the energy
industry after decades of conflict and sanctions.  The country’s crude exports rose to 2.7 million barrels a
day this month after the Kurdish region resumed crude shipments
that had been halted since April because of a conflict with the
central government about oil sales, Falah al-Amri, chairman of
the State Oil Marketing Organization, said at the news
conference in  Baghdad .  The state-run South Oil Co.’s production reached 2.25
million barrels a day and is exporting 2.2 million barrels a
day, Jaafar said. The output includes 1.4 million barrels a day
from Rumaila field, 400,000 barrels a day from West Qurna 1 and
280,000 barrels from Zubair, he said.  Iraq, the world’s third-largest crude exporter, pumped
3.328 million barrels a day at the end of last month, the
highest rate since 1979, according to the nation’s Oil Ministry
website. In June it surpassed  Iran  as the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  