-- Ireland Said to Pick Davy to Advise on Lottery License Sale
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-10-10T16:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ireland-said-to-pick-davy-to-advise-on-lottery-license-sale-1-.html
Ireland’s government picked  Davy ,
the nation’s largest securities firm, to advise on the sale of
the license to operate the  National Lottery , according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The securities firm is negotiating final terms with the
Ministry for Public Expenditure and Reform to handle the sale of
the 20-year license, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the appointment is not yet public. Ireland may raise as
much as 600 million euros ($772 million) from the sale, the
Irish Independent and the Irish Times reported.  The government, which is seeking to sell 3 billion euros of
state assets under its international bailout agreement, has
earmarked some of the proceeds from the license sale to build a
national children’s hospital. The state paid Dublin-based Davy
615 euros to study options for the license earlier this year,
Public Expenditure and Reform Minister Brendan Howlin told
lawmakers on May 8.  A spokesman for Davy wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Howlin said in April that the percentage of lottery revenue
going to so-called good causes will remain at 30.5 percent under
a sale agreement. An Post, the state-owned postal service that
operated the National Lottery since its inception in 1986, has
said that it will bid for the new license.  Camelot Group Plc, operator of the U.K. National Lottery,
 Tatts Group Ltd. (TTS) ,  Australia ’s largest lottery company, and
Italian group  Lottomatica SpA’s (LTO)  subsidiary Gtech Corp., may bid
for the license, the Sunday Independent  reported  on July 22.  Separately, the National Treasury Management Agency said
today London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will advise the state on the
sale of government-owned gas company Bord Gais Eireann’s energy
retail unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  