-- Islamic Fundamentalists Play Growing Role in Syria Fight
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/islamic-fundamentalists-play-growing-role-in-syria-fight.html
Fundamentalist Islamic fighters are
a growing presence in the Syrian opposition, increasing their
influence as Western nations have failed to intervene militarily
in the uprising against the Syria government, according to a
report by the  International Crisis Group .  The rise of fundamentalist, Salafi groups “can be
explained as the natural, expected byproduct of heightened
violence combined with receding hopes of a quick resolution,”
the Brussels-based policy research group group said.  This is a “problematic” development for the Syrian
opposition leaders since it worries their actual and potential
foreign backers and validates the regime’s claim to be fighting
“terrorists,” according to the report being released tomorrow.  “The West’s initial reluctance to act –- and enduring
reluctance to act decisively –- coupled with early willingness
of private, wealthy, and for the most part religiously
conservative Gulf Arabs to provide funds, bolstered both the
Salafis’ coffers and their narrative, in which  Europe  and the
U.S. figure as passive accomplices in the regime’s crimes,”
according to the report, “Tentative Jihad: Syria’s
Fundamentalist Opposition.”  The opposition has a responsibility to curb the influence
of the Salafis -- ultraconservative Sunnis who adhere to a
strict interpretation of Islam -- and stem the slide toward
radicalization, the ICG said. The lack of unity by international
community is also a concern, the group said.  ‘Bidding War’  “For as long as different countries sponsor distinct armed
groups, a bidding war will ensue, and any hope of coordinating
the rebels, disciplining them and restraining their most
extremist members will be in vain,” according to the report.  The government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has
played up the issue of Salafism, portraying its crackdown on the
uprising that began in March 2011 as a fight against armed
militant extremists.  As a practical matter, the Salafis haven’t been
particularly successful in their fighting,  “Large-scale attacks against regime forces in July and
August 2012, during which Salafi groups assumed a highly visible
role, ended in failure, deflating some of the preexisting
faith,” the ICG said.  Also, the group said  Syria  isn’t particularly fertile
ground for Islamic fundamentalists.  “Syria boasts a history of moderate Islamic practice and
has long prided itself on peaceful, cross-confessional
coexistence,” according to the report. “Its citizens have
seen, firsthand, the calamitous repercussions of sectarian
strife as civil war destroyed two of its neighbors, first
Lebanon, later  Iraq .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  