-- Italy 2013 Funding to Drop by EU20 Billion, Cannata Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-10T10:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/italy-s-2013-funding-needs-to-drop-by-eu20-billion-cannata-says.html
Italy ’s net funding needs will drop
by 20 billion euros ($26 billion) next year and the Treasury is
considering a new 30-year benchmark bond should demand continue
to improve, debt agency head Maria Cannata said.  The Treasury also faces 40 billion euros less in bond
maturities in 2013, when more than 115 billion euros of debt
comes due, Cannata said in an interview in Rome yesterday.  “Next year will surely be a less stressful year than this
year as the maturities are much better distributed through the
year,” she said.  Investor concern about Italy’s ability to manage the euro-
region’s  second-biggest  debt, currently worth 1.9 trillion
euros, pushed the country’s 10-year bond yields to more than 7
percent last year. Pledges by the European Union and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to buy bonds of distressed
nations such as Italy have helped bring down borrowing costs to
levels that Cannata called sustainable.  “The Draghi effect is going to last for some more time,”
she said. “Then we will have to see how the situation will
evolve at the European level, but for the moment, I don’t see
big movements on the horizon.”  ‘Danger Zone’  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was little changed at
5.11 percent at 11:25 a.m. in Rome, leaving the difference with
comparable-maturity German bunds at 362.3 basis points.  Cannata said that the November levels, when the 10-year
yield topped 7 percent and the country’s yield curve flattened,
was a “danger zone” for debt sustainability.  The relative calm in bond markets in recent weeks is
helping attract investors back to Italian debt and may allow the
Treasury to sell more longer-term securities to increase the
average life of its debt.  “As soon as we see the opportunity to extend the average
life of our debt, we will look to extend; it’s important to
rebuild that relief valve,” Cannata said. “To really lengthen
it we need to launch a new 15-year benchmark even a 30-year, why
not, as long as we can verify that the demand is strong enough
to justify it,” she said.  The Treasury sold a 15-year bond in September, the first at
that maturity this year. Cannata said she expects the average
life of debt to reach 6.7 years at year end.  Debt Auctions  Italy has met 80 percent of its financing needs for the
year as of the end of September, Cannata said. Italian borrowing
costs rose at an auction of three-months and one-year bills
today while demand increased from the previous month. The
Treasury sold 8 billion euros of 364-day bills at 1.941 percent,
up from 1.692 percent at the last auction on Sept. 12. It also
sold 3 billion euros of 91-day bills to yield 0.765 percent, up
from 0.7 percent last month. Italy returns to the market
tomorrow with the sale of longer-maturity debt.  There are signs foreign investors are returning to Italy,
Cannata said. “Until the end of August we have seen lots of
demand for two- and three-year bonds,” she said. “Then during
the month of September, already by mid-September very quickly
the demand spread to longer maturities, even as long as 15-
year,” she said.  “With the assurances of the strong presence of the ECB
many of the fears that had been created have dissipated and at
this point those who stayed in bunds or other AAA-securities
that barely produce returns are looking for opportunities.”  Draghi Effect  Italian 10-year bond yields have dropped more than 120
basis points since Draghi first signaled on Aug. 2 that the
central bank was willing to buy bonds of euro-region countries
to bring down borrowing costs. Draghi’s new bond-buying program
will work in tandem with debt-purchases by the EU’s bailout
funds and impose conditions on any government making a request.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who championed the idea
of the rescue funds buying bonds, has shied away from a request,
partly on concern about just what will be demanded in return for
the support.  The ECB has pledged to buy debt with maturities of as much
as three years. That doesn’t mean that the treasury will try to
favor securities with that maturity in their issuance plans,
Cannata said.  “I think that would be a bit myopic,” she said. “We did
increase issuances of those types of maturities this year, but
that was because of the weight of the redemptions we have to
cover.”  The Treasury is also trying to convince Italian retail
investors to buy more government debt and is selling its third
so-called BTP Italia bond this month.  Retail Bond  Cannata expects the offer to be “more welcomed” than the
one in June, when “many factors,” including a tax deadline and
an earthquake that struck in the Emilia-Romagna region, limited
demand. The Treasury sold 1.7 billion euros of the bonds in
June, with the first offer in March attracting 7.3 billion euros
in bids.  The Treasury may issue only two of the retail bonds next
year, and may consider different maturities, Cannata said.  “The four-year was perfect for this year, but we have to
see how this will combine with the maturities that we have next
year. We are thinking about changing it,” Cannata said. “I
think we’ll reduce the frequency because two issuances a year
will be sufficient.”  The retail bond, which investors can order through their
banks or at the post office between Oct. 15 and Oct. 18,
guarantees a minimum real return and pay coupons on a semi-
annual basis. The nominal amount is guaranteed at maturity even
in the case of deflation and investors who hold the bonds to
maturity will receive a bonus payment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  