-- Italy Sells 11 Billion Euros of Bills as Rates Rise at Auction
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-10T09:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/italy-sells-11-billion-euros-of-bills-as-rates-rise-at-auction.html
Italian borrowing costs rose at an
auction of 11 billion euros ($14 billion) of Treasury bills as
investors’ optimism over the bond buying plan announced by the
European Central Bank began to fade amid Spain’s reluctance to
request external aid.  The Treasury in  Rome  sold 8 billion euros of 364-day bills
at 1.941 percent, up from 1.692 percent at the last auction on
Sept. 12. Italy also sold 3 billion euros of 91-day bills to
yield 0.765 percent, up from 0.7 percent last month.  Investors bid for 1.77 times the amount of one-year bills
offered today, up from 1.65 times last month. The bid-to-cover
on the three-month bill was 2.79, higher than 2.25 times last
month.  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, who championed the idea
of the EU’s rescue funds buying bonds, has been reluctant to
request bond buying without knowing what conditions the EU and
ECB demand in return for the support. International Monetary
Fund Chief Economist Olivier Blanchard suggested yesterday that
bond yields in Spain and  Italy  may resume rising if the
countries don’t request a bailout.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy last week pushed back
expectations of a rescue, telling reporters no request was
imminent. His deputy, Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, said the
government needs to ensure a request for help from the euro’s
region permanent bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism,
would be granted before it can call for financial assistance.  ECB Signal  ECB President Mario Draghi first signaled on Aug. 2 that
the central bank was willing to buy bonds of euro-region
countries to bring down borrowing costs. Draghi’s new bond-
buying program will work in tandem with debt-purchases by the
European Union’s bailout funds and impose conditions on any
government making a request.  Italy’s have fallen by more than 120 basis points since 
Draghi first said the ECB was prepared to support the bonds of 
financial distressed countries.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year was little changed at 5.113
percent at 11:13 a.m. in Rome, pushing the difference with
comparable-maturity German bunds was 362.7 basis points. Italy
returns to the market tomorrow with the sale of longer-maturity
debt.  With assistance from Lorenzo Totaro in Rome. Editors: Andrew Davis  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  