-- Ituran’s First Sales Drop in 3 Years on Brazil: Israel Ov
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-11T15:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ituran-s-first-sales-drop-in-3-years-on-brazil-israel-overnight.html
Ituran Location and Control Ltd. ,
the Israeli technology company down 20 percent from a 2012 high,
expects to report the first annual sales drop in three years
after a weaker Brazilian currency and government delays eroded
revenue in its second-biggest market.  The Israeli manufacturer of devices for locating stolen
vehicles won’t match or exceed this year the $160.2 million of
sales recorded in 2011, co-Chief Executive Officer Eyal Sheratzky said in a phone interview from Tel Aviv yesterday.
 Ituran (ITRN)  dropped 1.2 percent to $12.46 in  New York , as the
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli
stocks in the U.S. sank 0.5 percent to 85.49, a three-week low.  The Brazilian real’s 8.4 percent slump against the dollar,
the second-biggest this year among 25 developing-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and a failure to implement a
law requiring cars to include an anti-theft device hobbled sales
in a market that made up 39 percent of 2011 revenue, Sheratzky
said.  Israel  was the biggest source of income, accounting for 50
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “One of the exposures that investors have to consider in
Ituran is that it is influenced by different currencies,”
Sheratzky, who shares the CEO post with Nir Sheratzky, said.
“The delay in the law is something we can’t control. Brazil
will continue to be a growth driver for us.”  The company’s shares in  Tel Aviv  slid 2.8 percent today to
47.26 shekels, or the equivalent of $12.27. Israel’s  TA-25
benchmark (TA-25)  gauge rose 0.9 percent.  ‘Make Acquisitions’  Ituran is looking to expand in Brazil as car owners and
insurance companies are looking for a solution in light of the
high crime rate, Sheratzky said. There were  4,767 murders  in
2010 in Rio de Janeiro state, which mostly consists of the
capital city and its environs, according to a government report.
That compares with  536 murders  in  New York City .  The company is also planning on entering the rest of the
region including Colombia, Ecuador and  Mexico  and is also
considering acquisitions.  “We are looking for a local provider and don’t want to
start from scratch in any region,” Sheratzky said. “Our
balance sheet is strong and we can use it to make
acquisitions.”  Ituran announced a deal of “substantial financial scope”
with General Motors  Brazil  in April through a subsidiary, for
the installation of its anti-theft device in the Chevrolet
vehicles sold by GM in Brazil. The company is seeking similar
deals with other car manufacturers, he said.  Regulation Delay  Brazil’s National Traffic Council  postponed  to January 2013
the beginning of the phased implementation of a law that will
require new cars and trucks to install a tracking system to help
prevent thefts, according to a July 16 statement on its website.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
 Switzerland , has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Israeli company whose founders
invented the technology used for making phone calls over the
Internet, sank 6.8 percent to $22.16, the lowest level since
Aug. 22. The Netanya, Israel-based company was the biggest
decliner on the Bloomberg Israel-U.S. gauge.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. generic over-the-counter
drugmaker, retreated for a fourth day, dropping 0.7 percent to
$117.14. The Tel Aviv shares were unchanged today at 454.60
shekels, or $118.03.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  