-- Japan Easing Restrictions on U.S. Beef, Paving Way for Tyson
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-10-10T09:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/japan-easing-restrictions-on-u-s-beef-paving-way-for-tyson.html
Japan ,  Asia ’s largest beef importer,
will consider taking additional steps after easing restrictions
on U.S. shipments, widening opportunities for exporters such as
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  while ensuring supply to local retailers.  Japan’s health ministry will relax the age limit on U.S.
beef to 30 months from 20 months next year after it receives
approval from the nation’s Food Safety Commission as early as
this month, according to Hideshi Michino, director at the
ministry’s food-safety department. The threshold, imposed to
safeguard against mad-cow disease, may be eased further to six
years, he said in an interview without giving a timeframe.  The relaxation may increase purchases by Japan, which
bought 10 percent more beef from the U.S. in the first half of
2012 because of a strong yen and concerns about the safety of
domestic food after the nuclear disaster in Fukushima prefecture
last year. Cattle futures in  Chicago  climbed to a record on Sept.
13, while surging corn and soybean prices boosted feed costs.
Tyson gets 41 percent of its revenue from beef, according to
 data  compiled by  Bloomberg News .  “We believe the safety of beef is ensured by eliminating
risk materials from the meat, rather than limiting the age of
cattle,” said Minoru Yamamoto, director at the international
animal health affairs office of the agriculture ministry.  The commission will approve the 30-month limit probably by
the end of this month, said Makoto Osone, an official with the
food-safety group, without commenting on the six-year limit.  ‘Normalize’ Trade  Japan imposed a ban on American beef following the first
U.S. discovery of mad-cow disease in 2003, blocking sales of the
meat to the biggest export market. The country resumed purchases
from the U.S. in 2005 on condition that the meat must come from
cattle at the age of 20 months or younger, which the U.S. said
was unnecessarily stringent. Japan also requires exporters to
remove materials that could transmit the disease before shipment.  While the U.S. government said Japan should comply with the
international safety standard for the beef trade, U.S. exporters
see the 30-month limit as helpful for them to restore sales to
pre-ban levels, said Susumu Harada, senior director at the Tokyo
office of the  U.S. Meat Export Federation .  “The new rule will help normalize beef trade as U.S.
products for overseas markets mostly come from cattle age 24
months or younger,” he said.  The U.S. was the largest beef exporter to Japan after
Australia in 2003, supplying 267,583 metric tons worth 128.5
billion yen ($1.6 billion), data from the agriculture ministry
showed. Tyson, JBS SA, Cargill Inc. and National Beef Inc. are
the biggest U.S. beef suppliers to Japan, according to Takemichi
Yamashoji, senior marketing director at the Tokyo office of U.S.
Meat Export Federation.  Japan imported 240,815 tons of beef in the first half of
2012, with 24 percent coming from the U.S., according to the
ministry.  Australia  was the largest supplier with 153,938 tons,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  