-- Japan Electronics Emulates Detroit Autos Before Bankruptcy: Tech
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-11T11:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/japan-electronics-emulates-detroit-autos-before-bankruptcy-tech.html
In 2004, Kameyama, a town of 50,000
people in central  Japan , boomed when  Sharp Corp. (6753)  started making
liquid-crystal-display panels there.  Sharp dominated the industry with a 22 percent market share
in LCD TVs and poured $6.6 billion into Kameyama, putting up two
state-of-the-art factories and creating 3,000 jobs. Farmland was
turned into housing as workers in their 20s moved in from as far
away as Brazil. Taxes from Sharp paid for the renovation of the
train station and a new school with features like a castle.  Then  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  began driving down prices,
forcing Sharp to keep pace. Prices for 40-inch LCD panels fell
from about $2,700 in the beginning of 2004 to $1,300 in 2005 and
kept dropping until they reached $250 at the start of this year.
Samsung steadily gained market share, moving to 29 percent in
2012 from 10 percent in 2004.  Sharp, unable to compete, saw its share of the industry
plunge to 5 percent. It slashed jobs and workers moved away,
leaving the housing complexes in the town deserted. The company
last month pledged the factories as collateral along with most
of its properties, including company headquarters in Osaka, in
return for 360 billion yen ($4.6 billion) in loans to stay
afloat.  Japan’s electronics industry is in crisis. Sharp,  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  had combined  losses  of more than $20
billion last year and are cutting tens of thousands of jobs.
Having the most-advanced technology -- once a key strength of
Japanese manufacturers -- matters less as consumers increasingly
pay attention to content, apps and user-friendliness rather than
hardware specifications. The yen’s rise to record levels against
the dollar in 2011 added to the companies’ misery.  Apple, Samsung  “Japan’s tech industry is just like the U.S. auto industry
in the past,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at
Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund
advisory firm. “They think people will buy their products, but
they’re not focusing on what consumers really want, which is
good enough quality at the best price.”  Sony, Sharp and Panasonic now have a combined market
capitalization of about $29 billion, compared with Sony’s peak
valuation of about $120 billion in 1999.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s market
capitalization is $601 billion and Samsung’s is $173 billion.  Sony slipped five places to 40th in this year’s ranking of
the world’s most-valuable brands by Interbrand, which was topped
by Coca-Cola Co. Apple rose to second place from eighth last
year and Samsung to ninth from 17th. The highest-ranked Japanese
electronics company was Canon Inc. in 30th place.  For decades before Sharp came to Kameyama, electronics
makers played a central role in creating prosperity for Japan.  Detroit, Japan  Just as Detroit’s carmakers helped fuel U.S. post-World War
II industrialization and the consumer economy, Sony, Panasonic
and Sharp contributed to Japan’s postwar resurrection as an
industrial and economic powerhouse. Konosuke Matsushita, who
founded Panasonic in 1918, told workers the company’s mission
was to eradicate poverty by mass-producing affordable quality
goods that improved people’s lives.  In the U.S., motor vehicle-related jobs accounted for 9.8
percent of all U.S. employment, or 13.3 million jobs, between
1998 and 2001, according to the  Center for Automotive Research 
in Ann Arbor, Michigan. In  2010 , about 8 million private-sector
jobs were still related to the industry, which has historically
accounted for as much as 3.5 percent of U.S. gross domestic
product, according to the center.  In Japan, makers of information and communication
electronics equipment and electronic parts and devices accounted
for more than 665,000 jobs, or 8.7 percent of all manufacturing
employment, as of 2010, according to the nation’s statistics
bureau. They contributed 10 percent of Japan’s manufacturing
output, according to the  statistics .  GM, Chrysler  The reasons for the companies’ decline mirror those that
triggered the collapse of U.S. carmakers in 2009, when General
Motors Corp. and Chrysler filed for bankruptcy and were bailed
out by the federal government, said Arthur Alexander, a
professor of Asian Studies at  Georgetown University  and former
president of the Japan Economic Institute in Washington.  “Japanese companies have run into many of exactly the same
problems that American companies do as new technologies, new
competitors, new ways of doing things come into dominance and it
just shows how hard it is to keep up,” Alexander said. “It’s
the same story for General Motors. It took bankruptcy and
bringing in a whole new management to try to overcome that.”  In both cases, success and a reliance on domestic-market
dominance left companies complacent, eroding their
innovativeness and leaving them unprepared as growth moved to
new markets, consumer preferences changed and upstart
competitors mounted challenges.  Domestic Focus  At its height in the 1950s, GM controlled more than half
the U.S. car market, then the world’s largest. Last fiscal year,
the domestic share of revenue was 53 percent at Panasonic, 48
percent at Sharp and 32 percent at Sony, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In contrast, Samsung counted on  South Korea  for 17 percent
of sales in 2010 and Seoul-based  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  got 17
percent of revenue in its home market in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies “have been able to grow in Japan alone, as it is
a giant consumer market, so they have been slow to
internationalize development, production and sales, to say
nothing of management,” Kota Ezawa and Tsubasa Sasaki, Tokyo-
based analysts at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report last month.  Declining Population  Even as Japan remains the world’s third-largest economy,
depending on the domestic market for growth is no longer
possible as its  population , which peaked at 127.8 million in
2008, is projected by the government to decline to about 101
million by 2050.  The nation’s nominal GDP contracted in eight of the last 16
years, according to the  World Bank . Retail sales in Japan fell
to 136.8 trillion yen in 2011 from 146.3 trillion yen in 1996,
according to government figures.  The financial crisis not only slowed  consumer spending  in
developed markets, it also sent the yen surging as investors
sought the safety of the Japanese currency, in turn eroding
exporters’ overseas earnings. The yen has strengthened 50
percent against the dollar during the last five years. In
contrast, the Korean won fell 18 percent in the same period.  Developed Markets  Japan’s electronics makers focused too much on developed
markets, where demand for new  consumer goods  has slowed, said
Steve Durose, a senior director and head of technology for the
Asia-Pacific region at  Fitch Ratings . South Korean companies
have been better at targeting  emerging markets , where growth is
stronger, he said.  Sony, Sharp and Panasonic each got more than 70 percent of
last fiscal year’s revenue from Japan, the Americas and Europe
combined, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung got 52 percent of revenue from the Americas and
Europe in 2010, while  North America  and Europe accounted for 35
percent of sales at LG in 2011, the data show.  Japan’s consumer-electronics makers need to move more
production and research-and-development to cheaper locations and
focus more on the emerging markets that will drive future
growth, said Peter Kenevan, a Tokyo-based director at McKinsey.  China  China, the world’s second-largest economy, made up 7.6
percent of sales at Sony last fiscal year and 13 percent at
Panasonic, compared with 16 percent at Samsung in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sharp got 20 percent of
sales from China last fiscal year, although the company’s total
revenue from the nation declined 6.5 percent, the data shows.  “They have been very slow in moving their production
offshore and cutting their costs,” said Edwin Merner, president
of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo which manages
about $300 million in assets. “And they were too overconfident
that they could produce at a good price in Japan.”  The domestic focus also saddled the Japanese with high
fixed costs. Like Detroit’s carmakers, they’ve been unable to
quickly cut spending, leading to losses as their sales and
market share declined.  Union contracts at GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler locked
in high labor and pension costs, and production targets that
obligated them to make a certain number of vehicles regardless
of demand, said Alec Gutierrez, a senior market analyst at
Kelley Blue Book in Irvine, California.  Burdened with manufacturing overcapacity and too many
brands chasing too few customers, GM had to kill off Oldsmobile,
Saturn and Pontiac to help return to health. Ford got rid of the
Mercury brand to focus on Lincoln.  Too Many TVs  What the extraneous car brands were for Detroit, TVs are
for the Japanese tech companies.  Industrywide TV demand fell 8 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter of this year, according to DisplaySearch,
led by a 77 percent plunge in shipments in Japan.  Sony lost 692 billion yen on TVs during the past eight
years and forecasts another 80 billion-yen loss from the unit
this fiscal year, compared with its current market
capitalization of 933 billion yen.  Losses from TVs at Panasonic, which doesn’t disclose the
figures, totaled 349 billion yen in the past four fiscal years,
according to an estimate by  Yuji Fujimori , an analyst at
Barclays Plc in Tokyo.  Sharp, which also doesn’t disclose the numbers, lost money
on TVs in fiscal years 2011, 2009 and 2008, said  Miyuki Nakayama , a company spokeswoman. All three companies have seen
their  credit ratings  cut since April.  No Premium  “There was a time when a Sharp, a Panasonic or a Sony TV,
for example, could attract a price premium over a Korean
product,” Durose said. “That’s no longer the case.”  As Sharp’s market share plummeted, it announced in June
2011 it would convert its first Kameyama plant to make
smartphone panels instead of TV panels. The second plant was
converted in fiscal 2011, said Toyodo Uemura, a company
spokesman in Osaka.  While Japanese electronics makers have traditionally been
thought of as industry giants, there are too many of them,
diluting their individual strength, said Chang Sea Jin,
provost’s chair in business policy at the  National University  of
Singapore and author of the book “Sony vs. Samsung.”  Japan has nine TV makers, 10 mobile-phone makers and 10
personal-computer makers, according to the  Japan Electronics and
Information Technology Industries Association .  “In Korea, we have only two -- Samsung and LG,” Chang
said.  Innovation  If a company can’t compete on costs, it needs to offer
consumers something unique, said Peter Cohan of Peter S. Cohan &
Associates, a Marlborough, Massachusetts-based management
consulting firm, whose past clients include AT&T Inc. and
Eastman Kodak Co.  Yet even in terms of innovation, Japanese manufacturers
like Sony, which invented the concept of mobile music, are
losing out to Apple and Samsung.  Powered by software, a single device now performs many of
the functions that previously required separate pieces of
hardware with moving mechanical parts -- from playing music or
games to taking pictures, watching movies and recording video.  “Japanese companies innovated primarily on hardware and
the device and they were fantastic at that,” Kenevan said.
“The problem is, the key engine of innovation in the world has
shifted from hardware to software, to systems, to solutions.”  Apple became the world’s most-valuable corporation by
integrating hardware with software and entertainment content
into seamless, user-friendly systems centered around the iPhone
and iPad, Chang said.  Hirai’s Strategy  Sony is still struggling to integrate its hardware,
software and entertainment contents. The streaming service Music
Unlimited only became available in its home market this year,
seven years after iTunes was introduced in Japan.  Kazuo Hirai, who took over from  Howard Stringer  as Sony’s
chief executive officer in April, identified hardware, including
imaging devices and mobile gadgets, as key elements in the
company’s revival strategy.  At a Sony press conference last month, hardware
specifications were front and center as Masashi Imamura, head of
the company’s TV business, introduced its latest model. The 84-
inch set will feature a 4K display offering higher resolution
than current standard models and packing 10 speakers on each
side, Imamura said.  OLED TVs  Sony will “never” view TVs as an interchangeable
commodity, he said. “What customers expect from Sony is to
create something unique.”  Samsung and LG both said they plan to introduce TVs this
year using organic light-emitting diode displays, or OLED, which
can be as thin as 4 millimeters (0.16 inches) and produce images
200 times sharper than current LCD models. That’s sooner than
Sony and Panasonic, which announced a partnership in June to
develop OLED models and introduce them next year.  For Sharp, superior hardware was supposed to help turn
around the plants in Kameyama. The second factory, built at an
initial cost of about 350 billion yen, began producing advanced
panels for tablet PCs in March of this year, using a new
semiconductor technology known as IGZO.  IGZO Panels  Although Sharp says its IGZO panels offer higher resolution
and consume less battery power than current LCD panels, it has
struggled to find buyers, leaving the plant underutilized. An
industry conversion to the new technology isn’t happening as
quickly as Sharp had expected, the company said last month.  Technical challenges in making the panels are leading to
low production yields, making them too expensive, Jeff Loff, an
analyst in Tokyo at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a Sept. 3
report. Annual operating losses related to the panels may be
about 100 billion yen, he estimated.  The number of workers at both Kameyama plants fell to about
2,000 in March from 3,000 three years earlier, according to
Sharp. The city’s population is declining, and last year’s tax
revenue was down 24 percent from a peak in 2008.  Near the factories, the Sky Heights apartment complex,
built to house workers who moved to the town, is empty. Windows
are shuttered, the grounds are overgrown and cobwebs hang from
railings. No-smoking signs and placards warning of video
surveillance, written in Portuguese, serve as reminders of the
Brazilian immigrant workers.  “No one lives there anymore,” said Takeyoshi Yamauchi, an
81-year-old retiree who lives next door. “Just last year, they
were fully occupied. Kameyama’s best days are over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  