-- Japanese Stock Futures Decline on Spain Rating Downgrade
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-10T23:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/japanese-stock-futures-decline-on-spain-rating-downgrade.html
Japanese  stock   futures  fell after a
cut in Spain’s debt rating by  Standard & Poor’s  reminded
investors of the risk of Europe’s debt crisis, sapping demand
for riskier assets. Australian equities dropped.  American depositary receipts of camera maker  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
which gets 31 percent of its revenue in Europe, dropped 1.1
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. ADRs of  Komatsu
Ltd. (6301) , Japan’s largest construction machinery maker, dropped 1.1
percent after a preliminary report showed the nation’s machine
tool orders fell last month. Lynas Corp. slumped 19 percent in
Sydney after a court ruling further delayed the development of
its rare-earth refinery in Malaysia.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,550 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,590
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,530 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
retreated 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index dropped
0.4 percent in Wellington.  S&P’s downgrade of Spain “reminds people that the
situation remains difficult,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at White Funds Management in Sydney who manages more
than $350 million. “Investors need to remain cautious, and it’s
not a time to bet big. It’s worth keeping an eye on how the U.S.
election is shaping up as well as how the European development
is shaping up.”  Valuation Comparison  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 6 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks from Europe to the U.S. and
Japan took stimulus measures to counter a global economic
slowdown and the  European debt crisis . The Asian benchmark
traded at 12.8 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11.9
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Spain’s debt rating was lowered two levels to BBB- from
BBB+, S&P said yesterday, citing mounting economic and political
risks. S&P assigned a negative outlook on the nation’s debt.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index (SPXL1)  slid 0.3 percent today. The
index declined 0.6 percent in New York yesterday as Alcoa Inc.
unofficially kicked off an earnings season that is forecast to
show profits and sales of S&P 500 listed companies fell in
unison for the first time in three years, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 briefly trimmed losses yesterday after the
 Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book business survey that the
 U.S. economy  expanded “modestly” last month.  In Japan, a government report today is forecast to show the
nation’s machine orders fell 2.3 percent in August after rising
4.6 percent in July, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Japanese machine tool orders fell 3 percent in
September from a year earlier, the Japan Machine Tool Builders’
Association said in a preliminary report yesterday.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained for the first time this week,
adding 0.4 percent to 92.20 yesterday in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 