-- Jefferies Beats Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan on Trading-Loss Days
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-10-10T16:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/jefferies-beats-morgan-stanley-jpmorgan-on-trading-loss-days.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank that’s 1/28th the size of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is more
effectively avoiding trading losses this year than larger Wall
Street firms.  Jefferies said it had a trading loss on one day in the
three months ended Aug. 31, bringing the total to three days for
the first nine months of its fiscal year, according to
regulatory filings from the New York-based bank. That compares
with 29 days of trading losses at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the
first six months of the year, 19 days at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
seven days for Goldman Sachs.  Jefferies has cut its total assets by 24 percent since last
year’s third quarter amid investor concern about its holdings in
European debt. The firm’s shares declined 14 percent in November
2011 following the collapse of futures brokerage  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  Moody’s Investors Service, which is reviewing
Jefferies’s credit for a possible downgrade, said last month the
firm’s management is demonstrating “risk discipline” by
maintaining a “liquid, less complex” balance sheet.  The firm is showing its “historical track record of not
overleveraging or overextending our company, our lack of
concentration,” Handler said on a conference call last month.
“We’ve had real-life stress test as an independent company that
has not been bailed out by anybody or taken taxpayer dollars
over the course of the last five years. We have a very strong
story to tell and we’ll do our best.”  Knight Capital  Jefferies’s average daily value-at-risk, a measure of how
much the company estimates it could lose in the securities
market in a single day, increased to $10.53 million from $8.83
million in the second quarter, mainly because of an investment
in  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the firm said. Excluding that
investment, average VaR fell to $8.35 million, it said.  “Our VaR on a relative basis is particularly low,”
Handler said on the call. “Over the course of the last year,
we’ve shrunk our balance sheet. Our inventories are very light.
So I don’t think the increase in VaR due to Knight is really
material to overall organization.”  The first nine months of Jefferies’s fiscal year ended Aug.
31, and its full year concludes Nov. 30. Bigger rivals, whose
third quarters ended Sept. 30, are scheduled to report third-
quarter earnings this month.  Jefferies reported total assets of $34.4 billion as of Aug.
31, compared with $2.29 trillion for JPMorgan on June 30,  $948.6
billion (GS)  for Goldman Sachs and $748.5 billion for Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 