-- Drop in Openings Signals Limited U.S. Job Growth: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-10T18:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/job-openings-in-u-s-decreased-32-000-in-august-hiring-rose.html
Job openings in the U.S. dropped for
a second straight month in August, indicating companies are
reluctant to beef up payrolls through year-end without faster
economic growth.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled fell by 32,000
to 3.561 million from a revised 3.593 million the prior month
that was less than previously estimated, the Labor Department
said today in a statement. Hiring increased at the same time
firings rose to a three-month high.  Companies such as Foot Locker Inc. are facing a weakening
global economy and the possibility of automatic tax increases
and government cutbacks, helping explain limited payroll growth.
At the same time, a jobless rate that fell below 8 percent last
month for the first time in more than three years shows some
progress in the labor market.  “A lot of firms may be back on their heels, reluctant to
go out and expand,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .
“There is uncertainty due to the election, the fiscal cliff and
 Europe . We are definitely still adding jobs. The key question is
how much more restraint we’re going to see from businesses.”  Today’s report helps illuminate the dynamics behind the
government’s monthly employment figures. Payrolls rose by
114,000 workers, the fewest in three months. While job openings
eased in August, they were still 409,000 higher than the same
month last year.  In September, the  jobless rate  fell to 7.8 percent from 8.1
percent the prior month, the Labor Department said Oct. 5.  Year Ago  Stocks fell, extending losses for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to a fourth day, on concern corporate earnings and global
growth will slow. The  S&P 500  declined 0.6 percent to 1,433.03
at 2:37 p.m. in  New York .  The  International Monetary Fund  said European banks may
need to sell as much as $4.5 trillion in assets through 2013 if
policy makers fall short of pledges to stem the fiscal crisis,
up 18 percent from its April estimate. The IMF yesterday cut its
forecasts for global growth.  Job openings in the U.S. increased for workers in
construction, professional and business services and retail
trade. Manufacturing, accommodation and food services, and
education and health services showed declines.  Looking Online  James McCoy, a 43-year-old from Waretown,  New Jersey , is
searching for work. Having lost his job last month at a Wawa
Inc. convenience store where he worked for more than 16 years,
McCoy said he has been looking for opportunities online,
attending job fairs and going to restaurants and retailers
asking about work.  “It’s been tough,” said McCoy. “I’ve put in plenty of
applications and gotten plenty of rejections,” he said.  Total firings, which exclude retirements and those who left
their job voluntarily, increased to a three-month high of 1.848
million from 1.582 million a month before.  Santa Clara , California-based  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, said last week it
plans to eliminate 900 to 1,300 jobs, or 6 percent to 9 percent
of its worldwide workforce. Camden, New Jersey-based  Campbell
Soup Co. (CPB) , the world’s largest soup maker, said Sept. 27 it plans
to close two plants that employ more than 700 in the U.S. as
demand declines and productivity improves.  “We have an election coming up and a so-called fiscal
cliff the country is approaching,” Kenneth Hicks, chief
executive officer of New York-based Foot Locker, the largest
U.S. athletic shoe-chain, said in an Aug. 17 call with analysts.
“So, there’s always the potential of an impact on the  U.S.
economy  that we will have to manage through.”  Tax Increases  The fiscal cliff refers to more than $600 billion of
federal tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect
automatically next year without any action by lawmakers.  While last month’s drop in unemployment was unexpected --
no economist surveyed by Bloomberg projected the rate would fall
below 8 percent -- Federal Reserve policy makers have said they
would like to see “sustained improvement” in the labor market.  The Fed said today that the economy was expanding
“modestly” last month, supported by improvements in housing
and auto sales, even as the labor market showed little change.  “ Consumer spending  was generally reported to be flat to up
slightly since the last report,” the Fed said in its  Beige Book 
business survey, which is based on accounts from the 12 district
Fed banks.  Skilled Workers  While “employment conditions were little changed since the
last report,” several districts reported shortages of highly
skilled workers, the Beige Book said.  Today’s Labor Department report showed that 2.14 million
people quit their jobs in August, down from 2.163 million in the
prior month. In total, the rate of separations climbed to 3.3
percent from 3.1 percent.  The number of people hired in August rose to 4.39 million,
pushing up the hiring rate to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent,
according to today’s report.  In the 12 months ended in August, the economy created a net
1.8 million jobs, representing 51.6 million hires and about 49.8
million separations, today’s report showed.  Taking into account the 12.54 million Americans who were
 unemployed  in August, today’s figures indicate there are about
3.5 people vying for every opening.  The central bank in September said that it would probably
hold its  target interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2015
to stimulate more hiring. The central bank also began a third
round of stimulus, buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds a month.  ‘Sustained Improvement’  “We’re looking for ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters
following the announcement on Sept. 13. “What we’ve seen in the
last six months isn’t it.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  has
called for accommodation as long as unemployment exceeds 7
percent and the inflation outlook remains below 3 percent. On
Sept. 20, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank should hold rates
near zero until joblessness drops below 5.5 percent and
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.25 percent.  Even some of those who have found work recently are wary of
opening up their pocketbooks because of a lack of confidence in
the economy. Jenna Kozel, 27, just took a job at Lookout Inc., a
San Francisco-based smartphone security company, working in
marketing and digital media, after being recruited by technology
companies from her public relations job. She’s earning more than
$100,000 a year, yet doesn’t plan to buy a car or a house
anytime soon.  “I always thought, once I got to a certain income bracket,
I’d buy one, but I just don’t want to because I’m worried,” she
said. “Even though I’m financially stable, that just seems like
an expense I don’t need. I just want to keep my expenditures as
low as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  