-- John Lennon Savages Beatles Fans, McCartney in Letters
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-10-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/john-lennon-savages-beatles-fans-mccartney-in-letters.html
John Lennon never minced his words.  Paul McCartney should “get off his gold disc,” he once
wrote. On another occasion, he was irked by producer George Martin’s boasts about being the brains behind the Beatles: “For
the cameraman to take credit from the director is a bit too
much.”  To one critic, Lennon wrote: “People like you still exist,
of course, in small towns across the world.” To another, he
messaged, “Yoko’s been an artist before you were even a
groupie.”  Lennon was bitter about some admirers too: “I was reading
your letter and wondering what middle aged cranky Beatle fan
wrote it,” he replied to correspondence from McCartney.  These waspish barbs come in “ The John Lennon Letters ,” the
first compilation of his postcards, notes and telegrams, some
with “JohnandYoko” doodles. Heaven knows how big the volume
would be had Lennon lived long enough to use e-mail. He’d have
just turned 72: The first Beatles single came out 50 years ago.  The detective work in sourcing the material was carried out
by Beatles biographer Hunter Davies. As Yoko Ono writes in a
foreword, he has done well. When Lennon had a brainwave, or felt
happy or sad, he tended to jot it down and often enough shared
it with others, Davies writes.  Lennon hated pretense. He had strong opinions on just about
everything. He sang “All You Need Is Love” and wanted world
peace. Yet he was far from a pacifist or diplomat in his own
life. He shot his mouth off in interviews. He also shot from the
hip in angry memos to Beatles PR man Derek Taylor. Some of those
are unprintable streams of abuse and vitriol.  Queen’s Letter  The book contains Lennon’s most famous impulsive letter,
when he returned his British MBE medal to the queen, saying it
was in protest against U.K. inaction during the Nigerian Civil
War, support for the U.S. over  Vietnam , and his single “Cold
 Turkey ” slipping down the charts.  There’s also the infamous original LP sleeve for “Yesterday
and Today,” showing the Beatles in bloodied butcher smocks. It
was sent by Lennon to an unknown correspondent with the note:
“My original idea for the cover was better -- decapitate Paul --
but he wouldn’t go along with it.”  Amid the putdowns and the brisk notes firing his chauffeur
and the backing band Elephant’s Memory, there are affectionate
postcards to Ringo Starr and love poems for Ono. On his first
wife Cynthia, there’s rather less.  Making Plans  Other scraps show Lennon’s everyday concerns: “Life is what
happens to you when you are busy making other plans,” as he once
put it.  Davies pretty much throws in everything including the
kitchen sink. There are shopping lists (Margaret Trudeau book,
marmalade, cat food, grapenuts); “to do” agendas (books in
Sean’s playroom, Yoko dentist, wall hooks for guitars); a
childhood thank-you card; complaints to the laundry over a white
shirt that came back yellow; and Lennon’s last autograph, signed
just before his death.  Fans will lap it up. Everyone else will go, “Too much
information.”  There are some heartbreaking missives to his cousin Leila
written in the 1970s. In one, Lennon says “I’m 40 next year -- I
hope life begins.” In another, he says that he’s thinking of
having piano lessons, is as healthy as a bull, does yoga most
days and is food-conscious. “I bet I live to a ripe old age.”  “The John Lennon Letters” by John Lennon and Hunter Davies
(400 pages) is published by Little, Brown and Company at $29.99
in the U.S. and by W&N in the U.K. at 25 pounds. To buy the book
in North America, click  here .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 