-- Jordan’s King Says New Cabinet Should Exert Financial Discipline
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-10T14:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/jordan-s-king-says-new-cabinet-should-exert-financial-discipline.html
Jordan’s King Abdullah II named
Abdullah al-Nossur as prime minister and said the new Cabinet
must show financial restraint, the state-run Petra news agency
reported.  In a letter addressed to al-Nossur, the king said Jordan’s
fiscal and economic challenges require a medium-term budget to
be presented to parliament that will be elected in the next few
months.  “The government and all public sector institutions should
exhibit the maximum degree of financial discipline, prudence and
responsibility when they determine budget allocations and
spending,” the king said in a letter addressed to the new prime
minister.  The monarch said changes to remove obstacles facing
investors must continue and a greater effort should be made to
attract local, Arab and foreign investments, Petra said.  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the  Middle East ,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to support its budget and current-account
deficits. The kingdom’s power plants have had to switch to
costlier fuels such as diesel after repeated interruptions in
natural-gas supplies caused by sabotage of the export pipeline
in neighboring  Egypt .  The king said it is “imperative” for the government to
speed policies ensuring the diversification of energy sources,
with a focus on alternative and renewable sources as well as
improved  energy efficiency .  The king dissolved the lower house of parliament on Oct. 4
and ordered new elections. That decision meant the government of
Prime Minister Fayez al-Tarawneh had one week to resign.  Thousands of demonstrators belonging to the Islamic Action
Front, the political wing of the  Muslim Brotherhood , marched in
Amman on Oct. 5 to call for a constitutional monarchy and an
elected government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  