-- JPMorgan Must Pay $18 Million to Heiress Over Derivatives
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-10-10T18:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/jpmorgan-must-pay-18-million-to-oil-heiress-over-derivatives.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was ordered by
an  Oklahoma  court to pay $18.1 million to the trust fund of a
75-year-old oil heiress for selling her derivatives that she
claimed she didn’t understand.  The bank must also pay punitive damages to the Carolyn S.
Burford Trust, which benefits the granddaughter of Oklahoma
oilman William G. Skelly, Tulsa County District Court Judge
Linda Morrissey ruled yesterday. The evidence “overwhelmingly
demonstrates the bank’s grossly negligent and reckless
administration of the trust,” Morrissey said.  The trust lost a “substantial” amount of money on
contracts called variable prepaid forwards, which bankers at
Bank One Trust Co. sold to Ann Fletcher in 2000 as a way to
generate more income, according to the ruling. After Bank One
Corp.  merged  with New York-based JPMorgan in 2004, the bank
managed the trust for two more years.  “This bank developed a strategy whereby they could utilize
the funds in this trust in order to purchase investment products
from their own equity division,” Erin Donovan, a lawyer in
Tulsa who represented Fletcher, said in a phone interview. “She
thought they were her friends.”  The bank breached its fiduciary duty when it sold the
derivatives, Morrissey wrote. Bankers were given incentives to
push the variable prepaid forwards, which generated as much as
$2 million in fees, she said.  ‘Appropriate Measures’  Douglas Morris, a spokesman for JPMorgan, said in an e-mail
that the bank disagrees with the decision and will respond with
“all appropriate measures,” including an appeal.  The trust, which held shares of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , was
created in 1955 by Fletcher’s grandparents, according to the
ruling. Her grandfather founded Skelly Oil Co. and his 9,000-
square-foot red-brick mansion is now the official residence of
the president of the University of Tulsa, according to the
school’s  website .  The trust will be given to the Oklahoma Annual Conference
of the United Methodist Church and Fletcher’s children when she
dies. The bankers didn’t consult these beneficiaries about the
derivatives or when Fletcher requested higher annual payments,
the judge said.  Share Collateral  In the variable prepaid forwards, the trust used the Exxon
Mobil shares as collateral for loans, then invested the proceeds
in municipal bond funds, said Craig McCann, who testified as an
expert witness for the plaintiffs. The contracts also involved
buying and selling put and call options on the stock, giving up
gains beyond a certain level, said McCann, the founder of
Securities Litigation & Consulting Group.  “These are proprietary products,” McCann said in a phone
interview. “The bank is on the other side of the deal.”  Fletcher, whose husband died in 1997, had medical problems
and was cognitively impaired at the time the bank recommended
the derivatives, according to the ruling. She wrote to the bank
in 1999, stating “I’m scared to do puts & calls,” according to
Morrissey. She relied on the bankers for advice when she agreed
to buy the derivatives a year later, the judge said.  “She felt they were wonderful people who were looking
after her best interest,” Donovan said. “She invited them to
parties at her home.”  The case is Trust of Carolyn S. Burford v. JP Morgan, PT-
2006-013, Tulsa County District Court, Tulsa (Oklahoma).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at   zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  