-- Korean Bond Yields Fall to Record Lows on Rate View: Seoul Mover
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-10T06:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/korean-bond-yields-fall-to-record-lows-on-rate-view-seoul-mover.html
South Korea’s government bond yields
fell to record lows as economists forecast the central bank will
reduce  interest rates  tomorrow for a second time this year to
spur growth. The won retreated from an 11-month high.  The nation faces bigger external risks from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in emerging economies, the  Bank of Korea 
said yesterday in a report prepared for a parliamentary audit.
Thirteen of 16 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  predict the
central bank will cut its benchmark seven-day  repurchase  rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent, having last
reduced borrowing costs in July. The rest forecast no change.  “Investors are now accepting a rate cut as a certainty,”
said Huh Kwan, a Seoul-based fixed-income trader at Korea
Investment & Securities Co. “The central bank’s comments on the
economy have spurred this speculation.”  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to close
at 2.72 percent in  Seoul , Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.
That’s the lowest for a benchmark three-year  note  since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2000. Ten-year yields
dropped five basis points to 2.91 percent, also an all-time low.
The one-year interest-rate swap declined four basis points to
2.76 percent.  South Korea’s jobless rate held at this year’s low of 3.1
percent for a third month in September, official data showed
today. The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  reduced its benchmark rate
last week to the lowest level since 2009.  ‘Mobilizing All Means’  Central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo told lawmakers
yesterday that global policy coordination in borrowing costs
means adjusting rates toward levels in other countries,
according to a report by Yonhap Infomax.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in a Bloomberg News
interview yesterday that “mobilizing all available fiscal,
monetary and financial policy means in a bold move with a large
size may have harmful effects.”  The won weakened 0.4 percent to 1,114.70 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
1,109.57 on Oct.8, the strongest level since Nov. 1, 2011. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  