-- New York City Council Seeks to Limit Police Stop-and-Frisks
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-10-10T18:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/new-york-city-council-seeks-to-limit-police-stop-and-frisks.html
The New York Police Department’s
stop-and-frisk policy came under attack from city council
members considering four laws that would restrict the encounters
and create an inspector general to monitor the practices.  Police stopped 685,724 people they deemed suspicious on
streets in 2011, of whom 84 percent were black or Hispanic,
according to the  Center for Constitutional Rights , a  New York- 
based nonprofit that in 2008 filed a federal civil-rights suit
in  Manhattan  against the NYPD over the tactic.  “It’s despicable, totally unacceptable and it should not
be tolerated by the NYPD,” Harlem Councilman  Robert Jackson 
told Michael Best, counsel to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who
opposes the bills. “It needs to be totally revamped and it
needs to be done now.”  About 200 people packed the council’s  City Hall  chambers
today for the hearing, where members took turns questioning Best
and expressing disappointment at the absence of Police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly, who declined an invitation to
appear. More hearings are scheduled in New York’s five boroughs
in the next several weeks.  Best presented a statement to the Committee on Public
Safety arguing that it had no power to change police practices.
The state has exclusive control, he said. Council Speaker
Christine Quinn said her members rejected the administration’s
argument. A council memo created for the hearing cited the 1993
creation of the Civilian Complaint Review Board to investigate
police abuse as one example of legislative oversight.  Quinn’s Message  “I hope today’s hearing sends a message that the council’s
call for reforming stop, question and frisk continues,” said
Quinn, a probable Democratic mayoral candidate in 2013.
“Although stop, question and frisk should be used as a tool in
the police department’s tool box, when we have almost 800,000
stops at the peak targeting almost exclusively African-American
and Latino men in neighborhoods of lower income, clearly that is
a problem.”  The NYPD patrol guide informs officers they may stop and
question a person they suspect has committed or is about to
commit a crime, frisk the individual by running hands over
clothing to feel for a weapon and search inside a pocket or
other clothing to determine if an object is a weapon.  A small percentage of those stops result in finding
weapons, Quinn said.  Inspector General  Today’s hearing began a day after  The Nation  magazine
published an audio recording purporting to capture a police
officer stopping a Harlem teenager, threatening to break his arm
and using a profanity while calling him a “mutt.”  New York  spent $633 million settling and paying judgments
on thousands of lawsuits alleging police abuse and civil-rights
violations from 2006 to 2011. The new laws would allow a person
to sue the city with evidence that an officer was motivated by
racial profiling in a stop-and-frisk.  The laws would also create an office of inspector general
within the NYPD to monitor civil liberties and community
relations. Police would be required to identify themselves when
stopping people and obtain consent before searching someone’s
pockets or belongings.  Crime in the most populous U.S. city dropped  34 percent 
from 2001 to 2011, including a 21 percent decrease in the
homicide rate. The mayor attributes the declines to the city’s
 $4.5 billion , 35,000-officer police department, and its stop-
and-frisk policies.  “If you want to bring crime back, let’s go politicize
control of the police department,” Bloomberg said during an
Oct. 8 news conference. “The last thing we need is to have some
politician or judge getting involved with setting policy because
you won’t be safe anymore.”  The mayor, a political independent, is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg news parent Bloomberg LP.  The Center for Constitutional Rights case is Floyd v  New
York City , 08-01034, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  