-- Nigeria Gains From Zimbabwe as Farmer Helps Cassava Drive
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2012-10-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/nigeria-gains-from-zimbabwe-as-farmer-helps-cassava-drive.html
Graham Hatty, who was forced off his
land in Zimbabwe a decade ago, is helping  Nigeria  in its drive
to return to food self-sufficiency.  The cassava he grows in central Kwara state was on the
first ship exporting the crop to  China , in August. The
government is trying to boost production of the starchy root, as
well as of rice and sugar, to slash the $10 billion spent every
year on food imports. President Goodluck Jonathan plans to
increase  food production  by 20 million metric tons by 2015 by
providing land, funding and lending via the central bank.  “The potential is tremendous,” Hatty, 73, said from the
balcony of his farmhouse in Shonga, which overlooks a lawn
dividing his house from cassava fields near the bank of the
Niger River. “There’s huge demand for cassava flour, especially
by biscuit makers.”  Africa’s biggest oil producer is trying to reverse a
decline in the agriculture industry that has led to a 16-fold
increase in wheat imports since 1970, when the country’s oil
boom began. Half of Nigeria’s 160 million people live in rural
areas and four-fifths of those are below the poverty line,
according to the International Fund for Agricultural
Development.  The country, which grew enough food to feed itself in the
1960s, is now the world’s largest importer of rice and sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s biggest importer of wheat and sugar.  “We want to be the largest processor of cassava in the
world and not export jobs to other countries that are exporting
wheat to Nigeria,” Akinwunmi Adesina, the country’s agriculture
minister told reporters in Abuja, the capital, in July. “Why do
farmers in  Arkansas , in  Nebraska , love Nigeria? Because we keep
buying wheat we don’t produce.”  Left Zimbabwe  Hatty and 12 other white Zimbabwean farmers moved to
Nigeria in 2004 after his soybean, corn and wheat farm was
seized by armed men as part of a government program of land
expropriation. He was recruited to come to Nigeria by the Kwara
state government, which sent delegations asking dispossessed
farmers to emigrate.  Zimbabwe , once Africa’s second-biggest corn
exporter, now imports its staple food.  While four of those who came with Hatty have left, the
others run poultry and dairy operations, he said.  Nigeria is now taking further steps, including central bank
funding for farmers, tax holidays for investors and regulation
designed to favor local crops as it seeks to revive an industry
that once exported peanuts, palm oil and cotton. The country is
still the world’s fourth-biggest cocoa exporter. Agriculture
including subsistence farming accounts for more than 40 percent
of gross domestic product, compared with 16 percent for oil.  Wheat Substitution  Flour millers in Africa’s most populous country are now
required to blend cassava into wheat flour. The current ratio of
20 percent is set to rise to 40 percent by 2015, according to a
regulation passed in October last year.  Wheat imports will fall by 20 percent initially and by 40
percent once the set targets are reached, Olalekan Saliu,
executive secretary of the Lagos-based Flour Milling Association
of Nigeria, said in an interview on July 30. Association members
include  Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FLOURMIL) ,  Dangote Flour Mills Plc (DANGFLOU)  and
Honeywell Flour Mills Ltd.  In the last crop year Nigeria produced just 100,000 tons of
wheat, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . About
650 billion naira ($4.1 billion) of wheat was imported last
year, most of it from the U.S., according to the  Agriculture
Ministry . Nigeria bought 3.25 million tons of U.S. wheat in the
2011-12 marketing year ended May 31, the USDA said.  Cassava Fund  A 65 percent levy on imports of wheat flour came into
effect on July 1 in addition to the existing 35 percent import
duty, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in Abuja on July
11. The proceeds will be used to set up a cassava fund for
further research to increase wheat substitution, she said.  The country also consumes about 5.4 million tons of rice a
year, of which it produces 2.3 million tons, according to the
agriculture minister. The government is seeking to end imports,
mostly from India and  Thailand , in three years by bringing more
land under cultivation through incentives to farmers, President
Jonathan said in August last year. Those imports cost 350
billion naira year.  The central bank has made available $800 million for loans,
which will be used to set up rice mills across the country,
Adesina told reporters in Abuja on March 1.  Still, the country has obstacles to remove if it is to
foster an agricultural revival.  Aside from the initial funding provided to Hatty by the
Kwara state government, he hasn’t been able to secure credit
from banks even though the central bank has pledged to make
money available and is pushing commercial banks to do the same.
That’s hampered plans to introduce irrigation to grow cassava
year-round and plant rice on his land by the river bank.  “Banks aren’t interested in agriculture, and if they’re
not going to get interested, agriculture can’t grow,” he said.
“We’ve been hearing for years that central bank money is
coming, but it goes to these big companies; it doesn’t come to
us small guys.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  