-- Noda Says Japan Prepared to Act on Yen as Strength Hurts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-10-10T09:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/noda-says-japan-prepared-to-act-on-yen-as-strength-hurts-economy.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said his government will act against any disorderly gains
for the yen, and urged policy makers around the world to follow
through on pledges to rebalance global demand.  “We have to observe the market closely to see whether there
are excessive or disorderly moves” in the currency market, Noda,
55, said in an interview today at his office in  Tokyo . The yen’s
strength is a “serious problem,” is out of step with  Japan ’s
economic performance and “when necessary, we will take decisive
action,” he said.  Noda spoke on the eve of a gathering of the Group of Seven
in Tokyo, where finance chiefs will assess the recovery from the
2009 global recession. The prime minister said “we have seen a
certain amount of progress, but we must remain on our guard.”  Japan will continue to contribute to market stability as
the world’s largest creditor nation, he said. The prime minister
also urged the  Bank of Japan  to take “decisive” action at the
right time to end deflation that’s eroded wages and growth.  The world’s third-largest economy will shrink in the last
two quarters of the year, according to forecasts from Morgan
Stanley and BNP Paribas in Tokyo, hampered by weakening export
demand in  China  and  Europe  and strength in the yen that has
contributed to record losses in Japan’s electronics industry.
The yen is about 4 percent from a postwar high against the
dollar, at 78.31 as of 6:31 p.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s Support  The gathering of G-7 finance ministers and central bank
governors follows efforts by Europe to address its debt crisis
with the establishment of the 500-billion euro ($648 billion)
European Stability Mechanism. Japan has supported Europe through
the purchase of rescue-fund bonds and increased contributions to
the  International Monetary Fund .  “Japan is the largest creditor country in the world, so we
have made contributions to the stability of international
markets and we want this IMF meeting to confirm that we will
continue to contribute,” Noda said in today’s interview. The IMF
and  World Bank  hold their annual meetings later this week in
Tokyo.  The IMF two days ago reduced its global growth forecasts
and warned of even slower expansion unless policy makers in the
U.S. and Europe address economic threats.  Global Outlook  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
IMF said, compared with July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012
and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based lender now sees
“alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-
six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  Investor unease about the prospects for the global economy
has spurred demand for the yen, backed by Japan’s creditor
status. The nation’s net foreign assets amounted to 54 percent
of gross domestic product in December.  “There’s a tendency for the yen to strengthen because it’s
rated highly,” Noda said in the interview. “But I don’t think
that accurately reflects Japan’s economic performance.”  Japanese authorities have refrained from intervening in the
 currency market  this year after selling at least 14.3 trillion
yen in 2011. Officials spent 8.07 trillion yen Oct. 31 to bring
the currency down from the record 75.35 yen that day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  