-- Noda Calls for China Talks as Island Spat Threatens Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-11T08:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/noda-calls-for-china-talks-as-island-dispute-threatens-growth.html
Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda called for talks to contain economic damage from a
diplomatic dispute with  China  as  Japan ’s largest trading partner
downgraded its delegation to an annual gathering in  Tokyo .  “These are the second and third largest economies in the
world and our interdependence is deepening,” Noda, 55, said
yesterday in an interview at his office in Tokyo. “If our ties
cool, particularly economic ones, then it isn’t a question of
one or the other country suffering. Both countries lose out.”  Noda’s call reflects rising concern that tensions over
Japan’s nationalization last month of islands claimed by both
nations will hurt trade. The International Monetary Fund,
holding its annual meetings in Tokyo this week, said an
escalation in strains may affect world growth. China’s central
bank governor and finance minister are skipping the gathering.  China’s backlash against the move saw  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and Nissan Motor Co. suffer their biggest month drop in Chinese
car sales since at least 2008 in September. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
sees a 0.8 percentage-point hit to Japan’s gross domestic
product from the China dispute this quarter.  “We need talks through various channels to make sure there
is no effect on the broader relationship,” Noda said. “There
has been an effect on individual industries. The overall effect
will depend on the talks we have going forward and the efforts
we make.”  Asked about Noda’s comments, a Chinese official today said
Japan was “fully responsible” for causing “an unprecedented
grave situation” in ties.  Japanese ‘Wrongdoing’  Japan should “correct its wrongdoing of violating China’s
sovereignty and return to the track of solving the issue through
dialogue and negotiation,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
told reporters in Beijing.  The conflict contributed to a drop in Japanese stocks in
the past month, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  down 3.6
percent since Sept. 10, when Noda’s administration announced the
deal to buy the islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu
in Chinese. The spat has added to economic strains from  Europe ’s
crisis and a fading in reconstruction spending from last year’s
earthquake and tsunami disaster.  “This is the last thing Japan needs right now, given the
overseas slowdown and the sluggish economy,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo
and a former central bank official. “The dispute has become
much more serious than we initially expected.”  Foreign Investment  At stake for China are ties with its second-largest
provider of foreign direct investment. Japanese companies poured
in $5.1 billion in the first eight months of 2012, second only
to Hong Kong, according to the Chinese Ministry of Commerce.  “If the territorial dispute escalates further, it could
become a risk for both Japan and China’s economies, and
eventually for the global economy,”  Naoyuki Shinohara , an IMF
deputy managing director, said in an interview in Tokyo Oct. 9.  Japan’s prime minister said his government won’t compromise
on its ownership claim, reiterating comments he made last month
in New York. China denounced the position as “outrageous,” and
has increased the dispatching of patrol boats into the waters
claimed by Japan.  “There is no doubt that the Senkaku islands are Japan’s
inherent territory in terms of history and international law,”
Noda said. “There is no problem of sovereignty.”  China maintains that it’s owned the East China Sea islands
for centuries. Japan argues it took control of them in 1895,
lost authority after World War II, and had them returned by the
U.S. in 1972.  Energy Rights  Fishing and energy rights are at stake in the conflict, and
the two countries have failed to implement a June 2008 deal to
develop a natural gas field in the area. The East China Sea may
hold as much as 160 billion barrels of oil, according to Chinese
studies cited by the  U.S. Energy Information Agency .  China is the world’s largest energy consumer and its
onshore oil fields cannot keep pace with  economic growth .
Control over the disputed area would help it avoid the energy
model of Japan, which imports virtually all its petroleum.  Political transitions in both countries may prolong the
worst bilateral crisis since at least 2005. Chinese President Hu Jintao is poised to hand power to the next generation of China’s
leaders, and Noda faces elections as soon as this year.  Turning to exchange rates, Noda said his government will
act against disorderly gains in the yen, and urged policy makers
to follow through on pledges to rebalance global demand. The yen
is about 4 percent from a postwar high against the dollar, which
undercuts exporters like Sony Corp. and forced Japan a year ago
to conduct record foreign exchange intervention.  ‘Serious Problem’  “We have to observe the market closely to see whether
there are excessive or disorderly moves” in the currency
market, he said. The yen’s strength is a “serious problem,” is
out of step with Japan’s economic performance and “when
necessary, we will take decisive action,” he said.  Japanese authorities have refrained from intervening in the
currency market this year after selling at least 14.3 trillion
yen ($182.6 billion) in 2011. Officials spent a one-day record
8.07 trillion yen Oct. 31 to bring the currency down from a
postwar high of 75.35 yen.  The currency traded at 78.08 dollar at 5:10 p.m. in Tokyo,
from 78.18 late yesterday in New York.  Noda has been unable to reverse more than a decade of
deflation and his biggest legislative achievement was a sales
tax increase that risks damping consumption.  Leadership Turnover  He is Japan’s sixth prime minister since 2006, and the
third for the Democratic Party of Japan since it defeated the
Liberal Democratic Party in 2009 after the LDP’s half-century
domination of government. Japan has failed since then to foster
a durable two-party system and political squabbling following
the March 2011 earthquake and Fukushima nuclear disaster that
killed more than 18,000 people has left both major parties with
less than 50 percent combined support.  Asked about the rapid leadership turnover, Noda cited the
lack of a fixed term for prime minister and a split parliament
that impedes progress.  “For the international community, if we have a different
prime minister attending every summit there is no sense of
stability,” he said. “We have to do something about that.”  Noda’s approval rating was 34 percent in a Yomiuri
newspaper poll published Oct. 3, compared with 65 percent when
he took office 13 months ago. Support for his DPJ was at 18
percent, while that of the LDP was 28 percent. Almost 45 percent
had no party preference.  PBOC Snub  Noda spoke on the eve of a gathering of the Group of Seven
in Tokyo, where finance chiefs and central bank governors will
assess the recovery from the 2009 global recession. People’s
Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  isn’t attending the
meetings and pulled out of a keynote speech to the Institute of
International Finance in Tokyo as well.  The gathering follows efforts by Europe to address its debt
crisis with the establishment of the 500-billion euro ($644
billion) European Stability Mechanism. Japan has supported
Europe through the purchase of rescue-fund bonds and increased
contributions to the IMF.  “Japan is the largest creditor country in the world, so we
have made contributions to the stability of international
markets and we want this IMF meeting to confirm that we will
continue to contribute,” Noda said.  The prime minister also urged the Bank of Japan to take
“decisive” action at the right time to end deflation that’s
eroded wages and growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Winkler in Tokyo at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  