-- Obama-Romney Tie Among Likely Voters in Gallup Tracking
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-10T18:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/obama-romney-tie-among-likely-voters-in-gallup-tracking.html
Two measures today suggest a
settling of the boost that Republican  Mitt Romney  found in
opinion polls following his performance in debate against
President  Barack Obama  one week ago.  Gallup’s daily tracking, the rolling average of seven days
of surveys, shows a stall in Romney’s gains by two measurements.  The daily tracking of likely voters conducted Oct. 3
through Oct. 9, starting with the day of the first presidential
debate in Denver, shows the contest tied at 48 percent support
for each candidate. Romney led, by 49 percent to 47 percent, in
Gallup’s first survey of  likely voters  released yesterday.  The survey’s count of  registered voters  today reports Obama
ahead of Romney, by 50 percent to 45 percent, up from a 49
percent to 46 percent edge yesterday.  “It certainly seems as if the initial boost Romney received
is less evident in the last several days of interviewing,” said
Frank Newport, Gallup editor-in-chief.  The president’s job approval also has gained a notch, to 53
percent, in Gallup’s tracking of registered votes.  The Oct. 3 debate, in which Romney fared better than Obama
according to voters surveyed by  CNN , Gallup and the Pew Research
Center, wasn’t the sole event with a potential impact on public
opinion last week. The nation’s  unemployment  rate slid to 7.8
percent in September, the Department of Labor reported on Oct.
5, the first time it fell below 8 percent in 44 months and its
lowest level since Obama took office in January 2009.  Gallup said that within the seven-day tracking, its daily
polling Oct. 7 and Oct. 8 showed Obama ahead, by 50 percent to
45 percent, among registered voters, the same as during the pre-
debate period of Sept. 30-Oct. 2. The two were tied at 47
percent among registered voters during the immediate post-debate
period, Oct. 4-6.  The gains for the president reported today are within the
margin of error, plus or minus 2 percentage points, for Gallup’s
survey of 3,050 voters conducted over seven days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  