-- OCZ Tumbles After Delaying Earnings Filing, Cutting View
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-10T20:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/ocz-tumbles-after-delaying-earnings-filing-cutting-view.html
  OCZ Technology Group Inc. (OCZ) , a maker
of disk drives that  counts  Amazon.com Inc. as a client, fell the
most since 2010 after postponing its second-quarter earnings
filing and saying revenue for the period will be “materially
lower” than previously forecast.  OCZ tumbled 40 percent to $1.88 at the New York close, for
the biggest drop since at least February 2010. The shares, down
72 percent this year,  led  decliners in the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   Preliminary results for the quarter released in September
also trailed an earlier projection. OCZ’S latest view is
prompted by customer-incentive programs discovered since then,
said Ralph Schmitt, who today was named president and chief
executive officer, succeeding Ryan Petersen, who stepped down
last month.  “There was such an emphasis in the second quarter from
management to grow market share at all costs,” Schmitt said on
a conference call with analysts today. “Hence extraordinary
incentives were undertaken.”  The company needs “additional time to ensure that all the
proper accounting treatment has been applied to this event,” he
said.  Revenue for the quarter ended Aug. 31 will be “materially
lower” than the $110 million to $120 million forecast on Sept.
5, the  San Jose , California-based company said today in a
statement. The company expects negative gross margins and a
significant net loss for the quarter, OCZ said.  ‘Smoke and Mirrors’  The earnings delay and forecast are a “reflection of smoke
and mirrors from previous management,” Gary Mobley, an analyst
with Benchmark Co., said in an interview today. “In order to
grow market share, they were heavily rebating products in their
retail channels. I think that probably was related to Petersen’s
resignation.” He rates the shares hold.  Bonnie Mott, an OCZ spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
a call requesting comment.  Schmitt joins OCZ from PLX Technologies Inc., a provider of
chip technology for corporate and consumer markets, where he
served as president and CEO from 2008 until yesterday, OCZ said.
He had been a member of OCZ’s board since April 2011.  The company has accessed its credit facilities due to a
declining cash position, Schmitt said on the call today. Cash
fell to $43.2 million in the quarter ended in May, from $92.3
million in the February period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Following Petersen’s resignation last month, Christian Schwab, an analyst at Craig-Hallum Capital Group Ltd., had said
the company may be an acquisition target.  “We believe having the founder of the company resign
removes a significant hurdle in the completion of an OCZ
acquisition,” he wrote in a note to clients at that time.  OCZ said it will file for an earnings extension with
Securities and Exchange Commission, extending the deadline for
filing until Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  