-- Hollywood Appeal May Help to Sell Cricket Franchises in U.S.
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/hollywood-appeal-may-help-to-sell-cricket-franchises-in-u-s-.html
Hollywood stars such as Australians
Russell Crowe and Hugh Jackman are among the celebrities
targeted by organizers of a new U.S.-based Twenty20 cricket
competition to help sell six $40 million franchises.  Cricket Holdings America LLC, backed by the New Zealand and
U.S. cricket bodies and Indian investors, is copying the
approach of the celebrity-endorsed Indian Premier League as it
builds toward the June 2013 start of the UST20 League.  “We want to combine Hollywood and Bollywood and integrate
celebrities into this entertainment product that we’re
building,” the company’s Chief Executive Officer Neil Maxwell
said in an interview. “There are many celebrities who
understand the benefit of being aligned with a franchise in the
U.S. market but also something that has a huge emotional connect
to audiences outside America.”  The Indian Premier League, or IPL, started in 2008, and
competes with soap operas during prime time in the world’s
second-most populous nation. The eight-franchise competition,
which counts Bollywood actors Shahrukh Khan and Preity Zinta
among its ownership group, has a brand value of $2.92 billion,
according to market researcher Brand Finance  India . It agreed a
10-year broadcasting rights contract worth $1.6 billion with
Sony Entertainment Television and World Sports Group.  Twenty20 is the newest and shortest form of cricket, with
three-hour games punctuated by big hits, thumping music and
cheerleaders attracting larger crowds than the traditionally
longer forms, including Test cricket which can last five days.
West Indies won the latest edition of the World Twenty20
championship, beating host Sri Lanka in the Oct. 7 final. The
Twenty20 format was established in England in 2003.  Expat Targets  While cricket is the most popular sport in India, its
appeal in the U.S., where a mature sports market is dominated by
football, baseball and basketball, is limited to expats from
traditional cricket nations including India,  Pakistan ,  Australia 
and the West Indies.  “Cricket is the second-biggest sport in the world and it
doesn’t have a presence in the biggest broadcast, sponsorship,
franchise market in the world, so it’s a pretty compelling
argument from that perspective,” Maxwell said.  Organizers aim to play the matches at temporary venues in
New York before setting the six franchises up in different U.S.
cities. Maxwell said investors would typically be expected to
pay $40 million over 10 years to secure a team that could
compete for as little as one month in a year. An official tender
process begins this month.  Earlier Attempt  American companies including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN unit are some of the sport’s biggest partners, and
the U.S. accounts for 15 percent of cricket’s income, according
to the International Cricket Council’s Global Development
Manager Tim Anderson. That compares with India’s 70 percent.  The U.S. also draws the second-highest number of visitors
to the organization’s website behind India. The sport is
followed by 15 million people in the U.S., according to the ICC.  An earlier attempt to start a competition in the U.S.
stalled when the ICC warned countries not to release players for
the event because it hadn’t been sanctioned by the U.S. board.  The month-long league will have a salary budget of $1
million for 15-member squads, of mainly foreign players. They’ll
each be able to secure two additional “superstar” players,
Maxwell said. The  Times of India reported  that  England  batsman
Kevin Pietersen earned $2 million for playing about half of the
Delhi Daredevils’ 16 games during the fifth season of the IPL
this year.  ‘Brand Equity’  Four of the top five run-scorers from the World Twenty20
are among 196 who have endorsed the U.S. competition, said
Maxwell, an Australian who’s a board member of the Sydney
Cricket Club and was the first CEO of the IPL’s Kings XI Punjab.
Some players from England and Australia are unlikely to be
included in the competition because its start date clashes with
the 2013 Ashes series between the two nations.  “There’s lots of brand equity for the players,” Maxwell
said. “When you’re offering three weeks for them and their
families in New York it carries a lot weight.”  Attracting Hollywood, and even some Bollywood performers,
may help the league attract women and children, a key
demographic for the startup, according to Maxwell.  “The IPL has challenged the soap operas in India in that
4:30 time slot when a lot of women sit down and watch,” he
said. “It did that by integrating Bollywood into the cricket
product. From that learning we’re very keen to build a similar
structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  