-- Honeywell’s Cote Seeks More Acquisitions Tied to Natural Gas
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-10T13:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/honeywell-s-cote-seeks-more-acquisitions-tied-to-natural-gas.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Chief
Executive Officer Dave Cote said he’s seeking more acquisitions
linked to natural gas after agreeing to pay $525 million for a
stake in a U.S. maker of gas-processing equipment.  Natural gas is “not the only trend I’ll bet the company
on, but I do believe it’s a trend worth bidding on,” Cote said
today in an interview at a Honeywell research center in Dhahran,
Saudi Arabia.  A boom in gas production from U.S. shale deposits and
increased consumption abroad are driving sales at Honeywell’s
UOP unit, which provides services such as filtering impurities
from the fuel. Honeywell said Oct. 1 it was buying a 70 percent
stake in Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Thomas Russell Co., which
provides equipment to recover  natural gas  liquids in the U.S.  “We will keep making acquisitions in natural gas and
invest in the UOP unit to develop natural gas technology,” Cote
said. “I’m a big believer in natural gas and in what that can
do for the  U.S. economy  and many economies around the world.”  Honeywell’s sales to the  energy industry  are tempering a
drop at its transportation unit, setting up the  Morris Township ,
New Jersey-based company to meet its 2012 revenue goal of $38
billion, Cote said. The company pared the top and bottom ends of
its annual sales forecast on July 18 by $200 million, to a range
of $37.8 billion to $38.4 billion.  The Performance Materials and Technologies unit, driven by
UOP, posted a 14 percent sales gain in the first half, to $3.16
billion.  Honeywell has an option to purchase the rest of closely
held Thomas Russell. Cote said he will sell Thomas Russell’s
technology on a global basis in less than a year after the
transaction closes. Honeywell said last week it expects the deal
to be completed this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at  wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at   tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  