-- Monsanto Cut From Argentine Cereals Register Following Bunge
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-10-10T20:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/monsanto-cut-from-argentine-cereals-register-following-bunge-2-.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, became the second company suspended this month
from Argentina’s National Cereals Register for unpaid taxes.
Mining companies including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  are also being
investigated, the tax agency said.  Monsanto was removed from the register because it owes $70
million in taxes for 2001-2005, an Argentine tax official, who
asked not to be identified citing the agency’s communications
policy, told reporters today in Buenos Aires.  Monsanto will pay a 25 percent tax rate during the
suspension, up from 10 percent, the official said. Argentina’s
tax agency, known as AFIP, is also investigating Barrick, the
world’s biggest gold producer, Cargill Inc., the agricultural
commodities trader that’s the largest closely held U.S. company,
and Minera Sierra Grande SA, the local unit of Metallurgical
Corp. of China Ltd.  Argentina ’s tax agency last year said that four of the
South American country’s 10 biggest exporters and cereals and
soybean processors underpaid taxes. Cereal-producing companies
use the register to expedite exporting and reduce export taxes.
Argentina is the world’s largest exporter of soy oil, the
second-largest of corn and third of soybeans.  Business Opportunities  Monsanto wasn’t counting on benefiting from the lower tax
rate, and the suspension won’t affect business opportunities in
Argentina, Kelli Powers, a company spokeswoman, said by
telephone from headquarters in St. Louis. The suspension doesn’t
prohibit Monsanto from doing business in Argentina, the company
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Andy Lloyd, a Toronto-based spokesman for Barrick, declined
to comment immediately when reached by e-mail. Massimo
Macchiavello, a spokesman for Cargill’s Argentina operations,
declined to comment from Buenos Aires.  Qifang Chen, who heads Minera Sierra’s Argentine
operations, wasn’t available to take calls seeking comment, his
translator Carmen Ho said from Rio Negro, Argentina.  Bunge Suspension  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , Argentina’s second-biggest exporter, was
suspended on Oct. 1 from the register because of unpaid income
taxes since 2006, a tax official said. Bunge will be able to
continue exporting, he told reporters at the time.  Monsanto, which sells corn seed in Argentina, was suspended
from the register in February for taxes of 40 million pesos
($8.5 million), the official said. The company returned to the
register after it paid in August, he said.  In a separate AFIP investigation, Monsanto may also owe $7
million in property taxes, the official said.  Monsanto fell 1.3 percent to close at $89.30 in New York.
Barrick slid 0.5 percent to C$39.41 in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  