-- Moody’s Blasts Commercial-Mortgage Bond Offering It Didn’t Rate
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-10-10T17:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/moody-s-blasts-commercial-mortgage-bond-offering-it-didn-t-rate.html
Moody’s Investors Service cautioned
investors on risks in a commercial-mortgage bond deal from
JPMorgan Chase & Co, the first such transaction the rating
company didn’t grade since at least August 2011.  The rankings on two investment-grade portions of the $1
billion deal sold by the lender Sept. 27 are too high because
they don’t include a sufficient cushion against losses, Moody’s
said in a report today. One of the classes would likely garner a
speculative-grade ranking from the New York-based rating
company, Moody’s said.  The offering was the first deal rated by Moody’s competitor
Standard & Poor’s since that rater derailed a $1.5 billion sale
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. last year by
pulling its grades on the securities. JPMorgan selected S&P to
grade its deal after the company, seeking to regain market
share, completed an overhaul of methods for analyzing bonds
linked to skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotels last month.  Moody’s analyzed six of the retail properties that account
for 17 percent of the pool from JPMorgan, finding that four of
the loans are backed by properties outside of major markets,
where rents and occupancies are more stable. Loans on malls
backing the deal have high tenant concentrations and upcoming
lease expirations, the report said.  Moody’s Overhaul  “Not a single one of these loans merits investment-grade
consideration, whether on a standalone or a diversified-pool
basis,” Moody’s analyst Tad Philipp wrote in the report.  Fitch Ratings, DBRS Ltd. and Kroll Bond Ratings Inc. also
graded the transaction, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We stand by our ratings and our analysis of the
transaction,” April Kabahar Emspak, a spokeswoman for S&P in
New York, said in a telephone interview. Elizabeth Seymour, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Moody’s has altered the way it assesses the weakest mall
loans packaged into commercial-mortgage backed securities to
compensate for a growing number of shopping centers that may
struggle to survive.  After seeing an increase in mall loans packaged into bond
deals that raised concerns about the properties’ long-term
viability, Moody’s said it will account for potentially greater
losses for such debt, according to a June 7 report. That means
the deals could be less profitable for underwriters.  Ranking structured products such as CMBS and collateralized
debt obligations is one of the most lucrative areas for ratings
companies. They generally charge between $1 million and $2
million to grade a CMBS deal, according to a September paper by
Andrew Cohen, a researcher at the Federal Reserve.  During the U.S. housing boom, Moody’s, S&P and their
competitors pushed to win business by providing inflated ratings
for risky mortgage bonds, according to the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission and a Senate report last year. That allowed
pension funds and other ratings-sensitive investors to pack
their portfolios with bonds that later plummeted in value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  