-- Motorola Mobility Loses Bid to Seal Samsung Court Records
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-10T21:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/motorola-mobility-loses-bid-to-seal-samsung-licensing-terms-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
lost a court bid to seal “highly confidential” records of its
patent-licensing talks with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  that
appeared in the South Korean company’s intellectual property
lawsuit against Apple Inc. in  California .  The document at issue in a hearing today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in San Jose, California, is a
summary of a licensing negotiation between Motorola and Samsung
that took place several weeks before the two companies reached a
2000 agreement, according to a court filing by Motorola
Mobility. It was filed as an exhibit supporting Apple’s attempt
to depose Samsung witnesses, Motorola Mobility said.  Grewal said today that while he’s “sensitive” to Motorola
Mobility’s interests, the document is so old that it isn’t worth
keeping secret. The judge said he found Motorola’s arguments
“insufficient to overcome the public’s interest” in open
records.  The document reveals a “pattern of financial offers” in
the cellular cross-licensing negotiations and may contain
monetary terms, license rates, the direction of payments, names
of licensed products and technologies, and the geographic scope
of the deal, according to the filing.  In patent licensing
talks, competitors “negotiate concerning the relative values of
their respective patent portfolios as well as the values of
other terms in the agreement,” according to the filing.  “Understanding Motorola’s pressure points in a negotiation
could give someone an unfair advantage,” Motorola Mobility’s
lawyer, Peter Chassman, told Grewal today via teleconference.  An Aug. 24 jury verdict in San Jose federal court in which
Cupertino, California-based Apple won $1.05 billion in damages
from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is part of a global fight
for dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market. The
world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have accused each
other of copying designs and technology for mobile devices and
are waging patent battles on four continents.  Google is based in Mountain View, California.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  