-- Motorola Mobility Wants Samsung Licensing Sealed in Apple Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-10T20:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/motorola-mobility-wants-samsung-licensing-sealed-in-apple-suit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
asked a judge to seal “highly confidential” records of its
patent-licensing talks with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  that
appeared in the South Korean company’s intellectual property
lawsuit against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in  California .  The document at issue in a hearing today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in  San Jose , California, is a
summary of a licensing negotiation between Motorola and Samsung
that took place several weeks before the two companies reached a
2000 agreement, according to a court filing by Motorola
Mobility. It was filed as an exhibit supporting Apple’s attempt
to depose Samsung witnesses, according to the filing.  The document reveals a “pattern of financial offers” in
the cellular cross-licensing negotiations and may reveal
monetary terms, license rates, the direction of payments, names
of licensed products and technologies, and the geographic scope
of the deal, according to the filing. The information is
“highly sensitive” because other firms could use it unfairly
to gain leverage in their own negotiations with Motorola
Mobility, the company said.  During negotiations for patent licenses, competitors
“negotiate concerning the relative values of their respective
patent portfolios as well as the values of other terms in the
agreement,” according to the filing.  An Aug. 24 jury verdict in San Jose federal court in which
Cupertino, California-based Apple won $1.05 billion in damages
from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is part of a global fight
for dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market. The
world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have accused each
other of copying designs and technology for mobile devices  and
are waging patent battles on four continents.  Google is based in Mountain View, California.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  