-- Toyota Partner’s Bond Yield Climbs on Japan Spat: China Credit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-10-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/toyota-partner-s-bond-yield-climbs-on-japan-spat-china-credit.html
Chinese automakers that produce
Toyota, Honda and Nissan vehicles face the highest debt costs in
at least five months as a territorial dispute between  China  and
 Japan  hurts their sales in the world’s biggest car market.  The yield on February 2013 bonds sold by Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co., which has manufacturing ventures with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., jumped 62 basis points
in the third quarter and reached 4.26 percent on Sept. 25, the
highest since May 11. July 2013 notes sold by Dongfeng Motor
Corp., a partner of Nissan Motor Co., surged 73 basis points to
4.18 percent on Sept. 29. Globally, automakers pay an average
1.86 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows.  Higher borrowing costs are compounding problems for
manufacturers of Japanese marques as they lose market share to
U.S., European and South Korean rivals. Toyota and Nissan
reported this week their biggest drops in China sales since at
least 2008 as anti-Japanese sentiment erupts over disputed
islands known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  “The Diaoyu dispute could last quite long and it could
have a lasting impact on car sales for Japanese brands,” said
Chris Lau, a  fund manager  in  Hong Kong  at Bosera Asset
Management Co., whose Shenzhen-based parent manages about $30
billion. “The  auto industry  is already under pressure as a weak
economy persists and local demand remains soft. In the long run,
we believe those bonds issued by Japanese joint-venture
companies will underperform their peers.”  Yield Premium  Guangzhou Automobile’s February 2013 bonds yielded 4.21
percent yesterday and the rate on Dongfeng Motor’s July 2013
notes was 4.19 percent, according to latest prices from
Chinabond. The yield premium investors demand to hold the
Guanzhou Automobile securities instead of similar-maturity
sovereign debt was 157 basis points, compared with an average
144 since it was sold in February.  The  yield  on one-year government debt rose 45 basis points,
or 0.45 percentage point, in the third quarter and was little
changed this month at 2.79 percent, Chinabond data show.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting sovereign notes
fell four basis points this month to 85 in  New York , after a 33
basis point drop in the July-September period, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.
The  yuan  gained 0.03 percent to 6.2833 per dollar this month,
after strengthening 1.1 percent in the last quarter.  Torching Showrooms  A decade-long row over the disputed islands was reignited
in April when Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara said he may use
public funds to purchase them. Protests in China have escalated,
with some demonstrators torching auto showrooms and smashing
Japanese-branded vehicles, after Japan’s cabinet said on Sept.
11 again that it would buy the islands from a private owner.  China’s central bank governor and finance minister won’t be
attending meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and World
Bank in Japan this week amid the standoff, which has soured ties
between  Asia ’s two biggest economies. Japan’s top three
automakers plan to cut production to half of normal levels in
China, the Nikkei newspaper reported on Oct. 8.  Sales Slump  Sales of Japanese cars slumped 41 percent to 160,000 units
in September, cutting their combined market share to 12.2
percent from 20.5 percent a year earlier, China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers announced yesterday.  Toyota’s September deliveries tumbled 49 percent from a
year earlier to 44,100 vehicles, Nissan’s fell 35 percent to
76,066 and Honda’s dropped 41 percent to 33,931, the companies
said Oct. 9.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  reported this month that
deliveries in the country tumbled 35 percent to the lowest in 19
months,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  said Chinese sales plunged 63
percent and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  announced a 43 percent slide.  Volkswagen AG’s luxury Audi unit boosted sales in China by
20 percent last month to 35,512 vehicles, according to the
German company.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , based in Dearborn,  Michigan ,
said its China sales climbed 35 percent to 59,570 units. Hyundai
Motor Co.’s deliveries increased 15 percent to 84,188 units.  “It’s not just a boycott against Japanese cars but also
there’s a big negative impact on Chinese state-owned joint
ventures,” said Klaus Paur, the Shanghai-based global head of
automotive coverage at researcher Ipsos. “They are all losers
as half of the profit for Japanese manufacturers goes to Chinese
joint ventures. A political solution should be found. As the
dispute drags on, there will be an impact not only on Japanese
carmakers but also on the Chinese economy.”  Forecasts Cut  The IMF lowered its estimate for China’s growth this year
to 7.8 percent from a July projection of 8 percent, it said this
week. The  Asian Development Bank  and the  World Bank  also cut
their 2012 economic growth forecasts for China to 7.7 percent
from 8.2 percent in the past week.  Guangzhou Automobile derives 90 percent of sales from joint
ventures with Toyota, Honda and other overseas partners, company
data show. Nissan and other foreign brands accounted for about
82 percent of Dongfeng Motor’s car sales in 2011, based on
figures from China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  “The impact from the dispute could prolong because buyers
worry about their safety in case they drive Japanese cars,”
said Liu Fangzheng, a fixed-income analyst at Penghua Fund
Management Co., which oversees $16.5 billion of assets. “Still,
Guangzhou and Dongfeng have strong government backgrounds and
bond yields will move largely in line with the overall  debt
market ” which will be swayed by the speed of monetary stimulus.  The People’s Bank of China has damped expectations for
monetary easing since July as policy makers opted to use money-
market operations to contain borrowing costs, rather than
interest-rate cuts or an reduction of lenders’ reserve
requirements. Benchmark rates were lowered in June and July,
while reserve-requirement ratios were last relaxed in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  