-- Pakistan Girl Campaigner Critical After Shooting by Taliban
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-10-10T16:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/pakistan-girl-campaigner-critical-after-shooting-by-taliban-1-.html
A 14-year-old  Pakistan  activist shot
in the head by Taliban gunmen after she campaigned for girls’
education in the insurgency-hit valley where she lived is in a
critical condition and may be flown overseas for treatment.  Doctors were attempting to control swelling around Malala
Yousufzai’s wounds, Syed Zahir Ali Shah, health minister in the
northwestern province of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, said in comments
broadcast by television channels. Options for further treatment
are being considered after President Asif Ali Zardari ordered
last night that arrangements be made should she need to travel
abroad for surgery.  “Her skull and brain have been damaged, as clearly shown
in the CT scan, and doctors say that the next 10 days are
critical,” Bashir Bilour, another provincial minister, said in
a television interview yesterday.  Yousufzai was last year nominated for the International
Children Peace Award by  KidsRights , a Dutch organization, after
she began at age 11 writing a blog for the British Broadcasting
Corp. under an assumed name. Her posts documented Taliban
repression in her native Swat Valley and focused on their ban on
girls attending school.  The targeted attack on a teenage girl who had been lauded
at home and around the world for her courage shocked Pakistan.
Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf called Yousufzai a daughter of
the nation, while opposition leader  Nawaz Sharif  offered to pay
for her hospital treatment. Television channels broadcast images
of children praying for her recovery in mosques.  Clinton Condemns  In  Washington , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  praised
Yousufzai as “very brave in standing up for the rights of
girls.”  “She was attacked and shot by extremists who don’t want
girls to have an education and don’t want girls to speak for
themselves and don’t want girls to become leaders, who are for a
variety of reasons threatened by that kind of empowerment,”
Clinton said today during an event marking the 100th anniversary
of the Girl Scouts in the U.S.  “Yesterday’s attack reminds us of the challenges that
girls face, whether it’s poverty or marginalization or even
violence, just for speaking out for their basic rights,” she
said.  Yousufzai was attacked because she was spreading secular
thoughts and if she survived would be targeted again, the
Karachi-based The News reported, citing Ehsanullah Ehsan, a
spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban.  Gunman Shoots  A gunman walked up to a bus yesterday taking Yousufzai and
other children home from school in the volatile northern Swat
Valley and shot her in the head and neck. Another girl on the
bus was also wounded.  Taliban guerrillas’ control of Swat ended after the army
initiated a 10-week offensive starting in May 2009. The military
campaign, which began after Taliban beheaded local officials and
burned schools in a two-year fight to impose Islamic law,
uprooted 2 million people from their homes in the forested,
mile-high valley that lies 250 kilometers (155 miles) north of
the capital, Islamabad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  