-- Palm Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia Surge to Record on Output
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-10T11:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-surge-to-record-on-output-1-.html
Palm-oil  stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
world’s second-largest producer, jumped to a record as a surge
in output and an economic slowdown in  China  and  Europe  weakened
demand for the commodity used in food and biofuel.  Inventories jumped 17.4 percent to 2.48 million metric tons
in September from a revised 2.11 million tons in August, the
Malaysian Palm Oil Board said in a statement today. That is
higher than the median estimate of 2.43 million tons in a
Bloomberg survey last week and surpassed the previous all-time
high of 2.27 million tons in November 2008. Output surged 20
percent to 2 million tons, a monthly record, while exports rose
4.5 percent to 1.51 million tons.  Rising supplies may pressure futures which plunged to the
lowest level in almost three years in Kuala Lumpur last week as
a deepening economic slowdown hurt demand. Stockpiles will
continue to expand in October, November and December and may
reach as high as 3 million tons by January,  Dorab Mistry ,
director at Godrej International Ltd., said Sept. 23.  “This is definitely going to weigh on prices,”  Abah Ofon ,
an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said by phone from
 Singapore  today. “Policy makers in Malaysia are a little bit
more proactive with regards to trying to mop up some of this
inventory. This is going to limit the downside.”  Tax Cut  Malaysia’s Plantations Industries and Commodities Minister
Bernard Dompok today said that the cabinet had agreed to review
the export tax structure for crude palm oil and the country will
work with Indonesia to stabilize prices. The extent of the cut
has yet to be decided, said Dompok, who will present to the
cabinet a proposal on Oct. 12. He proposed a cut to between 8
percent and 10 percent from 23 percent on Oct. 3.  Indonesia 
reduced taxes last year to boost shipments of processed oil,
increasing competition for Malaysia.  Palm oil for December delivery gained 0.8 percent to 2,457
ringgit ($799) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, the
highest price at close for the most-active contract since Oct.
1. Futures dropped 5.2 percent last week after falling on Oct. 2
to the lowest close since November 2009.  “I would expect to see demand coming back in strongly at
these levels,” said Ofon. “With Indonesia now such a fierce
competitor, the issue whether demand actually goes into Malaysia
is arguable, a lot of that demand may just actually veer off to
Indonesia instead.”  Malaysian output may increase this month before declining
sharply as the high production season ends, Ofon said. Output
typically peaks between July and October, before tapering off
from November onwards.  Exports from Malaysia fell 1 percent to 448,624 tons in the
first 10 days of October from 453,302 tons in the same period in
September, surveyor Intertek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  