-- Picasso’s $8.5 Million Lovers Sell as VIPs Browse Frieze
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-10-11T09:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/picasso-s-8-5-million-lovers-sell-as-vips-browse-record-frieze.html
A Pablo Picasso painting priced at
$8.5 million was among early sales as billionaires browsed
 London ’s biggest Frieze Week.  The Picasso was bought at the inaugural Frieze Masters
fair, as its 10-year-old neighbor, Frieze London, yesterday
opened to VIP collectors of contemporary art, including Dasha Zhukova, the partner of  Roman Abramovich . London fairs,
galleries and auction houses are testing demand with more than
$1.5 billion of art, a record.  “Frieze Masters works well,” the New York-based dealer
David Nisinson said. “It’s more serious than other fairs that
combine periods. With a 2000 cut-off, it allows dealers to re-
sell works by established contemporary artists. They also made a
good decision to avoid the decorative arts.”  An unidentified U.S.-based collector bought the 1970
Picasso lovers’ portrait, “Homme et Femme au bouquet,” first
exhibited at the 1973 Palais des Papes show in Avignon. It was
on the stand of New York dealer Christophe Van de Weghe, who
also sold a 1932 Fernand Leger painting for $2.6 million.  The Frieze Masters works were presented against neutral
backgrounds, prompting jokes about “Fifty Shades of Grey.”
There were fewer big-ticket sales by Old-Master dealers.  “The  Old Masters  aren’t good enough or sufficiently
numerous to make a statement,” said London-based Jean-Luc Baroni, who is showing an 1880s Odilon Redon drawing, “The
Battle of the Skeletons,” priced 350,000 pounds ($560,350).  Masters Boost  The Masters event boosts the total valuation of the new
two-venue Regent’s Park event to more than $1 billion, according
to preliminary estimates by the insurer  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)   “Some collectors are interested in the notion of buying
from different periods, particularly after looking at relative
values,” Nisinson said. “Not many are making decisions yet.”  At Frieze itself, a unique 2012 Paul McCarthy mixed-media
sculpture, “White Snow Head,” was among the early purchases,
selling to a European collector for $1.3 million on the booth of
the London-and Zurich-based dealer  Hauser & Wirth  during the
first 10 minutes.  Though more crowded than Frieze Masters, this 10-year-old
contemporary fair saw measured buying, reflecting economic
concerns and a proliferation of equivalent events, dealers said.  “It’s not as frantic as previous years,” Angela Choon,
director of the new London branch of the New York-based
dealership  David Zwirner , said. “It’s steady.”  Zwirner Sales  The 2012 painting “High Key Magenta” by the New York
artist Carol Bove, incorporating a silver-chain net, was among
the early Zwirner sales, bought by a U.S. collector for $80,000.  Galleries offering new works by artists considered to be
“hot” investments were as busy as ever.  Stephen Friedman  was
showing recent still life paintings by  Ged Quinn , whose quirky
take on Old Masters has inspired auction bids of as much as
187,250 pounds. All nine works were reserved or sold with prices
ranging from 35,000 pounds to 130,000 pounds.  Jeweler Laurence Graff was a buyer of 20th-century
furniture at the opening of a satellite event, the Pavilion of
Art and Design London, now in its sixth year, dealers said.  At the fair, a 1964 Andy Warhol “Flowers” painting was
sold for $2.5 million by the New York-based  Skarstedt Gallery ,
which opened a branch at 23 Old  Bond Street  yesterday.  As every year,  Tate  shopped at Frieze with cash donated by
the Outset charity. The 150,000 pounds available was spent on
four works, three of them paintings: “Arthur Kennedy” (2012)
by Caragh Thuring, showing a billboard seen from a  New York 
window; “Ko 8” (1963) by the late Hideko Fukushima; and
“Epsilon Group II” (1977) by Jack Whitten.  African Sculpture  The fourth purchase was a sculpture by South African artist
Nicholas Hlobo titled “Balindile I” (2012) and made with
hosepipe, inner tire tubes, canvas and steel.  U.S. business magnate  Martha Stewart , PPR Chief Executive
Officer  Francois Pinault  and New York mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
who is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP, were also spotted browsing London art events.  Last night, the 1984 Jean-Michel Basquiat painting “Big
Joy” sold for 2.6 million pounds with fees at Phillips de Pury
& Co. The canvas, estimated at 2.5 million pounds to 3.5 million
pounds, sold to an unidentified bidder in the room. It was one
of 24 lots that sold for hammer prices that were within or below
estimate. The remaining 12 failed to sell.  “There are a lot of places to shop this week,”  Michael McGinnis , the company’s worldwide head of contemporary art, said
after the sale. “It could be to do with the sheer amount of
fairs, gallery shows and auctions.”  The event raised 12.2 million pounds with fees against a
low estimate of 15 million pounds, based on hammer prices.  The U.K. magazine Estates Gazette reported that Phillips
has paid more than 100 million pounds for a new seven-story
European headquarters building in Berkeley Square.  “We’re not in a position to say,” Phillips’s chairman Simon de Pury replied when asked to confirm the acquisition. “We will
the moment we can.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com  or
https://twitter.com/ScottReyburn1  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 