-- Policy Makers Bemoan Currency Strength as Yellen Defends Fed
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-10-11T08:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/policy-makers-bemoan-currency-strength-as-yellen-defends-fed.html
Policy makers from around the world
bemoaned the economic threat of strong exchange rates as the
Federal Reserve played down its influence in currency markets.  As officials landed in Tokyo for annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund, central bankers from  Japan  and
Switzerland yesterday expressed discomfort with the value of
their currencies, and the  Philippines  said Fed decisions are
complicating monetary policy. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda echoed the concerns, saying in an interview that his
government will act against disorderly gains by the yen.  Such worries across both industrial and developing nations
are being heightened by an IMF warning that global growth and
trade are slowing, leaving countries at risk of losing an export
edge if their exchange rates climb. The Fed again drew fire from
 emerging markets  for propelling their currencies higher,
prompting a riposte from Vice Chairman Janet Yellen that was
echoed by Israel’s central bank chief Stanley Fischer.  “We are heading into a far more difficult period for the
world economy and so there’s an exacerbation of currency wars
again,” said Neil Mellor, a foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in  London .  Global Slowdown  Policy makers are paying greater attention to the value of
their currencies as the IMF predicts worldwide expansion will
fade to 3.3 percent this year and estimates international trade
expansion will slow to 3.2 percent from 12.6 percent as recently
as 2010. The officials spoke ahead of today’s gathering of Group
of Seven finance chiefs in Tokyo.  With the yen about 4 percent below the postwar high of
75.35 per dollar reached last October, Noda said in an interview
in his office yesterday that the yen is a ‘serious problem,’’
out of step with Japan’s economic performance and “when
necessary, we will take decisive action.”  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said at a
conference he is “conscious of the effects that the rapid
appreciation of the yen could have on Japan’s economy and
inflation outlook.”  Thirteen months since the Swiss National Bank imposed a
ceiling for its franc of 1.20 versus the euro, Chairman Thomas Jordan told the same event that the cap will remain for the
“foreseeable future” and even at that level, the currency
posed a “serious” threat to growth.  Currency Tensions  The concerns suggest rich nations are becoming increasingly
irritated by exchange rates they see as overvalued, adding a new
dimension to the so-called currency wars which were previously
fought by emerging markets critical of easy monetary policy in
the U.S. and  Europe , said Kit Juckes, head of foreign exchange
research at Societe Generale SA in London.  “The currency wars are building slowly again and are
becoming an issue within the advanced countries too this time,”
he said.  Emerging market officials again warned of the risks they
face as the Fed embraces easier monetary policy, this time in
the form of last month’s decision to embark on open-ended asset
purchases. The concern is a third round of quantitative easing
will weaken the dollar and propel unwanted capital into their
economies.  Fed’s Impact  The Fed “is causing challenges to monetary policy in
emerging markets,” Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an interview in  Tokyo . “We are watchful of
that.”  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Oct. 9
he raised concern the Fed’s actions “may impact commodity
prices” with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  Asked about such worries, Yellen said in Tokyo that if the
Fed succeeded in rallying the U.S. economy then the whole world
would win. While acknowledging different monetary policies
affect capital flows and currency values, she said the Fed is
not the main factor and governments have tools of their own to
protect their economies.  “It’s not the intention of the U.S. and Fed to make this
more difficult,” Yellen said. “On balance, stronger U.S.
growth is beneficial for the entire global economy.”  Yellen had some backing from  Israel ’s Fischer, who said
today that the criticism of quantitative easing “is not well
founded.”  ’Unfounded Criticism’  “The countries that are critical have to explain how they
expect the U.S. to return to growth when it has a huge budget
deficit to deal with if it’s not allowed to use monetary
policy,” he told reporters in Tokyo.  That argument may hold greater weight now and help avoid a
full-blown repeat of the so-called currency wars of 2010 when
booming developing nations led by  Brazil  criticized the Fed’s
previous bond-buying program for threatening their
competitiveness and inflating asset bubbles.  What’s changed is emerging markets are now also slowing,
leaving them in need of an uplift from the U.S. The most
accurate currency forecasters also expect the dollar to
strengthen as U.S. growth outpaces its developed nation
counterparts.  “There is also, of course, a beneficial side,”
Chidambaram said. “Some of that money may come to  India  as
investments, but we need to balance both the advantages and
disadvantages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Tokyo at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  