-- Preserving Muni-Bond Tax Exemption Is New Group’s Goal
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/preserving-muni-bond-tax-exemption-is-new-group-s-goal.html
Dealers and debt issuers in the $3.7
trillion municipal market are fighting to protect tax exemptions
for interest paid on state and local bonds following proposals
in  Washington  to pare back or end the benefit.  A new alliance, called Municipal Bonds for America, seeks
to preserve the federal tax break for investors, enacted in
1913, according to the Washington-based group. It says canceling
or scaling back the exemption would lift public borrowing costs.  “You’re hurting anybody that gets a water bill, because
you’re going to raise the cost of capital and make munis less
attractive,” said Mike Nicholas, the chief executive officer of
the Bond Dealers of America who helped organize the new group.
“Whether you’re making $20,000 a year or $500,000 a year, your
bill is going to get bigger. Those are dots that don’t get
connected by people on  Capitol Hill .”  The group formed to fend off proposals to curb the tax
break or end it such as those from President  Barack Obama  and
Oregon Senator  Ron Wyden , both Democrats. Governments, public
utilities, transit agencies and nonprofits such as hospitals and
universities borrow in the U.S. muni market partly by offering
tax-exempt securities. Their debt usually yields less than
similarly rated taxable corporate bonds, lowering costs for the
issuers and the taxpayers and customers they serve.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , a former
Massachusetts governor, has proposed limits on tax exemptions to
help curb U.S. budget deficits, without offering specifics.  $2.2 Trillion Need  State and local governments around the U.S. need to spend
 $2.2 trillion  to put the nation’s infrastructure in good
condition, according to a 2009 report from the American Society
of Civil Engineers that reflected the effects of the longest
recession since the 1930s. The cost rose about 37 percent from
2005. The Reston, Virginia-based group plans an update in 2013.  “Given the growing need to replace aging infrastructure
and renew economic growth, it is now more important than ever to
make certain that local and state governments continue to have
access to reasonably priced funding,” said Marty Vogtsberger, a
co-chairman of the alliance, in a prepared statement. He leads
institutional brokerage operations for Cincinnati-based  Fifth
Third Bancorp (FITB) ’s broker-dealer subsidiary.  “Policy makers should not try to fix what isn’t broken; a
tax on tax-exempt bonds ultimately shifts more burdens to local
governments,” said Ken Williams, also a co-chairman of the
group, in the statement. He is the San Francisco-based chief
executive officer of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a investment bank
and brokerage unit of  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)   Leaders of issuers such as the New York City Housing
Development Corp. and American Municipal Power Inc. in Columbus,
 Ohio , are also members of the alliance. The Bond Dealers
organization, headed by Nicholas and based in Washington, isn’t
a member of the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  