-- Prisons to Data Centers Expand Ranks of Tax-Saving REITs
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-10-10T20:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/prison-owners-to-data-centers-expand-ranks-of-u-s-reits.html
American Tower Corp. (AMT) ’s stock has
climbed 21 percent since it converted to a real estate
investment trust at the beginning of the year, making it the
second-biggest REIT in the U.S. Unlike most REITs, including No.
1  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , it doesn’t own shopping malls,
office buildings, apartments or warehouses.  American Tower owns 21,592 cell-phone antennas that are
used by wireless carriers throughout the country. The Boston-
based company is one of a growing number of landlords for
nontraditional properties such as prisons and data centers that
are switching to REITs, a group whose shares have soared 59
percent in the past three years.  “It’s in many ways a validation of the success that  REITs (BBREIT) 
have had,” said Adam Markman, a managing director at Green
Street Advisors Inc., a Newport Beach, California-based real
estate research firm. “The current evidence is the pace of
conversions isn’t slowing. The more success that we have, the
more likely it is we’ll see additional activity.”  Companies are adopting the REIT structure in part because
investors are clamoring for stocks that can deliver stable
payouts yielding an average of 3.5 percent amid record low
interest rates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
are also changing their status to eliminate corporate income
taxes and take advantage of the access to capital enjoyed by
property trusts.  No Taxes  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
don’t pay federal income taxes. In exchange, they’re required by
the Internal Revenue Service to distribute at least 90 percent
of their taxable earnings to shareholders in the form of
dividends. Excluding mortgage REITs, property trusts have raised
record amounts of cash through equity and debt sales in the past
three years as investors seek yields higher than those offered
by such securities as U.S. government  notes .  At least seven companies are planning to or considering
becoming REITs. Should the firms convert, the number of data-
center property trusts could increase to five from three, and it
would mark the return of prison REITs.  “There’s a capital-markets play to it, and there’s a tax
play,” Robert O’Brien, the leader of Deloitte & Touche LLP’s
U.S. real estate practice, said in a telephone interview. “The
capital-markets aspect of it is really driving it today.”  Equity REITs -- trusts that own property rather than
investing in real estate debt -- have raised almost $150 billion
through equity and debt offerings from the beginning of 2010
through Oct. 4 of this year, the most in a three-year period in
at least 12 years, and about as much as the funds raised in the
previous five years combined, according to data from SNL
Financial, a research firm based in Charlottesville, Virginia.  Property Buyers  Publicly traded REITs and real estate operating companies
ranked third among buyers of U.S. real estate in the first half
of the year at $12.2 billion, following private buyers at $40
billion and institutional investors and private equity funds at
about $30 billion, according to New York-based research firm
Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Geo Group Inc. (GEO) , a penitentiary operator, and  Iron Mountain
Inc. (IRM) , a document and data-storage company, are among the
companies planning to become REITs. The proposed conversions
come amid a 13 percent gain in the Bloomberg REIT Index this
year, compared with a 14 percent increase in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Pablo Paez, vice president of corporate relations at Boca
Raton, Florida-based Geo Group, and Dan O’Neill, a spokesman for
Boston-based Iron Mountain, both declined to comment.  REIT History  Geo Group’s history involves a property trust. It  bought 
CentraCore Properties Trust, a prison REIT, in 2007 for $391
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. When the deal
was announced, CentraCore owned 13 correctional facilities in
nine states.  To qualify as a REIT, a company has to invest at least 75
percent of its assets in real estate and obtain 75 percent of
its gross income from rents or interest on mortgages from
financing property, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based trade group.
REITs sell equity and debt to fuel purchases and growth because
of the requirement that they pass income to shareholders and not
retaining most of their earnings.  “If you’re going to be a public real estate company, the
vehicle of choice is definitely the REIT vehicle,” Mark Decker,
managing director and head of the real estate investment banking
group at BMO Capital Markets in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “If you’re a real estate company and you’re trying
to grow, it’s all about access to capital.”  Setting Record  U.S. REITs will set or come close to setting a record for
raising capital this year, said O’Brien of Deloitte & Touche.
This year through Sept. 28, U.S. equity REITs raised $41.1
billion, a 22 percent increase from the year-earlier period,
according to SNL Financial.  REITs’ strong total returns have helped attract investors
when the companies raise money through the capital markets, said
Markman of Green Street.  Other companies that plan to become REITs include  Equinix
Inc. (EQIX) , a data-center operator based in Redwood City,  California ,
whose shares have surged 89 percent this year. Equinix said
Sept. 13 that its board approved a REIT conversion plan, and the
company plans to seek an IRS ruling by the end of the year. If
successful, the company will become a REIT in 2015, joining
data-center REITs  DuPont Fabros Technology Inc. (DFT) ,  Digital Realty
Trust Inc. (DLR)  and  CoreSite Realty Corp. (COR)   Shareholder Value  “We have already seen several of our peers in the data-
center industry operate under a REIT structure, and we believe
that this tax-efficient structure will enhance shareholder
value,” Equinix Chief Financial Officer Keith Taylor said in an
e-mail.  Cincinnati Bell Inc. (CBB) , a telephone and wireless company,
plans to spin off its data-center operations into a publicly
traded REIT, to be called CyrusOne Inc., according to the
Cincinnati-based company. CyrusOne filed a registration
statement for an offering with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Aug. 8 and plans to qualify as a REIT for its
taxable year ending Dec. 31.  Telephone calls seeking comment from John Caulfield, a
spokesman for Cincinnati Bell, weren’t returned.  American Tower has a stock-market value of $28.7 billion,
making it the largest U.S. REIT after Indianapolis-based Simon,
which has a market capitalization of $47.3 billion.  Leah Stearns, investor relations director at American
Tower, didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Prison Company  Corrections Corp. of America , a Nashville, Tennessee-based
prison operator, has asked for a private-letter ruling from the
IRS as part of its conversion plan. Steve Owen, a spokesman for
Corrections Corp., declined to comment beyond a May company
statement that it was considering conversion.  Other companies going through the conversion process are
landlords with more typical REIT assets. New York-based  W.P.
Carey Inc. (WPC)  -- an owner of office buildings, self-storage, retail
and warehouses -- completed the process on Sept. 28. As part of
the change, W.P. Carey merged with one of its affiliates, a non-
traded REIT.  Ryman Hospitality Properties Inc. (RHP) , based in Nashville and
formerly known as Gaylord Entertainment Co., plans on electing
to be taxed as a REIT on Jan. 1, after selling the Gaylord brand
and rights to manage four Gaylord resorts to Marriott
International Inc. for $210 million. Ryman continues to own the
properties.  Billboard Owners  A new category of REIT may emerge as well.  Lamar
Advertising Co. (LAMR) , the Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based billboard
owner, is considering a conversion. The IRS has determined that
billboards are real property, opening the door for Lamar to
become a REIT, Sean Reilly, the Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based
company’s chief executive officer, said at a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. conference on Sept. 20.  “We’re generating more cash flow than we’re redeploying
into the business,” said Buster Kantrow, a Lamar spokesman. The
company is in the “early stages” of considering a REIT
conversion, he said. “We’re in a position to think about
returning cash to shareholders.”  The company will start becoming a “significant federal
taxpayer” beginning in 2014, Reilly said at the conference. The
company is running out of “net operating loss carry forwards,”
which allow a company to reduce its taxes. When those are
depleted, the company will have taxable income, and converting
to a REIT would alleviate the burden.  ‘Shielding Taxes’  “It’s a great idea,” Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli
& Co. in Rye, New York, said in a telephone interview. “By
shielding taxes you’re going to get a big valuation uplift, just
because you’re not paying taxes anymore.”  Should Lamar go forward with a conversion,  Clear Channel
Outdoor Holdings Inc. (CCO)  and  CBS Corp. (CBS) , which owns billboards,
“might not be far behind,” Harriss said. He has a buy rating
on Lamar. CBS, also the owner of the most-watched television
network, could spin off its outdoor-advertising business and
make it REIT, Harriss said.  “What Lamar did was very interesting,” CBS Chief
Executive Officer Leslie Moonves said at the Goldman conference.
A REIT conversion is “something that we are potentially looking
at,” he said, and “it might be a good plan for us as well.”  Dana McClintock, a CBS spokesman, declined to comment
further. Wendy Goldberg, a spokeswoman for Clear Channel, also
wouldn’t comment.  Time-Consuming  Becoming a REIT is not without possible risks, including
changes in tax laws or tightening of the capital markets, said
Markman of Green Street. Converting is a time-consuming
commitment by a company, taking up the attention of senior
management, he said.  “It’s interesting to see that these are not traditional
major food groups in terms of real estate sectors,” Markman
said. “How far can that go? Those are interesting questions
that people are asking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  