-- Progressive Advances as Insurer’s Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-10-10T14:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/progressive-advances-as-insurer-s-profit-beats-estimates.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR) , the fourth-
largest U.S. auto insurer, posted the  biggest gain  in the 81-
company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index after profit
climbed and underwriting results improved.  The insurer climbed 2.7 percent to $22.29 at 9:47 a.m. in
New York. Third-quarter operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was 27 cents a share, beating by one cent
the average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Progressive had an underwriting profit margin of 4.1 cents
on every dollar in premiums for the quarter, compared with 2.4
cents in the second quarter, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based
company said today in a statement. The company targets a 4-cent
profit for each premium dollar and aims to use the collection
and analysis of data to beat its competitors in identifying the
safest and riskiest clients.  “They are historically among the fastest to get rates
through” when claims costs show the company should charge more,
said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners, in
an interview before results were announced.  The number of individual auto customers expanded 5.4
percent to about 8.87 million, led by clients who purchase
through direct channels such as the internet or phone. Premium
revenue increased 8.4 percent to $4.05 billion.  Net income  increased 84 percent to $277 million, or 46
cents a share, from $150.7 million, or 24 cents, in the year-
earlier period, aided by selling stocks from its portfolio.
Chief Investment Officer William Cody has been adding municipal
bonds and corporate debt.  Book Value  Book value, a measure of what he firm would be worth if
liquidated, rose to $10.84 a share from $10.32 a share on June
30. Progressive’s stock advanced 11 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with the 13 percent gain of the 24-company
KBW Insurance  Index. (KIX)   The insurer has been increasing internet sales as it
competes with larger rivals State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co., Allstate Corp. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
Geico unit. Progressive Chief Executive Officer Glen Renwick,
57, is seeking to improve underwriting margins through the
firm’s Snapshot technology, which collects vehicle data and
offers discounts to drivers with the best habits.  Miles traveled in July on U.S. roads fell by 0.3 percent,
or 800 million miles, from a year earlier as gas  prices  climbed
past $3.50 per gallon, according to the most recent monthly
federal government  report . Fewer miles driven may result in a
lower frequency of collision claims for auto insurers.  Progressive is the first of the largest U.S. auto insurers
to announce third-quarter results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in New York at 
spak10bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  