-- Green Power Battles Data Line in Puget Sound
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-10-11T17:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/puget-sound-roiled-as-green-power-clashes-with-data-line.html
(Corrects 12th paragraph to show FCC doesn’t oppose the
utility’s plan, in story published Oct. 10.)  There’s a battle brewing in the
Puget Sound between a utility that wants to be the first on the
U.S. West Coast to generate power from ocean currents and a
Japanese telecommunications giant that says the plan threatens
its billion-dollar fiber optic cable connection to the U.S.  The  Public Utility District of Snohomish County , north of
 Seattle , is seeking Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
approval to temporarily install two 300-ton turbines, each about
20 feet (6 meters) in diameter, on the seabed in Puget Sound to
transform tidal flows into electricity. Officials say the pilot
project could help meet rising demand and a state target of
getting 15 percent of its power from renewable sources by 2020.  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432)  of  Tokyo  opposes the
plan, saying the anchors of vessels that would install and
maintain the turbines could damage its  cable , which was
installed 12 years ago and can carry the equivalent of 23
million telephone calls concurrently across 13,000 miles (21,000
kilometers) to Japan. The company has the support of the Federal
Communication Commission and the U.S. Navy.  “It would be quite a setback if it was rejected,” Matt
Nocella, spokesman for the Washington-based National Hydropower
Association, said in a phone interview. “If you have a company
that’s put in six years of work into something and a regulator
is going to reject it, other companies are going to look at it
and say it’s not worth it.”  Avoid Anchors  The utility in August said it was willing to agree not to
use anchors, adding that it had employed a remotely operated
vehicle in an “extensive survey” for the project without the
use of anchors.  Given the strong currents in the area, the utility would
avoid anchors and instead use vessels able to stay in place with
engine power or other systems, Craig Collar, the utility’s
senior manager for energy resource development, said in a
telephone interview.  The Snohomish utility district, which started pursuing the
plan in 2006, said it expects a FERC decision this year, and
hopes to have the three-to-five year test project working in
2014. The pilot would provide enough power for a small number of
homes but allow the utility to measure generating potential and
the project’s effects on marine life. Celeste Miller, a FERC
spokeswoman, said there is no deadline for a decision.  Large Potential  The utility, which is owned by its 320,000 customers, says
the best outcome for the experiment calls for the turbines to be
sited 558 feet and 781 feet away from the company’s cable, at a
depth of about 190 feet. The sites were chosen over 17
alternatives because of water depth, distance from shipping
traffic and the strength of tidal currents.  “Puget Sound is one of the larger potential tidal
resources in the country,” Collar said.  NTT is asking that the turbines be placed at least 2,460
feet, or half a mile, away.  “Our issue is not with the project itself, or with
alternative energy, it’s with the proposed site,” Kurt Johnson,
the chief financial officer of Pacific Crossing, an NTT
subsidiary, said in an interview. “It raises serious and
unacceptable risks for our cable.”  FCC Position  The Federal Communications Commission sent a letter to FERC
on Oct. 4 saying it doesn’t oppose the most recent proposal by
the utility, as long as FERC determines the project “does not
present material risk” to the cable.  In an earlier FERC filing, the FCC stressed the importance
of the undersea cables to American public safety and security
interests. About three dozen cables, “each about the size of a
household garden hose,” carry more than 95 percent of the
nation’s international voice, data and video, the FCC said.  In a June letter to FERC, Catherine Creese, the assistant
director of the Naval Seafloor Cable Protection Office, said the
unit concurred with the technical concerns initially raised by
the FCC, noting that the “vast majority” of Defense Department
overseas communications travels on undersea cables.’’ Creese’s
office falls under the Naval Facilities Engineering Command.  NTT’s line is the only one linking Washington state with
 Japan . The other four trans-Pacific lines go from California or
 Oregon , according to Johnson.  Miller, the FERC spokeswoman, said the agency can’t comment
on this specific project. However, the regulator’s staff in an
April 2008 paper said so-called hydrokinetic energy has
“amazing potential” and could double the amount of hydropower
produced in the U.S., boosting it to 20 percent of national
supply from below 10 percent.  Federal Grant  The public utility district has secured a $10 million grant
from the U.S. Energy Department to help cover costs of the
project, estimated at $25 million. If FERC asks that the
turbines be located further away from the cable, the utility
probably would abandon the project, Collar said.  FERC, which has jurisdiction over dams and other hydropower
investments, issued its first pilot license for a tidal-energy
project to Verdant Power Inc. in January. The company plans to
set its first turbines into New York’s East River in 2014, the
first installment of a project to eventually provide power to
more than 9,500 residents of Roosevelt Island, which lies
between Manhattan and Queens, according to Trey Taylor, co-
founder of the company.  FERC may hold off on a decision to see whether the utility
and NTT reach a settlement, said Richard Heidorn Jr., an energy
analyst with Bloomberg Government.  “FERC is definitely very supportive of the concept of
tidal power,” Heidorn said in a phone interview. “The agency
does look with favor on settlements, so if there is a way to
realign the project, such that it meets the county’s plans and
avoids NTT’s concerns, I’m sure FERC would like to have them
settle it that way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  