-- QInvest Said to Cut Jobs at Brokerage, Asset Management
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-10-10T14:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/qinvest-said-to-cut-jobs-at-brokerage-asset-management.html
QInvest LLC, the Qatari investment
bank forming a joint venture with  Egypt ’s EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, is cutting jobs at its brokerage and asset management
divisions, two people familiar with the matter said.  As many as 13 people are leaving, one of the people said,
declining to be identified because the reductions aren’t public.  The cuts come as QInvest prepares to form a venture with
Cairo-based EFG-Hermes in what the companies say will be the
Middle East’s largest investment bank. QInvest will take 60
percent of the new entity and EFG-Hermes the remainder. Ashraf El Sharkawy, head of Egypt’s financial services regulator, said
today he expects to approve the deal after earlier opposing it.  QInvest, a unit of Qatar Islamic Bank, has the option to
buy EFG-Hermes’s 40 percent in one to three years after the deal
completes. The investment bank would be the largest in “the
Arab World, Africa,  Turkey , South and South East Asia,” EFG-
Hermes said in April. The new entity will include EFG-Hermes’
main business lines of investment banking and brokerage.  A spokesman for QInvest in Doha, who declined to be
identified citing corporate policy, said the bank continues to
meet client needs, without confirming the job cuts.  Other Cuts  The Qatari bank joins other lenders reducing positions in
the  Middle East . Credit Suisse Group AG cut two Dubai investment
banking jobs and is moving others to Qatar, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month, while Deutsche Bank AG
eliminated seven jobs at its investment bank unit in Dubai, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  QInvest, which is advising Barwa Bank on a share listing
and recently helped manage Qatar Islamic Bank’s $750 million
sukuk sale, hired Tamim Al Kawari as its deputy CEO earlier this
year. He joined from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where he was head
of the New York-based bank’s Qatar office.  EFG-Hermes rose 3.6 percent in Cairo to 11.85 Egyptian
pounds, while  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK)  fell 0.4 percent to 77.30 rials
in Doha. EFG-Hermes surged as much as 8.2 percent yesterday
after chairwoman Mona Zulficar said in an interview that she
expected the Egyptian regulator to approve the deal next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ; 