-- Racial Balance at Risk as Supreme Court Hears Texas Plan
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/racial-balance-at-risk-as-supreme-court-hears-texas-plan.html
The last time the U.S.  Supreme Court 
ruled on university affirmative action, upholding it in 2003,
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor predicted the practice would outlive
its usefulness in 25 years.  Now the end may come a lot sooner than that.  The high court revisits race-based admissions today,
hearing the case of a rejected white applicant to the University
of  Texas . The court’s reconstituted membership makes new limits
probable, even as dozens of the nation’s largest companies, such
as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., (WMT)  call for continued
use of affirmative action to ensure a diverse workforce.  “It’s just a matter of time before the use of race is
restricted, prohibited,” said Ward Connerly, a former member of
the University of California Board of Regents who led a
successful fight to end preferences at public institutions in
that state.  Affirmative action has been a fixture on U.S. campuses
since the civil rights movement in the 1960s, helping integrate
what had once been overwhelmingly white universities. All but a
handful of the nation’s selective colleges and professional
schools now use race as a consideration in admissions as they
seek to ensure a diverse student body.  A ruling against Texas would raise new legal questions
about those programs -- and perhaps even wipe them out. Public
and private universities alike may be forced to turn to race-
neutral steps, such as class-based affirmative action and the
abolition of legacy preferences, which disproportionately go to
white students, to maintain the same level of campus diversity.
A ruling by the court isn’t expected until next year.  Corporate Allies  Proponents of affirmative action say those moves would be
an inadequate substitute for traditional racial preferences.  Texas has support in the case from some of the nation’s
most powerful institutions. Fifty-nine companies -- including
Gap Inc.,  General Electric Co. (GE) , Pfizer Inc., Shell Oil Co. and
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  -- filed a  brief  saying they rely on universities to
train a racially diverse workforce.  For companies to succeed, “they must be able to hire
highly trained employees of all races, religions, cultures and
economic backgrounds,” the companies argued.  Those corporations are in the unusual position of arguing
alongside the Obama administration, which is  casting  affirmative
action as a national security issue. The administration says
race-conscious admissions, both at the country’s military
academies and at universities with Reserve Officer Training
Corps programs, help ensure a diverse officer corps. A group of
37 former military leaders is making similar arguments.  Harvard, Yale Support  In addition, Texas has the support of the nation’s higher-
education establishment, including  Harvard University ,  Yale
University  and  Princeton University .  O’Connor pointed to corporate and military support for
affirmative action when she wrote the court’s 2003 majority
opinion in Grutter v. Bollinger.  That 5-4 decision, which reaffirmed the landmark 1978 Bakke
ruling, said colleges and graduate schools could consider race
as long as they do so through a broad review of a student’s
application and don’t mechanistically award extra points to
every minority.  O’Connor’s 2006 retirement, and succession by Justice
 Samuel Alito , may prove to be affirmative action’s turning
point. Alito gives the court five skeptics of racial
preferences, joining Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices
Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Clarence Thomas .  Kennedy now stands as the court’s swing vote on the issue.
He dissented in 2003, saying the University of Michigan Law
School policy at issue in that case was akin to a quota.  ‘10 Percent Rule’  A central question in the Texas case is whether
universities can adequately diversify without resorting to
racial preferences. The University of Texas admits three-
quarters of its freshman class each year on the basis of high
school class rank -- the “top 10 percent rule.” That system,
the product of a 1997 state law, ensures a significant number of
minorities because it guarantees slots to students at
predominantly Hispanic and black schools.  The university considers race only in admitting the rest of
the class. Lawyers for  Abigail Noel Fisher , the rejected white
applicant, say that’s unnecessary, given the success of the
class-rank method.  Texas shouldn’t use the “extreme measure of racial
classifications to obtain trivial gains in minority enrollment,
especially in light of the meaningful impact of existing race-
neutral measures on UT’s student-body diversity,” Fisher’s
lawyers argued in court papers.  ‘Compelling Interest’  Fisher applied unsuccessfully to Texas in 2008 and later
enrolled at  Louisiana State University . A graduate of a Houston-
area public high school, she says she was passed over by UT in
favor of minority classmates with lower grades and fewer
activities.  Texas says its affirmative action program is a model of the
type of plan the high court approved in the Grutter ruling.  “This court has recognized that universities have a
compelling interest in promoting student body diversity, and
that a university may consider the race of applicants in an
individualized and modest manner,” the university argued.  A federal appeals court upheld the Texas admission system,
saying it squared with the admissions policy upheld in Grutter.  Justice Elena Kagan isn’t taking part in the case. She was
the Obama administration’s top courtroom lawyer when the
administration filed a brief at the appeals court level.  The case is Fisher v.  University of Texas  at Austin,
11-345.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  