-- Treasury Yields to Stay Low, Fidelity’s Irving Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-10T16:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/treasury-yields-to-stay-low-fidelity-s-irving-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. Treasury yields will remain at
or close to record lows into next year as headwinds from Europe
and a potential U.S. fiscal contraction tempers growth,
according to Fidelity Management & Research’s Bill Irving.  The $600 billion of potential tax increases and spending
cuts scheduled to go into effect starting next year that’s
become known as the fiscal cliff, risks from the euro-zone
crisis and Federal Reserve debt purchases will prevent a rise in
yields, the Merrimack, New Hampshire-based Irving in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “I am not preparing for a rising yield environment because
we have all these headwinds,” said Irving, manager of the $3.8
billion Fidelity Inflation-Protected Bond Fund. “Yields are
going to stay low. The Fed is going to continue to put pressure
on long-term Treasury yields.”  Fed policy makers began a third round of debt purchases in
September, buying $40 billion per month in mortgage-backed
securities, and said they will probably hold the federal funds
rate close to zero “at least through mid-2015.” Those
purchases add to the about $45 billion a month in long-term
Treasuries the central bank is buying through its maturity
extension program known as Operation Twist, slated to end in
December.  “When Operation Twist ends at the end of the year they
then proceed, continuing with the Treasury purchases,” said
Irving, noting the Fed will end its sales of short-term debt.
“By the time this is all done, the Fed’s balance sheet will be
on the order of around $4 trillion.”  Fiscal Cliff  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi endorsed last
month an unlimited bond-purchase program to contain rising
yields in the euro area and fight speculation that nations might
leave the 17-nation currency.  The fiscal cliff is a “triple witching hour; the scheduled
sequestration cuts, the expiration of the Busch-era tax cuts,
and the expiration of the fiscal-stimulus measures,” Irving
said. “All combined, if were to fall off of the fiscal cliff,
that would push the economy back into a recession -- which
ironically would be good for bonds.”  The Congressional Budget Office has warned the economy will
fall into recession if Congress allows the tax increases and
budget cuts to go ahead.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its global
growth forecasts as the euro area’s debt crisis intensifies and
warned of even slower expansion unless officials in the U.S. and
 Europe  address threats to their economies.  Mortgage Market  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
IMF said, compared with July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012
and 3.9 percent in 2013.  The Washington-based lender’s report called for U.S. policy
makers to find an alternative to planned automatic tax increases
and spending cuts that would trigger a recession. The U.S. is
seen expanding 2.2 percent this year, higher than an earlier
forecast, and growing 2.1 percent next year, less than
previously predicted, the IMF report said.  The Fed’s efforts to revive the economy through its
quantitative-easing measures, will buttress the mortgage market,
according to Irving.  “The Fed throughout the next year is going to be very
supportive of the agency mortgage backed securities market,”
Irving said in the radio interview.  The U.S. economy added 114,000 workers last month after a
revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed last week in
 Washington . Unemployment unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in
September, the lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office
in January 2009, as employers took on more part-time workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  