-- Treasuries Pare Losses Before Note Auction, Fed’s Beige Book
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-10T16:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/treasuries-decline-before-debt-sale-federal-reserve-beige-book.html
Treasuries pared losses before the
U.S. sells $21 billion of the 10-yeare notes, the second of
three auctions of coupon-bearing securities this week totaling
$66 billion.  Yields on the benchmark securities had reached the highest
in more than two weeks before the  Federal Reserve  releases its
Beige Book business survey. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said
asset purchases by the central bank that boost U.S. economic
growth will benefit the world. U.S. yields rose amid a meeting
between Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and French
President  Francois Hollande  in Paris as investors wait to hear
if  Spain  will request a sovereign bailout.  “The market is waiting for the auction to see what demand
is before they make a decision on direction,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at
government-debt auctions. “There is still demand for paper in
this sector as there is still a lot of uncertainty in the
market.”  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  increased less than one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.72 percent at 12:45 p.m.
New York time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yield
touched 1.75 percent, the most since Sept. 24. The 1.625 percent
security due in August 2022 fell 1/32 or 31 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 99 4/32. Thirty-year bond were little changed to
yield 2.93 percent.  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 1.73
percent in pre-auction trading, down from 1.764 percent at a
previous sale on Sept. 12. That compares with a  record-low 
auction yield of 1.459 percent on July 11.  Debt Sales  “We have supply,” said  David Ader , head of U.S.
government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It’s the most immediate thing on the horizon. At
these levels, the yields are not that enticing.”  Investors at last month’s sale bid for 2.85 times the
amount of debt available, versus the average of 3.11 for the
past 10 auctions of the maturity. The government is scheduled to
conclude this week’s sales with $13 billion of 30-year
securities tomorrow.  The U.S. sold $32 billion in three-year notes yesterday at
record demand. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges interest by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.96, topping the previous high last month of 3.94 and an
average of 3.56 for the previous 10 sales.  The auction drew a yield of 0.346 percent, compared with a
forecast of 0.350 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of
the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  Yellen Speaks  U.S. government bonds have lost investors 0.4 percent this
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Yields are rising amid signs of improvement in the  U.S.
economy , as President  Barack Obama  and challenger  Mitt Romney 
prepare to face off in a Nov. 6 general election.  U.S.  unemployment  declined to 7.8 percent in September from
8.1 percent the month before, the Labor Department reported Oct.
5. Existing-home sales and retail sales were both stronger in
August than analysts projected, industry and government reports
showed last month.  Yellen said in  Tokyo  that if the Fed succeeded in rallying
the U.S. economy then the whole world would win. While
acknowledging different monetary policies affect capital flows
and currency values, she said the Fed is not the main factor and
governments have tools of their own to protect their economies.  The dollar will strengthen as U.S. growth outpaces its
developed-nation counterparts, say nine of the 10 forecasters
with the lowest margins of error in the six quarters ended Sept.
28 as measured by Bloomberg.  Buying, Selling  The Fed, which purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
purchases known as quantitative easing, announced in September a
third effort in which it is buying $40 billion of mortgage debt
a month until the economic recovery is well established.  The central bank sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries today as
part of its Operation Twist program to replace $267 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in
an effort to reduce borrowing costs further and counter rising
risks of a recession.  Thirty-year yields are poised to rise further, according to
 DZ Bank  AG, citing the moving average convergence/divergence
pattern, or MACD, which tracks the difference between a shorter-
and a longer-term moving average, generating buy and sell
signals when they cross. The lines cut across each other today.  ‘Higher Yields’  “This indicates that the bias will be toward higher yields
in coming days and possibly weeks,” said Andy Cossor, the Hong
Kong-based market strategist at DZ Bank,  Germany ’s fourth-
largest lender. “The yield lows for the long bond for this year
have been seen.”  The so-called  MACD  line is calculated by subtracting the
26-day exponential moving average from the 12-day exponential
moving average. The second indicator, called the signal line, is
a nine-day exponential moving average of the MACD.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  