-- REC Drops to Record as Danske Cuts Earnings Outlook: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2012-10-10T10:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/rec-drops-to-record-as-danske-cuts-earnings-outlook-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) , the
Norwegian solar manufacturer that’s been unprofitable for the
past six quarters, slumped to a record in Oslo trading after
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  cut its earnings estimates for the company.  REC fell as much as 6 percent to 1.551 kroner, the lowest
since the shares started trading in May 2006. The stock was down
5.3 percent as of 12:28 p.m. local time, the biggest decline
among companies on the Oslo exchange’s benchmark  OBX Index. (OBX)   REC, like European peers  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-Cells SE, is
under pressure from Chinese competitors that expanded just as
demand slowed, causing solar-wafer and cell prices to plummet.
Cuts in renewable-energy subsidies in France, Italy and  Germany 
have also reduced sales for the Sandvika-based manufacturer.  “We lower our estimates ahead of the third-quarter report
to reflect the continued price decline throughout the value
chain,” Danske Bank said today in an e-mailed note to clients.
“We maintain our  sell rating  and 12-month target price of 1.7
kroner. We see structural challenges persisting.”  Spot prices for polysilicon, the main raw ingredient in
solar cells, have tumbled 27 percent this year. REC, due to
report quarterly earnings in two weeks’ time, will probably post
a loss of 132.2 million kroner ($23 million), according to the
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company has sought to bolster its finances by cutting
costs and reducing output capacity to adapt to falling demand.
In July, it raised 1.3 billion kroner through a share offer.  Global investment in renewable energy fell 20 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier as the pace of spending
eased in the U.S. and  India , Bloomberg New Energy Finance said
yesterday. Annual investment may fall for the first time in
eight years, the London-based researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  