-- Dewey, Reed Smith, Cleary, Paul Weiss: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-10T11:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/reed-smith-cleary-paul-weiss-latham-business-of-law.html
Former partners of bankrupt Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP who agreed to pay $71.5 million to avoid future
lawsuits won a judge’s approval of the settlement yesterday, the
Wall Street Journal reported.  More than 400 partners will make contributions of $5,000 to
$3.5 million, the newspaper said. The figure is based on
calculations from the former partner income last year and this,
unreimbursed tax advances and unpaid capital. The settlement
excludes top managers  Steven Davis , the former chairman; Stephen
DiCarmine, the former  executive director ; and Joel Sanders, the
former chief financial officer.  Dewey’s secured lenders and unsecured creditors supported
the settlement. Two groups of retired partners objected, saying
that lawyers who earned the most should pay more, the WSJ said.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under
Chapter 11 in May. There was secured debt of about $225 million
and accounts receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of
bankruptcy, the firm said. The petition listed assets of $193
million and liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan)  For more, click here.  Firm News  Reed Smith Opens Singapore Office Led by London Partner  Driven by institutional clients in the energy and natural
resources sector,  Reed Smith  LLP opened an office in Singapore.
It will be led by Gautam Bhattacharyya, who will relocate from
London.  “The migration of major players over recent years toward
 Asia  and Singapore in particular has prompted the firm to follow
its clients,” said Kyri Evagora, co-chair of Reed Smith’s
global energy and natural resources group.  New partners Barry Stimpson and Simon Sloane, previously at
Holman Fenwick Willan LLP, and Philip Antcliffe, who rejoins
Reed Smith as a partner after leaving for a job at Citigroup
Inc. in 2011, will be resident in the office. Several lawyers
from Reed Smith’s commodities team in London will also relocate,
the firm said.  Bhattacharyya’s practice is in international commercial
arbitration and litigation, especially in the fields of banking
and financial services, energy and infrastructure, media and
entertainment, and corporate and commercial law disputes.  Stimpson has more than 18 years’ experience in commercial,
shipping and offshore matters in the area of international
arbitration and commercial dispute resolution, with a
concentration in the energy and natural resources sector.  Sloane practices in the area of international arbitration
and commercial dispute resolution, with a concentration in the
hotel and leisure, insurance, mining, construction and upstream
oil and gas sectors.  Antcliffe advises clients on contracts facilitating their
commodity trading business. He also advises traders on execution
problems arising under those contracts and litigates disputes
that arise with counterparties, the firm said.  Singapore is the firm’s fourth location in Asia, after
opening offices in  Hong Kong , Beijing and  Shanghai . Reed Smith
has more than 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices throughout the U.S.,
 Europe , Asia and the  Middle East .  Deals  Spectrum to Acquire Stanley Home Business for $1.4 Billion  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB) , the consumer-products
company controlled by  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , agreed to buy
 Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) ’s home unit for $1.4 billion in
cash, expanding into the home-improvement and residential-
hardware market.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is counsel to Stanley
Black & Decker. Spectrum Brands’ legal adviser is Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.  The Cleary Gottlieb corporate team includes partner Ethan Klingsberg. Additional partners from Cleary Gottlieb include
Jeremy Calsyn, antitrust; Sheldon Alster, tax aspects; and Len Jacoby, intellectual property.  From  Paul Weiss , partners on the deal included Paul Ginsberg and Jeff Marell, mergers and acquisitions; Eric Goodison, bank financing; and Ray Russo, bond financing.  Spectrum’s shares jumped the most in more than two years.
The purchase will add 75 cents to 80 cents a share in profit in
fiscal 2013, the Madison, Wisconsin-based  company  said yesterday
in a statement.  The deal will give Spectrum, which emerged from bankruptcy
in August 2009, brands including residential lockset-maker
Kwikset and Pfister, a manufacturer of faucets. It will be
financed exclusively with debt and is Spectrum’s largest
transaction since the $661 million purchase of kitchen-appliance
maker Russell Hobbs in 2010.  For more, click here.  Cytec to Sell Coatings Business to Advent for $1.03 Billion  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents  Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT) ,
which agreed to sell its coatings unit to private-equity firm
Advent International Corp. for $1.03 billion to focus on more
profitable businesses that make carbon-fiber composites and
chemicals. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP advised Advent.  The S&C New York-based team was led by merger and
acquisitions partners Stephen Kotran and Melissa Sawyer along
with partner Robert Downes on financing matters.  The Freshfields team acting for Advent was led by corporate
partners Stephanie Hundertmark in Berlin and Matthew Herman and
Doug Bacon in New York. Additional partners included Bruce
McCulloch, competition; Jochen Dieselhorst, IP/IT; Boris Dzida,
employment; and Claude Stansbury, tax.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the first
quarter, Woodland Park, New Jersey-based Cytec said yesterday in
a statement. Advent, based in  Boston , agreed to assume
liabilities of $118 million.  Cytec, the world’s second-biggest producer of carbon-fiber
materials for airplanes, said in May that it would sell its
coating resins unit, its  largest by revenue , to focus on metal-
processing chemicals and composites. It hired JPMorgan Chase &
Co. as a financial adviser in January to review options.  For more, click here.  Moves  Latham, Crowell, Arnold & Porter, Littler Hire New Partners  Recent U.S. lateral partner moves included two teams of
three jumping to new firms in Boston and  Los Angeles . Lawyers
also are joining firms in Washington, Austin,  Minneapolis  and
Atlanta.  Latham & Watkins LLP announced that Kenneth Parsigian, Gwyn
Williams and William J. Trach joined the Boston office as
partners in the litigation department. All three were previously
partners at Goodwin Procter LLP, the firm said.  Parsigian and Williams focus on complex mass torts and
product-liability matters, class actions and litigation under
the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
for companies such as Altria Group Inc., Latham said in a
statement. Trach focuses on white-collar cases, government
investigations and complex civil litigation.  In another trio defection, Crowell & Moring LLP expanded
its Los Angeles health-care group with the addition of three
partners. Kevin Kroeker, Peter Roan and Scott J. Moore join the
firm from Locke Lord LLP. They focus on handling regulatory,
litigation, and transactional matters for managed care and other
health-care organizations,  Kroeker has experience advising clients on regulatory
compliance issues, mergers and acquisition and other health-care
transactions, enforcement matters, and nonprofit governance
issues. Roan, a trial lawyer, concentrates his practice on
business litigation in the health-care and insurance industries.  Moore, also a member of Crowell & Moring’s corporate group,
practices general business and corporate law with a special
focus on  information technology  and real estate transactions in
the  health care industry .  In Washington, Arnold & Porter LLP hired a former senior
trade association executive and legal counsel, Diane Bieri, as a
partner. She will work with the firm’s  Food and Drug
Administration  and health-care practice and antitrust groups.  As executive vice president and general counsel for the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America , Bieri was
an advocate for research-based companies in the
biopharmaceutical industry. In addition to acting as lead
counsel to PhRMA’s president and chief executive officer and
board of directors, Bieri collaborated with senior leaders of
member companies to set strategic priorities and advance policy
positions that helped to facilitate and protect the development
of medicines in the U.S. and internationally, the firm said.  Environmental and technology lawyer Susan Snyder rejoined
Vinson & Elkins LLP as a partner in Austin, Texas. Snyder’s
practice will include environmental counseling and transactional
matters, and she will provide environmental risk management
counseling, both domestically and internationally. Snyder
previously served as an associate in V&E’s environmental
practice from 1989 to 1995. From 1995 to 2007, Snyder worked for
semiconductor maker Advanced Micro Devices Inc., where she was
promoted to executive legal counsel and vice president of
international policy and relations.  She was a partner at Jackson Walker LLP from 2007 to 2011
and has taught courses in business law, international business
and law, ethics and corporate social responsibility at The
University of Texas McCombs School of Business.  Littler Mendelson PC hired Karen M. Charlson, previously a
partner with Felhaber, Larson, Fenlon & Vogt PA and head of its
workers’ compensation and occupational safety and health
practice area, as a shareholder in Minneapolis. She will
continue to focus her practice on workers’ compensation and
Occupational Safety and Health Administration defense
representation, as well as employment counseling and litigation.  Choate Hall & Stewart LLP hired Michael R. Dube as a
partner in its securities-litigation and major commercial
litigation groups in Boston. Dube was counsel in Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP’s securities and
litigation/controversy departments and a member of its Dodd-
Frank whistle-blower working group, the firm said.  Burr & Forman LLP added Robert H.G. Lockwood in Atlanta to
the firm’s intellectual-property practice. He was previously a
member at Miller & Martin PLLC in Atlanta. Lockwood handles IP
counseling, licensing and prosecution. His practice involves
trademark, trade dress, copyright, domain name and technology
issues; IP audits and policies; and the evaluation and
management of IP portfolios.  News  Obama Campaign’s Top Lawyer From Perkins Speaks on Voter Laws  Robert Bauer, general counsel to President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election committee, Obama for America and  Democratic National
Committee , talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about
recent changes to voting laws across the country.  Bauer, a partner at Perkins Coie LLP, also discusses the
Obama campaign’s efforts to coordinate and deploy lawyers for
election challenges.  To see the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  