-- Regulators May Consider Relaxing Corporate Loan Rules, BVR Says
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-10-10T12:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/regulators-may-consider-relaxing-corporate-loan-rules-bvr-says.html
European regulators may apply less
stringent rules to loans to medium-sized companies to maintain
the flow of credit, according to  Germany ’s association of
cooperative banks.  “From what I hear, loans to medium-sized companies, the
Mittelstand, will continue to be treated under Basel II rules
when Basel III takes effect,” Uwe Froehlich, president of the
Bundesverband der Deutschen Volksbanken und Raiffeisenbanken,
said today at a conference in Frankfurt. “Loans to those
companies would not be burdened additionally.”  Global banks are preparing for stricter rules on capital
and liquidity from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
known as Basel III, even as the debt crisis in  Europe  hurts the
economy. The  International Monetary Fund  said European banks may
shrink assets by as much as $4.5 trillion through 2013 if policy
makers fail to implement pledges to fight the debt crisis,
curbing lending and economic growth.  Germany’s BDI federation of industries said in an Aug. 22
 statement  that its members are concerned they will bear the
brunt of Basel III requirements as loans become more expensive.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority relaxed the amount
of funds British banks must keep in reserve, in an effort to
spur lending and stimulate credit growth, the FSA said in a
Sept. 27 statement on its website.  Basel III rules are designed to help prevent a repeat of
the taxpayer-funded bank rescue that followed the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. German banks plan to implement
the standards next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  