-- Requests for More Libya Security Spurned, Issa Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-10-10T17:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/requests-for-more-libya-security-spurned-issa-says.html
 Requests for additional security at
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, before the Sept. 11
attack were rejected by the State Department because of a desire
to convey “normalization,” the Republican chairman of a House
panel said today.  Representative Darrell Issa of California said U.S.
officials in Libya made repeated requests for additional
security in the weeks before the attack that killed U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  “They repeatedly warned Washington officials of the
dangerous situation” in Libya, Issa said at a House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee hearing examining the attack.
“Washington officials seemed preoccupied with the concept of
normalization” after the rebellion that ousted Muammar Qaddafi.  The committee’s Republican majority blamed the Obama
administration for providing too little security before the
attack and for initially saying the assault grew out of a
spontaneous protest against a video ridiculing the Prophet
Muhammad.  The panel’s senior Democrat, Representative Elijah Cummings
of  Maryland , accused Issa of conducting a partisan
investigation, preventing Democrats from getting access to a
witness and from obtaining documents.  “My goal is to put this toxic partisanship behind us,”
Cummings said today.  House Cuts  Cummings also blamed the Republican-led House for cutting
funding for embassy security by hundreds of millions of dollars
from the levels requested by President  Barack Obama  in the last
two fiscal years. Issa said Democrats supported the cuts.  In testimony prepared for today’s hearing, the State
Department official who oversees diplomatic security said the
department monitored the attack on the consulate in Benghazi,
“in almost real time.”  Charlene Lamb, deputy assistant secretary of state for
international programs in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security,
said a security agent activated a danger-notification system as
the attack began shortly before 10 p.m. local time on Sept. 11.  “From that point on, I could follow what was happening in
almost real time,” Lamb said.  State Department officials said yesterday they had never
concluded the attack grew out of a protest over a video
depicting the Prophet Muhammad, contradicting what some Obama
administration officials had said last month. The State
Department officials, who briefed reporters on condition of
anonymity, said there had been no protest at the U.S. consulate
that day and the attack came suddenly.  ‘Mysteriously’ Briefing  Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican, credited
the impending House hearing for prodding the State Department to
give its first detailed account of the attack.  “Mysteriously, the State Department decided to give a
press briefing last night,” he said today.  Patrick Kennedy, undersecretary of state for management,
today defended the initial accounts from the administration that
the attack resulted from a protest that spiraled out of control.  “No one in the administration has claimed to know all the
answers,” Kennedy said in his written testimony for the
hearing. “We have always made clear that we are giving the best
information we have at the time. And that information has
evolved.”  Kennedy in particular defended U.S. Ambassador to the
United Nations Susan Rice, who said on Sept. 16 that the attack
started as a “spontaneous, not premeditated response” to
demonstrations in  Egypt  over a “very offensive video.”  Referring to Rice’s comments at the time, Kennedy said,
“The information she had at that point from the intelligence
community is the same that I had at that point. As time went on,
additional information became available.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  