-- ResCap Wins Temporary Approval to Pay for Review
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-10-10T17:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/rescap-wins-temporary-approval-to-pay-for-foreclosure-review.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt mortgage unit of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , won temporary
court approval to hire PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to review its
foreclosure practices as required under a settlement.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today gave
ResCap temporary permission to pay Pricewaterhouse to review
more than 20,000 loan files for potential problems, a process
that may cost more than $250 million, according to court papers.  The 90-day authority is a compromise with ResCap creditors
allowing the company to comply with a settlement that mortgage
servicers entered into with the U.S. and state attorneys general
to resolve allegations their foreclosure practices were abusive
to homeowners.  The review may yield $35 million to $60 million to
homeowners who have been harmed, the official committee of
ResCap creditors said in court papers. The committee agreed to
the temporary hiring authority while opposing the review because
of the cost, according to court papers.  Costs of the review are “disproportionate when compared to
the expected remediation payments to borrowers,” ResCap said in
court papers. The company said it will use the 90-day period to
try to work out a permanent compromise with the creditors
committee.  Servicers Settle  Earlier this year, in what the U.S. called the largest
federal-state civil settlement in the nation’s history, the
nation’s five largest mortgage servicers committed $20 billion
in relief for borrowers plus payments of $5 billion to
governments.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo &
Co ., Citigroup Inc. and Ally negotiated the settlement with
federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , and
49 states. All 50 state attorneys general had announced a probe
into foreclosure practices more than a year earlier, following
disclosures that banks used faulty documents to seize homes.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell most of its assets and resolve legal claims
related to residential mortgage-backed securities.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  