-- ResCap Asks Judge to Reconsider Management Bonus Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-10-10T13:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/rescap-asks-judge-to-reconsider-rejected-management-bonus-plan.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt mortgage unit of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , asked a court to
reconsider its proposal to pay bonuses of as much as $7 million
to 17 senior executives, saying it has changed the program to
overcome the judge’s opposition.  The money would be paid if the company succeeds in selling
assets at a pair of auctions scheduled for this month, ResCap
said in papers filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  The bonuses “continue to represent a reasonable amount,
especially when compared with the combined stalking-horse bids
of approximately $3.9 billion,” ResCap said in the filing. So-
called stalking-horse bids are the lead bids in a bankruptcy
auction. The company said it has tied the bonus payments more
closely to the executives’ performance.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell most of its assets and resolve legal claims
related to residential mortgage-backed securities.  The changes in the latest proposal were designed to address
concerns expressed by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn when he
rejected the first bonus program in August. Glenn said then that
the bonuses, designed to keep the executives with the company
until the bankruptcy case was finished, weren’t tied closely
enough to performance.  ResCap plans to hold an auction for the mortgage servicing
business with a unit of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  as the
lead bidder. The unit,  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , has
agreed to buy the servicing business for more than $2.4 billion
unless it is outbid.  The company also plans to sell a portfolio of mortgage-loan
assets at a separate auction.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  