-- Ex-Refco Lawyer Collins Begins Retrial After Winning Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-10T19:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/retrial-begins-for-ex-refco-lawyer-collins-after-reversal.html
Joseph Collins , Refco Inc.’s former
outside lawyer whose 2009 fraud conviction was reversed by an
appeals court in January, is being retried for allegedly helping
Chief Executive Officer Phillip Bennett and other executives
defraud investors of $2.4 billion.  Collins, who was found guilty in July 2009 by a federal
jury in  Manhattan , was granted a new trial by a U.S. appeals
court, which ruled that the trial judge improperly instructed a
deliberating juror outside the presence of Collins’s lawyers.  The U.S. accuses Collins of helping Refco’s management
conceal from lenders and investors the existence of transactions
that hid losses incurred by the New York-based firm. Collins,
who is free on bail, was sentenced to serve seven years in
prison. He faces retrial on 10 charges, including conspiracy and
bank, wire and  securities fraud .  “This is a case about a corporate lawyer who helped his
biggest client, Refco, create a massive fraud that cost victims
more than $2 billion and put the company out of business,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Harry Chernoff told jurors today.  Jonathan Bach, a lawyer for Collins, argued his client had
served as outside counsel for Refco without any knowledge of the
fraud. Bach said his client didn’t have any motive to join in
the scheme, which he argued was set in motion and concealed by
Bennett and senior executives Robert Trosten and Santo Maggio.  All three men pleaded guilty and Trosten and Maggio agreed
to cooperate against Collins. They testified against him at the
earlier trial.  ‘Con Man’  “Phillip Bennett is an extraordinary con man. He passed
himself off as a successful businessman, but at the end of the
day he was a thief,” Bach said. “You will learn that Joe
Collins was not part of their fraud, he wasn’t invited when they
met behind closed doors.”  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005 two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco Inc., as it was known after the
IPO, filed one of the biggest bankruptcies in U.S. history after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  Collins, formerly with the Chicago firm Mayer Brown LLP, is
accused of helping Refco’s management conceal transactions that
hid losses incurred by the New York-based futures firm. The U.S.
alleges Collins knew of the scheme and still drafted legal
documents that allowed Bennett to deceive investors and helped
it transfer losses to the Bennett-owned firm. Mayer Brown wasn’t
accused of wrongdoing.  Maggio Died  Jurors in the retrial were told that Maggio, the former CEO
of Refco’s offshore unit and a key government witness against
Collins at the earlier trial, died earlier this year. Chernoff
told jurors they would instead have transcripts of Maggio’s
testimony read to them. Trosten will testify again.  Alleged victims of the scheme included Boston-based Thomas
H. Lee Partners, which paid $50 million for a 57 percent stake
in Refco in 2004.  Collins was convicted of five counts, including two counts
of  wire fraud , two counts of security fraud and one count of
conspiracy. Jurors were unable to reach a verdict on nine other
charges.  On the fifth day of deliberations in Collins’s trial,
jurors told U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in a note that
they were having difficulty reaching a verdict. Later that day,
one of the jurors told a court security officer that another
juror had physically threatened him.  Jury Notes  After Patterson received more notes from jurors, including
one claiming that a male juror on the panel tried to barter his
vote, he met alone with that juror and encouraged the man to try
to work with other members of the panel.  The appeals court held that Patterson’s meeting alone with
the juror deprived Collins of his right to be present at all
stages of his trial.  Bennett is serving a 16-year sentence. His ex-partner, Tone Grant, is serving 10 years following a conviction at a trial.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-1170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  