-- Romania Inflation Quickens to 5.3%, Fastest in a Year, on Food
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-10-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/romania-inflation-quickens-to-5-3-fastest-in-a-year-on-food.html
Romanian  inflation  accelerated to
the fastest in more than a year in September, more than
estimated, as food and energy price increases pushed the rate
over the central bank’s forecast for the third quarter.  The inflation rate rose to 5.3 percent, the highest since
June 2011, compared with 3.9 percent in August and the  central
bank’s forecast  of 3.5 percent, the Bucharest-based National
Statistics Institute said today by e-mail. The figure exceeded
the 4.7 percent median estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Prices rose 1.2 percent from August.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei, which has a 2012 inflation
target of 2 percent to 4 percent, kept its benchmark rate
unchanged at its meeting at a record low on Sept. 27 to weigh
the impact of accelerating food-price growth because of a
drought as economic growth slows.  “Another upside surprise in inflation -- which exceeded
the consensus both in August and July -- could fuel expectations
of tighter liquidity conditions, as the first form of monetary
policy tightening is envisaged,” Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA
economist Ana-Maria Morarescu said before the report.  The inflation may quicken this year more than the central
bank’s 3.2 percent forecast due to political turmoil that
plunged the leu to a record low and a drought that boosted
prices for imports and food, Governor Mugur Isarescu said Aug.
6. This year’s rate is likely to stay within the bank’s target,
he said at the time.  Food Prices  Food costs rose 6.9 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with a 3.3 percent growth in August, driven by
rising vegetable and fruit prices, according to the institute.
Inflation for non-food items quickened to 4.3 percent, compared
with 3.9 percent in August, after the country raised natural-gas
prices to meet pledges to its international lenders.  Service-price growth slowed to 4.8 percent in September
from a year earlier, compared with 4.9 percent in August, the
institute said.  Industrial output contracted a seasonally adjusted 1.1
percent in August from a year earlier, after a 1.9 percent gain
in July, the institute said in a separate release today. Output
shrank 1.1 percent on the month.  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
James M. Gomez,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  