-- Romney’s Farm Policy Restates Republican Positions, Analysts Say
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/romney-s-farm-policy-restates-republican-positions-analysts-say.html
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt
Romney ’s agriculture policy relies on the party’s platform that
calls for fewer regulations, lower taxes and more trade, which
may appeal to farm voters, analysts said.  Romney released a 14-page  position paper  yesterday as he
praised farmers in an Iowa speech, and didn’t take sides in the
debate on financial support for food stamps and  farm subsidies ,
said Mark McMinimy, an analyst at Guggenheim  Washington  Research
Group in Washington.  “What’s not so clear is his position on specifics,” he
said in an interview. “Many of the broad objectives -- lower
taxes, less environmental regulatory pressure, more trading,
lower energy prices -- those are likely to be well received by
farmers and ranchers.”  U.S. farmers, facing the worst drought in more than five
decades, are forecast to earn a record $122.2 billion as lower
output drives prices higher this year, the Department of
Agriculture said in August. Exports are predicted to reach an
all-time high of $143.5 billion in the year that ends Sept. 30,
according to the USDA.  Romney said President  Barack Obama  hasn’t done enough to
support agriculture and encourage growth.  “I will do everything in my power to strengthen once again
the American farm,” Romney said in a speech on a farm about 20
miles west of  Des Moines . Obama “has no plan for rural America,
no plan for agriculture, no plan for getting people back to
work, and I do.”  ‘Dodging’ Issue  Jim Miller, a former Agriculture undersecretary for Obama
who spoke for the campaign in a conference call after Romney’s
speech, said the Republican is “dodging the issue” on the farm
bill and other issues.  The plan is “looking at reducing economic security in
rural America” through cuts to farm programs and food stamps
identified in last year’s House budget sponsored by vice-
presidential nominee  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican. That
plan would cut $33 billion over 10 years from the USDA’s biggest
expense, compared with a $16 billion reduction proposed in the
House Agriculture plan and $4 billion in the Senate.  Bolstering his case, the campaign released a document on
the agriculture agenda, including tax cuts, free-trade
agreements, less regulation and energy independence. He said he
supported the Renewable Fuels Standard, which requires
production of 15 billion gallons of corn-based ethanol by 2015.  Dueling Bills  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, urged swift
passage of a farm-policy bill, to replace a law that expired
Sept. 30, without committing to support the plan passed by the
Democratic-led Senate in June or a Republican-backed proposal
approved by a  House of Representatives  committee in July. Both
bills won bipartisan support while differing on cuts to the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or  food stamps , and
farm subsidies. Candidates prefer to avoid controversies unless
they have to deal with them, McMinimy said.  “The Oval Office is a great place to start taking detailed
positions” after a campaign, he said.  Still, any attention to agricultural issues is followed in
farm country, said Tim Marema, spokesman for the Center for
Rural Strategies based in Whitesburg,  Kentucky . Romney is
seeking to show voters who depend on agriculture -- and a larger
group who identify with farming -- that he’s aware of and
concerned about topics that don’t dominate the national debate,
Marema said.  “The national perception of rural is that it’s small
family farms, plaid shirts and old red tractors,” he said. “In
a state like  Iowa , it’s an important bloc of voters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  