-- Rousseff-Proof Sabesp Soars as Buy Calls Grow: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-10-10T20:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/rousseff-proof-sabesp-soars-as-buy-calls-grow-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s push to cut electricity
rates is driving investors out of power companies and into water
utilities, making Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao
Paulo the second best-performing stock among regional peers.  Sabesp, as the Americas’ largest publicly traded water
utility by market value is known, posted a total return of 76
percent this year before today, the second-most among 13
publicly traded water utilities in the Americas with a market
value of at least $500 million. Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA,
Brazil’s biggest electricity distributor, dropped 44 percent.
President  Dilma Rousseff  on Sept. 11 unveiled a plan to force
power companies to cut rates by as much as 28 percent.  Four of 20 analysts that cover Sabesp, including Bradesco
Corretora, have shifted to buy ratings this month and Barclays
Capital Plc reiterated a buy call, the best improvement in
recommendations among regional peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Water companies offer protection from Rouseff’s
interventionist policies because states have more control over
rates than the federal government, attracting investors looking
for stable earnings provided by utilities, said Jose Francisco Cataldo, chief strategist at brokerage Agora CTVM SA.  “Water utilities, by presenting solid and predictable
revenue and always planning long-term investments, are very
similar to electric companies from the perspective of investors,
but with the advantage of not being subject to the federal
government’s interference,” Cataldo said in a telephone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “That’s why water companies,
especially Sabesp, which is the biggest and best known, are
viewed as substitutes to electric utilities.”  Sabesp fell 0.3 percent to 87.99 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo today, while the benchmark Bovespa index
slid 0.8 percent.  ‘Suffering’ Utilities  Sabesp didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Brazil is forcing power utilities to cut rates that
manufacturers say are the fourth-highest in the world in a bid
to boost competitiveness. Contracts affecting about 20 percent
of Brazil’s energy generation are set to expire by 2017 and will
be renewed under new rules that have a goal of cutting power
costs by 16 percent for households and as much as 28 percent for
businesses and large consumers, Rousseff said.  “The electricity sector has been suffering this year with
the rate reset, which was tougher than previous reviews,”
Eletropaulo’s press office said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The Brazilian  distribution unit  of  AES Corp. (AES)  “was
very impacted by the rate reset, which established a new return
level for the company’s investors. Nevertheless, the company
still has strong cash generation.”  Low Water Rates  Sao Paulo-based Sabesp, which serves 23.9 million people,
plunged the most in a year on Sept. 12 as the  MSCI
Brazil/Utilities index  dropped to a two-year low amid concern
the government might extend the plan beyond power companies. The
electricity rate reductions are part of broader efforts by
Rousseff to boost growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy that
also include tax cuts.  A Ministry of Energy official who asked not to be
identified in accordance with the government’s policy declined
to comment.  Sabesp’s stock rebounded as investors looked more closely
at water utilities and found that in addition to the more
favorable regulatory environment, the already low price of water
in Brazil makes intervention unlikely, said Erick Scott Hood, an
analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora.  ‘Already Cheap’  “Water is already so cheap, I don’t see how the federal
government could interfere with these utilities to lower
prices,” Hood, who has a hold recommendation on Sabesp, said in
a phone interview.  The state of  Sao Paulo ’s regulatory agency, Arsesp, is
reviewing Sabesp’s rates, as it does every four years. Its
proposed changes are scheduled to be released for public review
in 30 days, after being postponed yesterday. The company trades
at 12.2 times its estimated earnings for the year, the most
expensive water utility in Brazil.  “It’s a defensive stock and, with markets doing so poorly,
it attracted a lot of people to the point where it’s now
expensive,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million reais
($186.7 million) at Legan Administracao de Recursos, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “Sabesp has already gained a
lot this year, and I don’t think it’s attractive at the current
price.”  ‘Politics Can Change’  Other Brazilian water utilities have gained this year as
well. Cia. de Saneamento do Parana, known as Sanepar, posted a
total return of 92 percent, the best performance among regional
peers.  Cia. de Saneamento de Minas Gerais , or Copasa, advanced
48 percent.  “Water utilities can suffer setbacks in negotiations with
mayors or governors, but their portfolio of clients is broader
than the electric companies, guaranteeing that revenues do not
vary so much,” Gesner Oliveira, a former president of Sabesp
and the Brazilian antitrust regulator Cade who now works as a
consultant at GO Associados, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo.  Demand for Sabesp’s services will keep expanding because
water and sewage are basic needs, Hood said. About 20 percent of
the population in Brazilian cities and 75 percent in rural areas
have no sewage service, according to IBGE, the national bureau
of statistics.  “An international crisis can’t hurt these utilities’
sales,” Hood said. “That’s another reason why they are less
risky than the electricity companies and should continue
rising.”  Sanepar slid 2.7 percent to 8.21 reais in Sao Paulo today
and Copasa rose 0.7 percent to 48.26 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  