-- True Religion Gains After Hiring Advisers to Explore Sale
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-10-10T20:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/true-religion-gains-after-hiring-advisers-to-explore-sale.html
True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) , the
maker of the namesake designer jeans, surged the most in more
than three years after saying it will explore strategic
alternatives, including a possible sale.  The company has received interest from private-equity firms
and other apparel companies, said a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be named as the talks aren’t public.
The shares  jumped  22 percent to $25.71 at the close in  New York 
for the biggest gain since May 2009. The stock has declined 26
percent this year.  True Religion has lost female customers because it’s
maintained higher prices than competitors such as  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s 7
for All Mankind label and has been slow to add more fashion-
forward merchandise. While sales rose 15 percent to $419.8
million in 2011, True Religion’s profitability has slid. The
company’s operating margin narrowed to 17.8 percent last year
from 33.2 percent in 2005.  The board has formed a special committee to consider
options after receiving interest from third parties about a
possible transaction, Vernon, California-based True Religion
said today in a statement. The company said it hired Guggenheim
Securities LLC as its financial adviser and Greenberg Traurig
LLP as its legal counsel.  True Religion has a small overseas presence and little
online retail activity, and a buyer with those capabilities
would help, the person said.  Growth Prospects  A sale to private equity might be more suitable as the
company works to build infrastructure to accommodate its
“tremendous growth prospects,”  Dorothy Lakner , an analyst at
Caris & Co. in New York, said today in a telephone interview.  “What they haven’t done is build the brand beyond the
denim side of things” into a broader lifestyle brand, said
Lakner, who rates the shares above average.  True Religion was founded in 2002 by Jeffrey Lubell, who
began embellishing jeans as a teen growing up in New York. He
took the company public the following year, according to its
website. True Religion operates 139 of its own stores and sells
its merchandise worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  