-- Russia-Lithuania Contractors Face U.S. Suspension Threat
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-10T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/russia-lithuania-contractors-face-u-s-suspension-threat.html
U.S. Army officials will review a
Lithuanian-Russian team for possible suspension or debarment
from American military work over delays and cost increases on a
contract to overhaul helicopters.  The move comes after the Pentagon’s inspector general found
that  AviaBaltika Aviation Ltd.  based in Kaunas, Lithuania, and
Saint Petersburg Aircraft Repair Co., based in the Russian city
of the same name, failed to comply with terms of an Army
contract to upgrade 10 Russian-made  Mi-17  helicopters within six
months, including a refusal to provide access to quality-control
personnel.  Eight of the aircraft were for the Pakistani  Air Force  and
two were for the U.S. Army, which uses them for training at Fort
Rucker,  Alabama . The planned six-month overhauls took as long as
19 months for the Pakistanis, leaving its military without the
choppers in August 2010 during the country’s worst-ever
flooding. The U.S. aircraft took 26 months to overhaul.  “Our report contains enough information to initiate
consideration of suspension and debarment,” according to the
audit dated Sept. 27 and signed by Jacqueline Wicecarver, the
Defense Department’s assistant inspector general for acquisition
and contract management. The 151-page audit, marked “For
Official Use Only,” was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  AviaBaltika’s attorney, Robert Burton of Venable LLP in
 Washington , said his client denied any wrongdoing.  “We have not seen the full report, but the summary and its
recommendations are inaccurate and we plan to fully rebut
them,” Burton said in an e-mail.  Information about any delays on the contract is incorrect,
Alexander Gruzdev, chief engineer for Saint Petersburg Aircraft
Repair Co., said in a phone interview. He declined further
comment, saying details of the contract are private.  ‘Unnecessary’ Costs  The U.S. provides the medium-lift Mi-17 to countries
including Pakistan, Afghanistan and  Iraq  that have experience
with the Russian aircraft. The two companies, acting as
subcontractors to  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , are performing the
overhauls in  Russia .  What began as a $37.7 million job has increased to $64.2
million and may cost as much as $76.8 million, more than double
the original estimate, if the Army pays the subcontractors’
pending claim for $12.6 million. The increase included about
$12.9 million for the purchase of unauthorized parts in a
pattern of “unquestioned, unnecessary additional costs,” the
audit found.  Lax Oversight Found  The Pentagon audit found that lax oversight by Army
contracting officials at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville,
Alabama, let aircraft parts be overpriced by as much as double a
U.S. supplier’s quotes.  While the Lithuanian and Russian companies repeatedly
blocked Pentagon and contractor quality-control specialists from
inspecting the overhauls, Army contracting personnel kept paying
them, according to the audit.  The contracting personnel “did not perform adequate
oversight and management,” including not consistently
supporting  Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop and another
contractor,  Flight Test Aerospace Inc. , in managing the
overhauls, the audit said.  Flight Test Aerospace, based in Chantilly,  Virginia ,
working under Northrop, hired AviaBaltika to perform the
overhauls. It subsequently joined with Saint Petersburg Aircraft
Repair to do the work in Russia. The aircraft arrived from
September to November 2009.  “Instead of issuing a stop-work order” in the face of the
delays and blocked access, Army contracting personnel continued
to pay the foreign contractors $26 million, allowed “excessive
parts mark-up and did not determine fair and reasonable prices”
for millions of dollars in contract modifications, according to
the audit.  Replacement Parts  The 10 helicopters were accepted “without verifying
whether the aircraft were overhauled in accordance with contract
quality requirements,” it said.  Officials with the Lithuanian and Russian contractors “did
not perform in accordance with the terms” of the contract when
they denied access to Pentagon and U.S. contractor personnel or
“when they insisted on purchasing and installing replacement
parts when not contractually authorized,” according to the
audit.  The lack of access also prevented the Army from catching
“unsanctioned parts that affected flight worthiness” in the
eight Pakistani helicopters, the audit found. Four choppers in
 Pakistan  still contain parts that “could lead to aircraft
malfunctions and endanger the life and safety of the crew” if
they aren’t replaced, it said.  The auditors “concluded that indications of criminal
activity were present” and referred them to the inspector
general’s investigations unit for review.  Fraud Review  The Army’s Legal Services Agency “will review all evidence
of fraud or other evidence indicating a lack of contractor
responsibility” as it assesses whether to initiate suspension
or debarment actions, Brigadier General Flora Darpino, who was
at the time director of the agency, wrote in an April 16 letter
contained in the audit.  Army Deputy Assistant Secretary for Procurement Kim Denver
wrote in a May 7 letter to the inspector general that the Army
Contracting Command would review contract personnel performance
and identify “administration actions as appropriate.”  Burton, the lawyer for AviaBaltika, faulted the Department
of Defense inspector general’s findings.  “For example, the report is founded on the DoD IG’s
incorrect conclusion” that the company “is responsible for
costly program delays -- a conclusion which is contradicted by a
court ruling,” he said. “We deny any wrongdoing and stand
behind our pricing and performance, which are consistent with
our contracts.”  ‘Cost Consistent’  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Northrop, said that while the
company is aware of the inspector general’s findings, it hasn’t
fully reviewed the audit. He declined to comment further.  Army Lieutenant Colonel James Gregory, a Pentagon
spokesman, said the “cost was consistent with the overhaul cost
conducted by three other companies/subcontractors.”  “Total cost per overhaul varies based on aircraft
condition and current market conditions regarding Mi-17 parts,”
Gregory said in an e-mail. These overhauls “were more extensive
than most, and the overall cost is in line with other aircraft
overhauled by other companies that were in similar condition.”  Claim Questioned  The Army is evaluating the pending $12.6 million
“equitable adjustment” claim that the Russian and Lithuanian
companies filed last year to recover additional expenditures
they allege were caused by Flight Test Aerospace actions.  The Army inspector general recommended that the money not
be repaid. Northrop Grumman, which stands to earn a fee on the
$12.6 million, also advised Army contracting officials not to
pay the claim.  The claim includes hourly labor rates of as much as $500
per hour for the Lithuanian-Russian team’s general director,
financial director, senior manager and chief accountant. These
translate into yearly salaries of as much as $1.35 million, the
audit found.  “These labor rates are not reasonable,” the audit said.
“Compared to General Services Administration contracts for
accounting services, the $500 per hour rate for the chief
economist in Russia or  Lithuania  is higher than the rates
charged in the U.S.” by domestic accounting firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  