-- Russia Stocks Fall 3rd Day on IMF Forecast Cut as Rusal Tumbles
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-10T15:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-10/russia-stocks-fall-3rd-day-on-weaker-crude-imf-forecasts-cut.html
Russian stocks declined for a third
day as investors sold riskier assets after the International
Monetary Fund cut its global growth forecast, fueling concern
demand for commodities may drop.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 0.8 percent to 1,460.93 by the close
in Moscow, the biggest drop since Oct. 4. United Co. Rusal led
the declines as  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  cut its forecast for global aluminum
demand, indicating a slowdown in  China . Metals producers sank,
with OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel losing 1.7 percent, OAO Magnitogorsk
Iron & Steel declining 2 percent and OAO Mechel dropping 1.6
percent. OAO Mobile TeleSystems surged 1.9 percent, the biggest
gainer.  The IMF cut its global growth forecast this year to 3.3
percent, the slowest since 2009. Spain has yet to respond to the
European Central Bank’s offer to buy its debt to lower
unsustainable borrowing costs.  Europe  is Russia’s biggest
trading partner.  “For every positive event out of the Eurozone, investors
have five they are worried about,” Farhan Kazmi, the head of
emerging-market equities at Credit Suisse Group AG in Moscow,
said by phone. “There’s enough reason for concern that
investors are refraining from trading. IMF and weaker oil are
some of the factors that affect today’s market move.”  Steel Downturn  Crude oil, the nation’s chief export earner, rebounded,
rallying 1.3 percent to $93.62 a barrel in New York, after
rising as much as 3.4 percent yesterday. Oil and gas contribute
about 50 percent of  Russia ’s budget revenue. Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Commodities Index rose 0.6 percent to 671.49.  This year may signal the start of a downturn for Russian
 steel producers , Sberbank Investment Research analysts wrote in
a note today, citing global economic concern, cost pressures and
rising supply in the local market. Sberbank favors Magnitogorsk
and Novolipetsk because of their “low capital intensity” and
“flexible” cost base, according to the note.  OAO Lenenergo climbed to a four-month high, rising 1.6
percent to 7.363 rubles. OAO MRSK Holding, the nation’s largest
electricity distribution company, may overpay for a stake in the
power transmission operator, Reuters reported. Federal Grid Co.,
which has merged with MRSK Holding this year, lost 2.2 percent
to 23.17 kopeks. MRSK declined 1.7 percent to 2.080 rubles, the
lowest level since Sept. 7.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index declined 0.7 percent to
1,483.84. The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings . The
benchmark index has risen 4.2 percent this year. That compares
with a multiple of 10 times and a 8.4 percent advance for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
projected earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  